---
date: '2024-05-14'
modified_time: 2024-05-14 15:08:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-14 14:37:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/14/remarks-by-president-biden-remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-actions-to-protect-american-workers-and-businesses-from-chinas-unfair-trade-practices/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on His Actions to Protect American Workers and\
  \ Businesses from China\u2019s Unfair Trade\_Practices"
---
 
Rose Garden

12:32 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Now, I
assume you’re standing in case you have to run when the rain starts. 
(Laughter.)  Please, have a seat.

Rox, thank you very much for all you do to fight for American
steelworkers.  I mean that sincerely. 

I — and I want to recognize all the labor unions here today, including
Steel Workers, Auto Workers, Sheet Metal Workers, AFL-CIO, IBEW,
Communications Workers, Boilermakers, Machinists. 

I’m proud, as Rox said, to be labeled the most pro-union President in
American history.  You heard me say it before: Wall Street is important,
lot of good folks there, but they didn’t build America.  The middle
class built America, and unions built the middle class.

Folks, leaders from key American industries are here as well, including
steel, aluminum, solar, semiconductors, automakers.

And members of my Cabinet are here as well.  Janet Yellen — the front
row is Murderers’ Row here — (laughter) — the Treasury Department; Julie
Su, our Trade — our — of — of Labor; and Katherine Tai, our nation’s
Trade Representative; and outstanding members of Congress as well. 

From Michigan, Debbie Stabenow is here.  Debbie, welcome. 

And Hala- — and Haley Stevens is here.  No, I guess she — there you
are.  Oh, you did make it.  They told me you might not be able to make
it.  I’m sorry.

REPRESENTATIVE STEVENS:  I’m here.  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  All right. 

And Congresswoman Debbie Dingell.  Again, you — smile, Debbie, it’s
okay.  (Laughter.) 

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  I am.  I’m happy. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Elissa Slotkin — 

Well, you should be.  You — you’re — you’re responsible for a lot of
this.

Thank you for joining us as I announce a series of actions to make sure
American workers and American business and corporations can compete and
win in the industries of the future, because that’s what this is about. 

The fact is that American workers are — can outwork and outcompete
anyone, as long as the competition is fair.  But for too long, it hasn’t
been fair. 

For years, the Chinese government has poured state money into Chinese
companies across a whole range of industries: steel and aluminum,
semiconductors, electric vehicles, solar panels — the industries of the
future — and even critical health equipment, like gloves and masks. 

China heavily subsidized all these products, pushing Chinese companies
to produce far more than the rest of the world can absorb.  And then
dumping the excess products onto the market at unfairly low prices,
driving other manufacturers around the world out of business. 

You know, we — I won’t go into it, but we were talking about today about
how many aluminum plants there used to be and how many there are now. 

The prices are unfairly low because Chinese companies don’t need to
worry about a profit because the Chinese government subsidized them and
subsidized them heavily.  

And the Chinese relies on other anticompetitive tactics as well, like
forcing the American companies to transfer their technology in order to
do business in China. 

I’ve spent a lot of time with Xi Jinping.  Early on, I told him — he
said, why am I being unfair with China?  (Inaudible.)  I said, “Look,
we’ll play by the same rules if you want.  If you want to do business in
China, you got to have a 51 percent Chinese owner, you got to provide
access to all your intellectual property, et cetera.  You want to do
that in America?”  There was silence. 

Sometimes they just outright steal through cyber espionage and other
means.  And it’s been a well-documented inter- — and internationally
recognized.

When you make tactics like these, they are — they’re — you’re not
competing.  It’s not competition.  It’s cheating.   And we’ve seen the
damage here in America.  

To name one example, back in 2000, when cheap steel from China began to
flood the market, U.S. steel towns across Pennsylvania and Ohio were hit
hard.  And any of you from those areas know well.  More than
<s>1,800</s> \[18,000\] ironworkers and steelworkers in Pennsylvania and
Ohio lost their jobs.

I’m not going to let that happen again. 

That’s why today I’m announcing new tariffs in key sectors of the
economy that are going to ensure that our workers are not held back by
unfair trade practices.

They include a thing I’m announcing today: 25 percent tariff on Chinese
steel and aluminum products.  And we’ll counter China’s overcapacity in
these industries. 

And we’re making major investments in clean American steel and aluminum
— clean American steel and aluminum.  It’s a big deal.  Clean because of
the way we manufacture it here — it emits half as much carbon as steel
made in China.  

Last month, my administration announced the largest investment in clean
manufacturing in all of history, up to $1.5 billion in six clean steel
projects across America, creating and supporting thousands — thousands
of union jobs.  

Next, a 100 percent tariff on electric vehicles made in China.  And
people say, “Wow.”  (Applause.)  Because we’re not going to let China
flood our market, making it impossible for American automakers —
automobile — auto manufacturers to compete fairly. 

We’re also implementing a 25 percent tariff on electric vehicle
batteries from China and a 25 percent tariff on the critical minerals
that make those batteries. 

Folks, look, I’m determined that the future of the electric vehicles
will be made in America by union workers.  Period.  (Applause.)  And
we’ll do it by following international trade laws to do it. 

American companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in electric
vehicles and their batteries.  And thanks to my Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we’re building a network of 500,000 charging
stations all across America, creating thousands — thousands of IBEW jobs
across America.  Electric charging stations — (applause) — and the
reason to do this is simple: Electric charging stations have to be as
easy to find as a gas station, and that’s what this will be.  You’re not
going to have to worry about — you’re taking off and you’re going to be
able to make it all across the country in one — without having to figure
something else out.

Our partners around the world are making similar investments.  They also
want a supply chain for electric vehicles that isn’t dominated by unfair
trade practices from China. 

America can continue to buy — Americans — I want to make this clear,
notwithstanding what the other guy is saying — can buy any kind of car
they want — whether it’s gas, electric, or hybrid — but we’re never
going to allow China to fa- — unfairly control the market for these
cars.  Period.

Next — (applause) — we’re going to raise tariffs on Chinese solar panels
from 25 to 50 percent.  Here, again, because the Chinese government is
subsidizing excess capacity, they’re flooding the market.  They’re
driving manufacturing companies out of business in Europe.  But we won’t
let that happen here in America.

We’re putting a 50 percent tariff on semiconductors made in China. 
These are those tiny computer — all of you know this, but for the public
— those little, tiny computer chips, smaller than a fingertip, that
power everyday lives — everything from smartphones to automobiles to
dishwashers, satellites. 

Look, America invented these <s>cheeps</s> \[chips\].  But over time, we
stopped making them.  We invested other — overseas.  Now, thanks to my
CHIPS and Science Act, one of the most significant investments ever in
science and technology, we’re bringing this vital industry back home
where it started, in the United States of America.  (Applause.)   

And finally, we’re putting tariffs on health equipment, like masks and
gloves that nurses and doctors wear every single day.  If the pandemic
caught us any- — tau- — taught us anything, we need a secure ply- —
supply of essential supplies here at home. 

Folks, these key sectors, my administration is combining investments in
America with tariffs that are strategic and targeted.  It’s a smart
approach. 

Compare that to the pri- — what the prior administration did.  The — my
predecessor promised to increase American exports and boost
manufacturing.  But he didn’t either.  He failed.   

He signed a trade deal with China.  They were supposed to buy $200
billion more in American goods.  Instead, China imports from America
barely budged. 

And now, Trump and his MAGA Republicans want across-the-board tariffs on
all imports from all countries, if reelected.  Well, that would drive up
costs for families on an average of $1,500 per year each year.  He
simply doesn’t get it. 

For years, I’ve heard many Republicans and even Democratic friends say,
“China is not on the rise” — excuse me, “China is on the rise; America
is falling behind.”  I’ve always believed they got it wrong.  

America is rising.   We have the best economy in the world.  And since
I’ve come into office, the GDP is up, our trade deficit with China is
down to the lowest level in over a decade, and we’re standing up against
Chinese government unfair economic practices now. 

At the same time — (applause) — we’re standing up for peace and
stability across the Taiwan Straits.  I’ve revitalized our partnerships
with the Pacific allies in India, Australia, Japan, South Korea, the
Philippines — Pacific Island nations. 

I’ve made sure the most advanced American technologies we develop or
invent can be used by the Chi- — can’t be used by the Chinese government
to undermine our national security.

Frankly, before it rains — frankly, for all this tough talk on China, it
never occurred to my predecessor to do any of that.

Bottom line: I want fair competition with China, not conflict.  And
we’re in a stronger position to win that economic competition of the
21st century against China than anyone else because we’re investing in
America again.

Let me close — let me close with this.  I come from Scranton, a town
like a lot of working-class, middle-class neighborhoods all across
America — like Racine, Wisconsin, which I visited last week.  Once a
manufacturing boomtown until trickle-down economics came along, and the
middle class in Racine got hollowed out. 

Six years ago, my predecessor showed up carrying a golden shovel,
promising, thanks to his new $10 billion, manufacturing complex would be
built in Racine.  He said it would be the eighth wonder of the world —
big promises that never came true.  He used that golden shovel to dig a
hole, and then he fell into it.  (Laughter.)

Well, that’s not on my — that’s not part of my — well, I’m delivering
for Racine — delivering.  Thanks to the investment of my administration,
Microsoft is investing billions to build a new data center in Racine,
creating thousands of good-paying jobs. 

Because the view from Scranton and towns like it are a lot different
than from Mar-a-Lago.  It’s the view where — that money doesn’t
determine your worth, everyone is entitled to being treated with dignity
and respect, and everyone deserves a fair shot.  We leave nobody
behind. 

That’s the America we’re building together.  That’s why I’ve never been
more optimistic about our future.  And I’m really going fast because of
the rain.

We have — (laughter) — that’s why we have to remember who we are.  We’re
the United States of America.  (Applause.)  And there is nothing — there
is nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together.

God bless you all.  And better get out of the rain.

Thank you very, very much.  (Applause.)

Thank you. 

Oh, we got to sign this.

Q    Mr. President, why wait three years for the tariffs?

(The presidential memorandum is signed.)   

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Q    Mr. President —

Q    Mr. President, is Netanyahu going too far in Rafah?

Q    Mr. President, Trump said today, “China is eating our lunch.”  What
do you say in response?  He said, “China is eating our lunch.”  That’s
what Trump said today. 

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s being feeding them a long time.  (Laughter and
applause.)

   12:45 P.M. EDT
