---
date: '2024-05-03'
modified_time: 2024-05-04 16:46:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-03 21:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-presidential-medal-of-freedom-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Presentation of the Presidential Medal of\_\
  Freedom"
---
 
East Room

5:18 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello.

Please have a seat.

I think I told my buddy John Kerry, for the first two years, every time
I heard “Hail to the Chief,” I’d turn and look around, “Where the hell
is he?” (Laughter.)

Anyway, it’s great to see you all. And on behalf of Jill, Kamala, and
Doug, thank you all for being here in one of our favorite events at the
White House.

Sixty-one years ago, President Kennedy established the Presidential
Medal of Freedom to recognize, quote, “any person who has made an
especially meritorious contribution to the security of national int- —
and national interests of the United States or world peace, cultural, or
other significant public, pri- — public or private endeavors.”

You know, in the first class of — of medal recipients was a great, great
American writer, E.B. White. Years after receiving the medal, he
received a letter from someone who was losing faith in humanity. And
E.B. White replied, and I quote, “Relentless- — relentlessness,
curiosity, inventiveness, ingenuity have led to deep trouble. We can
only hope that these same traits will enable us to claw our way out.
Hang on to your hat, hang on to your hope, and wind the clock, and
tomorrow is another day.”

Today, we have another extraordinary honor to bestow one of the nation’s
highest civilian honors of 19 incredible people whose relentless
curiosity, inventiveness, ingenuity, and hope have kept faith in a
better tomorrow.

You know, we see that faith in Father Greg Boyle, who has changed
countless lives as pastor of a disadvantaged Catholic parish in Los
Angeles. Father, you — through your pioneering gang intervention
programs.

You know, I always kid, I went to — I was taught by the Norbertines in —
in a public school. Well, you know, they always were worried we were
going to go to Jesuit colleges because they said you guys are too
liberal.

Thank God for the Jebbies. (Laughter.) Thank God. (Applause.)

That’s what my staff ha- — hates me doing: ad libbing. (Laughter.)

Your service as a Jesuit priest over four decades reminds us of the
power of redemption, rehabilitation, and our obligation to those who
have been condemned or counted out. Thank you, Father Greg, for your
amazing grace. Thank you. (Applause.)

For some of you today, I know from personal experience that you wish you
never had to be at an event like this one without a piece of your soul
having been gone.

Judy Shepard, it’s been 25 years, Judy, since you last spoke of \[to\]
your beloved Matthew. Your husband, Dennis, is here today as well. The
brutal murder of your son galvanized a movement in a — into a law in his
name — protect LBG- — LB — LGBTQ Americans. Your relentless advocacy is
a reminder that we must give hate no safe harbor and that we can turn it
into purpose and that pain you felt into significant purpose. You’ve
done just that. Thank you. (Applause.)

And, today, we honor Medgar Evers and his family’s pain and purpose — an
Army veteran who worked tirelessly to end segregation in Mississippi to
deliver the promise of America to all Americans; a patriot who was
gunned down by the poison of white supremacy. But his spirit endures.

Joining us is Medgar’s daughter, Reena, who was just — was eight — eight
years old when she walked out and saw Daddy in the driveway — was taken
from her four days before Father’s Day. She’s here on behalf of the
family and her mother, Mer- — excuse me — her mother, Myrlie, who was
unable to attend — to travel today.

I want to thank Myrlie for her work to seek justice for Medgar and — and
for forging her own civil rights legacy — not just Medgar’s, her own
civil rights legacy.

In 2021, in this very room, I signed one of the most important laws of
my presidency, making Juneteenth the first new federal holiday since Dr.
Martin Luther King Jr. Day. The first person I handed the pen to was Ms.
Opal Lee, the grandmother of the movement that helped make it possible.

Juneteenth is a day of profound, profound weight and power to remember
the original sin of slavery and the extraordinary capacity to emerge
from the most painful moments with a better vision of ourselves. Ms.
Opal Lee made it her mission to make history, not erase it. And we’re a
better nation because of you, Opal. Thank you. (Applause.)

Born in Philadelphia, the cradle of our democracy, Dr. Clarence B. Jones
wielded a pen as a sword and gave words to the movement that generated
in freedom for millions of people. A speechwriter for and lawyer for Dr.
King, he helped define the enduring ideas included in the “Dream” that
will be ever for- — engraved in the ethos of America. Letting freedom
ring, Dr. Clarence B. Jones. Thank you, Dr. Jones. (Applause.)

And before social media and clickbait news — (laughter) — Phil Donahue
broadcast the power of personal stories in living rooms all across
America. He helped change hearts and minds through honest and open
dialogue. And over the course of a defining career in television and
through thousands of daily conversations, Phil Donahue steered the
nation’s discourse and spoke to our better angels. I wish you were still
speaking there, pal. It made a big difference. (Applause.)

From finance to media to philanthropy, Michael Bloomberg has
revolutionized our economy. He’s transformed how we consume information.
He’s changed us. He’s challenged us, as well, to solve the toughest
challenges from gun violence to climate change. And as mayor, he rebuilt
the city of New York after 9/11, channeling our spirit of resilience as
a nation and a beacon to the world. Michael, thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank
you for a career of service. (Applause.)

I first met Katie Ledecky in 2012. I thought, “My God, what an athlete.”
She won her first Olympic gold at age 15. And though — through hard work
and humility, she’s won 10 Olympic medals — 10 — 21 world championship
titles and became the greatest female swimmer of all time. She continues
to compete this summer in the Par- — Par \[Paris\] Olympics at age 27,
which some say is old for swimming. I think — (laughter) — 27 — don- —
don’t let age get in your way. (Laughter.) I mean, you know what I mean?

Katie, age is just a number, kid. (Laughter.) And I — and I can’t wait
to welcome you back to the White House with more wedals — medals from
Team USA. I really mean it, Katie. (Applause.) You’re the best. The
finest woman swimmer in American history.

Jim Thorpe, a one-of-a-kind champion. I grew up in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, hearing from my grandpop, A- — his name was Ambrose
Finnegan. And, you know, he — he was an All-American at Santa Clara
playing football back in 1905. And I grew up always hearing about Jim
Thorpe — I’m serious — as the greatest ath- — not just the greatest ball
player, the greatest athlete of all time. He talked about him all the
time.

In 1912, he became the first Native American athlete to win an Olympic
gold medal. He set world records in the decathlon. He was a professional
football player, a professional baseball player, a professional
basketball player. Jim Thorpe showcased unparalleled — unparalleled
athleticism, and he transcended rac- — transcended racial barriers and
the power of perseverance, sheer will, and determination.

Thank you, Lynn, who is Jim’s oldest living grandchild, for accepting
this medal on his behalf. He was incredible. (Applause.) Incredible guy.

After hearing my grandpop, I used to go to sleep in Scranton thinking,
“God, I wish I could meet him.” (Applause.) I’m not — incredible.
Anyway. I’m going to get carried away here. (Laughter.)

For most, the American Dream: to be successful in whatever endeavor you
choose here on Earth. For Dr. Ellen Ochoa, this is a dream from the
heavens — her dream from the heavens. A granddaughter of Mexican
immigrants, Ellen is the first Hispanic woman to go to space, ushering a
whole new age of space exploration and — and proving what it means for
every generation to dream, to reach for the stars, and to get there. And
I tell you what, you’re getting there, kid. Thank you so much.
(Applause.) Thank you (inaudible).

And, Dr. Jane Rigby, a daughter of my home state  
of Delaware, I might add — (laughter) — she’s not only — she’s not only
— the only person receiving this medal, she’s a — she is a — you know,
it’s not the reason she’s getting it is because she’s from Delaware;
although, I keep (inaudible). (Laughter.)

She is a groundbreaking astrophysicist in charge of the most powerful
telescope ever launched into space. Did you ever see some of the images?
They’re breathtaking — lightyears — millions of lightyears away.

She’s also a long-time advocate of inclusivity in the sciences. By
piecing — by piercing \[piecing\] together and — everything that she’s
done and by making sure that the grand story of the universe and
unlocking the secrets of the galaxies, Dr. Rigby sparks a sense of
wonder deep in our souls.

You ought to see some of the photographs — I mean, some of those
telescopes. It’s — it’s mindboggling to me.

For embodying the American Dream and helping Americans reach theirs
also, we want to ar- — honor a very good friend of mine, who is not here
today: Frank Lautenberg. An Army veteran from New Jersey and the
longest-serving senator, who I served with, Frank is remembered as a
tireless advocate for consumers, public health, and safety.

Bonnie, thank you for being here to accept the medal on Frank’s behalf.
(Applause.)

Teresa Romero embodies the essential truth about America: We’re a nation
of immigrants where everyone is entitled to be treated with dignity and
respect. The first Latina to become president of a national union in the
— a national union in the United States, she made a life better for
thousands of farmworkers who put food on our tables — all of them. And
protecting them from extreme heat, securing overtime pay, she shows us
what it means to be a champion for dignity to work.

And when — I told you, when I ran the first time in 1972 to the United
States Senate, he was organizing farmworkers in the state of Delaware.
And Nixon won my state by 60 percent of the vote, but I was down and
championing — just learning from him. And guess what? I won anyway.
(Laughter.)

But anyway, thank you very much for all you’ve done. (Applause.)

Over four decades and on and off the screen, Michael Yeoh — Michelle
Yeoh, excuse me, has shattered stereotypes and glass ceilings to enrich
and enhance American culture. Her roles transcend gender \[genres\],
cultures, and lan- — and languages — martial — from martials arts to
romantic comedies to science fiction — to show us what we have — all
have in common. As the first Asian actor to win an Oscar as Best
Actress, she bridges cultures not only to entertain but also inspire and
open hearts. And that’s what she keeps doing. Congratulations.
(Applause.)

Another inspiration — not just to me, but to Bob Dole — (laughs) — God
love him — was Elizabeth Dole. You’re a trailblazer, Elizabeth — the
first woman in nearly every public service position you held over four
decades. You served — I served with her in the United States Senate. And
she’s a fierce advocate for military and families and their caregivers.
She’s a true partner who — and her beloved Bob was a dear friend, who I
miss dearly. And he was a friend, as you know. I loved him. Thank you.
Thanks. (Applause.)

Elizabeth, the country owes you a deep debt of gratitude — a significant
debt of gratitude.

Throughout a defining career in public service, this guy, Al Gore, has
demonstrated a love of country that showed the world how to lead. I
worked with Al when he was a senator and as — when he was vice
president. After winning the popular vote, he accepted the outcome of a
disputed presidential election for the sake of unity and trust in our
institutions. That, to me, was amazing what you did, Al. I won’t go into
that, but — (laughter).

And Al has continued to serve by leading a global movement to fight
climate crisis, earning him the Nobel Prize in 2007. God love him.
(Applause.)

Al, history is going — history is going to remember you for many
reasons. Among them will be your honesty, your integrity, and the legacy
of your service. So, thank you, Al. You’re first rate. Thank you.
(Applause.)

I’ve served and work closely as Senator and as Vice President and then
as President with this guy: John Kerry — John Kerry. (Applause.) I was
Vice — I was Vice President when he was Secretary of State. And in my
administration, he led our efforts to — across the globe, the first
Special Presidential Envoy for Climate.

Throughout six decades — throughout six decades of service to the
nation, John, as a soldier, a senator, a statesman — John Kerry was a
patriot of the highest order. I can personally attest that my dear
friend has as much moral courage in his pursuit of American politics as
he did physical courage that earned him a Silver Star in Vietnam. You’re
the real deal, John. You are the real deal, pal. I have enormous
admiration. (Applause.)

In my view — excuse the point of personal privilege — the last two guys
I mentioned both should have been standing here at this podium.

A beloved daughter of a congressman and the mayor of Baltimore — as my
dad, who was in Baltimore, would say, Baltimore — (pronounced in an
accent) — (laughter) — Nancy Pelosi grew up knowing the power and
purpose of politics. A historic figure as the first woman Speaker of the
House of Representatives, she used her superpowers to pass some of the
most significant laws in our nation’s history.

On January 6th, Nancy stood in the breach and defended democracy. And
with her husband, Paul, they stood up to extremism and absolute — with
absolute courage — physical courage.

Nancy is a brilliant, practical, principled, and determined leader. Her
accomplishments are overwhelming. And I predict — and I’ve said this to
her for a while — history will remember you, Nancy, as the greatest
Speaker of the House of Representatives ever. (Applause.) I mean it.
We’ve had some great Speakers, Nancy, but I love you, kid. I really do
love you. You’re the best. You’re the best.

De Tocqueville said, “If America ever ceases to be good, America will
cease to be great.” That’s one of Jim Clyburn’s favorite quotes. Always
grounded in faith, family, and service, Jim has guided South Carolina
and our country with a steady hand and an honest heart for over the last
half century. And I could say this without fear of contradiction: I
would not be standing here as President and making these awards were it
not for Jim. I mean that sincerely. And neither of us would be standing
here without Emily Clyburn, a woman of enormous character, who we all
miss.

We’re a great nation, Jim, because we have good people, like Jim and
Emily Clyburn and our honorees today, all of them. My fellow Americans,
Jim is the best. Thank you, Jim. (Applause.)

What I had to keep doing when I was writing these introductions is make
them shorter and shorter and shorter because there’s so much more to say
about each one of them, but we’d be here for 12 hours. (Laughter.) But
you all know how incredible they are — an incredible group of people.

And so, ladies and gentlemen, my fellow Americans, I congratulate the
Presidential Freedom of Medal \[Medal of Freedom\] recipients and now —
and their families for their relentlessness and curiosity.

And now I’m going to make sure we provide those medals and put them
around your necks. So, thank you very much. (Applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: Michael R. Bloomberg. (Applause.) From the son of a
bookkeeper and secretary to a visionary business leader and public
servant, Michael Bloomberg epitomizes American industry and innovation.
He revolutionized the financial information industry with the Bloomberg
Terminal, and Bloomberg News modernized the way information is reported
and received by the public. As a three-term mayor of New York City, he
transformed schools, transportation, public health, and more. As a
philanthropist, his contributions on everything from gun safety to
climate change remind us of our responsibility to our communities, our
country, and the world. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Gregory J. Boyle. (Applause.) Inspired by his Jesuit teachers, Father
Greg Boyle has dedicated his life to healing and hope. As a young priest
assigned to one of Los Angeles’s most underserved parishes, he founded
Homeboy Industries, now the largest gang rehabilitation and re-entry
program in the world. It has helped thousands of Angelenos turn their
lives around, connecting them to jobs, counseling, and a warm-hearted
community where all are welcome and cherished. Answering Jesus’s call to
serve the “least of these,” Father Greg is a testament to the power of
God’s healing love and America’s enduring grace. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

James E. Clyburn. (Applause.) The son of a South Carolina preacher, Jim
Clyburn is a beacon of moral clarity. A graduate of South Carolina State
University, this student of history became a teacher and movement leader
for a fairer and freer America. His dignity and decency are surpassed
only by the love shared with his dear Emily, who marched with him, and
often ahead of him, from classrooms to Congress. Through three decades
in the House of Representatives, he has transformed the lives of
millions of Americans by passing groundbreaking laws for all our
families. Jim Clyburn is touched by the divine, and his march brings us
closer to a more perfect Union. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Elizabeth Dole. (Applause.) A singular trailblazer, Elizabeth Dole was
the first woman to hold nearly every position she had. Over the course
of four decades in public service, she served as the Secretary of
Transportation, Secretary of Labor, President of the American Red Cross,
and senator from North Carolina. She established a preeminent foundation
dedicated to supporting America’s military caregivers. Known for
breaking barriers and building bridges, Elizabeth Dole has paved a path
for generations of Americans to serve with honor and dignity.
(Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Phil Donahue. (Applause.) (Mr. Donahue points at watch.) (Laughter.)
From Irish-Catholic roots in Cleveland, Phil Donahue rose to transform
television and reshape the national conversation. Over 29 years, nearly
7,000 episodes, and 20 Emmys, he pioneered the live daytime talk show,
holding a mirror up to America. He interviewed everyone from our
greatest stars to our forgotten neighbors, uniting us around the
toughest issues of our time. Insatiably curious and accepting, he saw
every guest as worthy of interest and worked to build understanding,
bringing us to see each other not as enemies but as fellow Americans.
(Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Reena Evers, accepting on behalf of Medgar Wiley Evers. (Applause.)
Medgar Evers was willing to face death to give America new life. An Army
soldier, he fought for freedom abroad during World War Two. At the
height of the Civil Rights Movement, he was a crusading lawyer fighting
for equality at home, investigating lynchings, organizing voter drives,
and dismantling school segregation. The life he chose to live and the
risks he took to do right are a reminder of the history he made and our
charge to keep. In a life cut too short, Medgar Evers’s legacy casts a
ray of light on our quest to redeem the soul of our nation. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Al Gore. (Applause.) Over a lifetime of service, Al Gore has been an
Army serviceman, senator, vice president, presidential nominee, and a
visionary climate statesman. In a historic act of selflessness and love
for country, he accepted the outcome of a disputed election for the sake
of our unity and the strength of our democracy. Through his Nobel Peace
Prize-winning leadership, he inspires millions to confront the
existential threat of climate change. He is a model of American
resilience, proof that what matters most is the courage to take on a
cause bigger than ourselves. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Clarence B. Jones. (Applause.) The Philadelphia son of domestic workers
and a former foster child, Clarence Jones became the wordsmith for a
movement. A doer of the Word, he was an Army soldier on the frontlines
in the battlefield and a civil rights lawyer on the frontlines in the
courtroom. Wise and unflinching, Clarence Jones’s lyrical prose and
prophetic life shows us all the enduring power of the idea of America.
An advisor and speechwriter to Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., he helped
write a new American Declaration to ensure “we hold these truths to be
self-evident” is forever linked with “I Have a Dream.” (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

MR. JONES: (Inaudible.) (Laughter and applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: John Forbes Kerry. (Applause.) John Kerry’s public
service spans seven decades and seven continents. He demonstrated
courage fighting in a war and equal courage fighting against it. A
decorated naval officer who volunteered for combat, he made peace with
the country for which he’d fought on the battlefield. Elected five times
to the Senate by the people of Massachusetts, he was the Democratic
Party’s presidential nominee and came within one state of victory. The
son of a foreign officer, diplomacy —

MR. KERRY: (Shrugs shoulders.) (Laughter.)

MILITARY AIDE: The son of a foreign officer, diplomacy is in his DNA. As
Secretary of State, he worked for peace, negotiated arms control, and
forged the historic Paris Agreement on climate change. He built on that
work as the first-ever Special Presidential Envoy for Climate. His bold
and relentless public service reflects his enduring belief in America,
where our best days are still to come. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Bonnie Lautenberg, accepting on behalf of Frank R. Lautenberg.
(Applause.) Frank Lautenberg was a patriot of the Greatest Generation.
Born in a family of Jewish immigrants, he enlisted in the Army at 18 and
served in Europe during World War Two. After graduating college on the
G.I. Bill, he built and ran one of the world’s most successful software
companies. He later became New Jersey’s longest-serving senator. As a
strong advocate for consumer protection, the environment, and safe
transportation, he took on the danger of secondhand smoke and fought for
healthcare for people living with HIV/AIDS. When history called, Frank
Lautenberg answered. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Opal Lee. (Applause.) Two years after President Lincoln signed the
Emancipation Proclamation, freedom for enslaved Americans was finally
enforced in Galveston, Texas, marking the nation’s first Juneteenth. In
that same town, Opal Lee was born six decades later. Growing up in a
home that was burned down by a racist mob, she understood that history
must never be erased. A teacher and advocate, she helped lead a movement
with the National Juneteenth Observance Foundation. More than 150 years
after that day in Galveston, Texas, she stood next to another American
president, who followed her lead and made Juneteenth a federal holiday.
The nation thanks Opal Lee, the “grandmother of Juneteenth.” (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Kathleen Genevieve Ledecky. (Applause.) A humble leader, Olympian, and
champion of unparalleled determination, Katie Ledecky is the most
decorated female swimmer in history with 10 Olym- — (applause) — with 10
Olympic medals and counting. An athletic prodigy from a swimming family,
she captured the world’s admiration with her punishing strokes and
unmatched stamina, pushing through and setting the highest standards for
some of the toughest races ever known. Powered by faith, family, and
teamwork, Katie Ledecky is a symbol of perseverance and strength with a
heart of gold that shines for the nation and for the world. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)

THE PRESIDENT: They once told me (inaudible). (Laughter.) (Applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: Ellen Ochoa. (Applause.) A granddaughter of Mexican
immigrants, Ellen Ochoa lived up to their dreams that anything is
possible in America. The first in her family to go to college, she
became a groundbreaking aeronautical engineer, inventor, and astronaut
on her way to becoming the first Hispanic woman to travel to space. In
addition to nearly 1,000 hours in orbit, she is the second woman to
serve as director of NASA’s renowned Johnson Space Center. A beloved
trailblazer and mentor, Dr. Ochoa continues to inspire people around the
world to reach for the stars and achieve their dreams. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Nancy D’Alesandro Pelosi. (Applause.) After raising five children with
her beloved husband, Paul, and leading the California Democratic Party,
Nancy Pelosi became San Francisco’s tireless champion in Congress. As
the first woman Speaker of the House, she has shepherded some of our
nation’s most consequential laws by keeping coalitions together and
standing with and up to presidents of both parties. (Laughter.) Her
resolve on January 6th, 2021, helped guide America through one of our
darkest days. For her efforts to protect freedom and democracy, Nancy
Pelosi will be known forever as the greatest Speaker of the House in
American history. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Jane Rigby. (Applause.) A daughter of the great State of Delaware, Jane
Rigby’s passion for astronomy began as a child peering at the stars
through a small telescope in a soybean field. Following her instinct and
imagination, she has become a pioneering astrophysicist, now managing
the James Webb Space Telescope, the most powerful telescope ever
launched into space. A brilliant and prolific author, Dr. Rigby is an
inspiration and tireless champion for the LGBTQI+ community. In both her
professional and personal life, Dr. Rigby reminds us to never lose our
sense of wonder, hope, and spirit of adventure as Americans. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.)

THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) (Laughter.) (Applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: Teresa Romero. (Applause.) A trailblazing labor leader,
Teresa Romero is a champion for farmworkers across the fields, orchards,
and vineyards of America who feed and fuel our nation. Born in Mexico,
she has built an American life in service to others, standing up for one
of our most vulnerable yet essential groups of workers and giving them
the voice, hope, and inspiration to push for change. With grace under
fire, her fight for safe working conditions, fair pay, and a path to
citizenship is bringing us closer to realizing the full promise of
America as a nation of immigrants. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Judy Shepard. (Applause.) Judy Shepard took a mother’s most profound
pain and turned her son’s memory into a movement. Matthew Shepard’s
brutal death 25 years ago shocked the conscience of our nation and
galvanized millions of Americans to stand against anti-LGBTQI+ hate.
Together, with her husband, Dennis, their courageous advocacy has since
driven tremendous progress in our laws and culture, giving young people
and their families strength and hope for the future. The Shepard
family’s compassion reflects the best of America, where everyone is
equally deserving of dignity and respect. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Gail Lynn Hannon, accepting on behalf of James Francis Thorpe.
(Applause.) Jim Thorpe was the country’s original multisport athlete and
one of the greatest stars in American history. A member of the Sac and
Fox Nation, he embodied his given name, “Bright Path,” and became the
first Native American to win an Olympic gold medal. He broke the world
record in the decathlon and captured the public’s awe as a professional
football, baseball, and basketball player. He demonstrated moral courage
time and time again as he overcame shameful bigotry. Jim Thorpe’s story
reminds us of enduring contributions of Tribal history to American
history and the ongoing work of healing the souls of our nations.
(Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

Michelle Yeoh. (Applause.) Michelle Yeoh is one of the most acclaimed
actresses of our time. For four decades, she has faced and shattered
stigma and stereotypes to forge a groundbreaking career as one of the
most versatile performers in the world, becoming the first Asian to win
the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her efforts to advance gender
equality, conservation issues, and global health have been felt around
the world. Equal parts performer and pioneer, Michelle Yeoh continues to
enrich American culture and inspires us to believe in possibilities on
the big screen and beyond. (Applause.)

(The Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: I tell you what, it makes you proud to be an American,
doesn’t it? (Applause.)

Let’s give one more round of applause for this year’s Presidential
Freedom recipients. (Applause.)

6:05 P.M. EDT
