---
date: '2024-05-08'
modified_time: 2024-05-09 13:30:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-05-08 21:26:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/08/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-emilys-list-we-are-emily-national-gala/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the EMILYs List We Are EMILY National\_\
  Gala"
---
 
*The Anthem*

*Washington, D.C.*

7:06 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.  Good evening, everyone.  Good
evening.  (Applause.)  Please — thank you, thank you, thank you, thank
you.  Please have a seat.  Thank you.  Thank you, all. 

Can we please applaud Amanda for her extraordinary — (applause) —
extraordinary courage. 

You know, we who are active in this phase of this movement probably
remember: Amanda was one of the first women during this phase of this
movement to speak publicly about her experience.  And the courage that
she has shown continually — I’ve been with her in states across our
country — as she helps people understand the reality of all of this. 

And I’ve met so many women like her who — in these months and in these
couple of years, who really have been so selfless in telling such a
personal story in a way that is fully intended to benefit people they
may never meet. 

So, Amanda, thank you always for who you are.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

I want to thank President Jessica Mackler.  Thank you for your
leadership — (applause) — of this powerful organization. 

And to the board of directors of EMILY’s List, including my sister, Maya
Harris.  (Applause.) 

And I will also acknowledge all the elected officials and members of
Congress who are in the room tonight, including senator and former
President of EMILY’s List, Laphonza Butler.  (Applause.) 

And thank you also to the members of our administration who are here. 

So, I also must congratulate tonight’s rising star, Michigan State
Senator Sarah Anthony.  You will hear from her soon.  (Applause.) 
Rising star, rockstar.

And, of course, the We Are EMILY honoree, an extraordinary American who
has given herself in service in every way, and a dear friend, Senator
Tammy Duckworth.  Congratulations.  (Applause.)

So, for almost four decades, EMILY’s List has helped elect leaders in
the fight for reproductive freedom.  And today, because of EMILY’s List,
we have more pro-choice women governors than at any time in history. 
(Applause.)  We have more pro-choice women in the United States Congress
than at any time in history.  (Applause.)  And, yes, with the support of
EMILY’s List, I am proud to be the first woman elected Vice President of
the United States.  (Applause.)

EMILY’s List was built for this moment.  EMILY’s List was built for this
moment.  This fight for freedom — the fundamental freedom of a woman to
make decisions about her own body and not have her government telling
her what to do.  (Applause.)

Two <s>weeks</s> \[years\] ago last week, the United States Supreme
Court decided to overturn Roe v. Wade, and that decision was leaked two
— two years ago last week.  Most of us remember where we were when we
heard the news about the leak that the highest court in our land — the
court of Thurgood and RBG — was prepared to take a constitutional right
that had been recognized from the people of America, from the women of
America. 

Two years ago, I stood on the stage at this very gala and said what we
were all feeling that evening, “How dare they.”  “How dare they.” 
(Applause.)

And that evening, I also made a prediction: Overturning Roe would be the
opening shot in a full-on assault, state by state, on reproductive
freedom.  And that is exactly what has happened. 

Roe was indeed overturned, and in states across our nation, extremists
have proposed and passed laws to criminalize doctors and to punish
women; laws that threaten doctors and nurses with prison time, even for
life, simply for providing reproductive care; laws that make no
exception for rape and incest; even trying to revive laws from the
1800s. 

And understand, as Amanda said, who is to blame: Former President Donald
Trump did this.  Donald Trump handpicked three members of the United
States Supreme Court because he intended for them to overturn Roe.  And
as he intended, they did. 

Now, many of you may recall, I served on the Judiciary Committee as a
United States senator, and I questioned two of those nominees.  To one
of them, I asked — and I’m going to quote myself — (laughter and
applause) — “Can you think of any laws that give the government the
power to make decisions about the male body?”  And you probably
remember, he had no good answer. 

And now, because of Donald Trump, more than 20 states have abortion bans
— more than 20 Trump abortion bans. 

The most recent, in Florida, where another Trump abortion ban just went
into effect — a ban so extreme it applies before many women even know
they’re pregnant — which, by the way, tells us these extremists either
don’t know how a woman’s body works or they just don’t care — or they
just don’t care.  (Applause.)

Trump said he wants to leave abortion up to the states.  All right.  So,
here’s how that works out.  Today, one in three women of reproductive
age in America lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban, many with no
exceptions for rape or incest. 

Now, as many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor.  But what
many of you may not know is why.  So, when I was in high school, I
learned that one of my best friends was being molested by her
stepfather.  And I said to her, “Well, you’ve got to come stay with
us.” 

I called my mother; she was at work.  And my mother said, “Of course,
she has to come stay with us.”  And she did. 

So, the idea that someone who survives a crime of violence to their
body, a violation of their body would not have the authority and ability
to make a decision about what happens to their body next.  That’s
immoral.  That’s immoral. 

And I know we all agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or
deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be telling
her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)

And let us understand the impact, then, of these bans — the horrific
reality that women are facing in our country every single day.  Women
like Amanda, whose lives and health have been put at risk after being
denied medical care, women who as a result of these bans are losing
access to basic healthcare in clinics across our country. 

You know, I am proud to be the first president or vice president in
history to visit a reproductive health clinic.  (Applause.)  And we all
know these clinics provide critical services: breast cancer screenings,
contraceptive care, Paps. 

However, around our country, where there are Trump abortion bans, we are
seeing these clinics being forced to close, denying millions of women
access to essential medical care. 

And be clear, Donald Trump is the architect of this crisis.  And this —
this is not a fact he even tries to hide.  In fact, he brags about it. 
He has said the collection of abortion bans in the states is, quote,
“working the way it’s supposed to.” 

And last week, he said in an interview, states have the right to monitor
women to enforce these bans and the right to punish women — punish women
for seeking out abortion care. 

So, EMILY’s List, the contrast in this election could not be more
clear.  Donald Trump has said the government should decide whether women
can access abortion care, whereas we say the government should never
come between a woman and her doctor.  (Applause.)

And as much harm — as much harm as he has already caused, a second Trump
term would be even worse.  His friends in the United States Congress are
trying to pass a national abortion ban — a national ban that would —
let’s be clear — outlaw abortion in every single state, even in states
like New York and California. 

And now he wants us to believe he will not sign a national ban.  Well,
enough with the gaslighting.  Enough with the gaslighting, because we
all know if Donald Trump gets the chance, he will sign a national
abortion ban. 

And how do we know?  “Well,” says the former courtroom trial lawyer,
“let’s follow the facts.”  Congress tried to pass a national abortion
ban in 2017.  Remember?  And the then-President Trump endorsed it and
promised to sign it if it got to his desk.  And in an interview last
week, he seemed perfectly fine with a national ban that would make IVF
illegal across the country. 

Well, the great Maya Angelou once said, “When someone tells you who they
are, believe them the first time.”  (Applause.)

Donald Trump has told us who he is.  And here’s what a second Trump term
would look like: more bans, more suffering, and less freedom.  But we
are not going to let that happen — (applause) — because we — we trust
women to know what is in their own best interest.  And, EMILY’s List,
women trust all of us to fight to protect their most fundamental
freedoms. 

For nearly 40 years, you have upheld a single mission to help elect
pro-choice women.  And today I say to everyone here, as this EMILY’s
List family, we need you now more than ever. 

This November, reproductive freedom is on the ballot.  And you, us —
collectively and individually — have the power to protect those rights. 
It is your power that will help us win a pro-choice majority in the
United States House of Representatives.  (Applause.)  It is your power
that will help us defend a pro-choice majority in the United States
Senate.  (Applause.)  And it is your power that will send Joe Biden and
me back to the White House.  (Applause.)

And when Congress passes a law that restores the reproductive freedoms
of Roe, our president, Joe Biden, will sign it into law.  (Applause.) 
Yes. 

So, just watch.  Donald Trump was the one who ended Roe v. Wade.  Joe
Biden will be the president who restores it.  (Applause.) 

And so, EMILY’s List, with thanks for all your work, I say: Momentum is
on our side.  Let us not be deterred.  Momentum is on our side. 

Since Roe was overturned, every time reproductive freedom has been on
the ballot, the people of America have voted for freedom — (applause) —
from Kansas to California to Kentucky, in Michigan, Montana, Vermont,
and Ohio.  The people of America have voted for freedom and not by a
little but by overwhelming majorities, proving also that this is not a
partisan issue — proving this is not a partisan issue and proving that
the voice of the people has been heard by overwhelming margins and that
the voice of the people will be heard. 

So, today I ask: EMILY’s List, are you ready to have your voices heard? 
(Applause.) 

Do we trust women?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in reproductive freedoms?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.) 

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.) 

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God bless
you.  (Applause.)  

END                7:22 P.M. EDT
