---
date: '2024-05-27'
published_time: 2024-05-27 15:32:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/27/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-156th-national-memorial-day-observance-arlington-va/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 156th National Memorial Day Observance\
  \ | Arlington,\_VA"
---
 
Arlington National Cemetery  
Arlington, Virginia

11:24 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you, thank you, thank you.
Please be seated.

One hundred and sixty years ago this month, in the midst of the Civil
War, the first American soldier was laid to rest at these hallowed
grounds. Private William Christman, a farmworker from Pennsylvania, had
enlisted just seven weeks before. There was no formal ceremony to
consecrate this new sanctuary, no fanfore — fanfare.

It came at a turning point in the war. As fighting shifted east, the
casualties quickly mounted in the bloody, grinding campaign.

Over the next year, William would be joined in death, as he was in life,
by his brother-in-arms in this final resting place. And these hills
around us would be transformed from a former slave plantation into a
national strine — shine for those American heroes who died for freedom,
who died for us.

My fellow Americans, Jill, Vice President Harris, the Second Gentleman
Emhoff, Secretary Austin, General Brown; most importantly, the veterans
and service members, families, and survivors — we gather at this sacred
place at this solemn moment to remember, to honor — honor the sacrifice
of the hundreds of thousands of women and men who’ve given their lives
for this nation.

Each one, literally, a chain in the link — a link in the chain of honor
stretching back to our founding days. Each one bound by common
commitment — not to a place, not to a person, not to a President, but to
an idea unlike any idea in human history: the idea of the United States
of America.

Today, we bear witness to the price they paid. Every white stone across
these hills, in every military cemetery and churchyard across America: a
father, a mother, a son, a daughter, a brother, a sister, a spouse, a
neighbor — an American.

To everyone who has lost and loved someone in the service of our
country, to everyone with a loved one still missing or unaccounted for,
I know how hard it can be. It can reopen that black hole in the middle
of your chest, bringing you back to the exact moment you got that phone
call, heard that knock on the door, or held the hand when the last
breath was taken. I know it hurts. The hurt is still real, still raw.

This week marks nine years since I lost my son, Beau. Our losses are not
the same. He didn’t perish on the battlefield. He was a cancer victim
from a consequence of being in the Army in Iraq for a year next to a
burn pit — a major in the U.S. National — Army National Guard, living
and working, like too many, besides that toxic burn pit.

And as it is for so many of you, the pain of his loss is with me every
day, as it is with you — still sharp, still clear. But so is the pride I
feel in his service, as if I can still hear him saying, “It’s my duty,
Dad. It’s my duty.”

Duty. That was the code of — my son lived by and the creed all of you
live by, the creed that generations of service members have followed
into battle.

On the grounds around us lie fallen heroes from every major conflict in
history to defend our independence, to preserve our Union, to defeat
fascism; built powerful alliances, forged in fires of two world wars.

Members of the Greatest Generation, who 80 years ago next week, took to
the beaches of Normandy and liberated a continent and literally saved
the world.

Others who stood against communism in Korea and Vietnam.

And not far from here, in Section 60, lie over a thousand — a thousand —
7,054 women and men who made the ultimate sacrifice in Afghanistan and
Iraq, who signed up to defeat terrorists, protect our homeland after
9/11.

Decade after decade, tour after tour, these warriors fought for our
freedom and the freedom of others, because freedom has never been
guaranteed. Every generation has to earn it; fight for it; defend it in
battle between autocracy and democracy, between the greed of a few and
the rights of many. It matters.

Our democracy is more than just a system of government. It’s the very
soul of America. It’s how we’ve been able to constantly adapt through
the centuries. It’s why we’ve always emerged from every challenge
stronger than we went in. And it’s how we come together as one nation
united.

And just as our fallen heroes have kept the ultimate faith with our
country and our democracy, we must keep faith with them.

I’ve long said we have many obligations as a nation. But we only have
one truly sacred obligation: to prepare those we send into battle and to
pr- — take care of them and their families when they come home and when
they don’t.

Since I took office, I’ve signed over 30 bipartisan laws supporting
servicemen, veterans and their families and caregivers, and survivors.

Last year, the VA delivered more benefits and processed more claims than
ever in our history. And the PACT Act, which I was proud to have signed,
has already guaranteed one million claims helping veterans exposed to
toxic materials during their service — one million.

For too long, after fighting for our nation, these veterans had to fight
to get the right healthcare, to get the benefits they had earned. Not
anymore.

Our nation came together to ensure the burden is no longer on them to
prove their illness was service-related, whether it was Agent Orange or
toxic waste, to ensure they protected them — they just have to protect
the United States — because it’s assumed that their death was a
consequence of the exposure.

On this day, we came together again to reflect, to remember, but above
all, to recommit to the future they fought for — a future grounded in
freedom, democracy, opportunity, and equality. Not just for some, but
for all.

America is the only country in the world founded on an idea — an idea
that all people are created equal and deserve to be treated equally
throughout their lives.

We’ve never fully lived up to that, but we’ve never, ever, ever walked
away from it. Every generation, our fallen heroes have brought us
closer.

Today, we’re not just fortunate heirs of their legacy. We have a
responsibility to be the keepers of their mission. That — that truest
memorial of their lives: the actions we take every day to ensure that
our democracy endures, the very idea of America endures.

Ladies and gentlemen, 160 years ago, the first American solider was laid
to rest on these hallowed grounds. There were no big ceremonies, no big
speeches, no family mour- — family members to mourn their loss, just the
quiet grief of the rolling green hills surrounding them.

Today, we join that grief with gratitude: gratitude to our fallen
heroes, gratitude to the families left behind, and gratitude to the
brave souls who continue to uphold the flame of liberty all across our
country and around the world.

Because of them, all of them, that we stand here today. We will never
forget that. We will never, ever, ever stop working for — to make a more
perfect Union, which they lived and which they died for.

That was their promise. That’s our promise — our promise today to them.
That’s our promise always.

God bless the fallen. May God bless their families. And may God protect
our troops.

Thank you. (Applause.)
