---
date: '2024-05-23'
published_time: 2024-05-23 14:56:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/23/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-william-ruto-of-the-republic-of-kenya-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President William Ruto of the Republic of\
  \ Kenya Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

11:06 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Mr. President, welcome back to the Oval.  I — it’s
great to have you here.

And today, we celebrate 60 years of partnership between Kenya and the
United States.  And during that time, our partnership has gone from
delivering for our nations to delivering for the region and I, quite
frankly, think delivering for the world.  And it’s remarkable.

But this visit is not just about our history, it’s about the future of
what we’re going to do together.  And there’s a lot we can and must do
together.

There’s virtually no challenge, I think, that Kenya and the United
States can’t meet together and improve the circumstance, no matter what
it is: climate change, technology, economic development, good health,
the whole question of counterterrorism, clean energy — all of which
we’re working on together, and you’re leading on as well.

So, I look forward to dis- — discussing all these issues today.  And I
really am happy you’re here and hope we get to spend some real time
together. 

Welcome.

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Thank you.

Mr. President, thank you very much for inviting me.  And thank you for
the moments we’re going to share together during my visit.

Already, as you have said, we’re celebrating 60 years of a solid
relationship between Kenya and the United States, built firmly on the
foundation of shared values, which we cherish, of freedom, democracy,
the rule of law, respect for human rights.  And we’re very proud of the
relationship that we have built.

And that relationship, Mr. President, has given us the opportunity to
face our challenges together.

And you, Mr. President, and the United States have provided leadership. 
And Kenya is working with you in the context of the challenges that face
our region: challenges of security, challenges of peace.  And together,
we have surmounted many challenges.  And we have the wherewithal and the
capacity to do more together.

And, Mr. President, we will be exploring opportunities for trade and for
investment.

Working together in the frameworks that exist, whether it is on climate
— you remember, Mr. President, we had the Africa Climate Summit that I
convened in Nairobi.

And we changed the narrative on the African continent: Instead of us
thinking about victimhood, we decided that we’re going to provide
solutions — working with progressive democracies, like the U.S. — on how
to deal with these challenges. 

And the last three weeks, I also convened the International Development
Association — IDA — Replenishment Summit in Nairobi with the World Bank,
again, to look at solutions around the international financial
architecture — how do we make it much more sensitive, agile, and that
can respond to pressing economic issues compounded — that have been
compounded by climate change and — and inflation and interest rates. 

And I’m very proud, Mr. President, that the United States is working
with us towards resolving the challenges that face us but also exploring
opportunities for trade, for investment in areas of technology. 

And we will be signing one of the most progressive agreements on — on
tech between Microsoft and a Kenyan company looking into the future
around new technologies, AI. 

And so, Mr. President, I am inspired that this moment is giving us the
opportunity to leverage on our friendship and to build a stronger
collaboration to face up to the challenges that face the globe to make
our countries freer, safer, healthier, and much more progressive.  And
I’m looking forward.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  A lot to talk about.

PRESIDENT RUTO:  Thank you, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you all very much.

(Cross-talk.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m going to have a press conference — we’re going to
have a press conference a little bit later, and I’ll be able to answer
your questions.  Okay?  Thank you. 

  
11:11 A.M. EDT
