---
date: '2022-09-06'
modified_time: 2022-09-06 18:53:25-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-06 18:53:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/06/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-commerce-secretary-gina-raimondo/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Commerce Secretary\
  \ Gina\_Raimondo"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:12 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.   

  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Welcome back.  I know you guys are excited to be back
with us.   
  
Okay.  So I’d like to introduce Secretary Gina Raimondo, who has joined
us here many, many times before.  And we’re excited to have her back
today to announce the next steps that the Department of Commerce is
taking to implement the $50 billion of CHIPS Act funding.  
  
So, with that, I’m going to let the Secretary take it away.  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Thank you.  Thank you. Hello, everybody.  
  
Q    Hello.  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Hello, everybody.  It’s great to be here.  And this
is a very exciting day.  For those of us who are obsessed with and
excited about CHIPS, this is a big day.  
  
As you all know, thanks to President Biden’s leadership and the
bipartisan work in Congress, we now have an incredible opportunity to
unleash the next generation of American innovation, protect our national
security, and preserve our global economic competitiveness.

As we have talked about for decades, in the United States, our
innovation ecosystem and investments in innovation have been in
decline.  And today begins a new chapter in revitalizing U.S. innovation
and research and development.  And today we begin to reverse the decline
and lead the world again in semiconductor innovation and research and
development.

CHIPS for America, as the bill is called, represents a historic
investment in our domestic manufacturing industry, which has critical
implications for our economic and national security.

With this funding, we’re going to make sure that the United States is
never again in a position where our national security interests are
compromised or key industries are immobilized due to our inability to
produce essential semiconductors here at home.

This past year, we saw the impact of the chip shortage on American
families when car prices drove a third of inflation because of lack of
chips, factory workers were furloughed, household appliances were often
unavailable, all because of a lack of semiconductors.  
  
And as our economy and military become more reliant on technology, it’s
that much more essential that we develop a strategy with values,
outcomes, and structures that enable us to plan for an economy and
manufacturing infrastructure that positions us to compete today and into
the future.

So I want to take the next few minutes to lay out for you where we are
and how the Department of Commerce plans to implement the $50 billion in
CHIPS funding that we will be overseeing.  
  
So with the CHIPS funding, we’re setting out to achieve four primary
objectives:

First, to establish and expand domestic production of leading-edge
semiconductors in the United States.  Today, the United States consumes
more than 25 percent of the world’s leading-edge chips and produces zero
of those chips.  
  
Number two, we want to build a sufficient and stable supply of mature
node semiconductors.  We consume 30 percent, produce 13 percent.  We
need to fix that.  
  
Number three, invest in research and development to ensure the next
generation of semiconductor technology is developed and produced right
here in the United States.  
  
And number four, in the process of doing all this, we will create tens
of thousands of good-paying manufacturing jobs and more than a hundred
thousand construction jobs.  This effort will ensure the pipeline for
these jobs expands to include people who have historically not had a
chance to participate in this industry, including women, people of
color, veterans, and people who live in rural areas.  And that is
explicitly required in statute, and we will carry out Congress’s intent.

To achieve these goals, CHIPS for America will support three distinct
initiatives.  Two of those initiatives, which total $39 billion, will
make investments in domestic chip manufacturing here in the United
States.

First, we will make large-scale investments in leading-edge
manufacturing.  CHIPS for America will target approximately $28 billion
in manufacturing incentives to establish domestic production of
leading-edge logic and memory chips that require the most sophisticated
processes available today.

Second, we will invest about $10 billion in new manufacturing capacity
for mature or current-generation semiconductors.  This will help us
increase domestic production across a range of chips, including the
chips that are used in cars, medical devices, communication technology.

And third and finally, we’re going to make historic investments to
strengthen America’s research and innovation leadership.  Eleven billion
dollars — and this is — this is not as talked about; we always focus on
the incentives for the companies, but in many ways, this could be the
most exciting piece of what we’re doing.  Eleven billion dollars will go
to research and development programs, including the creation of a
National Semiconductor Technology Center.

In terms of timeline, we expect to be in a position to receive
application from companies no later than February of 2023.  So we’re
targeting February of 2023 to put the notice of funding opportunity on
the street so companies can begin to apply.  
  
Our priority is funding applications for incentive programs.  It will be
put out on a rolling basis, and we will evaluate each application one at
a time.

Before I close, I want to take a second, or minute, to send a very clear
message about how we plan to protect taxpayer dollars in this program.  
  
This is not a blank check for companies.  This is not for them to pad
their bottom line.  There are clear guardrails on this money, and the
Department of Commerce intends to be vigilant and aggressive in
protecting taxpayers.  
  
CHIPS funds cannot be used for stock buybacks.  CHIPS funds are not
intended to replace private capital.  That is key.  We’re going to look
after every nickel of taxpayer money.  Taxpayer funds are only used to
fill gaps and secure other funding as loan guarantees, not to replace
private capital.

  
These funds are intended to help companies maximize the scale of their
projects.  We’re going to be pushing companies to go bigger and be
bolder.  So if a company already has funding now for a $10 billion
project, we want them to think bigger and convince us how they can go
from $10 billion to $50 billion with use of the taxpayer financing.

We — Commerce Department has the ability to claw back money.  And make
no mistake about it: We will use that clawback authority if, after
giving the money to a company, they fail to start their project on time,
fail to complete their project on time, fail to meet the commitments
that they’ve made.  
  
We’re also going to be implementing the guardrails to ensure those who
receive CHIPS funds cannot compromise national security by — they’re not
allowed to use this money to invest in China, they can’t develop
leading-edge technologies in China, they can’t send latest technology
overseas.  
  
These are some of the most stringent taxpayer protections and guardrails
we’ve ever had, and the American people are counting on us to get it
right.  And it’s a responsibility that we take very seriously. 

I’ll just end by saying — by thanking the President and by thanking
Congress for their leadership.  No one has done more to revitalize
American manufacturing than President Biden, and CHIPS for America is a
key component of that work.

With this, we’re going to jumpstart high-tech manufacturing and drive
economic growth.  We’re going to create the kinds of jobs that will
create opportunity for Americans — high-wage jobs that we want our
children to have.  We’re going to revitalize an innovation ecosystem
that for decades has been withering and will add rocket fuel to our
global competitiveness, ensuring that America maintains its status as a
leader for generation to come.

First and foremost, this is about protecting our national security and
providing a blueprint for long-term economic prosperity.  
  
And so we’re excited.  People say to me, “Secretary, CHIPS passed.  What
do you do now?”  Now we get to work, and we’re excited to begin that
work.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We’re just going to take a couple
questions.  We have to get out of here by a certain time today, as you
all know.  
  
Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Madam Secretary.  On your point about
taxpayer protections, there seems to be kind of a natural tension here
in the sense that a huge sum of money, very clear urgency on the
government side, finite universe of private sector entities who can
probably take advantage of this.  Walk me through how this actually
works in terms of ensuring that those companies don’t have leverage,
given how much the federal government wants to kick this into high
gear.  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, great question.  So, today we put out our
strategy document, which I’m sure you’ve all read every word of.  So we
put out the strategy document today, which sets forth our principles and
criteria at a high level.  And now we begin the work of putting forth,
between now and February, more granular criteria and strings attached.  
  
So what we know is companies who receive CHIPS fundings can’t use those
fundings — funds to invest in other countries, can’t use them for stock
buybacks.   
  
Companies who receive CHIP funds can’t build leading-edge or advanced
technology facilities in China for a period of 10 years.  Companies who
receive the money can only expand their mature node factories in China
to serve the Chinese market.  So there — this is what we know.  
  
What I can tell you is we’re also right now recruiting a team at the
Commerce Department of experts.  We’re going to have folks who have a
history of hard-nosed negotiation from the private sector, people who
are semiconductor industry experts, and we’re going to negotiate these
deals one at a time and really putting the screws to these companies to
prove to us — we’re going to need proof from them to us in the form of
financial disclosures, in capital investment plans — prove to us the
money is absolutely necessary to make these investments.   
  
They’re not going to get any more than necessary to make these
investments.  And as I said in the beginning, this isn’t money to make
them more profitable or pad their bottom line, it’s the money to make
these investments and also invest in the community.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jordan.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On a different topic, CFIUS is reviewing the situation
with TikTok.  When do you expect that will resolve itself, that review? 
And will the administration, after that review, take any action to ban
TikTok?  Or short of that, how would the administration expect to
address security concerns presented by the app by the government of
China?

  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah, so as you say, it’s under review, and I have
nothing more on that today.

  
Q    On what — on another thing that has been a ball in the air — China
tariffs.  I know USTR made an announcement about that last week, but
that wouldn’t necessarily preclude the administration from lifting
tariffs on some goods.  Where does that stand right now?  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Also I have nothing on that.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Alex?  Oh, I’m sorry.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    I was actually going to ask those very same questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    If you don’t mind — if you don’t mind, though — on the tariff
question, you know, it’s been in the public domain for quite some time. 
Is it fair to assume that’s not going to happen before the midterms?  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  I don’t have anything else to say.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On topic?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  If it’s on topic, go ahead.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    It’s really on topic.  You talk about this — about this stringent
review and the information is going to be posted by February.  Bottom
line for us: How quickly is an American going to get hired with this
money?  And how quickly before somebody is buying a phone with one of
these American-made chips in it?

  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yeah.  So, great question.  You —  
  
Q    And then I have a follow-up to that.  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  You’ve already seen chip companies making big
announcements.  Micron is announcing a huge new facility.  I was just in
New Hampshire; onsemi is breaking ground on a new facility.  Intel
announced a new facility.

  
These investments have been made by these companies because the CHIPS
Act passed, and they have confidence now that the money will be put out
the door.  
  
So you’re going to — I can’t answer you — you know, how quickly exactly
a specific chip is going to come.  But the point is, you’re already
seeing it.  GlobalWafers made an announcement — $5 billion investment in
Texas.  So I’d say immediately; the effects are immediately being
felt.  
  
In terms of our process, February, like you said, we’ll begin the
process.  I think you can start — I’m going to hope to start putting
money out the door, you know, next spring to specific companies.  
  
Here’s the thing: There’s going to be a range of projects.  There’ll be
smaller, simpler projects, maybe for expansion of existing facilities. 
And then there’ll be very large, complex, leading-edge projects.  
  
I think you could see in the spring of next year some of the smaller
money going out the door.  
  
Q    And do — you listed a very stringent list of criteria: It can’t be
invested into stock buybacks; can’t be for chips that get made or sold
in China, unless they’re for the Chinese market; a bunch of other
things.  Do you know that companies exist right now that are willing to
meet those stringent demands?  Do you check that before you publish
them?  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  
  
Q    So they’re ready to go —  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  
  
Q    — with what’s there?  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  
  
Q    And do you at the Commerce Department then have the money necessary
to hire those top-notch negotiators, the specialists —

  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  
  
Q    — or do you need more from Congress?  Because often —  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes.  
  
Q    — what ends up happening: We get a big government announcement —
“multibillion dollars; here it comes from the federal government” — and
three years later, we’re writing stories, telling stories about how that
money was mismanaged and the department that was overseeing it didn’t
have enough.  You’re saying you do?  
  
SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Yes, I do.  What we’re doing right now is we’re in
the process of hiring about 50 people.  We do have the money.  They will
be expert.  And I have absolute confidence we will be able to do this.

Also, the answer to your first question is — again, Micron wouldn’t be
announcing a massive expansion in Idaho if CHIPS weren’t passed.  So,
yes, they know the strings are attached.  And, yes, they will operate
under those strings.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Final question.  Ed, it’s so good to have you
back, my friend.  (Laughs.)

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  Can you talk a little bit more about the
protections or guardrails from doing work with China?  Just — you know,
the administration was reportedly pushing back on Intel’s plans or
publicly announced plans to boost silicon wafer production in China. 
Has that — has that kind of plans stopped?  And will that prevent
companies like Intel from getting this kind of funding?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  So, as — as I’ve said, if they take the money, they
can’t use the money to invest in China, they can’t build a leading-edge
fab in China for a period of 10 years.  If they expand their mature node
factories in China, it’s only to serve the Chinese market.  And, by the
way, if they take money and then do any of those things, we’ll claw back
the money.

Q    If — if they — this was announ- — as I understand it, this was
announced previously.  Is there like some type of grandfather clause? 
Will they be able to start this production now?  Or does — does that —
does the fact that they had already announced this allow them to make —
to continue with those plans?

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  We’re going to take it on a case-by-case basis. 
Here’s what I will tell you: The number-one objective of implementing
this is to protect America’s national security.  Every deal we do, every
criteria that we evaluate these companies against, it’s going to be with
a lens toward protecting national security.  So we’re not going to allow
any deals to happen that we think undermine our national security.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, Secretary.  Appreciate it.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  See you in a little bit.

SECRETARY RAIMONDO:  All right.  Bye, guys.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  Thank you, Secretary
Raimondo. 

All right.  I have one thing at the top.  And as you all know, we
probably have about 30 minutes or so for the next event that the
President has, so we all have to get out of here in 30 minutes. 

Okay, so I just want to take a moment to acknowledge the attack in
Canada over the weekend.  It is senseless and devastating.  I won’t get
ahead of the Canadian law enforcement as they continue their work.  Our
thoughts are with the victims of this horrific attack.  We stand with
Canada, our ally and neighbor, and all those affected by this tragedy,
and condemn this senseless violence. 

With that, Seung Min, you want to kick us off?

Q    Yeah.  I saw the President’s tweet congratulating Liz Truss, the
new Prime Minister of the UK.  Has he spoken with her or does he plan to
later today?  What is his plans? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So he’s going to speak to her later today, this
afternoon.  He’s planning to call her to congratulate her — the new
Prime Minister.  And so that — that’s going to happen later this
afternoon. 

Q    And I have another one on the fatal shooting of journalist Shireen
Abu Akleh.  The Israeli military has now said there’s a, quote, “high
probability” that an Israeli soldier accidentally killed her, but they
also said that no one will be held responsible.  So I wanted to know the
White House’s reactions to the Israeli military’s conclusions and also
whether it is acceptable to the President that no one will be held
accountable in that death.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I know this report came out yesterday, as it was
reported by the Israeli Defense Forces, as you just said.  We have
extended our deepest condolences to the family of Shireen Abu Akleh, a
renowned Palestinian American journalist who was killed in the West
Bank.  We strongly condemn this killing, as we have for the past several
months.  Ms. Abu Akleh was an inspiration to millions and a friend to
many in the U.S. government.  Her death is a great loss and a tragedy. 

We continue to call on all sides to maintain calm and avoid further
escalation.  As you just mentioned and I just said, it was reported
yesterday that it had con- — the Israeli Defense Forces had concluded
its investigation into the circumstances surrounding her death and
stated there was a high possibility that her death — was accidentally
hit by IDF gunfire, as you just mentioned, Seung Min. 

We welcome Israelis’ review of this tragic incident, and we underscored
the importance of accountability in this case, such as policies and
procedures to prevent similar incidents from occurring in the future. 
Our thoughts remain with Abu Akleh’s family as they grieve this
tremendous loss. 

Not only was Shireen an American citizen, as I just mentioned, she was a
fearless — a fearless reporter whose journalism and pursuit of truth
earned her the respect of audience around the world.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  President Biden said last night he didn’t think
Russia should be designated a state sponsor of terrorism, even after
President Zelenskyy, in an interview with ABC’s David Muir, said he had
asked the President about taking that step.  Why does the President
think that?  And is this about keeping limited diplomatic channels open
still? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So as the President has said, as — and as we do think
as well — as — you know, it is not the most effective or strongest path
forward, as we have said many times before, to hold Russia accountable. 
This designation could have unintended consequences to Ukraine and the
world.  For example, according to humanitarian expert and NGOs we have
spoken to, it could seriously affect the ability to deliver assistance
in areas of Ukraine. 

Another one is it could drive critical humanitarian and commercial
actors away from facilitating food exports to help mitigate the global
food crisis and jeopardize the Black Sea port deal that has already led
to over a million tons of Ukrainian food exports reaching the world,
including those on the — on the Horn of Africa likely facing famine. 

It would also undercut our unprecedented multilateral condition that has
been so effective to holding Putin accountable and could also undermine
our ability to support Ukraine at the negotiating — negotiation table.

So, again, we do not think this is the most effective way to go or the
strongest path forward. 

Q    There are also concerns about potentially inadvertently punishing
allies who might still have trade relations with Russia.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what we have done is we’ve already put in
place severe consequences in line with those that would be imposed under
such designation.  Our sanctions export controls affect — efforts to
further isolate Russia from the global economy or — are having a
significant impact.  So that’s the way we kind of have seen with the
work that we’ve already done. 

Under this, Russia defaulted on its foreign debt for the first time in
more than a century.  As we have said, we are choking off Russia’s
military supply chains.  For example, Russia has to rely on North Korea,
as you all heard, and Iran for military equipment.  And just last week,
the G7 committed to implement a price cap to push down the price of
Putin’s oil and starve him of his main source of revenue to fund this
war.

So again, we are, of course, support — we, of course, are going to
support using further tools that will work to promote accountability for
Russia’s war against Ukraine.  And so that’s going to be our focus as we
move forward.

Go ahead.

Q    When the President speaks with the new Prime Minister of the United
Kingdom, will he discuss the Northern Ireland arrangements?  Is there an
expectation that he’ll call on the Prime Minister to delay
implementation of the protocol bill that she has supported that would
allow the United Kingdom to override the provisions of the agreement
between Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland?  How’s that going
to come into the conversation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead or speak to what the
President might say or will say on the call.  I’ll say this: that we’ll
have a readout after the call later this afternoon.  But he has been
clear about his continued interest in Northern Ireland. 

Our priority remains protecting the gains of the Belfast Good Friday
Agreement and preserving peace, stability, and prosperity for the people
of Northern Ireland.  Again, I’m not — I’m not going to get ahead of
what the President will or won’t say.

Q    Okay.  And the UK is obviously going through some serious economic
concerns.  They have an energy crisis that’s going on.  Is there any
room for aid, assistance, or more to be done in terms of supporting them
on lowering energy costs domestically?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So you’ve heard us say this: that what we see Russia
is doing — we’ve been very clear about this — is that they’re using
energy — they’re weaponizing energy.  And it’s choosing to — one of the
things that has been out there — the shutdown of the pipeline of Nord
<s>Strom</s> \[Stream\] 1

So the sanction we’ve imposed, we believe, do stand in the way of the
pipeline to continuing operating.  So the U.S. and Europe have been
collaborating to ensure sufficient supplies are available.  As a result
of these efforts, European gas <s>shortage</s> \[storage\] will be full
by the critical winter heating season.  So we have more work to do, but,
again, we’re working closely with our allies on this.

Q    And then one final one.  Is there any status update on U.S.-UK
trade negotiations?  And do you expect that to be a topic on the call
with the new Prime Minister?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any updates on that. Again, I’m not
going to get ahead of what’s going to be on the call with the — what the
President is going to say to the new Prime Minister.  We’ll have —
certainly we’ll have a readout for all of you once it’s done.

Go ahead.

Q    Just one question.  The President tweeted earlier today, “I want to
be clear: Not every Congressional Republican is a MAGA Republican.”  He
went on to say — to talk about “an extreme set of MAGA Republicans in
Congress.”  But he’s also said frequently over the last several days —
talked about how not one Republican backed the agenda that he’s had in —
for example, the Inflation Reduction Act or the Recovery Act.  And more
broadly, he’s talked about how the Republican Party is “not your
grandfather’s Republican Party,” that the whole party has changed. 

So can you talk a little bit about what he’s — what group of people does
he think are MAGA Republicans?  Does he — when he says not one
Republican supported the agenda — so does that mean that every
Republican in Congress is essentially a MAGA Republican?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So he’s been very clear when he’s talked about MAGA
Republicans — ultra-MAGA Republicans.  He’s talked about the leadership
in the Republican Party. 

For — one of the first time he actually used that term was to talk about
Rick Scott’s plan, which was, to your point, using a — an agenda that
they had, which was to put Medicare and Social Security on the chopping
block.  And for him, that was an extreme measure that is taking away
something that was — if you’re thinking about it, Medicare, Social
Security, very popular.  That is — a majority of Americans support that,
as well as the — as well as the Inflation Reduction Act.  Majority of
the Republi- — of — sorry, Republicans and Democrats and independents
support those policies.  And you have leaders in — in the Republican
Party who are offering extreme, extreme agenda.  And so that’s what he
means. 

And let me just — I’ll just quote the President.  On Friday, he took,
actually, Peter’s question — the only reporter that he took a question
from on Friday.  And he said, in answering your question about this —
(laughter) — I know I — I’m only saying that because Peter felt a
certain way that I didn’t take his question on Friday in the briefing
room. 

But the President did take your question that day. 

Q    (Inaudible) feels like that all the time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Well, I hear you. 

Q    Word travels fast.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Word — word — there we go. 

Okay, so, “When people vote — voted for Donald Trump” — this is the —
this is President Biden — “and support him now, they weren’t voting for
attacking the Capitol.  They weren’t voting for overruling an election. 
They were voting for a philosophy he put forward. 

So I’m not talking about anything other than: It’s inappropriate — and
it’s” — “it’s not only happening here, but other parts of the world —
where there’s a failure to recognize and condemn violence whenever it is
used for political purposes, failure to condemn an attempt to manipulate
electoral outcomes, a failure to acknowledge when elections were won or
lost.”

And so that is from the President — what he thinks.  He’s talking about
a — the leadership.  He’s talking about the leadership who put out
extreme agenda.  Also the — also talking, in what I just laid out, in
not condemning violence when there’s violence out there.

Q    So just one quick follow-up.  But, you know, while it’s — you know,
you can talk about what people meant or didn’t mean, or — by voting in
the 2020 election.  But there are lots of Republican — just regular
Republican voters who do support, for example, Rick Scott’s, you know,
ideas about what to do with the budget or what to do with Social
Security or entitlement programs.  There’s lots of Republican voters who
do agree with the President that they think the election was — with the
former President, I mean — but — but that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  No, I hear you.

Q    — the election.  So — so does he consider — does the President
consider all of those people who support these extreme agendas that he’s
talking about to be the MAGA Republicans that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So he was has been very clear that he’s talking about
office holders.  He’s talking about elected officials who have these
MAGA — ultra-MAGA Republican agendas. And he’s been very clear about
that. 

Look, here’s the thing: The point that we are making is majority of
Americans support Medicare.  Majority of Americans support Social
Security.  Majority of Americans support our democracy and want to
protect our democracy, want to protect our freedom, want to protect our
rights, and that’s who the President is going to continue to stand up
for and fight for.

I’m going to try and call on people I haven’t called on yet.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Since we don’t have a lot of time.

Q    A follow for you on the questions about Russia and the President’s
decision not to designate Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.  Is
that a final decision by President Biden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, it is.  I mean, I’ll let his words stand for
himself.  He answered it pretty simply.  I just laid out why we think it
wouldn’t be the strongest path forward.  I laid out three reasons. 

Also, we want to make sure that Ukraine has what it needs in case it has
to go to the negotiation table.  So it is very important that we give
them the strongest — the strongest, you know, negotiation arm that they
can have.

Q    And did the President directly convey that to President Zelenskyy
before publicly saying that he had made that decision?  And has he
conveyed it to members of Congress, leaders in Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t speak to conversation — private conversation
specifically on this that the President had with members of Congress or
President Zelenskyy.  As you know, they spoke recently.  We laid out a
readout of what that conver- — how that conversation went and what was
discussed.

Q    And what about congressional leaders?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I just said I can’t speak to what conversations
that the President had — private conversations that he’s had with
members of Congress.

Q    Can you tell us when, specifically, he made that determination
because of this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a — a timeline. 

Q    Or (inaudible) made.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — well, I don’t have a timeline on when he made
that decision.  He was asked that directly yesterday.  He answered that
very straightforward — in a straightforward way.  I just laid out what
our concerns are with that.

Q    And can you just update us — Karine, I know you’ve answered some
version of this question before, but as we’re sort of starting in
September here: Has the President or anyone within the administration
been briefed on the intelligence community’s assessment of the
classified or sensitive documents that have been retrieved at
Mar-a-Lago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No.

Q    And is there a protocol for that, I mean, given that we are talking
about sensitive government documents?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again — and I’ve said this many times at this
podium, we have said this many times on your air — your airwaves — which
is: We are just — we get the interest.  We understand the interest. 
We’re not going to comment on an ongoing, independent investigation, as
anything that’s related to it.  This is something that the President has
been very clear about in making sure there is no political interference
and making sure that the Department of Justice has that independence
when it comes to investigations.  So I’m just not going to comment
anything related to it.

Q    One more quick, on a different topic.  But just following up on the
questions about the “MAGA Republicans,” the President is very firm in
his language and direct, saying that the former President and MAGA
Republicans he believes pose a threat to America’s democracy.  Does he
then denounce the efforts by some Democrats to prop up Republicans who
support the MAGA agenda in the primaries?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to talk about political action or what
is happening in the midterms. 

Q    Just broadly speaking —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m just — that is —

Q    — does the administration see this (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am not going to talk anything that’s related to the
midterms or politics as well.  I cannot, standing where I am and also
the role that I have. 

I’m going to go to the back and then I’ll come back front.  I’ll come
back.

Q    Karine, thanks —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I haven’t — go ahead, sir.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  Thank you very much.  Does — does
President Biden — President Biden is the current holder of executive
privilege.  And does President Biden believe that Trump can claim
executive privilege for government documents that he took with him to
Florida?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, anything related to the independent
investigation — again, independent investigation that’s being done by
the Department of Justice — we’re not going to comment, regardless of
content or any underlying material.  I’m not going to comment from
here. 

Q    Well, the judge — Judge Cannon, herself, said that Biden hadn’t
weighed in.  That’s refuted in the National Archives letter.  But does
President Biden have an opinion on — and has he exerted his opinion on
whether executive privilege applies to former President Trump after he
left office, after he left on January 20th, 2021?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not — it is — I’m not going to comment about what the
— what the judge said yesterday, the court has laid out.  Again, that is
for the Department of Justice, this whole independent investigation. 
I’m just not going to comment on it at this time.

Go ahead, Courtney.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask you: The Department of Veterans
Affairs put out an interim rule this morning on access to abortion,
offering veterans abortion in special instances.  I know we had the
conversation in here shortly after the fall of Roe, about this idea of
doctors performing abortion procedures on federal land, and even talked
about how that wasn’t the best path forward at the time.  What changed? 
And what do you believe is the legal justification to make this happen
at VA clinics? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would leave that to the Veterans Affairs
Department; that is their decision to make.  And I would refer you to
them on that particular question. 

I’m going to get around because we don’t have a lot of time at all. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  In his Independence Day speech, Prime Minister —
(inaudible) Prime Minister Modi gave a call to communicate India a
developed country in the next 25 years — at least 2047, when India
celebrates its 100 years of independence.  As you know, this year is the
75th year of India’s independence.  In what way U.S. can — U.S. can help
India — assist India in making it a developed nation by 2047, or in the
next 25 years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the United States and, as you know, India — and
I’ve said this to you before in this room — will continue to work
together every day to deliver opportunities, security, freedom, and
dignity to our peoples.  We are partners in many important areas,
including defense, vaccines, climate, tech, and our ever-growing
people-to-people connections. 

The United States will continue to work with India to advance a free and
open Indo-Pacific and address the challenges both our countries face
around the world.  That is our commitment that we have in our
partnership with India.

Q    And secondly, what is the President’s assessment of the situation
in Afghanistan right now, a year after the Taliban took the power there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that — say that one more time.

Q    What is the President’s assessment of the situation in Afghanistan
right now, a year after the Taliban took the power?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we are — we are committed to supporting the Afghan
people, and we have said that many times before.  And we are proud to be
the largest single provider of humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. 
We are working closely with the United Nations and other partners to
provide this assistance directly to the Afghan people without benefit to
the Taliban.

We will remain vigilant against any terrorism threats directed at the
United States or our allies, as we have demonstrated just recently in
July, as you know, when we took out the leader of al Qaeda. 

And we will continue to prioritize relocation efforts to our Afghan
allies and welcome our Afghan allies to the United States since our
commitment to them is enduring. 

So we will also continue to press the Taliban for the safe release of
Mark Frerichs and to respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms
of all Afghans, including women and girls.  And that is our — going to
continue to be our commitment. 

I’m just going to go around to folks I haven’t called on, and then I’ll
come down to here, Peter.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  There are multiple inspector general posts where
the President has yet to nominate a permanent IG.  There may be someone
acting there, but has yet to nominate a permanent IG at the State
Department — hasn’t had a permanent IG since before President Biden took
office.  So what is the President doing, what is the White House doing
behind the scenes to find those permanent IGs for those really important
positions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So it’s a great question.  I don’t have anything here
to read out or lay out to you about our process in filling the permanent
IGs.  I would refer you to State Department specifically on anything —
on what they have — what they have laid out and how they’ve worked
through that. 

I don’t have any updates on any — naming anyone or anything that we have
to share or to preview to you as well.

Q    Yes, I understand.  But these are the President’s nominees.  State
Department doesn’t make that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but you also asked me what is it that we’re doing
as well.  So I — that’s why I said you should go to State Department to
figure out what is it that they’re been doing while we’re trying to
figure out the permanent IGs.  I don’t have anything to preview at this
time on our process or where we are on that particular question.

Q    And then really briefly on student loans.  I know the
administration has encouraged people who are applying for loan
forgiveness, when that opens up, to do so by November 15th.  But is
there kind of an end deadline?  When is the last time people can apply
for that?  Is there some sort of deadline, considering, of course, that
this would already have to be debt that’s already been accrued?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve — we’ve talked about this — I talked about
this last week — about the timeline and how that’s going to work. 

And you mentioned November 15th.  So — so that’s in order — we do — we
are saying that in order to receive before the payment pause, which
expires on December 31st, 2022.  So that’s why we want — as you want to
get that relief, we want to also — and the pause is coming off.  That’s
the best way to make sure that as those two things are happening, and
you’re not put in a bind — America is not put in a bind — that’s why we
recommend doing it by November 15th. 

But the Department of Education will continue to process applications as
they are received, even after the pause expires on December 31st.  So
it’ll be continuing.  The reason why we give the deadline of November 15
is because we know the pause is going to be lifted.  So to give — as we
have said, we want to make sure that we give Americans a little bit of
breathing room.  And that’s why we have that deadline.

Q    So people can apply into 2023?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, they can.  Yes. 

Okay.  Oh, Peter, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A follow-up about the MAGA Republican attention. 
So if we’re all in agreement that it is incorrect to say the 2020
election was stolen, what about the 2016 election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to go back to where we were or
what happened in 2016.  We’re going to focus on the here and now.  We’re
going to focus on what’s happening today — this inflection point that
the President pointed out, very clearly, very decisively in a few
speeches about what the country needs to do at this time to bring the
country together. 

And he believes that’s where a majority of Americans are when it comes
to protecting our democracy, when it comes to protecting our rights, and
when it comes to protecting our freedoms.  That’s what we’re going to
talk about.  That’s what we’re going to focus on — on where we are
today.

Q    But just in trying to understand the new attention on the MAGA
Republicans, you tweeted in 2016 —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I knew this was coming.

Q    — Trump “stole” an election.  You tweeted —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was waiting, Peter, when you were going to ask me
that question.  (Laughs.)

Q    Well, great.  Here we go.  You tweeted Trump “stole” an election. 
You tweeted Brian Kemp “stole” an election.  If denying election results
is extreme now, why wasn’t it then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let’s — let’s — let’s be really clear: That — that
comparison that you made is just ridiculous.  I have been — I have been
—

Q    How is that ridiculous?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you’re asking me — you’re asking me a question. 

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me answer it.

Q    And you said it was ridiculous. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was — I was talking specifically at that time of
what was happening with voting rights and the — what was in danger of
voting rights.  That’s what I was speaking to at the time. 

And here’s the thing: I have said Governor Kemp won the election in
Georgia.  I’ve been clear about that.  I have said President Trump won
the election of 2016.  And I’ve been clear about that. 

What we are talking about right now is — let’s not forget what happened
on January 6th, 2021, when we saw an insurrection — a mob that was
incited by the person who occupied this campus, this facility at that
time.  And it was an attack on our democracy. 

Let’s not forget people died that day.  Law enforcement were attacked
that day.  That was the danger that we were seeing at the time.  That’s
what the President has called out.  And that’s what he’s going to
continue to call out.

So, yes, when you have MAGA Republicans — a extreme part of Republicans
who for — who just deny or do not want to really say what exactly
happened on that day, or say it was a protest when it clearly was not a
peaceful protest — that’s not what we saw on that day — yes, the
President is going to call that out.

And here’s the thing: Majority of Americans agree with him, majority of
Americans agree with this President on protecting our democracy,
protecting our freedom, and protecting our rights.  That’s what we’re
talking about today, and that’s what the President is going to focus
on. 

All right, we’re going to have to move.  We’re going to have to move. 
I’m going to call on folks I haven’t called on.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m just wondering if you have any sort of preview
for the event tomorrow with former President Obama and former First Lady
Obama. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.  I do. 

So, tomorrow, President Biden is looking forward to welcoming back
President Obama and Michelle Obama to the White House for the unveiling
of their official White House portraits. 

Over the course of their eight years together in office, a close
partnership between the two men grew through the highs and lows of the
job and life — and of life.  President Biden and Dr. Biden are honored
to have former President Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama back
to the White House for the unveiling of their portraits, which will hang
on the walls of the White House forever as reminders of the power of
hope and change.

Q    And obviously, this ceremony is happening, as per in recent
history, tradition: predecessor and successor.  Obviously, it didn’t
happen under the last administration.  Would President Biden hold the
same ceremony for President Trump should his portraits be done before
his first term?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we — we defer those questions to the White House
Historical Association who actually — they lead the process on official
portraits for both presidents and their spouses.  So that question goes
— lies with them.

Q    And is there any more interaction that the former President and
current President will have tomorrow?  Or is it just the ceremony?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share at this time.  If
we — if there’s more interaction or more to share, we certainly will. 

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Going back to the new UK Prime Minister, can you talk a little bit
about what President Biden’s relationship is with her?  Has he met with
her in the past?  Does he know her well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a good question.  I can go back and actually
ask to see if they have a prior relationship.  But I do want to say
this, as we talk about the change that’s happening — the new Prime
Minister: Our countries have a close, longstanding, special
relationships as friends and NATO Allies.  And we are looking forward to
continued close cooperation on key priorities, including supporting
Ukraine as it defends itself against Russian aggression and addressing
the challenges posed by China. 

So we see our relationship not just with the leadership, but also the
people of the UK.

Q    Karine, is the President planning to call —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to try and call on people who I haven’t
called.

Q    Is the President planning to call the President of Kenya, the new
(inaudible) — President-elect of Kenya?

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to ask you about the question about
migrants and whether they have or haven’t been walking across the
southwest border.  Senator Ted Cruz has publicly invited, suggested that
you come down to see that for yourself.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Who?  Wait, who?

Q    Senator Ted Cruz of Texas.  He’s — he’s suggested that you come
down and see for yourself whether migrants are actually crossing the
border by foot.  Is that something that you would take him up on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ve been to the border.  I went in 2018.  I stood
outside facilities where the Trump administration was separating
families, tearing babies out of their mothers’ arms.  Some of those kids
still haven’t been reunited with their families. 

And so, one thing I will say is I certainly don’t need lectures or
invitations from Republicans about the border or border policies.  And —
you know, and I certainly won’t take advice on border from anyone who
voted against securing record level of funding for the Department of
Homeland Security.

And — and, you know, and while folks are sending invites, I’ll use this
opportunity to — to invite him or anyone else next time to vote for
record funding for DHS, as President Biden has requested.  So we’ll move
on.

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nope, we’ll move on from that.

Q    And — quick question.  On the migrants who drowned last week near
Eagle Pass, what is the administration doing to avert those kinds of
tragedies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that is a tragic — that is tragic when we hear news
like that.  Our hearts go out to the families certainly.  And — and that
is what we try to work very hard to do: to secure the border and make
sure that we don’t see those types of — those tragedies and
heartbreaks. 

So, I know the Department of Homeland Security is working very hard on —
to continuing to secure our border, to do work that was not done in the
past several years.  And so we’re going to continue to focus on that.

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, a question on Kenya.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  Kenya.  What’s — what’s going on?

Q    Since you just spoke about the President calling the new Prime
Minister of the UK, is he planning to call the President-elect of Kenya
after it was affirmed — his victory was affirmed by the supreme court
yesterday?  And is he also planning to call the new President of Angola
— the President and the President-elect (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have — I spoke to Angola a couple of times
last week.  And the President actually took a question, I know, on
Angola, specifically, about 10 days or so.

On — on Kenya, I’ll say this: We congratulate William Ruto on his
election as President of Kenya.  We also congratulate the people of
Kenya on the conclusion of a peaceful electoral process.  We commend
Raila Odinga and other candidates for abiding by the supreme court
filing.  Transparent electoral processes and the peaceful adjudication
of disputes are testaments to the strength of democratic institutions.  
  
The United States and Kenya share a strong and longstanding partnership
based on a commitment to democracy, security, economic prosperity.  We
look forward to enhancing this partnership with President Ruto and his
new government.  
  
I don’t have any calls to read out or preview for you at this time.

  
Q    And then, on Ethiopia: Last Friday, you talked about the special
envoy, Michael Hammer, going to Ethiopia.  The main problem in Ethiopia
right now, especially around Tigray, is about the blockade that’s been
there for almost 21 months.  
  
Is the President, is the special envoy going to press Prime Minister
Abiy Ahmed Ali to lift the blockade and grant access to the 6 million
people who have been sealed off?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead of the special envoy.  I
know we announced that, as you mentioned, last week.  I’m not going to
get into any conversation that he may potentially have.  
  
Clearly, this is a priority for this President.  And when we will have
more to share, we’ll share more.  I got to —  
  
Q    Can —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I got to jump around. 

Q    One last question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  I got to jump around.  I got to jump
around.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I’ve got a question on Israel and Iran
tensions.  Israel is on high alert, and the Prime Minister of Israel has
talked about taking unilateral action against Iran’s nuclear program. 
Will the Biden administration back any Israeli action against Iran’s
nuclear program?  And can you update us a little bit on the Mossad
chief?  He’s in town.  Who has he been meeting with?  What’s he been
doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have anything to share about Mossad being in
town.  It had been announced several weeks now that he would be.  Don’t
have more to share on that.  
  
Look, I’m going to — when it comes to the JCPOA, you know, I’m going to
keep it very, very simple here.  We’ve said this many times: We have
taken a deliberate and principled approach to these negotiations from
the start.  If Iran is prepared to comply with comments — with its
commitments under 2015 deal, then we are prepared to do the same.  
  
The administration, along with our allies, is preparing equally for
scenarios with or — and without a mutual return to the — to the full
implementation of the JCPOA.  
  
The President will only conclude a deal that he determines in the
national security interest of the United States.  Again, not going to
negotiate, not going to have conversations or hypotheticals of what may
or may not happen.  We have been very clear about what we intend here,
and it’s to make sure that Iran does not acquire a nuclear weapon.  And
that is our ultimate goal here.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on President Abbas?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, no, we’re just going to — we’re going to move
around because I literally have two minutes.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I actually want to follow up on the Iran nuclear deal question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    What is the timeline that President Biden is looking at before the
State Department diplomats sort of say “time’s up”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have a timeline for you.  I can give you an
update on the status of the negotiations.  
  
Look, it’s a regular back-and-forth.  As we have said, we are studying
the response in coordination with our E3 allies.  As you know, we have
received a response.  Again, we’re not going to negotiate in public. 
Some gaps have closed in recent weeks but others have remained.  
  
As you all know, the President will only, again, conclude a deal that he
determines is in the national security interest of the United States. 
I’m not — I’m not going to get into further detail or negotiate from
here.  
  
I can take one last question.  One last question.  
  
Q    Can I ask about Shireen, my colleague?  Can you — you read the
message — the statement about Shireen Abu Akleh.  The administration
continues to talk about accountability, but there hasn’t been any. 
There have been no charges.  What is the Biden administration going to
do to press for accountability?  What steps are going to be taken?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what I can tell you is that we have been — we have
been in constant communication, we have been very public about making
sure that there is accountability.  The U.S. Security Coordinator — the
USCC, as it relates to the investigation, finding that there was no
reason to believe the killing was intentional and it was instead the
result of tragic circumstances is based on a series of engagements and a
review of the totality of the available evidence, situational and
environmental factors.  
  
Again, you know, our profound condolences go to the family.  We hear
their concerns.  We understand their concerns.  The examin- —
examination was conducted by two members, again, of the USCC with over
42 combined years of forensic expertise.  
  
In addition to the forensic and bal- — ballistic analysis, the USCC was
granted full access to both Israel Defense Forces and Palestinian
Authority investigation.  By summarizing both investigation, the USCC
concluded that gunfire from IDF positions was likely responsible for the
death of Shireen Abu Akleh.  The USCC found no reason to believe that
this was intentional but rather the result of tragic circumstances.   
  
Again, you know, our hearts go out to the family members.   
  
And I’m — I have to go.  It’s 1:03.   
  
Q    But just very quickly —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll be back tomorrow.  I’ll be —  
  
Q    This isn’t accountability.  I — how do journalists in this room
read this?  I mean, it feels almost like our government doesn’t have our
back, that an ally can — can kill an American journalist with
impunity.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I disagree.  I disagree.  One thing that this
President has been very clear about making sure that we stand up for a
journalist; we stand up for the freedom that they should be given in
order to report, whether it’s here or across the globe.  And — and the
President has always been clear about fighting for human rights.  That
will never change.  
  
He has talked about it boldly and clearly.  And — and he’s talked about
it with leaders as well.  So that is something that he respects — the
freedom of speech — and he’ll continue to speak to that.  
  
All right, guys.  I got to go.  
  
1:05 P.M. EDT
