---
date: '2022-09-28'
published_time: 2022-09-28 19:14:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/28/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-september-28-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, September 28,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:53 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you heard from the President just this morning,
this administration is ready to help the people of Florida in every way
possible.  And when the storm passes, we will be there to help Florida
rebuild and recover.  We are committed to seeing this through.  
  
Yesterday, President Biden spoke with Governor DeSantis, as well as
Tampa Bay Area mayors, to discuss the steps the federal government is
taking to help Florida prepare for Hurricane Ian.  And tomorrow he will
visit FEMA’s headquarters to receive a briefing on federal response
efforts for Hurricane Ian.  
  
Already we have deployed significant federal resources to the region to
help prepare for the hurricane.  We have more than 1,300 federal
response workers on the ground in Florida.  There are 3.7 million meals
and 3.5 million liters of water pre-positioned in Alabama, 110,000
gallons of fuel, and 18,000 pounds of propane are pre-staged for
immediate deployment.  Three hundred Army Corps personnel are on the
ground to support power and fuel assessments.  Three hundred ambulances
are supporting local officials.  And multiple federal Disaster Medical
Assistance Teams are deployed to Florida and Georgia.  
  
As the President said this morning, this storm is incredibly dangerous
and life threatening.  Heed warnings from state and local officials.  If
you’re told to shelter in place, please do so.  Shelter in place. 
Additionally, we know that disruptions from hurricanes can pose
challenges to markets.  But the latest projections show that major
refineries should not be impacted by Hurricane Ian.  
  
As the President said today, oil and gas companies should not use this
moment as an excuse to raise gas prices.  
  
I also want to speak to the sham referenda that Russia has staged in
occupied areas in Ukraine.  These referenda were straight from the
Kremlin playbook.  They were manufactured and manipulated.  Ukrainian
civilians were forced to cast ballots under the watch of armed guards. 
We have seen videos and reports of armed officials going door to door,
intimidating voters and stopping Ukrainians on the street and forcing
them to vote.  
  
These so-called referenda have been an exercise in coercion and
disinformation executed by puppet authorit- — authorities following
orders from Russia.  
  
Based on our information, every aspect of this referendum process was
pre-staged and orchestrated by the Kremlin.  Weeks, if not months ago,
Russian officials planned to announce these pre- — pre-determined
outcomes.  The Russian government instructed security forces to occupy
referendum workers as they collected votes and the Russian government
falsified the results to advance the lie that the Ukrainian people want
to be part of Russia.  
  
But as we all know, to the contrary, the world has seen very, very
clearly that Ukrainians do not want to be part of Russia.  
  
In reality, the Ukrainian people are continuing to fight for their
independence with support from the United States and allies across the
globe.  They have courageously resisted Russia’s invasion.  The
Ukrainian people have defended their territory heroically and at
significant cost.  
  
In occupied areas of Ukraine, Russian forces have committed war crimes
and atrocities — killed thousands of civilians and subjected thousands
more to filtration operations.  And it is in these occupied areas that
Russia would have us believe, against all evidence and also all logic,
that the Ukrainian people have suddenly chosen to join Russia.  
  
But we know the truth: These referenda are illegitimate and, frankly,
outrageous.  
  
We expect Russia to use these sham referenda as a false pretext to try
to annex Ukrainian territory in flagrant violation of international law
and the United Nations Charter.  
  
In fact, Russia’s actions are transparently fraudulent and have no legal
significance whatsoever.  We will never recognize these illegal and
illegitimate attempts at annexation.  Regardless of Russia’s claims,
this remains Ukrainian territory, and Ukraine has every right to
continue to fight for their full sovereignty.  
  
In response, we will work with our allies and partners to impose
additional economic costs on Russia and individuals and entities inside
and outside of Russia that provide support to this action.  
  
We will rally global opposition to Russia’s attempts at annexation,
including at the United Nations.  
  
And we will continue to stand with Ukraine as they defend their
territory and sovereignty as we have been doing for the past several
months.  
  
And today, the United States is announcing an additional $1.1 billion
package of weapons and equipment for Ukraine through the Ukraine
Security Assistance initiative.  This includes 18 new High Mobility
Artillery Rocket System and — also known as HIMARS — which Ukraine has
used so effectively on the battlefield.  It is — also includes hundreds
of armored vehicles, radars, and counter-drone systems.  We will not be
deterred from supporting Ukraine.  We will continue to stand with the
Ukrainian people and provide them with the security assistance they need
to defend themselves for as long as it takes.  
  
With that, go ahead, Zeke.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the storm, can you provide an update on what
the President has been doing today?  As the storm bears down in Florida,
has he been making phone calls, receiving briefings?  Who’s been
briefing him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So he’s been receiving regular briefings throughout
these last couple of days.  As you know, he met with the FEMA
Administrator yesterday.  He will continue to get briefings as well
today.  He will most likely continue to make calls as well.  I don’t
have anything to read out at this time.   
  
But as you heard him speak about this this morning at the top of his
event, he — he laid out his thoughts, he laid out what the federal
government is doing and the response that we are providing.  We are
surging our efforts.  We are making sure that we are there for the
people of Florida.  We will continue to do that.  You will hear again
directly from this President tomorrow when he visits FEMA to get — to
get an update.  But again, this President has been all hands on deck at
this moment.   
  
He spoke to the governor, as — as I just mentioned moments ago.  He
spoke to three mayors, as we read out to all of you yesterday.  And if
there are any further calls, we’ll be sure to read those out.  
  
Q    And in the conversation with Governor DeSantis, is there anything
more you can offer in terms of the substance of that discussion?  Any
requests from the governor for additional federal assistance or disaster
declarations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just to give you a little bit — and we kind of
laid this out yesterday.  They spoke yesterday.  The President wanted to
relay that his prayers are with the people of Florida and that Florida
will have the full force of the federal government.  
  
Again, we are committed to continued close coordination between the
federal and state government as we respond to this emergency. 
Yesterday, when the Administrator was at this very podium, she mentioned
how there were members of her team that was traveling with the governor
yesterday.  And so that will continue — we will continue to see that
partnership.  
  
And again, we will have the full force of the federal government and
resources to the people of Florida.  
  
Q    And just on the Nord Stream pipeline explosions there — is there
any update in terms of a formal U.S. government assessment of those
apparent explosions?  Was this an act of sabotage, or is there an
assessment of culpability there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have been in touch with our European partners
there about the apparent sabotage of the pipelines.  We are supporting
European efforts to investigate this, as I just kind of laid out.  It’s
still under investigation.  
  
As you all know, these pipelines were pumping gas into Europe — are not,
pardon me — are not pumping gas into Europe at this time.  Nord Stream 2
was never operational.  And NS1 has been shut down for weeks because of
how Russia is weaponizing energy.  
  
Q    And no assessment of that (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No assessment as of yet.  The investigation is still
underway, and it could take some time.  So just letting you all know
what we expect — that it will take some time.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Just a couple follow-ups on what Zeke here — on some
specifics.  
  
Now that the storm has made landfall, can you give us a better sense of
how often the President is going to be briefed?  Do you think it’s an
hourly situation or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any specifics on hourly or every 30
minutes or every few hours.  Just know that he is very much — very much
keeping an eye on what is happening with the storm.  He has been in
regular touch with the FEMA Administrator.  He spoke to her today.  And
he has been getting — I’m sorry, he spoke to her yesterday, as you know.

If there is more co- — if he speaks to her again, we will surely read
that out.  But this is something that has been top of mind.  And I was —
as I — as I said, with the administrator yesterday, I was in the room
with him when he called the three mayors.  And it has come up in every
meeting that I have personally had with him.

And so, again, this is top of mind.  We are going to put the full force
of the federal government to — the people of Florida.  And, again, they
are in our prayers.  And they — and we — we have been very clear to make
sure that the folks in Florida listen to local and state officials at
this time.

Q    And on the DeSantis call, did they just speak about the hurricane? 
Could you elaborate more on the tone of the conversation, given the
complex relationship there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, there’s no politics in this, when we talk about
extreme weather, when we talk about what we’re seeing right now with a
Category 4 hurricane about to — any moment now about to — to hit the
coast of Florida.

This is about the people of Florida.  This is about two people who — who
wanted to have a conversation on how — how we can be partners to the
governor and — and his constituents, and make sure that we are
delivering for the people of Florida.

That is the focus, and that’s going to continue to be the focus these
next couple of days.

Q    One quick final one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    What happened in the hunger event today?  The President appeared to
look around the room for an audience member, a member of Congress who
passed away last month.  He seemed to indicate she might be in the
room.  What happened there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President was, as you all know — you guys were
watching today’s event, a very important event on food insecurity.  The
President was naming the congressional champions on this issue and was
acknowledging her incredible work.  He had — he had already planned to
welcome the congresswoman’s family to the White House on Friday.  There
will be a bill signing in her honor this coming Friday.

So, of course, she was on his mind.  She was of top of mind for the
President.  He looks — very much looks forward to discussing her
remarkable legacy of public service with them when he sees her family
this coming Friday.

Q    He said, “Jackie, are you here?  Where’s Jackie?  She must not be
here.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I totally understand.  I just — I just explained
she was on top of mind.  You know, this wasn’t — what we were able to
witness today and what the President was able to lift up in this — at
this conference at this event was how her — her focus on wanting to deal
with, combat food — food insecurity in America.  And this is something
that he was lifting up and honoring.

And, again, he knows that he’s going to see her family this coming
Friday.  There’s a bill signing that’s going to happen in renaming a VA
clinic in Indiana after the late congresswoman.  He knows that he is
going to see her family, and she was at top of mind.

Go ahead.

Q    The State Department’s Amos Hochstein, within the past few days,
has met with the Saudi Prince MBS.  What is the U.S. telling Riyadh and
OPEC more broadly about an upcoming (inaudible) decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any details of — of that meeting.  As
you know, that is indeed — we had some White House officials in the
region most recently.  I don’t have any more details to share.

Q    The UA- — the EU said any deliberate disruption of the Nord Stream
pipeline would be met with robust and united response.  Does that united
response include the U.S.?  And what type of responses should we expect,
given how important that asset is to the region?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I just mentioned before, it’s going to take
some time to see who — to see who is behind this.  And so there is a
investigation underway.   
  
And I will say that attacks on critical infrastructure of our European
and NATO Allies is a matter of concern for us.  And we will continue to
be vigilant on this and coordinate with our Allies and partners.

But, again, the investigation, as we understand it, is going to take
some time, and it’s — it’s underway.

Go ahead.

Q    The Energy Secretary said today in interview with Bloomberg that
all energy infrastructure operators in the Baltic Sea area, as well as
U.S. LNG ships bringing LNG over to the EU needed to be on, quote, “high
alert,” given we’ve seen with the pipelines.  Has there been a shift in
the U.S. security posture in the region because of the allegations of
potential sabotage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything to share on any shift of security
posture in the region.  But, look, we take this — you know, we take this
very seriously, and this is of concern to us.

And so, again, we are going to — we’re going to — to let the
investigation happen — occur.  It’s going to take some time.  And we
will be there for our European partners and allies, and — and also our
NATO Allies.

Q    You detailed this strenuously at the top.  This was so transparent
and so telegraphed, in terms of the referenda and sham annexation
efforts.  Why wait until after annexation to take action, in terms of
imposing costs economically?  Is this a legal issue?  Is this making
sure people are united?  Why wait until it’s done when you know it’s
coming?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that is the posture that we are all taking with our
allies and partners.  Look, we are — we are — but, again, it does not
take away from the fact — the — the pure fact that we are prepared to
impose swift and severe economic costs on Russia when they move forward
with annexation on individual entities inside and outside of the — of
Russia that provide support for this action.  And, you know, we will
continue to stand with the people of Ukraine as they defend their
territory.

Look, you know, there’s — there was a process here; we knew this was
coming.  This was part of the Kremlin playbook.  And — but if they do
indeed move forward and they move forward with the — with the
annexation, we will be prepared with our partners and Allies.

Q    And just one more quick follow-up, because I’m trying to get my
head around the response.  If the late congresswoman was top of mind for
the President and her family was expected to be here and that’s what he
was thinking about, what — why was he looking for her?  I’m not trying
to be snarky here.  But I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean — and I’m —

Q    I don’t understand the connection between what you’re saying and
what he said there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, again, I think people can understand, I think the
American people out there who, you know, watch the briefing from time to
time, maybe at this moment, will understand when someone is at top of
mind.  And — and this was such an important — such an important event,
when we’re talking about hunger, when we’re talking about food
insecurity, when we’re talking about these champions, these
congressional champions who were in the room, who have worked in a
bipartisan way. 

You know, we don’t talk much about bipartisan actions that we see in
Congress at this time.  And as he was naming folks, he — she was on top
of mind, and he understands and knew that she was — he was going to see
her family on Friday for this bill signing.

Again, I don’t think it’s all that unusual to have someone top of mind,
especially as there’s a big event — two big events — today and also
Friday — that is going to occur.  And so he’s going to see her family. 
They’re going to honor her.  They’re going to celebrate her.  And he
will do a bill signing for this really critical — let’s not forget —
this critical, important issue for millions and millions of Americans
across the country.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Back on the Nord Stream pipeline, whoever attacked
the pipeline — and it may take a while to figure out who it was — would
the U.S. consider that to qualify as an attack on a NATO Ally worthy of
retaliation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t want to get ahead of the investigation.  We
have to see — we have to see who is behind this at this time.  I
understand the question, because it is a pipeline and it is going to
affect our — certainly, our NATO Allies.

But we want to see where the investigation goes.  And, again, an attack
on critical infrastructure of our European allies and NATO — our
European partners and NATO Allies is a — is a matter of concern for us.

But we will — we will be there and we will be ready to — be ready to
react once we have — the investigation is completed.

Q    Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev said that Russia has the
right to defend itself with nuclear weapons and that NATO would be too
scared of a nuclear apocalypse to retaliate.  Is he right about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me say this again, and I’ve said this many
times from this podium, so have my colleagues: There is one person
responsible for this war, this war that was started by the Kremlin, this
war that was started by Putin.  And he is that person.

He is responsible for this war.  And he decided that he wanted to attack
— brutally attack Ukraine on this unprovoked war.  And this is — this is
on him.  This is on Putin.  Putin is the one that could stop this war
any time.

And look what we’re seeing from the people of Russia.  They are
protesting.  They’re signing petitions.  Many of them do not want to
fight this war or die for this war.  You know why?  Because it is
incredibly unpopular.

This war is not a popular war for President Putin.  And what we’re
seeing in Ukraine is we’re seeing the Ukrainian people bravely — bravely
defend their fre- — their freedom, bravely defend their sovereignty.   
  
And, you know, when we hear comments like that, we put it back on
Putin.  Again, this is Putin’s war.  He can end this.  
  
Q    But is Medvedev right that NATO would be too afraid of a nuclear
apocalypse to retaliate if Russia were to use nuclear weapons?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will say this: We take Russia’s threat to use
nuclear weapons seriously.  And we have been saying that the last couple
of days in this briefing room.  You’ve heard that from the National
Security Advisor as well.  You’ve heard that from the President last
week when he was at the U.N.  But we have not seen any reason to adjust
our own nuclear posture.  And to be clear, we will not be deterred from
supporting Ukraine.   
  
You know, we have been clear the United States will support Ukraine as
they defend their country and their democracy against Russian aggression
for as long as it takes, as have our allies and partners, including the
G7.  And that’s what I can speak to.  I can speak to — to your question,
I can speak to what our allies are willing to do, and that’s continue to
defend and to he- — well, to help Ukraine defend for their
sovereignty.  
  
Q    And then, just very quickly, you said yesterday that the U.S. was
ready to assist in the investigation if needed.  As far as you know, is
the U.S. providing any assistance in the investigation right now?  And
what kinds of assistance would be most helpful from the U.S.?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any specifics to lay out for you at
this time.  But again, as you know, as I’ve mentioned a few times just
now, is that the investigation is underway.  And this is something that
is of concern to us.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  Just to follow up on Nancy quickly: Is it on
the table for the U.S. to have a or engage in a nuclear response as
retaliation if Russia were to launch a nuclear attack?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we — the President has said — said this, and so
has — so has Jake Sullivan.  We have characterized the consequences a
number of ways, as you’ve heard from him — Jake Sullivan and others —
and many others on our team, which is including catastrophic, severe,
and decisive.  We stand by all of them.   
  
The key point that — when we say “consequences,” we — will be real, and
they will be extraordinary.  And we —  
  
Q    So it’s not off the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have said — but we have said that we have made that
very clear.  Jake Sullivan said this I believe on your Sun- — on your —
on your network — your Sunday show, where he’s comm- — he has
communicated privately to the Russians, and they understand what the
consequences will be.  We are not going to lay them out here in
public.  
  
Q    I want to give you the opportunity to respond to something that was
tweeted out today by the Russian government that said: “Joe Biden
threatened to end \#NordStream.  @POTUS must give a definitive answer
whether the United States acted on its threat on September 25\[th\] and
26\[th\].”    
  
Now, an administration official has called that “absurd,” but I just
wanted to give you a chance to respond from the podium.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President said that NS2 wouldn’t become
operational and we would work with Germany on that.  And he was right,
because Germany took the step in February to freeze it, which was widely
reported by all of you.  And so that is what the President was talking
about at that time.  
  
Q    And — but just broadly, to the allegation that they’re making
online that somehow the U.S. is responsible.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.   
  
Q    Okay.  And, Karine, our CNBC team is reporting that the President
is going to be briefed by his senior economic team later today on the
economy, particularly amid concerns about what’s happening in Europe and
the UK specifically.  One administration official saying, “The view
continues to be that the United States is in a stronger position than
any other country to navigate these global challenges, period.”   
  
But my question for you: Has — have concerns about a potential recession
increased, in the President’s mind —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — given what we’re seeing globally?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I will say — and the President talked
about this a little bit on Monday during his — during his event.   
  
So, he wants the American people to know: Because of American’s
resilience and the economic strategy that we have pursued for the past
19 months, the United States of America is a stronger position than any
other country to navigate these global challenges.  And that’s just
period.  That’s the way we see it.  That’s the way his economic team
sees it.   
  
And that’s because jobs are up, incomes are up, people are back at
work.  And American manufacturing is roaring back up to — close to 700
thousand — thousand new jobs just this past 19 months.   
  
And let’s not forget the legislation wins that you have seen from this —
from this — from the Democrats in Congress, when you think about the
Inflation Reduction Act that is going to help us lower ta- — lower
prices for the American people.   
  
So, of course, we are always watching closely, and we will continue to
watch closely.  
  
As you stated, the President will meet with his senior members of his
economic team and will — he met with them on Friday.  He’ll — he will
meet with them again today to get an update on the global economic
developments, as he regularly does.   
  
But we feel like we are in a very strong position to weather these
global challenges.  
  
Q    Will the Treasury Secretary be there as well (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, in attendance — I can share that with you — it’s
going to be the President’s eco- — senior economic team, including
Secretaries of Treasury, Commerce, and Energy, the Chair of the Council
of Economic Advisers.   
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   Obviously, the President spoke with the three
Tampa Bay — Tampa-area mayors yesterday, but the storm took a turn to
the south last minute.  So has the President spoken with any of the
mayor’s being directly impacted by landfall?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any calls to preview at this time. 
Once we do, we will preview those calls.   
  
As you know — and we say this all the time — is our team is in regular
touch with local officials on the ground, especially at this time.  As
we’ve heard from FEMA and heard — and the administrator and her team,
they are on the ground trying to help in every way possible.   
  
And we have put the full force of the federal government when it comes
to making sure the people of Florida have the resources they need.  I
just listed out at the top of my — top of the briefing on all of the
kind of resources, manpower or womenpower that’s on the ground — water,
food.   
  
And we will continue to move in that direction, making sure that the
folks of Florida get what they need.   
  
If we have any calls to read out, we will surely share that with all of
you.  
  
Q    And speaking of federal resources, the governor is asking the
Defense Department to provide additional airlift capacity in
anticipation of a massive high-water recovery effort.  Do you — are you
aware of that request?  And do you expect it to be granted?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ve heard — I’ve heard — I’ve heard some reporting
on that request.  I would have to check with our team to see where we
are with that particular request from the governor.   
  
But, again, the President has been very clear he is going to do
everything that he can, his administration, his — the federal agencies
who are closely involved and aligned with — with the — with the Florida
government to make sure that we deliver what they need.   
  
This is a critical time.  We are praying for the people of Florida, but
of — but, of course, we have — they have the full support of the federal
government at this time as well.  
  
Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    I’m sorry to have to do this, but I’m compelled to ask you to go
one more time back to the question about Congresswoman Walorski.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not sure why.  Why?  Why one more time?  
  
Q    Well, because I think — frankly, honestly, I think the memory of
the congresswoman in history requires some clarity here.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hmmm —  
  
Q    Can you explain where the mistake was made?  Did the Pres- — was
the President confused?  Was something written in the teleprompter that
he didn’t recognize?  Can you just help us understand what happened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you’re jumping to a lot of conclusions.   
  
Q    No, I’m simply seeing — seeking to find —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but you’re — but I —  
  
Q    — out what happened here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you, Steven.  I’m — I’m answering the
question, that you’re jumping to a lot of conclusions.  
  
I just answered the question.  If I had said — if that had been the
case, I would have stated that.  Right?  I clearly have stated what you
just laid out.   
  
What I had said is that she was on top of mind and that he is going to
see her family in just two days’ time, on Friday, to honor her, to honor
her work, to honor — to honor her legacy, if you will.  I just mentioned
this.  It’s going to be a renaming of a VA clinic in Indiana in her
name.  And, you know, that is — that is what he was thinking of.   
  
He was thinking about her as he was — as he was naming out and calling
out the congressional champions on this issue — on this really critical
issue that’s going to help millions of Americans.  And that is — that is
— that is what the President was focused on.  
  
Q    Would you be prepared to release the prepared remarks that the
President had in the teleprompter just so we could understand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not understanding why — why that would be — would
be necessary.  We always share the remarks that the President had —
even, you know, delivered.  That’s probably going to be up on the
website.  Not really sure what that has to do with anything.   
  
I just answered the question about her being on top of mind.  I don’t
think that’s any — that’s unusual.  I feel like many of us have gone
through that particular, you know, time where someone is on top of mind
and you call them out and you mention them.  Especially in this — this
type of context, if you think about how he’s going to the see the family
in two days; if you think about how, when he sees them in two days, it’s
going to be for such an important moment, assigning — signing a piece of
legislation that’s going to rename a VA clinic in her state — that’s
important — if you think about this issue and how important this issue
is.   
  
And he was, again, calling out congressional champions for this
particular issue.  
  
Q    All right.  Let me ask you about something else.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sure.  
  
Q    The President’s schedule tonight —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — has him attending a political fundraiser while the storm is
hitting the state of Florida.  Is it still his intent to go to the
fundraiser, or will he stay here at the White House and monitor
developments?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we don’t have anything to — any changes in his
schedule.  He has been really steadfast and very clear and has spoken
multiple times on what is happening in Florida and what we are seeing
with Hurricane Ian and other hurricanes right before those — Hurricane
Fiona as well, as you all know.   
  
And so his administration is on top of this.  He, again, signed the
declaration for Florida, even before landfall — right? — the moment that
the governor asked for assistance from us.  Within hours, the President
signed that declaration.   
  
You can see how focused he is on it.  You can see how important of an
issue this is.  And sadly, this is not the first extreme weather
scenario that we have had to deal with under this administration for the
last 19 months.   
  
And you have seen — and I think you would agree, Steve — and you have
seen this administration respond with efficiency, respond with the full
force of resources, and — and certainly take this incredibly
seriously.  
  
Q    The schedule has coverage — press coverage of the fundraiser
tonight as restricted.  Is the White House willing to lift that
restriction and see to it that cameras are allowed in to videotape the
President’s remarks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, that’s a political event, so that’s
something for the DNC to speak to directly.  
  
Q    Karine, North Korea launched two short-term ballistic missiles off
its east coast.  Does the administration see this as timed to Vice
President Harris’s visit to the DMZ?  And are there any additional
security precautions being made in light of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll — I’ll say this.  So, as you know, North
Korea has a history of doing these types of tests, so it’s not un- — you
know, it’s not unusual.  It is something that they do, historically. 
North Korea can speak for itself on why.  That’s not something that I’m
going to speak to from here.  
  
What I can speak to is our rock-solid commitment to the security of our
Japan and South Korea allies.  And the Vice President’s trip is a
demonstration of that commitment.  
  
Q    And just on the permitting bill, you put out a statement yesterday
after Senator Manchin withdrew the proposal.  What is the
administration’s view of this legislation going forward?  And is there
any preferred vehicle for this — for this bill?  Senator Capito
suggested the NDAA might be a possibility (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  So, first, I want to say that
the President wants the government to remain open and is glad that — to
Congress for making progress on the continuing budget resolution, so I
want to state that very clearly.  
  
But at the same time, the President believes we must pass the permitting
reform bill so that the United States can realize the benefits of the
historic investment in the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law as well.  
  
He supports the permitting reform, as you know, as you — you stated,
from my — from my statement yesterday.  The administration will continue
to work with Congress and find the best path forward so we can enact
this bill.  Clearly, the Congress leads the way on the mechanisms on how
bills will move forward.  And so, we’ll leave that up to leadership. 
But again, we will work closely with them.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Yesterday, President Biden mentioned Rick Scott
and Ron Johnson, as well as Kevin McCarthy, warning about those three
specifically and what the country would it look like if they were in
control.  I wondered if you could talk about whether this will continue
to be a theme for the President.   
  
And also he doesn’t often mention Mitch McConnell in that context with
those.  And so, does he view McConnell differently from some of these
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I wouldn’t — I wouldn’t go that far.  What I
would say is that those are the three that have been very vocal about
the GOP agenda.  Those are the three that have been very vocal about —
about putting Medicare and Social Security on the chopping blocks.  
  
You know, we — when you think about — when they say “protect the lives
of unborn children,” they mean a national ban on abortion that puts
doctors and nurses in jail for performing miscarriage management —
management or saving the health of the mother.  
  
When they say — and I just mentioned this — when they say “save and
strengthen Social Security and Medicare,” they want to slash private
Social Security and put Medicare on the chopping blocks every five
years.  
  
And so, this is what we have seen from the — from these three in
particular.  I mean, McCarthy was someone that we talked about because
he had the GOP agenda — the GOP agenda, which does not have a commitment
to the American people, which does not have a commitment in making sure
that Americans get lower medical costs, or seniors get lower medical
costs, or fight inflation.  
  
Matter of fact, the first thing that he wanted to do was get rid of the
Inflation Reduction Act, which would actually hurt Americans.   
  
And so that is why we’re calling them out.  They’ve been very vocal and
very out front about their GOP agenda, which is not about the American
people, which is about their own, you know, fight for Big Pharma, their
own fight for wealthy special interest.  And we are doing the complete
opposite.  We are fighting for the American people.  
  
Q    The President this week has talked about the importance of
competition, tweeting, “Capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism.  It’s exploitation.”   
  
There’s some legislation on the Hill dealing with antitrust and big
tech, including one cosponsored by Amy Klobuchar, that is waiting for a
vote to be scheduled.  Does the President have any opinion on that?  Is
he pushing for a vote?  Does he want Chuck Schumer to call for a vote on
that before the election?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share on that particular
piece of legislation.  I know that this is something that the senator
has been fighting for for some time and working on for some time.   
  
But the President has been very clear about his — his concern about the
power larger — large social media platforms have over everyday lives. 
And as long as — as — has long argued that tech platforms must be held
accountable for the harms that they cause.  
  
And so, the President will continue to call that out.  I don’t have
anything specific on that particular legislation.  
  
Q    Lastly, I just wanted to return to this question of the
congresswoman.  And I think we all totally get why she’s top of mind. 
You’ve made that case pretty effectively.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thank you.

Q    But I think the confusing part is why, if she and the family is top
of mind, does the President think that she’s living and in the room?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t find that confusing.  I mean, I think many
people can speak to sometimes when you have someone top of mind, they
are top of mind.  Exactly that.  And it is also — if you put it into the
context, it’s not like it happened without — outside of context, right?

It happened at an event where we were cha- — we were calling out the
champions — congressional champions, in particular, of this issue — this
important issue, when it comes to food insecurity, something that this
administration has led on — led on from the beginning of this
administration, not just across the country but also globally.

You heard him talk about food insecurity last week at the U.N. and the
investments that we have put forward as — as the — as the United States
of America and helping — and helping deal with that.

Look, he was at an event — you all saw, you all watched, which is why
you’re asking the question — right? — where he was calling out, again,
congressional leaders — a bipartisan leadership that we have seen on
this particular issue.

And, again, he’s going to see her family in just two days, and she was
on top of mind.  I mean, I don’t — that is — I mean, that is — that is
not an unusual — unusual scenario there.

Q    Karine, I have John Lennon top of mind just about every day, but
I’m not looking around for him anywhere.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When you sign a bill for John Lennon — Lennon as
president then we can have this conversation.

Okay —

Q    Why doesn’t he just apologize?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — go ahead.  Go ahead.

(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There are —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    These moments of confusion are happening with increasing frequency.

Q    Why not just apologize?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Excuse me.  There are reports that —

Q    Americans are watching this and are having concerns.  What do you
say to that?

Q    There are reports that Treasury Secretary Yellen —

Q    What do you say to that?

Q    — is looking to leave the administration —

Q    This is a legitimate question.  We need to have some answers.

Q    — at the end of year.  What can you tell us about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, somebody was yelling over you, so —

Q    No, we were asking about the mental acuity —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    — of the President. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    I said there are reports that —

Q    This is a valid question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    — Treasury Secretary Yellen is looking to leave Secretary Yellen is
looking to leave the administration —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is not your turn to speak, and you’re being rude to
your colleagues, and let your colleague answer the question.

Q    You might be being rude to us by —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    There are reports that —

Q    — not answering the question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I — you’re yelling and — over your colleague.  So
that is incredibly rude.

Q    Can we have an answer to the substantive question here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    We’re just trying to get an answer, Karine.  “Top of mind” is not
an answer.

Q    There are reports that Treasury Secretary Yellen is looking to
leave the administration at the end of the year.   What can you tell us
about those reports?  And then also, are you preparing for the departure
of any other administration officials by the end of the year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as has been previously reported, Chair Rouse will
return to Princeton University at the end of her two-year public service
leave, likely early spring of 2023.  And while we are prudently planning
for potential transitions, post-midterm elections, neither Secretary
Yellen or Brian Deese are part of those plans.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I just wanted to see if you have anything more in
terms of a response to the North Korean missile launches.  Was the
President briefed specifically on this today?  And does this change the
Vice President’s plans to visit the DMZ tomorrow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just some — some topline things here.  I’ll point
you to the Department of Defense statement, which assessed this test
didn’t pose an immediate threat to the U.S. personnel or territory of
our allies.   
  
And also, the United States condemns, as — as we have said many times,
when we have seen this — this behavior, the DPRK’s ballistic missile
launches.  These launches are in violation of multiple United Nations
Security Council resolutions and poses a threat to the DPRK’s neighbors
and the international community.

The United States is committed to the defense of our allies — South
Korea, Japan.  And we continue to call on North Korea to engage in
diplomacy.

As it relates to — to the Vice President’s trip: So, as — as you all
know, on Thursday, which is tomorrow, as part of her trip to the
Republic of Korea — ROK — the Vice President will visit the DMZ.

Nearly 70 years since the Korean <s>Armtis</s> \[Armistice\], the visit
will underscore the strength of the U.S.-ROK alliance and United States
commitment to stand beside the ROK in the face of any threats posed by
the Democr- — Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.

The Vice President will tour sites at the DMZ, meet the servicemembers,
and receive a operational briefing from U.S. commanders.

The Vice President will reflect on the shared sacrifice of tens of
thousands of American and Korean soldiers who fought and died together,
and will reaffirm the U.S. commitment to the ROK’s defense is ironclad.

As you just could tell, that — that — that travel, that trip is going to
continue.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you address Democratic Representative Henry
Cuellar’s comments on Fox about the administration needing to do more on
the border?  He’s, you know, obviously been critical of the
administration in the past, but is the White House ignoring the
congressman, as he appears to be contending?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ve not seen those comments.  What I can say and
what we have said many times from here: Every individual encountered at
the border is either expelled under Title 42 or placed in removal
proceedings.  That remains to — to be true.

We are working to expedite the asylum process timing and have brought it
down from years to months for many recent encounters.

Of course, we could expedite the process- — processing time even further
— and you’ve heard me say this many times — if congressional Republicans
would quit blocking our actions and start supporting the comprehensive
immigration reform proposal that the President proposed on day one. 
And, you know, we have — we inherited a decimated — a gutted immigration
system.  And the President took this so seriously that, on day one,
again, he put forth a comprehensive plan.  
  
So, we will — we would — we would look forward to having congressional
Republicans join us in dealing this with issue.  
  
Q    On the hurricane, the President had some strong words for oil and
gas executives.  I wanted to ask: Is he, is the White House following
individually with those executives to speak directly about these kinds
of concerns?  Any plans of bringing them in, for example?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any actions here to preview for you
at this time.  But, you know, as — as I’ve noted, wholesale gas prices
have declined about three times as much as retail gas prices over the
last month.  And in addition, oil and gas companies are making record
profits and need to pass these savings on the consumers at the gas pump
now.  
  
So the President is making that very clear.  We are making that very
clear.  And we’ll leave it as that.  If there’s more to preview, we
certainly will share that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks very much.  Just back to Florida for a second.  Can
you talk a little bit about how long the conversation was between the
President and the governor?  And also, did they touch on any other
topics, like the governor sending the migrants to Martha’s Vineyard?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the call was just focused on the hurricane that —
the hurricane response.  There was no other topic that was discussed on
the call.   
  
I don’t have a timeline of how — or a timing of how long the call was. 
I think the important thing is that the call happened, that the
President was able to connect with the governor.   
  
They both agreed that — that they would stay in — they would — that the
President would be there to have the full force of the federal
government behind — behind — behind Florida, for the people of Florida. 
And he — they are — they were committed to continued close coordination
between the federal — federal and state government, and so — as we
respond to the emergency.  
  
That was the commitment that the ma- — they made.  That was a
conversation that was had.   
  
Again, the FEMA Administrator has spoken to the governor.  She spoke to
the governor many days ago.  She said here — and I’ll just reiterate, as
I just said moments ago — her team has been on the ground with the
governor and his team.  And we will continue to work in close
coordination.   
  
Q    Thank you so much.  On the global economy, the strong dollar has an
impact beyond the borders of the United States — obviously, on many
countries.  So is this something the administration is discussing with
allies and partners?  And how coordinated is the economic response? 
Because we get warnings about, you know, global recession almost every
day.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the U.S. government, including the Department of
Treasury, are always in touch with our allies and partners, including
the UK, on the global economy.   
  
I don’t have anything further to share on that piece.  But again, this
is — as I mentioned, when it comes to the global economy, this is
something that we are clearly watching very closely.  And — but we feel,
as I stated a second ago, that we are in a strong position.  The U.S.
economy is in a strong position to deal with the global challenges
ahead.  
  
Go ahead, you in the back.   
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about something you said yesterday. 
But really quickly, Ambassador Rahm Emanuel has been in touch with the
family of Navy Lieutenant Ridge Alkonis.  And a number of U.S. senators
have sent a letter to the Japanese government asking him to revisit his
case.  I know the President has a lot on his plate, but is this
something that he’s been briefed about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That one I would have to just check with his team. 
Since they’re — like, to your point, there’s just so much going on.  So
let me just check with the — his team on that particular question.  
  
Q    My second question is: During his second press conference, the
President said of the midterm elections, “I’m not going to say it’s
going to be legit.”  His subsequent preferred voter reforms, those did
not pass Congress.  And then yesterday, you said, “We are confident in
the integrity of our elections here.”   
  
My question is: What gives Biden the confidence, six weeks out from
those elections, that he didn’t seem to have at the beginning of the
year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, can — can you do me a favor?  Can I just go back
and see his answer there?  Because I want to see what context he was
answering that question and how it was asked.  So in order to give you a
fulsome answer, I actually need to do that, just to be fair to you and
to be fair, certainly, to the President, as I represent him up here.  So
let me — let me do that, and then I can get back to you on that
particular question.  
  
Q    Okay then, just to try one more time: Does the President believe
that in his reference to the late Representative Jackie Walorski — who,
you have said from the podium numerous times, he respects the work that
she has done, he’ll be meeting with her family to honor her work — does
he believe he handled that reference appropriately?  Or is this
something that he would like to get back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Get what?  Like, to get back what?  
  
Q    When he said, “Where is Jackie?”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I know this is a question that many of you have
had.  I’ve answered it multiple times already in this room.  And my
answer is certainly not going to change.   
  
All of you may have views on — on how I’m answering it, but I am
answering the question to the way that he saw it and the way that we see
it.   
  
We have to remember as well, is that, you know, this was an important
event today.  This was an event about food security.  This was a be- —
event about how we’re going to take the steps to get to eradicate hunger
by 2030.  And that is something that the President takes very
personally.  That is something that the — we wouldn’t be doing this
event that has not happened since President Nixon — right? — that was 50
years ago that an event like this occurred at the White House.   
  
So, clearly, this is something that is important.  Clearly, this is
something that he really honors, both Republican and Democratic
congressional champions, when it comes to this issue.  
  
Again, she was at the top of mind.  He is going to be seeing her family
in two days to honor her, to honor the work that she has done.  And —
and, you know, this was a remarkable legacy that she had, and we should
be honoring that.   
  
I’m going to go to the back.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, all the way in the
back.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Food insecurity: Governor Gavin Newsom has been
successful in keeping universal school lunch — the program in
California; they’re seeing lots of great results with that — and I know
that’s an aspect of what they’re talking about today and that the
administration — the Biden administration does support universal school
nutrition.  However, the program was scrapped, and I’m wondering if
there’s any way to circumvent Congress in keeping free school lunch.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the American Rescue Plan — is what you’re talking
about — provided — provided states to have those types of — those types
of programs in schools.   
  
And again, this was a — this — when you think about the American Rescue
Plan and all that it afforded — how it turned the economy back on, how
it allowed states to really give a little bit of breathing room to their
own constituencies, whether it is at schools, whether it is helping
small businesses get back on their feet, and let’s not forget opening
schools as well — this is something that Democrats in Congress,
including the President, had — had — had a zero focus on — like, zeroed
in on that focus on.  And it was — it was — it was a bold action that
the President believed needed to be taken.   
  
And let’s not forget it also helped to really deal with the child
poverty in communities that have — that have really been hurt by
this.   
  
And so, look, don’t have anything new to share on — on that piece of —
that question that you just asked me.  But we have — I think it’s also
important to highlight how important the American Rescue Plan — how much
it changed lives.  
  
Q    But it — will it — is there any potential that universal school
lunch will come back —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — what —  
  
Q    — within this next couple of years?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, don’t have anything to preview.  But I will
also want to list out how important that American Rescue Plan was.  And
it gave states the funding to do just that — to do what you were laying
out — and how critical that was at the time during a pand- — beginning
of a pandemic or in — you know, at the — even in the middle of a
pandemic because it lasted for some time — to deal with that issue.   
  
Don’t have anything else to preview.  I don’t have anything else to
share about what Congress is doing on that particular issue.   
  
But, again, that is why this food insecurity issue that we dealt with
today, this conference that we haven’t seen in 50 years, and what the
work of the agencies have been doing just for the past several months to
deal with food insecurity — the fact that we are trying to end hunger by
2030 — and not just us, in a bipartisan way with Congress, with this
President.  And so that is our work ahead to see if we can get to that
goal.   
  
And we put out a factsh- — a factsheet.  We listed out the way that
we’re going to get there.   
  
Q    But real quick —  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m — oh, all right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll
see you on Friday.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
2:45 P.M. EDT 
