---
date: '2022-09-26'
modified_time: 2022-09-26 18:02:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-26 18:02:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-september-26-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, September 26,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:27 P.M. EDT  
  
Q    Hello!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Hi.  Oh, so friendly.  Hi.  Good afternoon,
everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, a couple things at the top.   
  
We would like to announce that President Joe Biden and First Lady Dr.
Biden will host President Emmanuel Macron and Mrs. Brigitte Macron of
France for a state visit to the United States on December 1st, 2022.   
  
This will be the first state visit of the Biden-Harris administration. 
It will underscore the deep and enduring relationship between the United
States and France, our oldest ally.   
  
Our close relationship with France is founded on our shared democratic
values, economic ties, and defense and security cooperation.  The
leaders will discuss our continued close partnership on shared global
challenges and areas of bilateral interest.   
  
This afternoon, the President will deliver remarks at the third meeting
of the Competition Council.  The President will highlight progress made
on his competition agenda in the last year, which is helping lower
prices for consumers; raise — raise wages for workers; and promote
innovation throughout the economy.   
  
At today’s meeting, the President will also announce new action to spur
competition among airlines, expose and limit airline fees, and most
importantly, save money for American families.   
  
Add-on fees hit the most vulnerable Americans the hardest.  The
President will highlight how companies sneak fees onto bills, prevent
customers from seeking the full price of what they’re buying upfront,
and how they use termination fees to make it harder for consumers to
switch their service providers.  In fact, the median American household
loses an estimated $5,000 a year due to lack of competition.   
  
The actions the President will announce today are part of his commitment
to continue tackling that and bringing down costs.   
  
Tomorrow, the President will continue this focus with rem- — with
remarks at the — at the White House on how he is lowering healthcare and
prescription drugs acr- — costs for seniors and families across the
country, and working to strengthen Medicare and Social Security.   
  
Last year, a family of four saved an average of $2,400 on healthcare
through the American Rescue Plan that President Biden signed into
law.   
  
And now, thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, which President Biden
signed into law about two weeks ago, Medicare will finally have the
power to negotiate lower prescription drug prices.  Seniors will see
their out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs limited to a $2,000 a
year.   
  
For decades, Big Pharma and special interests had blocked Medicare from
negotiating lower prescription drug prices.  President Biden and
Democrats in Congress put an end to that through the Inflation Reduction
Act, while every single Republican official voted against it.   
  
Not only that, Republicans in Congress continue to advance legislation
to cut Social Security and Medicare and put these programs on the
chopping block.   
  
So, President Biden will speak to all of that and more tomorrow.   
  
I wanted to also acknowledge the dangerous and backwards court ruling in
Arizona Friday evening.  This is a complete abortion ban, one that
forces survivors of rape and incest to carry their pregnancies to term,
and women with medical conditions could face dire health risks. 
Healthcare providers would face imprisonment of up to five years for
fulfilling their duty of care.   
  
This ban would take Arizona women back to more than 150 years and
subject them to a law from 1864, a time before Arizona was even a
state.   
  
Arizona is now the 16th state where Republicans official have stripped
women of their rights through extreme, unconscionable, statewide
abortion bans.  And Republicans in Congress continue to advance Senator
Graham’s proposed national abortion ban.  
  
The President and the Vice President believe that Congress must act
urgently to codify Roe and protect women’s access to abortion and
healthcare.  For millions of women enduring these daily attacks on our
most fundamental rights, the risks — too many risks are at stake.   
  
Finally, tomorrow we will be joined in the briefing room by FEMA
Administrator Deanne Criswell, who is in Miami today to assess ongoing
hurricane planning and preparedness efforts.   
  
Over the weekend, the President approved Florida’s emer- — emergency
assistance request as soon as he received it and directed his team to
surge federal assistance to the region well before landfall.  
  
FEMA has pro- — pre-positioned supplies at strategic locations in
Florida and also Alabama.  That includes generators, millions of meals,
and millions of liters of water.   
FEMA also has staff on the ground supporting, planning, and preparation
efforts.   
  
Tomorrow, Administrator Criswell will provide an update on the efforts
underway in Florida — Florida to prepare for Hurricane Ian, as well as
ongoing recovery efforts in Puerto Rico and also Alaska.   
  
We look forward to welcoming her, and she will be glad to give you the
latest information and, of course, take all of your questions.   
  
Aamer, you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Yes, thank you.  First, does the administration have any reaction
to former U.S. security contractor Edward Snowden being granted, by
Vladimir Putin, Russian citizenship?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, since I believe there have been criminal charges
brought against him, we would point you to — to the Department of
Justice for any specifics on this.   
  
Q    I wanted to also ask you about your, just, announcement on the
Macron state visit.  This comes — this announcement — about a year after
things got a little bit bumpy for a while in the relationship with the
AUKUS announcement.  And I guess my question is: Why France — getting
this first honor?  How much of this is — one, I guess, has the
relationship come first — full circle back to being in good stand?  And
is part of this about repairing the relationship?  
  
And then separately from that, it’s a little bit late in an
administration for the first state dinner, but obviously COVID was
around.  What’s the calculation in how this administration thought about
now it’s time to actually do one of these state dinners?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on your first question, we deeply value our
relationship with — with France, which is, as I mentioned at the top,
our oldest ally; with our bilateral relations founded on shared
democratic values, economic ties, and defense and security cooperation. 
We work closely with France on the full range of global challenges, as
you all know, including the war in Ukraine.   
  
It is for these reasons that the President and First Lady thought it was
important to welcome this close and valued partner to the White House
for their first — their first state visit.   
  
As you know, President Macron and President Biden have had multiple
conversations over the President’s first 19 months and have met a few
times — most recently, as you all know, last week at the — at UNGA.  And
so, again, this is a valued — deeply valued relationship and one of our
oldest allies.   
  
On your second question, you’re right, COVID certainly has delayed many
of the in-person events a President traditionally hosts at the White
House.  But the President and the First Lady had been welcoming foreign
leaders to the White House, including on working visits and official
working — official working visits throughout the administration.   
  
But as you stated, COVID has delayed many — some of this as well.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  One quick housekeeping note on Florida.  You
mentioned the FEMA plans.  Has the President spoken to Governor DeSantis
ahead of the storm?  Does he plan to?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — we don’t have any calls to preview or
that’s locked in to share at this time.   
  
Q    Okay.  And I want to ask you about the new poll that was out this
weekend — this ABC-Washington Post poll.  It shows 56 percent of
Democrats want the party to nominate someone other than Biden.  And for
people under 40, 75 percent want the party to pick someone different. 
Is the President concerned by this?  How’s he digesting a number like
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, I’m — I’m very limited on how I can
discuss any kind of elections.  I will reiterate what we have said many
times from here, what the President has said many times, even recently —
as recently as the “60 Minutes” interview — is that he intends to run. 
I don’t have any more announcements on that.   
  
But, look, the President will — will say, as I’m saying right now, is
his focus is not on himself; his focus is on continuing to deliver for
the American people.   
  
After taking action — we just talked — I just talked about the Inflation
Reduction Act; how important Medicare is now going to be able to
negotiate, be able to lower costs for — for our seniors; and how
important it is — cost is going to go down as well, as it relates to —
to energy bills.   
  
I mean, these are things that the President has done for the past 19
months, making sure that manufacturing is resurgent.  We saw that in the
New York Times article.  And we have been able — in the first 19 months,
about 700,000 jobs — manufacturing jobs have been created right here in
this country because of the work that this President has done.   
  
And, you know, we — I said this at the top: We have done everything that
we can, every — the President has made lowering costs for the American
people a priority, has made the economy a priority for the American
people.   
  
And you think about the American Rescue Plan: Republicans didn’t vote
for that.  You think about the Inflation Reduction Act: Republicans
didn’t vote for that.  In fact, they put forth an agenda that wants to
take away the gains that we have made by fighting — by winning against
one of the most powerful special interest groups.  
  
But go ahead.  
  
Q    You just ticked off this list here, but the poll actually shows
that the President is deeply underwater when it comes to the economy. 
Is there anything the White House plans to do differently?  Do you need
to do — the midterms are in 44 days.  Does there need to be a course
correction?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I can’t talk about the midterms.  
  
Q    But this isn’t about, like, a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  No.  I’m — no —  
  
Q    — campaign strategy here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m about to answer your question.  Give me a
second here.  
  
Again, I have to say this — right? — I cannot talk about the midterms
from here, because you did mention the midterms.  
  
What I can say is — and we talked about this in our August memo — we are
going to go out there — not just the President, the Vice President, the
Cabinet Secretaries — you have congressional members in their district,
as well — and we’re going to talk about how we have delivered for the
American people.  
  
Here’s the thing: When you think about Medicare, you think about Social
Security, you think about the pieces of legislation that we have passed,
they are very popular with the American people, with Republicans and
Democrats.  And so, that is also important to note.  
  
So, look, we’re going to keep getting out there.  The President loves
going out to — you know, to states across the country, to communities
across the country, talking directly to the American people.  And that’s
what we’re going to do.  
  
I understand what you’re saying about the poll.  I understand what
you’re saying about the President’s numbers.   
  
But what we are going to focus on is how we are going to continue to
deliver for the American people, especially at the most important things
that matter to them: lowering costs, making inflation a priority when it
comes to his economic agenda, making sure we don’t leave anybody behind,
build an economy from the bottom up, middle out.  And that’s going to be
the President’s focus.  
  
Q    Karine, do you — does the White House have a reaction to the school
shooting in Russia today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, of course, we condemn any violence.  That’s
something that the President always calls out.  Is important that — he
feels it’s important that we speak out, especially when you hear about
violence in schools.  So, I will — I’ll leave it at there.  
  
Q    I’d also like to return to a topic that we broached on last week in
the briefing about the British Prime Minister’s economic plan.  The
British pound is falling significantly, in part also because of the
Fed’s actions here on the dollar, but also in reaction to her plan.  
  
The President has often and regularly criticized trickle-down
economics.  Is he a fan of her plan?  And is there a concern about the
volatility in the currency markets?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say the first part is — and she said this — I
believe Prime Minister Truss said that, you know, when she was asked on
one of the Sunday shows yesterday, and she said that the United States
is one of our — their closest allies.  And we will say the same; the UK
is one of our closest allies.  And so, we will leave their policy
decisions to themselves.  
  
But to your question about the pound: So, on Friday, as you all know,
the President and the Vice President met with senior members of the
economic team and got an update on the global economic developments, as
they regularly do.  
  
Our economic team reported that because of our economic strategy, which
is focused on long-term growth and investment, increased manufacturing
and fiscal discipline, we are able to navigate these challenging global
times from the strongest possible position.  
  
The Res- — the American Rescue Plan helped us recover from within — with
twin health and economic crises we were facing better than most other
economic — major economies.  
  
Remember, we are all dealing with global challenges, just around —
clearly, around the globe.  And as the President’s economic legislation
— including the Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act — are encouraging investment right here in the United
States.   
  
I just mentioned a moment ago how 700,000 manufacturing jobs were
created just in the U.S. in the last 19 months.  A lot of that is
because — all of that, really, is because of the work that this
President has done.  And that will make our economy stronger and more
resilient to the years to come.  
  
So, again, we feel that we’re in a better position to deal with the
global challenges.  And I’ll leave it there.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  With these poll workers in Ukraine being taken
around by armed escorts and forcing people to fill out ballots on the
spot, should we expect the United States to issue new sanctions this
week in response to these sham referendums that are being conducted?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say that we will never recognize
— recognize this terr- — never recognize this territory that — this
territory as anything other than as part of Ukraine.   
  
This — when it comes to the sham referendum, the sham votes that we’re
seeing in the last couple days, we will continue to work with our allies
and partners to hold Russia accountable and support Ukraine for as long
as it takes.  
  
As far as what we are doing, we are prepared to impose additional swift
and severe economic costs on Russia, along with our allies and partners,
in response to these actions that we’re seeing currently if they move
forward with annexation.  We’ve been very clear about that.   
  
As you all saw on Friday — G7 Leaders’ Statement — the United States
will never, ever, again, recognize this territory as anything than part
of Ukraine.  We stand with our partners around the world in rejecting
whatever fabricated outcomes Russia announces.  And you will hear more
from us in the coming days on this.  
  
Q    So, there could be action on that this week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ll hear more from us in the coming days.   
  
Again, these — these referendums are a flagrant violation of the
international law.  You heard that directly from the President at UNGA
last week.  And it’s an affront to the principles of sovereignty and
territorial integrity that underpin the international system and are the
foundation of the United Nations Charter.  You heard the President say
that, specifically, just a few — like, just a few days ago.  
  
Q    And with the warnings that we saw from Jake Sullivan, Tony Blinken,
all of these figures yesterday, about the catastrophic warnings that
they say that they’ve communicated to Russia if Russia chooses to use
nuclear weapons in Ukraine, does the United States believe that — even
if it’s still low, does it believe the chances of Russia using nuclear
weapons is higher now than it was in February, in March, given what’s
happened on the battlefield?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as far as any evidence or the chances — look, we
haven’t seen that at this time.  We take these threats, though, very
seriously.  But we have not seen any reason to adjust our own nuclear
posture at this time.  
  
So, again, haven’t seen any evidence of it.  But we take this incredibly
seriously.  
  
Q    On the issue of the President speaking with Governor DeSantis, we
saw them side-by-side a little over a year ago when they were together
with the Surfside incident and so forth.  Does the President think it’s
important, when you have this nature of threat to millions and millions
of Americans, to have a conversation with a governor?   
  
I know, there’s a lot of administrative and bureaucratic steps that are
in place to provide resources.  But does the President believe it’s
important to speak to a governor in these circumstances?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what the President believes is that it’s
important that federal resources is provided for the people of Florida. 
That is the most important thing — to make sure that we are there for
them in this time of need.  And that’s why the President reacted right
away to make sure that the — that we are able to surge resources
before.  And he did this before landfall.  And so that is the most
important thing.  
  
It’s about the people of Florida; it’s not about public officials,
especially in this time.  And so, again, the President, as President of
the United States, as President for folks in red states and blue states,
he’s going to keep that commitment.   
  
And you have seen him do that over the course of the 19 months when
there has been extreme, extreme events, extreme weather that has
happened, again, in blue states and red states.  And he has done his job
as President to make sure that we are there for the people in the
state.  
  
Q    Is there any concern, if there was a perception that there might be
politics or personalities or disagreements among individuals that would
get in the way — not so much of the flow of the information, but if
people are wondering, is there anything that could stand in the way of
the response if a President and a governor might not speak?   
  
He didn’t speak to the governor of Mississippi during the water crisis
with Jackson.  Thus far, he has not spoken to Governor DeSantis.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so — and that’s a perfect example, Kelly O.  When
you mentioned the governor of Mississippi, they — you were right, they
didn’t speak, and we still were able to deliver for the folks in Jackson
and for the folks of Mississippi.  You had our EPA Administrator on the
ground.  You had FEMA Administrator on the ground.  And not just them,
but also folks who work for those — for those two agencies.  And you had
the Army Corps of Engineers.  
  
And so we put the full — the full power of the administration.  We
surged resources on the ground to make sure that we did everything that
we can to help the people of Mississippi.  This is the same; there’s no
difference here.  We’re going to do the same in Florida as we’ve done in
other — in other states.  
  
As I mentioned, Administrator Criswell will be here tomorrow.  She is in
Miami, as we speak, current — as I speak currently.  And she’ll be here,
and she will lay out what we, as an administration, is doing for Florida
and other — and other — and other states, like Alaska and any others
that need our assistance at this time.  And — and she’ll lay that out
and answer any questions that you all may have.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have a couple questions.  One is that, last
week, you were asked about Puerto Rico and any plans that the President
may have to make a trip down to Puerto Rico.  Is he planning to go?  Can
you provide us any guidance on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry, I’m having a little bit of a hard time hearing
you.

Q    Yeah.  Puerto Rico.  I know you were asked last week about the
President — possible travel plans.  You didn’t have anything to say last
week.  Do we have an update on whether the President does intend to
travel to Puerto Rico?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have any- — anything to preview at this
time.  We continue to closely monitor the impact of Hurricane Fiona is
having on Puerto Rico.  I’ll just reiterate just a couple of things for
folks who may have missed this. 

But as you all know, when he was in New York, the President announced
the federal government is covering 100 percent of the cost of debris
removal, emergency protective measures for the next month in this
recovery.

The President also increased critical needs assistance from $500 to $700
to support individuals and families with immediate or critical need as a
result of being displaced from their primary dwelling.

And as of today, there are hundreds of federal response workers on the
ground in Puerto Rico supporting operations, planning, power
restorations, debris removal, and urban search and rescue.

As far as travel, we don’t have anything to share at this time.

Q    And then, also, on Iran, we saw continued protests in Iran over the
weekend.  I know that, last week, we did get indications from the State
Department that there were efforts the United States was taking to
ensure Internet access remained available.  Are there any other
measures, steps the U.S. government is intending to take to support
protesters in Iran?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’ll lay down the steps for a second.  But I
just want to make very, very clear here — and we have been very clear,
the U.S., on our position with what we’re currently seeing in Iran: The
President stated at UNGA, “\[W\]e stand with the brave citizens and
brave women of Iran who right now are demonstrating to secure their
basic rights.”

Women in Iran should have the right to wear what they want, free from
violence or harassment.  Iran must end its use of violence against women
for exercising their fundamental freedoms.  There must be accountability
for Mahsa’s death.

What we are doing — I’ll lay out a couple of actions that we have taken
as it relates to the Internet.

On September 21st, the Iranian government cut off, as you know, access
to the Internet for most of its 80 million citizens as — as courageous
Iranians take to the streets to protest the death of Mahsa Amini.

The United States is taking action to support the free flow of
information to the Iranian women — sorry, the Iranian people,
specifically — more broadly.

On September 23rd, which was this past Friday, the Department of
Treasury issued an updated general license that will increase support
for Internet freedom in Iran and authorize technology companies to offer
the Iranian people more options of secure outside platforms and
services.

With these changes, we are helping the Iranian people access tools that
are better equipped to counter the Iranian government’s effort to
surveil and censor — and censor them as well.

If we have any more information, we will share that with all of you.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on your answer about the UK pound: So are you
saying that the administration doesn’t think that currency volatility is
so serious right now that the U.S. government will need to take action
right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we continue — we’re going to continue to
monitor the global markets.  What we are laying out is what — the
meeting that the President had with his economic team, how seriously
we’re taking this, how closely that we are, you know, having
conversations with our team.

And what we can speak to is what we’re doing here in the U.S.  Our U.S.
strategy — economic strategy is focused on the long-term growth and
investment, increased manufacturing, and fiscal discipline — has
positioned our country to navigate challenging global times from the
strongest position possible.

Again, we’re going to continue to monitor all of — all — as we always
say, we cont- — we monitor the indic- — all indicators.  We’ll also
monitor the global markets as well.

But what I can speak to is what we are doing here to — to take on these
global challenges, as we have been for the last 19 months.

Q    Thanks.  And then, on the President hosting the Atlanta Braves
today, I’m wondering if you or the President has any thoughts about some
of the controversial — about the team name — the Braves name, the
so-called tomahawk chop, any thoughts on that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we — we believe that it’s important to have
this conversation.  You know, and — and Native American and Indigenous
voices, they should be at the center of this conversation.

That is something that the President believes.  That is something that
this administration believes.  And he has consistently emphasized that
all people deserve to be treated with dignity and respect.  You hear
that often from this President.

The same is true here.  And we should listen to Native American and
Indigenous people who are the most impacted by this.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Two questions.  One on Italy.  How do you
foresee future cooperation with the right-wing coalition that won the
election in Italy yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the election specifically, I — you know, I’m
not going to go and engage in any hypotheticals — right? — because we
still have some time here.  It’s a — it’s a NATO Ally, as you know; a G7
partner; and member of the EU.

So we will — we will work with the new Italian government on the full
range of shared global challenges, including supporting Ukraine as they
defend themselves against Russia’s aggression.

But — but, again, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.  Again, they
are a NATO Ally, a G7 partner, and a member of the EU.

Q    One more on Russia.  As mobilization in Russia continues, many
Russian men try — thousands of Russian men try to leave the country, and
Europe is split on that.  Some European countries, including Baltics and
Poland, turn them back.  Others argue that Europe should welcome them
and give them refugee status.

What’s your position?  What President — what’s President Biden’s
position on that?  And is the U.S. willing to grant those men refugee
status here in the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would leave other country — I would let other
countries speak to their own policies.  I’m not going to speak to the —
to other countries’ policies from here.   
  
But what I can say, for our part, for the U.S.: We have been clear to
distinguish between the actions of the Russian government and its armed
forces in Ukraine and the Russian people, many of whom have spoken out
against this unjust war.

We see that just in the last couple of days, as we see the protests
continuing in Russia.  So, anyone seeking refuge for persecution, regas-
— regardless of their nationality, may apply for asylum in the United
States and have their claim <s>adjucated</s> \[adjudicated\] on a
case-by-case basis.

That’s where — that’s how we see our role here and our part in this.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, thank you.  Does President Biden shares Zelenskyy’s
assessment that Putin is not, quote, “bluffing” when it comes to his
threats about nuclear weapons?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, we’ve been very clear on this: that
Putin’s nuclear threat against Europe are irresponsible, and it’s
reckless. We — you’ve heard the President say this.  You’ve heard the
National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan; he was most recently on a few
Sunday shows.  And the consequences of nuclear use would be disastrous
for Russia and the world, and Russia would be a pariah on the world
stage.

So this is not new rhetoric.  We have heard this before from Russia.  We
have heard this before from Mr. Putin.  They have made these threats
before, over the course of the — this conflict this past six months or
more.

We, of course, take it seriously.  Again, we take this very, very
seriously.  Though I would add that Russia itself has said many times
that a nuclear war cannot be won and should never be fought.  This is
something that they have said, including earlier this year in the P5
joint statement.

As the President made clear, any use of nuclear weapons on any scale
should be dis- — would be — should be and would be — would be disastrous
for the world and would entail severe consequences.

Q    Well, and regarding these catastrophic consequences that Blinken,
Sullivan, yourself have said would occur if there are nuclear weapons
used, I mean, can we assume that these would be consequences beyond
sanctions, that there would be some sort of military response?  What
more can you say of what “catastrophic consequences” mean here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — and Jake Sullivan said this — said this
yesterday as well — is that we have had private conversations.  He — the
NSC and his team has had private conversations and communicated
privately, directly to the Russians, and they understand that.  They
understand exactly what — what those consequences would be.

We are not going to lay that out in the public.  We are not going to
have these negotiations or share these conversations in public.

But again, to reit- — reiterate what our national security advisor said
just yesterday, is that they have made that very clear and spoken
directly to the Russians, and they understand.

Q    Are there any plans for President Biden to relay that directly to
Putin in some way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have any calls to preview at this time.  
  
Welcome back.   
  
Q    Thank you.  So, it’s been about a month since the President
unveiled his plan for the $10- to $20,000 of student loan forgiveness. 
I know that there was going to be an application available in early
October.  I’m just wondering if you can give any updates on whether or
not that’s still going to be the case.pl  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have something to share on that very, very soon
on the application process and the next steps.  I don’t — once we have
that, we’ll share with all of you.  
  
Q    And several state attorneys generals are planning, you know, court
challenges once this is unveiled.  What — can you talk at all about what
is, sort of, going on inside the administration to bolster against this
or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I leave that to the Department of Justice.  I know
that when we announced the student loan relief, they put out on their
website kind of a legal — kind of a legal layout of how they came to
making their legal determination.  So again, I’ll leave it to them.  
  
But look, you know, there’s always a lot of noise around the student
loan debt relief.  And at — the bottom line is, this is going to give us
some breathing room to many Americans — tens of millions of
Americans.   
  
This is going to be an important — an important step forward in giving
people an opportunity to save some money and put money down on a house —
right? — to start their family.  Ninety percent of Americans who are
going to be able to benefit from the student debt relief are making less
than $75,000 a year.   
  
So, this is an important — we think — we believe it’s important for
working families.  It is important for people who are just looking for a
little bit more of — you know, a little bit more of help in their
everyday lives.  
  
Q    And then, my second question is on this framework House Republicans
unveiled last week should they take the House  
after the midterms.  I know that senior Republican leaders have been
touting a lot of these different bullet points: investigation, power,
hiring more police officers, a parents’ bill of rights.  Like what —
what are you all thinking as they keep playing up their framework and
giving interviews about it?  I mean, what is the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Specifically about the GOP agenda, or — can you —  
  
Q    Yeah.  I think — I think the subpoena power and the power to
investigate is probably, I would imagine, a concern inside the White
House.  But I’m wondering, you know, as you watch these sorts of these
Republicans talk about it, what is the thinking here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, our thinking is we are going to focus on the
here and now.  We’re going to focus on the wins that we have been able
to make for the American people.  You all saw it.  You all reported on
it.  When you think about the CHIPS Act.  You heard me talk a couple
times already about the Inflation Reduction Act.  You’ve heard me talk
about the American Rescue Plan, how that got that got our economy turned
back on.  I just talked about the student debt relief.  
  
That’s the — what the President is going to be focused on.  Whether, you
know, the GOP take the House or not, again, I have to be careful what I
say from here, from the podium.  That’s a hypothetical that we’re just
not going to entertain at this point.  
  
At this point, we’re going to make sure that we are doing everything
that we can to lower — to lower costs.  And, you know, I will say this:
Republicans are doing the complete opposite.  They’re not wanting to
lower costs for the American people.  Again, voted against the American
Rescue Plan, voted against Inflation Reduction Act that helps lower
costs for the American people.  
  
But, again, we’re going to stay steadfast in making sure that we
continue the work.  
  
Q    You have a two o’clock out.  Can you take a few more?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I’ll take a few more.  
  
Q    Karine?  It’s been two months, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is the White House confident that a government shutdown will be
averted at the end of this week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — and I’ve spoken to this a couple of times —
we are — we believe that this could be averted.  This is not the first
time that we are in a position where, you know, we’re talking about the
C.R.  It was done last year, and it would — it could be done again this
year.  So, we — we encourage Congress to get it done.  
  
Q    Is the President going to be talking to lawmakers this week to try
and (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything for you to preview at this time
on any conversations that the President is having.  I can say this — and
I’ve said this many times before — our — we have our teams here in the
various departments who are having regular conversations with members of
Congress and their staff in a bipartisan way.  Because this thi- — we
think this is something that should happen and needs to happen.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you give us an update on U.S. aid to Pakistan?  And can you
also tell us to what extent the U.S. is worried that catastrophic
flooding in the country — a country that’s nuclear armed with a history
of military coups could lead to political instability and insecurity in
Pakistan?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’d have to go back to the team to get any more
specifics on what we have talked about already about the aid that we
have provided for Pakistan.  We have been in close communications with
folks and making sure that as they’re dealing with the flood — as the
people of Pakistan are dealing with the flood, that they have, you know,
aid, especially from us.   
  
I don’t have any specifics on anything else that — beyond what we have
already shared.  But I’m happy to check with the team and lay out and
get some more updates for you.  
  
Q    Is there anything you can say on the, kind of, concerns that this
humanitarian issue could lead to a security —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we always have that concern.  That’s something
that we monitor very closely.  I just don’t have anything more to share
on what you’ve already laid out.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Senator Rick Scott has a bill that he’s proposing that,
essentially, is supposed to require universities with high endowments to
pay some of the financial aid when it comes to tuition.  Does the
administration — have they seen the bill?  We were told by Rick Scott’s
team that they sent a letter to the administration.  Have you seen the
bill?  And does the administration believe that universities do have
some type of responsibility when it comes to lowering the cost of higher
ed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not seen this bill.  I would have to talk
to our office of Leg Affairs on this particular piece of legislation by
Rick Scott.  
  
Look, we have been very clear and so — so has the Department of
Education.  The Secretary there has said, you know, has put into —
policies and processes in place to make sure that universities are
playing their role and not raising costs on students and universities.  
  
But I have not seen this piece of legislation, so I can’t comment on it
from at this point.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Does President Biden think America’s big cities
are safe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say more?  
  
Q    Well, we know that thefts and robberies are up about 20 percent in
the first half of this year.  So, I’m wondering if he thinks Americans
big cities are safe.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about the New York Times story
specifically?  Or is that what you’re referring to?  
  
Q    Yeah, they had some stats.  The murder rate still 30 percent above
its 2019 level.  They’re all from the Council on Criminal Justice.   
  
So, we’ve seen some high-profile examples of this.  The Washington
Commander’s running back was being mugged.  He got shot.  Karen Bass,
member of Congress, had her house robbed.  These are high-profile
people.   
  
So should everyday Americans who are not in the public eye feel safe in
America’s cities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: That same story also stated that the
crime is complicated and multifaceted.   
  
Look, this is a President who has secured historic funding to make sure
that law enforcement has what it needs — is especially — and he was able
to do this in the face of opposition from Republicans.   
  
During a time where — where he inherited a rising crime rate from the
previous administration, the President put forth the American Rescue
Plan.  And in that very — in that very plan, there was more than $300
billion to go to local — local states and local cities to make sure that
they were able to hire law enforcement — law officers.  They were able
to hire, you know, firefighters.  They were able to hire people that
were critical to their needs as they were dealing with a pandemic. 
Republicans voted against that.  
  
Q    So, I guess — just the original question: Does President Biden
think America’s big cities are safe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is not — it is not a — it is not a “yes” or a “no”
question; it is very much a question of what has he done.  That’s how we
see the question is: What has he done to make sure that cities — and it
doesn’t matter if it’s a big city or a small city, it doesn’t matter if
it’s in a red state or a blue state — what matters is that we have the
funding and we have done the work, put the policy forward to make sure
that the cities, whether it’s big or small, have what they need to
protect their community.   
  
And that’s what this President has done — again, without the help of
Republicans.  
  
Q    And my last one on this.  Jen Psaki says that crime is a “huge
vulnerability” for Democrats.  Why would she say that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, again, I can’t do electoral politics
from here, as you know.  But I kind of — I don’t agree with your
characterization of what she actually said.   
  
But I’ll say this, and I’ve already I’ve already said this already: The
past few months, what we’ve been able to do is create a pretty much
clear split screen of what we are doing to deliver for the American
people and what Republicans refuse to do.  
  
We are making sure that — that we have Medicare and Social Security, and
we make sure that the Big Pharma is not upping costs for our seniors —
right? — and making sure that we give them a little bit of breathing
room.   
  
And, you know, you have Republicans who want to cut Medicare.  They want
to sunset Medicare.  They want to set sunset Social Security.  You have
this GOP agenda that was put out by the House where they want to go
after the Inflation Reduction Act, which will have an effect that will
actually hurt Americans.   
  
And so, I think there is a stark contrast here that we’ve seen in the
past several months — I would argue the past 19 months.   
  
And this is the last question.  I know we have to — at two o’clock, we
have to go.   
  
Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just wanted to ask you about this pretty
extraordinary open letter sent to the President by the workforce of the
Office of Inspector General at DHS, essentially saying that the
Inspector General Joseph Cuffari should be removed, that he — that the
workforce cannot complete their mission with Cuffari in his position.   
  
They say that he no longer has the support of the workforce, has
permanently damaged the reputation of the office.  This is apparently
the office that, for months, sat on the news of the January 6th — the
text messages from the Secret Service and, according to reports this
summer, blocked deeper investigations into those text messages.  
  
Has the President seen this letter?  Does the White House have a
response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we have heard about some of the issues with this
particular inspector general, and we’re — we’re going to take a look at
those.  That’s what I can share with you at this time.  
  
But as far as any personal — personnel announcements, I don’t have
anything to share.   
  
Again, we have heard of some of these issues, and I can say to you from
here that we’re going to take a look at them.  
  
All right, we’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
2:08 P.M. EDT
