---
date: '2022-09-07'
modified_time: 2022-09-08 09:31:16-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-07 09:27:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-national-monkeypox-response-coordinator-bob-fenton-and-deputy-coordinator-dr-demetre-daskalakis/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, National Monkeypox Response\
  \ Coordinator Bob Fenton and Deputy Coordinator Dr. Demetre\_Daskalakis"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:25 P.M. EDT   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  All right, so today we
have two new guests that are with us in the briefing room.  Our
Monkeypox Response Coordinator, Bob Fenton, and Deputy Coordinator, Dr.
Demetre, are here with us to provide an update on our progress against
the monkeypox outbreak and take a few questions. 

And I will have — Bob, you want to go first?

MR. FENTON:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

MR. FENTON:  Well, good morning, and thanks for having me and Dr.
Daskalakis here in the briefing room today.

We wanted to provide an update on the progress we’re making in fighting
the monkeypox outbreak.

As we announced a couple of weeks back, we have ample supply to
vaccinate the highest-risk individuals against monkeypox.  Nearly all
jurisdictions have moved toward the intradermal vaccine approach, which
means that jurisdictions have effectively transitioned toward an
approach that has gotten not only more shots into arms but also without
sacrificing the safety and effectiveness of the JYNNEOS vaccine.  In
fact, over 70 percent of all vaccines being administered in the United
States today are given intradermally.

Our focus now is to reach the remainder of the eligible population where
they are: at trusted locations and events across the country.  And
equity has to be a key point and priority embedded in throughout our
response.

This past week, we saw how successful that approach is.  Because of our
direct allocations for Southern Decadence in New Orleans, Black Pride in
Atlanta, and Oakland Pride, thousands of shots were administered during
these events.  In fact, over 3,000 doses were administered at Southern
Decadence and their affiliated events.  And nearly 4,000 doses were
administered at Black Pride in Atlanta.

That means thousands of individuals are being — getting their protection
against monkeypox that they may not have if — otherwise.  
These events demonstrate our strategy is working.

We’re also accelerating our efforts to provide vaccines to places and
people that we know will make a difference.  As Dr. Daskalakis announced
last week, we are launching a new program that allows local health
departments to request vaccines to use innovatively through strategies
to reach Black and brown communities.

And today, we’re announcing that we’re providing more vaccines to
upcoming Pride events across the country — first to Idaho, where 820
doses will be made available for the weekend of Boise Pride; and second,
10,000 doses to California, ahead of the Folsom Street Fair, the Castro
Street Fair in San Francisco toward the end of this month.

We will continue to pull every lever and meet people where they are to
end this outbreak.  And we’re already seeing progress, as Dr. Daskalakis
will brief out here in a little bit.

Sir?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  Thank you, Bob.  We are encouraged by the progress that
we’re making right now.  You’ll see the chart to my left.  We only have
data from 35 jurisdictions; that’s just over half of all jurisdictions
that are directly receiving vaccine.  But over 460,000 doses have been
administered.  
Keep in mind, the population at highest risk is approximately 1.6
million people right now.  So even with this partial view we have now
from the reporting jurisdictions, we’re seeing strong progress really
getting shots into arms.

So now that supply is less of an issue, we need to make sure we focus on
maintaining demand by making sure that people know that effective and
safe vaccine is available for those that could benefit. 

Alongside our vaccination efforts, we’ve scaled up access to testing and
treatments, as well as ensuring that LGBTQAI+ individuals know how to
reduce their risk.

Together, those efforts are leading to positive trends in the data that
CDC has collected over the last couple of weeks, especially in our
hardest-hit areas.

So, as you can see, the week-over-week growth rates of the virus,
meaning how quickly the virus is spreading, is trending downward in some
of the areas involved earliest in the outbreak.  Places like New York,
California, Texas, and Illinois are all seeing significant declines in
growth rates over the last month.

To put a finer point to it, back in July, CDC estimated that it took
eight days for cases to double nationwide.  By mid-August, the doubling
rate was 25 days, showing encouraging signs of progress.

The positive trends that we’re seeing in this data also speak to the
actions that individuals have taken across the country to protect
themselves against the virus.  That includes changing their behaviors
and seeking out testing and vaccines. 

But the data also underscores the fact that we cannot be complacent, and
we must aggressively continue our work to get clear prevention guidance
and vaccines out to individuals in communities where the virus continues
to spread quickly and those places and individuals that may face
barriers in accessing testing, treatments, and vaccinations.

So that’s why our approach centered on increasing vaccine access,
including through equity interventions and event allocations in
partnership with our outreach and engagement efforts, will continue to
be critical as we fight this outbreak.

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, let’s take a couple of questions.  Right
there.

Q    Thanks.  I have two, really fast.  First, colleges are back in
session.  HHS told me last week that they — if they begin to see an
outbreak on a college campus, they’ll work to make vaccines more
available.  I guess this is to either of you.

But my question is: What proactive steps are you taking to make sure
there is not an outbreak on a college campus?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  So we’re really excited that we’ve taken a lot of steps
before colleges came in session, which included creating a toolkit that
was for universities.  I personally got to talk to all of the folks that
run the health services in universities. 

And then we’ve also had engagements with the higher executives of the
universities to make them aware of the resources that we have.  So that
includes a combination of CDC resources that focus on congregate
settings, as well as really clear information about safer sex, as well
as how vaccines are accessible and available. 

So it’s really a multi — multilayer approach where we provide
appropriate information, make sure that it goes to the right folks, and
that also that we give resources to not only figure out what the
behavioral interventions need to be on college campuses but also, like,
what biomedical things, like vaccine, can be used in the event of cases.

Q    I have one more, but I can just —  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  Sure.  
  
Q    So are you guys really concerned about this?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  So the risk in colleges is extremely low.  So I think
that we’re concerned because, obviously, we want to make sure that if
there is a case in college, that everyone knows what to do.  But
realistically, given the way that this virus is spreading through the
population, the risk in those settings is low.  Awareness is more
important than anxiety.

Q    If I can just ask one more question.  The CDC is reporting fewer
and fewer cases recently among men who — fewer and fewer cases among men
who recently had sex with men: roughly 66 percent, down from 95 percent
two months ago.

So my question is: Do you guys think that that data is a reflection of
just more testing, or is it possible that this is spreading more easily
— that the risk of catching it is different, higher than originally
thought?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  You know, I think that what that data really shows is,
A, that the population of men who have sex with men, we’re seeing
decreasing infections among them.  And also, it represents other
mechanisms of transmission that may not be sex but could be other close
contacts, so close contact in households, et cetera. 

So I think it’s something to watch, but I don’t think that it’s a
harbinger of — meaning that the virus is doing anything different right
now.  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Eugene.

Q    Is the goal to eradicate monkeypox from the population?  Or is this
something that we’re — just like COVID, we’re going to be living with
for some time?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  Our goal is to really control this outbreak in the
U.S.  I think that we’ve seen really important strides in the right
direction by creating more coverage in the populations that are at
risk.  Sort of creating that sort of level of immunity will be really
important to us, but also thinking about the global environment and
making sure that we don’t just address what’s happening in the U.S. but
also think about the rest of the world, because infections that happen
there will affect us as well.

Q    And when it comes to the funding and resources that you guys have
available at this point, how will — how long will it be before those go
out and you have to get more from Congress?

MR. FENTON:  Well, we’re working right now with Congress on the
supplemental as part of the CR to identify additional funding needed,
both in vaccine supply to not only replenish what has been used out of
the stockpile, which is critical if there was another event, for the
security of the nation; but also to provide additional vaccine and have
it more available if needed during this event.

Also, there’s a number of other things that we’re pursuing — including
technology with testing, research — to continue to watch this event and
study as it progresses, to include other types of — looking at the
treatments that are being provided and those kinds of things.

So, we have enough money right now to make the key decisions we need to
make as this progresses.  We need to replenish what we’ve used and be
able to have additional funding to keep the fight going. 

Q    How much longer do you — how much longer do you — will you have
this funding before you have to ask for more?

MR. FENTON:  Well, we’re asking for more right now as part of the
supplemental, as part of the CR.  So — so one would assume that as it
goes into the end of the fiscal year, we’d be looking to — hopefully,
working with Congress to get that additional money to make those
investments in our stockpile and to make sure that we’re able to
replenish what’s been used, plus have additional funding if needed.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you guys for doing this.  Doctor, I think this question is
for you.  As a result of this outbreak, there has been the expression of
real concern in the gay community, the LGBTQ-plus community about
stigmatization, specifically related to gay men.  So what specifically
can you say, as it relates to those concerns, of a new stigma being
attached to gay men across this country due to monkeypox?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  So I’ll start by saying: It’s the role of governmental
public health and government to really model excellent behavior on
that.  And I think we’re really proud of the work that we’ve done to
create non-stigmatizing language to inform people what they need to do
to stay healthy.  
  
So I think that that’s the first step, which is really making sure that
we’re modeling the right behavior and that we’re putting out materials
that speak to the community in a way that doesn’t stigmatize them.   
  
I think it’s all of our responsibility, and I think that we, as sort of
the role model in that — it’s really important.  But I think that, you
know, in media, in the way that we communicate with our students and
universities, in the ways that we communicate with others that need to
know about this — really making it clear that this is a virus.  It’s,
like I like to say, a piece of DNA wrapped in some fat.  It’s not
smart.  It can’t distinguish between people based on their sexual
orientation or gender.   
  
And so, everyone needs to be aware, but we need to make sure that we’re
messaging appropriately to the folks who are overly represented in the
outbreak.  
  
Q    And to be clear though, for those who are sort of embracing this
stigmatization — right? — this is — as we’ve witnessed in other diseases
that have impacted, in particular, the gay community — this is not by a
handshake.  This is not by going into a restroom.  Can you help clarify
—  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  Sure.  
  
Q    — some of the confusion that exists, the misperceptions?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  Yeah, so I think, you know, this — this virus transmits
through very close skin-to-skin physical contact, often in the setting
of sexual exposure.  But there are other mechanisms for its
transmission, including, if you touch objects that individuals who’ve
had monkeypox touch or if you have prolonged exposure to respiratory
droplets.  
  
With that said, signaling to people who are in the gay, bisexual,
other-men-who-have-sex-with-men communities, and also transgender people
who have sex with men that it’s really important to have awareness if
it’s circulating in the community is really a critical part of the
messaging while not generating, you know, inordinate concern and really
focusing on the infection as linked to an identity.  
  
So, it’s just an infection.  It’s not linked to an identity.  It just
happens to be in the social network.   
  
Q    Thank you, sir.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    I do want to dig deeper into the racial disparity because it’s
growing week by week.  Fewer and fewer cases are being seen among white
people and more among people of color.  I think it’s something close to
75 percent now.  You mentioned it’s a priority.  What specifically are
you doing to reach out to people of color on this?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  No, it’s great; I think — I think that the core work
that we’ve done to reach out to people of color really begins with the
fact that we’ve made vaccine accessible.  
  
So the first step in addressing a lot of the equity issues and gaps that
we see in vaccination is really about making vaccine available.  That
means, you know, the — the new strategy — the intradermal strategy,
making sure we have more vaccine, all of the work to create more vaccine
to bring to the U.S., as well as to fill and finish in the U.S., has
been really important.  
  
But we also have all of these equity interventions that include these
large events.  I think Bob just told you about a couple of really large
ones that have been, frankly, wildly successful with thousands of
vaccines that went to the community.  We’ve also gotten vaccines to
community health centers, as well as to Ryan White sites that really
serve this population.   
  
So they — the low-hanging fruit is done.  The folks who were early
adopters for this vaccine have gotten it, and now we’re really on to the
next level, which is making sure that everyone who needs it gets it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And just a couple more.  April.  And then, Jeff,
you’re going to the last question.  
  
Q    So I want to follow up on what Steven just asked.  What
organizations are you working with, particularly those in the Black and
brown community, that can help get the message out?   
  
And then once you work with them, what is the expectation of these
organizations to help you lessen the numbers or even eradicate it?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  Excellent question.  So we, from the very beginning,
before I was even at the White House — working at the CDC — one of our
primary objectives was engaging with organizations that serve the Black
and brown community.  And so those have been going on since the very
beginning.   
  
And a lot of the communication there has been about really facilitating
the materials that they need to be trusted messengers, as well as to
provide them important tools to help their communities.   
  
I’ll give some great examples.  So, for example, many of the events that
we worked with at Black Pride in Atlanta, we interacted directly with
organizations.  The local jurisdictions, in fact, interacted with
those.   
  
And that’s really what the story of success is about with these events. 
It’s not about just the vaccine allocation.  It’s about that intense
community engagement that happens on the ground because, ultimately,
public health is a local event.  And so, giving the tools that people
need to be able to sort of reach health goals is what we’ve been doing. 
And the support of organizations that serve Black and brown people have
been pivotal in really turning the tide in what I think you’re going to
see, the new vaccine numbers emerging over the next few weeks.  
  
Q    I know you said Black Pride, Atlanta, but are there any other
organizations that you can mention?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  So Black Pride is just the event.  We actually worked
with many organizations.  We’ve actually engaged with national
organizations that are umbrella organizations that focus on — on
community-based groups that serve Black and brown folks.   
  
So really, it’s — it’s a long, long list, but it is a continuous —
continuous piece of work to make sure that we stay engaged.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, Jeff, last one.   
  
Q    You mentioned — right here.  You mentioned the rest of the world. 
Can you give us a sense of where you see outbreaks elsewhere in — on the
globe; the threats that that provide — or that it creates to the U.S.;
and whether or not you’re sharing vaccine and whether or not you need
to?  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  So I’ll start.  And maybe, Bob, you can also fill
in.   
  
So I think that you’re really — when we’re discussing vaccine and, sort
of, strategy, the global part of this is important.  And I think, you
know, we have a new team that has joined the response — to our
coordination team that focuses on global, and we’re having the
conversations about how we can best support global vaccine efforts.  
  
MR. FENTON:  Yeah, we’re working with USAID, as one of the leads, and
the State Department.  In the White House national security staff here,
we’ve established a global task force across multiple different federal
agencies to focus coordination to other countries and WHO to ensure that
— that, you know, we have a responsibility to assist and help some of
those countries that may not have the resources to do that.    
  
And so, we’re working to — through WHO to determine who that is and what
we can make available to support some of their efforts not only in terms
of vaccine, but in tor- — in terms of some of our public education
outreach, some of our technical expertise that exists here in the United
States.  And so, we’re working closely with those organizations to be
able to support them.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, guys.   
  
Q    Can I get one more, quickly — one on international — on other
countries, Karine?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’re going to continue.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to continue.  We’re going to continue. 
They’ll be back.  Thank you, guys, so much.   
  
MR. FENTON:  Thank you.  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, guys.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.   
  
Okay.  Today, the U.N. Security Council is holding a meeting on Russia’s
filtration efforts — a dehumanizing term to describe the Kremlin’s
efforts to imprison, forcibly deport, or disappear those individuals who
Moscow decides could be insufficiently compliant or compatible to its
control over Ukraine.   
  
Our intelligence shows that Russia is using filtration centers in
eastern Ukraine and western Russia to detain, to interrogate, and, in
some cases, abuse thousands of Ukrainians.   
  
Many of the news organizations in this room have reported on this
horrific practice and told the stories of Ukrainian citizens who have
experienced these filtration — filtration centers.   
  
Today, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield will present newly downgraded
information that the U.N. Security Council — that the United States has
information that officials from Russia’s presidential administration are
overseeing and coordinating filtration operations.   
  
Russian presidential administration officials are providing lists of
Ukrainians to be targeted for filtration and receiving reports on the
scope and progress of operations.  We assess that the Kremlin views
filtration operations as crucial to their efforts to annex areas of
Ukraine under their control.   
  
At the U.N. today, Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield will demand that Russia
halt its filtration operations immediately and allow the U.N.
independent observers and humanitarian and human rights organizations
access to these filtration sites and to those who have been sent to
Russia.   
  
As we announced this morning, next Monday, on the 60th anniversary of
President Kennedy’s Moonshot speech at Rice University, President Biden
will deliver remarks at the JFK Library in Boston, Massachusetts, laying
out a vision for another American moonshot, a future where we send
\[sic\] cancer as we know it — where we end cancer as we know it.   
  
As President and Vice President, Joe Biden has led this Cancer Moonshot
effort with the goal — and in Feb- — with the goal — and in February
2022, President Biden reignited the Cancer Moonshot and set new
goals:   
  
First, to cut the cancer death rate in half over the next 25 years.   
  
Second, to improve the experience of people, their families, and
caregivers living with and — living with and surviving cancer.   
  
During his speech at the JFK Library in Boston on September 12th,
President Biden will lay out that vision and provide an update on steps
the Biden-Harris administration is taking to achieve this generation’s
moonshot — not only to end cancer as we know it, but to change people’s
lives, improving their health, and decreasing the burden of the
disease.   
  
And finally, this week, we know a lot of kids are going back to school,
and we know that’s the case in Uvalde, Texas.   
  
Our message to the Uvalde community is the same as it was the day of the
shooting and when the President visited the community: The whole nation
is with you and always.   
  
This is a painful and challenging time for the Uvalde community, and the
President is thinking of the students, parents, teachers, and community
members this week.  And our message to the nation is: We will not rest
until we can make schools safe again, or safe places.   
  
Okay, with that, Seung Min.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Can you talk about how involved President Biden and the
White House is in trying to ensure that the same-sex marriage bill
passes in the Senate this month?  Do you believe that it can pass and
get 60 votes in the coming weeks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, we — with the legislative — I know
there’s a legislative pathway that’s being discussed currently in
Congress, so we’ll let leadership decide how to move forward with
that.   
  
But the President is proud — is a proud champion of the right for people
to marry whom they choose, who they are — love.  And he believes it is
non-negotiable, and the Senate should act swiftly to get this to the
President’s desk.   
  
When the bill passed Congress in the House recently, he put out a SAP,
as you all know, supporting that piece of legislation.  So it has his
full support.   
  
And I just want to add: The President was one of the first leaders,
after the Dobbs decision leaked, to sound the alarm about the imminent
threats to this — what the — the imminent threat this meant to the right
to marry, something he has continuously reminded the country of since.  
  
So he’s going to — or his team is going to continue to be closely
connected and have continued conversations with staff and members in
Congress to make sure that we get this done.  But again, this is
something that he supports — this piece of legislation.  And this is an
issue, when it comes to marriage equality, that he has supported through
— through his Senate days and as VP and now as President.  
  
Q    And one foreign policy question.  Russia confirmed earlier today
that President Putin will meet with President Xi next week in
Uzbekistan.  And obviously, that’s one of President Xi’s first trips out
of China since the pandemic began.  And I’m wondering if the White House
sees it as a concerning signal at all that, for his first major foreign
trip, President Xi is choosing to meet with President Putin, and what
kind of message that sends to this White House.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know — and we have said this before — I’m not
going to speak to reported meetings between other countries.  That’s not
something we’re going to do here.  It’s not something we’re going to do
from the White House.  But we’ve made clear our concerns about the depth
of China’s alignment and ties with Russia, even as Russia prosecutes a
war of aggression on Ukraine — an unprovoked war, as we have said; a
brutal war.   
  
But again, I’m just not going to respond or make comments on a meeting
that other countries are having with each other.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m going to follow up, I guess, on both of
Simon’s questions.  The first was on marriage equality.  You said you’d
leave it up to leadership.  Is there a reason that you wouldn’t want it
as part of the continuing resolution?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, when it comes to the mechanism — and we’ve said
this before, it’s nothing new, when we’re asked about a process of — a
piece of legislation — when it comes to that process, that mechanism,
the path forward, we leave that to the leadership.  
  
Q    On President Putin, he also spoke today and said that he — he
threatened to cut off all energy exports to the West if the U.S.
proceeded with its gas cap.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is — the gas price?   
  
Q    Yes.  Cap.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    And so I’m wondering, are you concerned about that threat?  Do you
think it’s a legitimate threat? If so, does it change your strategy at
all going forward on this — on the cap?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I think — and you’ve heard us say this before as
well — is that, you know, this shows that Putin is again weaponizing
energy by his very words, also by his actions.  But the President and
our partners in Europe predicted this playbook.  We’ve — we saw this
coming, and we have been preparing for months.  And we have talked
through the different processes of how this price cap could look.   
  
So another thing that we have done is we set up a task force — you’ve
heard us talk about this — with the EU, back in March, to work on ways
to increase alternate sources of natural gas to Europe and help reduce
Europe’s demand for Russian energy through increased efficiency and
clean energy deployment.  And so that is something that we’re going to
continue to do to be helpful to Europe as — as they head into the winter
months.   
  
But they — this process of the task — the task force already has had a
positive effect, as we’ve seen.  Europe gas <s>shortage</s> \[storage\]
will be full by the critical winter heating season.  Germany will reach
their target gas shortage — storage, despite the Russian cuts, ahead of
schedule.  And Europe as a whole will reach a significant higher level
than last year.   
  
So, again, we prepared for this.  This — we knew this was going to be
part of the playbook in Russia weaponizing energy, as they have been for
the past several months.  And so, we will be prepared for this move.   
  
Q    A last quick one.  I know — I saw the readout between the President
and the Prime Minister’s phone call last night.  It made mention of the
fact that they discov- — discussed the Northern Ireland protocols.  And
I’m wondering if you can say specifically if the President discouraged
her from abandoning the elements of it, or give any more color to that
conversation, sort of the tone and tenor of their talks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t really have too much more to add from the —
from the readout.  Look, he — the President expressed it is a priority
protecting the gains of the Belfast and the Good Friday Agreement, and
preserving peace, stability, and prosperity for the people of Northern
Ireland.  Don’t have much more to add from that.   
  
I’m going to try and call (inaudible).  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just following up on Justin’s first question.  And
I understand that storage supplies is certainly up right now, but if
weather goes in a bad or unpredictable direction, things could get
significantly worse for Europe in terms of pricing for their people. 
How concerned is the White House right now about political instability —
we saw it in Prague, the protests in Prague — and what it might mean for
the coalition going forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do you mean in general, as — the coalition, as it
relates to —  
  
Q    As in the, kind of, the Western alliance, as it pertains to Ukraine
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — with NATO?  
  
Q    — and whether or not political instability driven by energy cost
increases could be very problematic.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you have seen the Alliance and the strength
of the Alliance these past several months, and a lot of that is because
of the leadership of this President.  We are going to continue to work
on that partnership.  We’re going to continue to work with our
Allies.   
  
As we have seen, NATO is going to expand by two, and that because — and
that’s because of what this President has been able to do.   
  
This is — one of the things that Russia, that Putin, that the Kremlin
thought it was going to do is divide the West, make NATO weaker, and it
did the complete opposite.  And that is what we have seen for the past
several months.   
  
And — and, as you know, the President was in Europe recently, just
before — just before the summer.  And you saw the strength of that
alliance.  You saw the strength of that partnership.  And we believe
you’re going to continue to see that.  And we’re going to continue to be
in coordination.   
  
I mean, I think the price cap — when the G7 finance ministries met last
week, you saw them come together and put forth different pathways to the
price cap.  And so that is one way you see that alliance continuing as
well.   
  
So we know that there’s a lot more work to do, and we’ll keep looking
for ways as gas increases and — in Europe, and to help bolster other
sources of energy as well.  We’ll work towards that where possible.  
  
Q    But there’s no near-term concern that there are fractures in terms
of what’s been a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, there’s —  
  
Q    — very united group of countries?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re — we are still very united.  We’re continuing to
show that unity.  Again, we have to remember, Putin thought, when he
started this war — this brutal war, this unprovoked war, as I’ve said
earlier before, as we have said many times from this podium — that he
was going to divide the West, that he was going to make NATO weaker. 
And the opposite happened.  It is stronger than it’s ever been before,
and we believe that will continue and we’ll continue to grow that
relationship.   
  
Q    Karine, following up on the question about the call with the new
Prime Minister yesterday, did a trade deal between the U.S. and the UK
come up?  Was that discussed?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The UK — the U.S.-K — UK trade deal?  
  
Q    Mm-hmm.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So there is no formal linkage on trade talks between
the U.S. and the UK and the Northern Ireland Protocol, as we have said. 
But efforts to undo the Northern Ireland Protocol would not create a — a
conducive environment.  And so that’s basically where we are with the
dialogue.  
  
Q    But did they discuss trade at all yesterday in sort of
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have much more than — than what was — what was
in the readout.  But that’s where we’ve been with that.  
  
Q    And will President Biden meet with Prime Minister Truss?  Is he
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have a meeting or anything like that to
readout at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, the Washington Post, as you’ve likely seen, reported that
some of the files seized at Mar-a-Lago include material on a foreign
nation’s nuclear capabilities.  
  
(A reporter sneezes.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bless you.  Bless you.  
  
Q    Sweet gracious.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Take that outside, Ed.  Do you need — do you need a
tissue.  
  
Q    No.  We’re good.  Carry on.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    I’ll keep my mask on.   
  
Quickly, the Washington Post reported that files seized at Mar-a-Lago
include material on a foreign nation’s nuclear capabilities.  I know you
can’t speak specific to that investigation, nor to the findings there. 
I know where the line is drawn at this White House as it relates to
that.  But what has this President specifically said?  And has he held
any calls with some of America’s allies or even adversaries on the issue
of nuclear secrets that the U.S. may have some access to, to try to
placate their concerns that that information is not in safe hands in the
United States?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say this: We don’t have any calls to foreign
governments to read out at this time.  On this particular issue, as you
know, and I’ll reiterate this — you already kind of alluded: You know,
when it comes to this specific issue, as I’ve said many times, the ODNI
is in the middle of an assessment and DOJ is in the middle of an ongoing
criminal investigation, so I’m not going to comment.  But, again, I
don’t have any calls to — to read out to you.  
  
Q    Let me ask separate from that then.  Obviously, this is not unique
to this investigation.  There’s been discussion that classified
information was mishandled by the last administration, even before this
investigation that we’ve been reporting on.   
  
So, at any point, has the President had conversations with other nations
to communicate to them that that information — they should view that
information as secure?  What has he done to try to make that message
clear to those allies or adversaries around the world?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I don’t have — we don’t have any calls to —  
  
Q    Has he in the past?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have any calls to any foreign government to
read out to you at this time.  
  
Q    From any time over the course of 18 months?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have — we don’t have any calls to read out at
this time.   
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me go jump around.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I wanted to ask about a decision today by a judge in Texas who said
the Affordable Care Act’s requirement that insurance plans cover HIV
prevention drugs violates the religious freedom of a company.  I wanted
to see if you can comment on that decision.   
  
And related to that, can you give us an update on your efforts to update
the last administration’s rule allowing employees with — employers with
religious objections and moral concerns to not include birth control in
their plans that they offer (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as for that decision — I’ll refer you to the
Department of Justice on that particular decision.  We will have a
statement from here.  I just don’t have anything to share at this
time.  
  
Q    And any update on the rewriting of the rules from the last
administration on covering religious (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  With that as well, I would refer you to the Department
of Justice.  I don’t have anything to share at this time.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.   
  
Q    So, yeah.  Thanks, Karine.  So, a federal judge — talking the about
the social media lawsuits from Missouri and Louisiana.  A federal judge
ordered that you have 20 days to turn over emails communicating with
social media companies over misinformation and disinformation.  What are
those emails going to show?  What kind of —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t comment.  You asked me this question last
week.  I can’t comment on any specifically ongoing litigation.  And so,
again, I’d refer — would refer you to Department of Justice.  
  
A couple of things that I would say, just as a general matter on this:
As we’ve said over and over again since the beginning of the
administration, in our battle against COVID-19, it has been critical for
the American people to have access to factual, accurate, science-based
information — in- — information.   
  
And ensuring that any media platforms have access to latest information
on a once-in-a-generation pandemic is something that has been done since
the earliest days of the pandemic, beginning under the former
President.  So, this has happened under the former President.   
  
I cannot say more from here.  It is an ongoing litigation, as you know. 
And so, I would refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    But what about if those communications are still happening?  Are
there frequent contacts between the administration and social media
companies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  You know, as we have said before,
there has been ongoing work, dating to the Trump administration, to
provide accurate COVID information where folks get their news.   
  
Again, this is litigation that is ongoing and is currently happening —
clearly, that’s why it’s ongoing.  And so, I would refer you to
Department of Justice on that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  President Biden has said that not every
Republican is a MAGA Republican.  Would he consider Mitch McConnell a
MAGA Republican?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to go into specific name or people from
here.  What I will say is, you know, when you go back to the speech —
his speech last Thursday — you know, people have talked about if it was
divisive.  It wasn’t divisive.   
  
The way that we saw the speech is that he was talking to a majority of
the country who — who agree that we have to protect our democracy, who
agree that we have to protect our freedom, who agree that we have to
protect our rights.   
  
And the point of the speech was that he wanted to really point to an
inflection point, an inflection time that we were — we’re in at this —
in this time in our country.  
  
And he spoke very clearly.  He talked about a minority, a small group of
people who have extreme views and who threaten — who threaten that very,
very value — core value of who we are as a country.  
  
And — and, you know, he also asked for people to come together.  It
didn’t matter if you’re a Republican or an independent or a Democrat. 
He asked for folks to come together and stand against what we were
seeing — these attacks.   
  
And you don’t have to look further than January 6th of 2021 to see what
the attack was on our democracy.  It was very clear.  We all saw it. 
Many of you reported it that day.   
  
And when you have people who say the protesters on that day were
“patriots,” that’s problematic.  That’s coming from leaders and from
that extreme part of — of the party.  And so, that’s what he was talking
about.  
  
He also ended the speech in a very optimistic way in trying to bring
people together.  And — and so, I’ll just leave it there at that time.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have a couple of questions on China, but,
first, a little bit more detail on the filtration camps.  I’m just
wondering: Why is it just now that you’re speaking about this from the
podium?  And why is it just now that the U.S. is bringing this up at the
U.N. Security Council?   
  
This is something that a lot of activist groups have written about in
past weeks.  I believe Secretary Antony Blinken has also spoken about it
since July.  So, I’m just wondering about the timing of it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, this was — it — this is information
that was downgraded information.  And so, as you know from past times,
it takes some time to do that.  And, you know, don’t have much more to
say.  It takes time to do that.   
  
I’m not going to go into our process.  I’m not going to go into how our
intelligence community moves in that process.  
  
But again, we’re providing it now and we wanted to make it very clear on
how we feel about this, how we’re holding Russia accountable for the
atrocities that they are committing, and we’re going to continue to do
so.  
  
Q    And a couple of questions on China.  Can we get the
administration’s response to Beijing’s accusation that NSA hacked a
Chinese military university research?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that again.  
  
Q    So there is an accusation from Beijing that the NSA hacked a
Chinese university research facility.  Is there any response from the
administration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would refer you to NSA on — on these claims from
China.   
  
But generally speaking, it would not be surprising to me that — or to us
— that China is deflecting from its own malicious cyber activities, on
which there is extensive reporting on from — on from the private sector
and governments around the world.   
  
But, again, this is something that I refer to you to NSA on.  
  
Q    Thank you.  One more on China, please.  Is the administration still
considering stopping Nicaraguan imports?  There’s some reporting,
including from our side on that, particularly in light of the country
potentially taking steps to sign a free-trade agreement with China.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that — I didn’t hear the beginning.  
  
Q    So is the administration still considering stopping imports from
Nicaragua?  There’s some reporting on this that we’ve also done in
recent weeks, particularly in light of the potential free-trade
agreement between Nicaragua and  
China.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And the free-trade agreement — okay.  
  
So, look, we are going to, as we’ve mentioned before when it comes to
this, there has been — there has been a dramatic deterioration, as you
know, of — of respect of democratic principles — and we’ve talked about
this before — in human rights by the Ortega-Murillo regime in Nicaragua
— I think we had this conversation last week in the briefing room —
including the harassment and imprisonment of democratic leaders, members
of the political opposition, students, faith leaders, and journalists,
in addition to the regime’s increased relations with Russia poses risks
to the security of the hemisphere.   
  
With members of the international community, we have already taken a
number of actions to promote accountability for the Ortega-Murillo
regime’s actions, and we’ll continue to do so.   
  
But at this time, we don’t have new actions to announce.  
  
Q    So you’re not confirming that you’re stopping imports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have any new actions to announce.   
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I — we’ve talked about this many times.  I know
you’ve asked this question.   
  
I’m going to go around.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  Two questions.  One about the Brazilian
election that’s coming up in 25 days.  Senator Bernie Sanders, Tim
Kaine, and other Democrats are about to introduce a resolution to
support — to show support for a free and fair election in Brazil and to
call on the U.S. to break ties with Brazil if the results are not
respected.  Is the White House in contact with the senators and support
this kind of resolution?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any conversation to provide to you at
this time with any members of Congress.   
  
But as it relates to the Brazilian election, we’re going to continue to
monitor them.  The United States trusts in the strength of Brazil’s
democratic institutions.  Brazil has a strong track record of free and
fair elections, which are conducted with transparency, and high levels
of voter participation.  The elections that have been conducted by
Brazil’s capable and time-tested electoral system and democratic
institutions serve as a model for nations in the hemisphere and across
the world.   
  
As a partner of democracy to Brazil, the United States will follow the
October elections with great interest — as I just said, we’re going to
monitor — and with full expectations that they will be conducted in a
free, fair, and credible manner with all relevant institutions operating
in accordance with their constitutional role.   
  
Again, we’re just going to monitor the upcoming Brazilian elections. 
Don’t have any calls or meetings to read out.  
  
Q    But is this kind of resolution something the White House
supports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into any — any specific
resolutions or any specific policy or plans.  What we’re going to do is
we’re going to continue to monitor and keep an eye on it.  
  
Q    And another one on the U.N. General Assembly.  There are talks that
President Zelenskyy come to New York to participate.  Is the White House
aware of this?  Is it talking to Ukraine about this possible visit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would leave that to President Zelenskyy.  We’re not
going to comment on his travel.  That’s for him — that’s for him to
speak to.  We’re not going to speak to that.  
  
Q    And did the White House invite President Macron here around the
General Assembly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nothing to read out to you on any upcoming meetings
with any of the foreign leaders that are coming.   
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’m going to keep going.  
  
Go ahead.  Phil, in the back.  And then I’ll come back.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Just like Peter mentioned earlier on, I know that the
White House is not going to comment on the specifics of the raid at
Mar-a-Lago or the subsequent investigation.  But I’m wondering, as the
President watches this story play out in the news just like every other
American, does he think that the leaks about the investigation are
helpful or harmful to the country?  Does he want those leaks to continue
or to stop?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment on anything that’s related to
the investigation.  It’s an ongoing investigation.  As you know, the
Department of Justice is leading that investigation.  We’re just not
going to comment from here.   
  
Q    And then one more then.  Last Friday, the Energy Secretary said
that green technology in California — that that state was in the lead
and showing the rest of the nation how it’s done.   
  
The state is currently bracing for blackouts.  They’ve set ambitious
goals.  And, you know, yet, in particular, their governor is asking
folks there not to charge their electric vehicles.  Does the President
agree that California is an example for the rest of the country as it
transitions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I haven’t seen those specific statements — I would
like to see it in fuller context — that the Secretary has made.  So I’m
not going to comment on something that I haven’t seen in full.   
  
But if you have another question, I’m happy to take it.  
  
Q    Sure.   
  
So, by my count, the White House — you know, you’ve gotten a lot done
this summer.  And certainly, there’s a lot —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Really?  Have we?  (Laughter.)  I think we’ve said
that a few times.  
  
Q    And the — the President has a lot —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you guys have reported it, too.  So —  
  
Q    The — the President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You guys have backed this up.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Well, so, all of your accomplishments aside, the President still
hasn’t done a sit-down interview in over 200 days.  Is he dodging us? 
Is there a reason why he doesn’t want to do a sit-down?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely not.  The President loves talking to
you all.  He takes your questions all the time.  He took Peter’s
question last Friday.  I’m sure Peter was excited about that.  
  
Q    It was the last question he took.  
  
Q    I have another.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, he did take a — (laughter) — he actually — Ed, he
took another question when we were — when we were traveling.  
  
Q    But in all seriousness, a sit-down interview is much different than
when the President has —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear you.  I hear you.  The President is going
to —  
  
Q    — 10 or 15 seconds.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — he is happy to talk to you all.  As you know, he
does it multiple times during the week.  
  
I don’t have a sit-down interview to announce or provide or — or
schedule at this time.   
  
And, you know, look, the — you guys know Joe Biden.  He’s been a senator
for 46 years.  He was Vice President for eight years.  And, you know,
you guys have followed him and have had multiple conversations — some of
you, sit-down conversations — with him.   
  
And — and once we have something to share, we will share that.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
All right.   
  
Q    Thank you so much.  On Iran: This morning, the administration
warned of further action after the cyberattack on Albania.  And I wanted
to know what kind of further action could that be.  And do you expect it
to be only an American action or maybe a coordinated set of sanctions
with other NATO countries?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, we’ll — NATO Allies will make
their own sovereign decisions about how to respond to the cyberattacks,
including whether to invoke — I know people have asked about Article 5,
and so that will be up to the NATO Allies.   
  
As you know, there’s a process in this.  There are multiple processes
before we can get to invoking Article 5.  So, again, that’s something
that the NATO Allies are going to have to discuss.  
  
Q    Would the administration support invoking Article 5?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is not — this is a — this is part of NATO
Allies to — to decide on.  And so, our role here is to support Albania’s
efforts to hold Iran accountable and work with Albania to strengthen its
cybersecurity and reinforce norms of responsible state behavior in
cyberspace.  That is what we’re going to do and be a helpful ally in
that way.  
  
Go ahead, Steve.  And then I’ll come to you.  
  
Q    Thanks.  The water pressure in Jackson, Mississippi, has been
restored, but it remains a perilous situation; there’s a boil water
advisory in effect again.  The President said last week he had no plans
to travel to Jackson.  Does that remain the case?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, the EPA Administrator is in Jackson
right now.  He’s supposed to be doing a press gaggle.  He — I think it
may have happened already while we were — while I was here with all of
you.   
  
So he was in — he’s there today, and he is — had a press gaggle, I
believe, with the mayor and also the governor.  I don’t have a trip to
read out to you.  I do want to say FEMA, EPA, and the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers continue to partner with officials there to help distribute
water, expedite the delivery of equipment to repair the water treatment
facility, and support with safety inspections.   
  
The emergency declaration signed by this President just last week or so
includes reimbursement for drinking water and support for temporary
repairs to the water system.   
  
Just a couple of things I want to list out to date that we have done:
5.6 million bottles of water have been distributed at state-run sites to
date.  FEMA has an additional 5 million liters of water available if
requested at nearby distribution centers.  A call line is available for
residents who need home water deliver — delivery.  And the state, the
private sector, and volunteer organizations are also providing water to
residents who cannot get \[to\] distribution sites.  And both EPA and
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are on site at O.B. Curtis Treatment Plant
to assess the pumping system, wastewater infrastructure electoral
system, and safety concerns.  
  
Again, our Administrator of EPA, Regan, is there.  The FEMA
Administrator, Criswell, was there recently, as well as Mitch Landrieu
was there on Friday.  And so, we have had an all-hands-on-deck and being
— being as — very responsive to their needs and surging that response
right after the declaration was requested and signed by the President.  
  
Q    But, you know, it’s not the first time the EPA Administrator has
gone down to Jackson —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to talk about this problem.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Absolutely.  
  
Q    He went last — he went — he went last year.  Why has the President
decided — or seemingly decided this, to this point — not to direct the
nation’s attention himself to this problem?  I mean, he’s going — over
the next week, he’s going to Ohio, Massachusetts, Michigan.  We’ve
traveled with him to New York, New Jersey, Kentucky, Texas, and the West
to talk about natural disasters.  This is a manmade disaster.  Why
doesn’t he use the power of the presidency to focus the nation’s
attention on it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say, Steven, that he has used the power of the
— of the presidency to focus on this particular issue.  If you think
about what happens to brown and Black communities across the country
when it comes to environmental injustices — if you look at the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, if you look at the Inflation Reduction
Act, if you put those together, $100 billion is going to deal with that
issue in communities like Jackson.  And that’s going to go a very long
way.  That is an investment that we don’t see at all very often to — for
— from a federal government, from a White House to be zeroed in on those
issues of environmental injustices.  This is part of the plan of this
President to deal with that in a real serious way.  And — and we’re
going to continue.  
  
We have worked closely with groups and organizations on other things
that we can do to deal with these issues.  And so we’re going to
continue to do that.  
  
I mean, that’s why the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is so critical, is
so important.  It’s going to fix, you know, crumbling infrastructure
that — like we’re seeing in Jackson.  
  
We’ve talked about the $400 million through the American Rescue Plan for
water upgrades across that particular — that very state.  The city has
allocated twenty mil- — $20 million of its art funds for water and sewer
infrastructure needs; $75 million through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law to support the state to provide clean and safer water this year,
with an additional $429 million available to the state over the next
five years; $30.9 million through the EPA’s evolving — revolving loan
funds for treatment and distribution system improvements for Jackson.   
  
And so we have made this a priority.  The reason why the EPA
Administrator has been there multiple times is because he has made that
a priority, in particular dealing with environmental justice issues that
we see across the country.  
  
So, he has used the power and — the power of the pen, if you will, to
deal with this issue in a real way by preven- — providing funding that’s
been long needed in these communities.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  As refugees were being evacuated from
Afghanistan into the U.S. last year, why weren’t they all being
thoroughly vetted?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So are you talking about — what are you — what are you
— what are you referring to?   
  
Q    Well, so as the White House was managing the Afghanistan withdrawal
last year, we were told “no one is coming into the United States of
America who has not been through a thorough screening and background
check process.”  But now there’s this DHS inspector general who says CBP
“admitted or paroled” evacuees who were not fully vetted into the United
States.   
  
That is not good.  That is different than what you guys said.  So how
did this happen?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not different than what we have said.  That
very report, it did not take into account the key steps in that rigorous
— you heard from us — rigorous and multi-layered screening and vetting
process the U.S. government took before at-risk Afghans were permitted
to come to the U.S.  
  
Again, I would refer you to the DH- — DHS comments on this.  It did not
take into full account of what the other agencies are involved in making
sure that this multi-layered process and screening process they — it is
a — it is a multi- agency effort, and it did not — this particular
report did not include that.   
  
Q    Okay.  But — so in the last week or so, we’ve heard the President
calling elected Republicans a threat to the country.  Does he think MAGA
Republicans are more of a threat to the country than people DHS says may
pose a risk to national security and the safety of local communities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, DHS has disputed this report.  It’s — and it
said it didn’t take into account the key steps that we have taken as a
U.S. government, the rigorous, multi-layered screening and vetting
process that we take as a government.  That was not part of the
report.   
  
Again, this report is not accurate.  I know that our team has spoken to
your team about this, and the DHS has provided a comment saying just
that.  So, again, I refer you to DHS.  
  
All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, a question on Somalia.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The Obamas were here today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Before the event in the East Room, can you give us any color about
what the Bidens and the Obamas did together?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, one thing I can say — and I believe one of the
Presidents mentioned it while they were speaking — is they had lunch. 
They had lunch together and they caught up and they talked about their
families.  And, you know, they’re very close.  They’re good friends. 
Not only were they part- — were they partners in this — in the — for
eight years, but they also became close friends as well — their
families.  
  
And so I can say that they — they had some — they had lunch together.  
  
Q    Where did they have lunch?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I — I don’t have specifics on where they had lunch
— (laughs) — but they spoke to it.  I can’t remember which one.  One of
the Presidents spoke to them having lunch and catching up.  
  
Q    Okay.  And just one other topic.  Following up on Peter’s question,
can the United States assure its allies that their nuclear secrets are
safe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — I know you guys have a lot of interest in
this, and I know this is a question that is a more broader question —   
  
Q    It is.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — but I — I want to be very clear, and I — and from
here, we cannot comment — or we will not comment on anything related or
close to — to — close to the independent investigation.  And we’re just
— I’m just not going to comment on that.  
  
I’m going to go —  
  
Q    Only one or two more.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  One or two.  Let me call on folks I haven’t
called.  Karen.   
  
Q    Just to go back to the $47 billion in funding that the White House
had requested last week — COVID, Ukraine, monkeypox, natural disasters —
can you give us an update on what the White House is doing right now,
the conversations that are being had with lawmakers to try and push that
through?  Is the President having conversations with lawmakers?  And is
there something that — if there’s a sense that something has to get
dropped, what’s the priority of that list right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get into a priority of list. 
Look, the way we — we see this is: Our job is to tell Congress what we
need to protect the American people, what we need to get things moving
as we look at the different components here.   
  
And so, you know, when it comes — for example, when it comes to COVID
funding, we have been clear that without additional funding, we would
have to make different trade — tradeoffs and repurpose a previously
allocated funding.  And that’s precisely what we — we’ve done, right? 
I’ve talked about the COVID testing; we had to end that process last
Friday.  And so we’ve been very, very clear on this.  
  
But the other piece of this, too, is this is not new.  We did — we were
— we did this — this same process this time last year, and Congress was
able to get that done.  
  
So we don’t see this as a difficult process.  We don’t see this as an
uphill battle.  We see this — this is — that is very doable.   
  
And, again, we’re — we’re going to, you know, make the case with
Congress, we’re going to engage, we’re going to do meeting in person
with bipartisan members of Congress from both the Senate and the House
to talk about the consequences of inaction, to answer their questions,
to make clear that we cannot afford to not act in light of new vari- —
new subvariants, as we speak to — about COVID, and how dire things could
look like later this year if we don’t act, if we don’t get that extra
funding.  
  
So again, we’re going to continue to make the case.  We’re going to also
actively talk to our governors and our stakeholders in these — in this
process as well.  
  
But again, we have seen — we’ve done this before.  We’ve been here,
again — again, this time last year.  And we think Congress can get this
done in time.  
  
Q    Just to be clear: The President will have those meetings with
bipartisan members or is that staff?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When I say “we,” it’s going to be his staff.  But as
you know, the President, as we have said, regularly has conversations
with members of Congress on an array of issues.  But, of course, his
staff is going to be continuously being active in having those
conversations.  And that includes, you know, the — the COVID Response
Team.  That includes the — our Office of Leg- — Leg Affairs.  That
includes senior staff — an array of staff in this building who are
directly dealing with the — with the CR.  
  
Okay, I’m going to take one last question.  
  
Q    Can I ask you a question on Somalia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I took your question yesterday.  Let me try and
pick somebody —  
  
Go ahead, S.V.  Way in the back.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll be back tomorrow.  I’ll be back tomorrow.  
  
Q    Just two quick ones, Karine.  First, not — not regarding the law
enforcement part, but has the President been receiving briefings on what
kind of national security damage might have been happening because of a
security breach in South Florida, since this first came to the attention
of the National Archives back in February?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, ODNI is doing their own assessment on
this.  We’re going to let them do that assessment and do that work that
they’re doing on this particular independent investigation that is
happening that DOJ is doing.  
  
The President has not been briefed.  I’ve been very clear about that. 
He has not been briefed on this.  None of us have been, here in the
White House — have been briefed.  
  
We’re just not going to comment on an independent investigation that’s
being done by the Department of Justice.   
  
Again, ODNI is doing their own assessment, and we’ll let them run that
process.  
  
Q    But on the ODNI part, shouldn’t the President be interested in,
“Oh, so these…” —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It has — it has nothing to do with interest; it has
everything to do with ODNI doing their process and us letting them go
through that process.  
  
Okay.  
  
Q    And the second one, regarding the speech.  There are Republicans
who, in good faith, oppose abortion.  Liz Cheney is one of them who the
President has complimented and praised.  She opposes abortion.   
  
So was it a mistake, in retrospect, to put that line in the speech about
choice when it was clearly referring to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s also said that they have many differences when it
comes to agenda and policies.  He has said that as well.  So that is —
he has been very clear about that.   
  
Look, when you think about what happened with Dobbs — the Dobbs decision
that was made on June 24th — it was something that was devastating to
women, devastating to people’s lives.  It was a right that existed — a
constitutional right that existed for almost 50 years.  And that was
taken.  
  
That was an extreme act.  And what ended up happening is you saw, you
know, national Republicans, you know, say that they wanted a national
ban, to take away people’s right, to take away a woman’s decision to
choose.  
  
That is something that we have to stand up against and speak out about
and be very loud and clear that, you know, we have to fight for our
freedoms and our rights.   
  
And so, that’s what the President is going to do.  He’s going to protect
–continue to protect women’s rights.  And it’s also — it’s going to lead
as — as it was very — made very clear in the Dobbs decision — we’re
talking about contraception.  Right?  We’re talking about privacy. 
We’re talking about marriage.  This is going to open the door on so many
other rights and freedoms that we all have as Americans.  And the
President is going to continue to speak against that.  
  
I’m — we’ll see you tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
4:26 P.M. EDT
