---
date: '2022-09-15'
modified_time: 2022-09-15 23:32:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-15 23:32:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/15/press-briefing-by-white-house-monkeypox-response-team-and-public-health-officials-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House Monkeypox Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:38 A.M. EDT

MR. FENTON:  Good morning.  Thanks for joining us. 

I’m Bob Fenton, the White House Monkeypox Response Coordinator.  Today,
I’m joined by Dr. Fauci, Dr. Walensky, and Dr. Daskalakis.

Before I turn to my colleagues, I want to provide an update on the
important progress we’re making in combatting monkeypox.

We continue to leverage every capability at our disposal and partner
with leaders on the ground to meet people where they are with vaccines,
tests, treatments, and information.

Over the last couple of weeks, our large event pilot has been incredibly
successful: Over 3,300 shots were administered at Southern Decadence in
New Orleans, over 1,000 shots were administered at Oakland Pride, and
over 4,000 shots were administered at Black Pride in Atlanta.  And we
recently were notified that Charlotte administered an additional 1,500
doses in the days and events following Charlotte Pride last month,
bringing the total vaccine administration as part of the pilot program
to nearly 11,000 doses.

Importantly, these efforts are reaching Black and brown communities, a
top priority of this administration.

By vaccinating thousands of people at high risk who might not otherwise
have gotten a shot, this program is working to advance equity and combat
this outbreak.

We continue to build on this work by making additional vaccines
available for large and small equity interventions across the country,
which Dr. Daskalakis will talk about more.

Stepping back, we’re seeing the impact of this admin- — of the
administration’s comprehensive strategy to fight monkeypox in the latest
case trends and other promising data points.

Overall, new case numbers are down nearly 50 percent since early August.

And in places like Atlanta, where we’ve worked closely with the public
health community to surge vaccines and the information around events
like Black Pride, the rate of new cases has been steadily declined.

And in D.C., the new cases have declined 20 percent on average per week
since a peak in mid-July.

And knowledge of our tools and interests in using them has increased. 
According to research released today from the University of
Pennsylvania, knowledge of a monkeypox vaccine has jumped from
approximately a third of Americans to over 60 percent.

More than two thirds of Americans understand the risk profile and
behaviors for monkeypox.  And nearly three quarters of Americans said
they would get vaccinated if exposed to monkeypox.

What this shows us is that our work to expand knowledge of monkeypox and
our tools to fight it, alongside so many local health departments and
other community organizations, is working.

We know there’s a lot more to do, especially for Black and brown
communities where the burden remains high.  But there’s no question that
the work we’ve done to rapidly increase vaccine supply, get people
vaccinated, <s>wrap</s> \[ramp\] up the availability of testing and
treatments, and educate individuals on how they can protect themselves
is making a tremendous difference.  The administration’s strategy is
working. 

And as you’ll hear from Dr. Fauci and Dr. Daskalakis, we’ll continue to
work nonstop to get more shots in arms, more information out to the
highest-risk individuals, and learn as much as we can about this virus
and our treatments so we can quickly and effectively end this outbreak.

With that, let me turn to Dr. Fauci, who will talk about clinical trials
recently launched to make sure we can effectively treat those who have
con- — contracted the virus. 

DR. FAUCI:  (Inaudible) minutes talking to you about what Bob mentioned,
but also giving somewhat of a brief overview — if I could have the first
slide — of the NIAID research priorities for monkeypox, which generally
and broadly fall under five major pillars. 

There are a number of unanswered questions.  So as we implement the
interventions that we have, simultaneously, we still pursue some
unanswered questions.

Namely, addressing gaps in basic virology and immunology and immune
correlates; understanding better transmission, as well as the issue of
animal reservoirs not only potentially here in the United States, but
also globally.

Also, the importance of developing newer diagnostics and assays,
particularly diagnostics to be able to determine if we can see if a
person in the asymptomatic or pre-symptomatic stage that doesn’t have an
obvious lesion — is there some diagnostic test that we can do to alert
us to that and therefore help stop the spread.

Also, to evaluate new treatments — I’m going to speak about one of the
treatments that we have and how we’re improving our knowledge of that,
but also the development of other antiviral drugs. 

And then finally and importantly, to optimize and advance our vaccine
regimens.

Next slide.

What I’m going to mention in the next couple of minutes are two
significant clinical trials.  One in the therapeutics for tecovirimat or
TPOXX.  And there are actually two trials within that category: one here
in the United States and one internationally. 

And then also to take a look at the vaccine studies that we’re doing for
JYNNEOS.

If I could have the next slide.

In the United States, we are conducting — and it has already started on
September the 8th — a phase three trial of tecovirimat for monkeypox in
the United States.  That is referred to as the STOMP trial, standing
for: the study of tecovirimat for human monkeypox virus.

As you know, the TPOXX is approved for smallpox by the animal rule.  But
for monkeypox, it still is under an expanded-access IND.  So the plan
will involve more than 60 clinical sites in the United States with a
target enrollment of 530 people.  We’re going to randomize people — two
to one — to receive TPOXX versus placebo.  A very important aspect of
this that we learned from our experience back in the days of HIV is to
get the community involved in being able to determine what is best for
them.

So in the trial, there is an open-label segment, which will enroll
children; people at risk, such as pregnant individuals, breastfeeding
individuals; and others with severe disease.  So if a person comes in
and has severity of disease, they can be in the trial, but they will be
in an open-label component, which means they will receive TPOXX. 

And again, more information about this trial is shown on the link on the
slide.

Next slide.

In addition to that, we’re doing a phase three trial of tecovirimat  
for monkeypox in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Recall that when you look at the different clades, the Congo clade is
Clade one, which has a higher degree of mortality that they’ve
experienced with that, compared to the very low degree of mortality in
the Clade twos that are currently in the United States.

This trial, again, is a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled
trial that will open imminently.  It’s co-led both by the NIAID as well
as the Democratic Republic of the Congo’s National Institute for
Biomedical Research.

Again, the target is 450 adults and children — weight three kilograms or
more — with laboratory-confirmed infection.  Pregnant women are eligible
in this particular study because of the risk that is ongoing and,
actually, practical now in the DRC.

In that study, the participants will be randomized one to one and
assigned to either receive TPOXX or a placebo for the two times a day
for 14 days.  Given the severity of the disease in the DRC, all
participants will remain in the hospital until recovery. 

Next slide.

And finally, a trial for JYNNEOS, or monkeypox vaccine.  Now, monkeypox
and smallpox are given subcutaneously.  And that, in fact, has been
approved by the FDA, but the intradermal administration is now still an
EUA.  Again, this trial opened on September the 8th.  The target is 200
individuals from 18 to 50, across eight United States sites.

Now, the participants are going to be assigned at random to one of three
study arms: either the standard licensed regimen of JYNNEOS administered
subcutaneously, but there will be two separate doses — a 1 to 5 of the
standard dose intradermal, that’s the one that was recently authorized
by the FDA; and then 1 to 10 of standard dose administered
intradermally.

The 1 to 10 is to determine — because in the United States, we have
enough doses to handle the people who are at risk, but this is a global
problem, and we’re going to make a contribution — if, in fact, 1 to 10
works, that will immediately double the amount of doses available on an
international scale.

And we’re going to determine whether the peak responses induced in the
recipients intradermally are as least as good as the responses
introduced with regard to the licensed subcutaneous regimen. 

Also, there will be additional data on the relative safety and
tolerability of the regimens.

And then finally, more information on these trials can be seen on
ClinicalTrials.gov.

With that, I’ll hand it over to Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci, and good morning.  Today I’d like
to share with you the latest data out of CDC on the current monkeypox
outbreak.

As of September 14th, over 59,600 cases have been detected globally in
103 countries.  In the United States, there have been nearly 23,000
cases of monkeypox identified across all 50 states, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico.

Over the last several weeks, we’ve been pleased to see a decline in the
growth of new cases here and abroad, though there are areas of the U.S.
where the rate of rise in new cases is still increasing. 

We approach this news with cautious optimism.  It is a result of
education efforts, the work being done to vaccinate at-risk individuals,
and people who have made informed decisions to make temporary changes to
their behavior to protect themselves and their communities.  We
recognize, however, that we must continue to aggressively respond with
our entire toolkit.

Over the past several weeks, we have also seen the racial and ethnic
makeup of this outbreak evolve.  While monkeypox cases were first seen
predominantly in non-Hispanic white men, in the last week, among the
cases for which we have race and ethnicity data, non-Hispanic men
represented 38 — non-Hispanic Black men represented 38 percent of cases,
Latino or Hispanic men represented 25 percent of cases, and non-Hispanic
white men represented 26 percent of cases.

We continue to closely monitor data on this outbreak, those at risk, and
how prevention measures are being used.

Yesterday, CDC posted new JYNNEOS vaccine administration data by
jurisdiction.  In addition to reporting aggregate vaccine administration
data by total number, age, sex, race, and ethnicity, these newly
available data displayed total doses administered for each of the
individual 39 jurisdictions for which we have received data.

We continue to work closely with additional jurisdictions to make their
data available in this report. 

To date, over 540,000 doses of vaccine have been administered across the
39 jurisdictions reporting data.  Over the past few weeks, we’ve seen an
increase in second doses administered as more people have become
eligible for their second dose, specifically 28 days after their first
dose. 

As a reminder, JYNNEOS is a two-dose vaccine and it is important to
receive the second dose in the series to have the best protection
against monkeypox, which current data suggest occurs 14 days after that
second dose.

Working closely with jurisdictions to provide the most complete picture
of who is getting vaccinated, we’ve been able to receive data on race
and ethnicity for over 91 percent of the first doses reported.  Among
these first doses reported, those who are white represent about 47
percent of people who received their first dose.  Those who are Hispanic
represent about 21 percent.  And those who are Black represent about 12
percent.

Given the data that I shared early on case demographics, the percentage
of vaccines administered to Latinos or Hispanic men and non-Hispanic
Black men are disproportionately lower than we are seeing represented in
cases.

It is critical that education, vaccinations, testing, and treatment are
equally accessible to all populations, but especially those most
affected by the most — most affected by this outbreak.

CDC remains committed to collaborating with jurisdictions to reduce
health disparities.  In an effort to allocate monkeypox vaccines more
equitably, to reduce racial and ethnic disparities in vaccinations, and
to overcome systemic and structural barriers, the U.S. government
launched two pilot proj- — programs to provide vaccines to populations
at risk, which Dr. Daskalakis will outline in more detail. 

We’ve already had success with this approach with the pilot program for
vaccination at large gatherings that was announced on August 18th.

So far, through this program, monkeypox vaccines have been administered
to over 10,000 people at large events, including Southern Decadence in
New Orleans, Atlanta Black Gay Pride, Charlotte Pride, Boise Pride
Festival, and Oakland Pride and Pridefest. 

This new Monkeypox Vaccine Equity Pilot Program will help expand these
efforts to engage with communities in smaller events and interventions
focused on addressing disparities.

The application process for the program is open and available on CDC’s
website, and Dr. Daskalakis will also speak to this in further de- — in
detail.

At CDC, we continue to prioritize health equity in all of the work that
we do.  And I am very proud of the work to launch this new vaccine
equity program and the opportunities for equity it presents.

Thank you, and I will now turn it over to Dr. Daskalakis.

DR. DASKALAKIS:  Thank you, Dr. Walensky.  As Dr. Walensky and Mr.
Fenton mentioned, we’re seeing encouraging signs in our fight against
this monkeypox outbreak, with cases regularly trending down — in fact,
down by nearly 50 percent since its peak in early August.

While there is more work we’re doing to reach all of the community at
highest risk, I want to be clear: This is the result of our hard work
together to increase the availability and use of testing, make vaccines
readily available to the people who could benefit most, providing
guidance on how to avoid monkeypox through changing behaviors.  And the
community has done it.

But, as you’re hearing, our work is far from over.  As we’ve said,
equity must remain the cornerstone of our response.  And currently, some
jurisdictions are still seeing increasing rates of monkeypox infections
while others are seeing a decline.

We’re also seeing that monkeypox cases are concentrating in gay,
bisexual, and other men who sex with men of color while, as you heard,
most vaccines have been administered to white men.

Early adopters, as we see in the data, have begun or completed their
vaccination series.  We are now entering the harder phase of the
vaccination campaign, where we need to work to make sure that we
continue to get first doses into arms and ease access for second doses. 
That means we need to use hyperlocal strategies that let us reach deeper
into the community.

The large-scale interventions we launched focusing on events have
resulted in over 11,000 doses of vaccine getting into the arms of people
who might not have sought services in more traditional places. 
Sixty-three percent of vaccines allocated for these events have gone
into arms.

In Georgia, nearly 70 percent of the people who were vaccinated at Black
Pride identified as non-white.  Nearly 50 percent of the vaccines
administered there were to Black people.  These interventions are
working and, as you heard, we have more coming.

As I’ve said before, these large-scale events are one lever, but we know
that sustained community outreach will make the difference.

That’s why today, as you heard, we’re opening applications for our
second equity intervention pilot that focuses on smaller projects that
help us reach the communities we need to link to monkeypox vaccines,
education, testing, and treatment.

Health departments will use their local experience and connection to the
community to identify hyperlocal strategies to improve vaccine access to
communities of color, specifically those that are overrepresented in
this outbreak. 

CDC will provide them with vaccine, materials, and the technical
assistance needed to realize these local interventions.  And it will
help us learn what works to get needed monkeypox vaccine and services to
populations.

We have allocated 10,000 vials — that’s up to 50,000 doses of vaccine —
for these smaller equity interventions.

And as Dr. Walensky said, the application is going to be available on
CDC’s website.  And the administration will be promoting this new pilot
program through direct communication with public health community
partners, as well as through social media.

Our data tells us that monkeypox is not an infection that exists in
isolation.  It travels with HIV and other sexually transmitted
infections. 

An MMWR published last week tells us that 61 percent of people diagnosed
with monkeypox either had HIV or an STI.  We quickly used this data to
change how monkeypox services can be supported by public health
departments, clinics, and community-based organizations

Last week, CDC communicated to these funded health departments and
directly funded HIV prevention community-based organizations that their
HIV and STD staff and dollars could be used to help us end the monkeypox
outbreak.

The same people we need to test for HIV and sexually transmitted
infections and lead to prevention and care are the same people who need
monkeypox-related services like testing, education, and vaccines.

This important change in guidance to recipients of these funds allows
our frontline health departments and community-based organizations to
use their HIV and STD resources to accelerate us all to the end of the
monkeypox outbreak and will also help us do better HIV and STD
prevention for the exact same population.

This is just the latest example of us being responsive to what’s
happening on the ground and pivoting our focus and our resources where
they’re needed most.

Thank you. 

MR. FENTON:  Well, thanks, Doctors.

Kevin, let’s open it for questions.

MR. MUNOZ:  A few questions.  First, let’s go to Issam Ahmed at AFP.  

Q    Yeah, thanks for doing this and for taking my question.  Perhaps
for Dr. Walensky: Obviously, the trends nationally look good.  Where do
you sort of — what do you attribute for that?  Is it the vaccine
campaign paying off mostly?  Or — and how confident are you that that
it’ll keep falling and we’re not going to see a rebound? 

And then, just, I guess, as a secondary to that is: What’s your concern
level of it spilling into wider populations, such as pediatric? 

Thank you.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  I think, first, we
should note that we have made strong progress, and we’re encouraged by
the cases — the case rate of rise declining.  And yet we are keeping our
— the gas pedal heavily, heavily downward — pedal to the metal — as we
continue our activities to — and we continue the vigilance here.

What do I attribute it to?  I attribute it to the multi-layered approach
of all the things that we’re doing: the testing that we scaled up, the
massive amounts of education and outreach, the vaccinations that we’ve
been able to get out.

And still, as Dr. Daskalakis noted, we’re working to get to
harder-to-reach communities, to communities that might not have been
first in line, but might have been slower to uptake.  And that’s exactly
where we are right now with all of — all of these pilot activities.

MR. FENTON:  Let me have Dr. Daskalakis add also to that question. 

DR. DASKALAKIS:  Yeah, so I’ll just say, again, this is a toolkit and
you have to use every tool in the toolkit, which is the lesson that
we’ve learned from so many other infections, including HIV.  So I think
that, again, the behavior change, the vaccine, the testing, the
messaging, and the equity focus are all strategies that are going to
lead us to control of this outbreak.

I’ll also address the question about spread to other populations.  So we
have vigilance for that with our surveillance, and I think CDC can speak
to that and Dr. Walensky can speak to that. 

But I’ll also say that what we’re seeing is really terminal chains in
those populations.  It’s not a really eff- — efficient group through
which this is transmitting.  So, knowledge is important; anxiety is
not.  So the awareness is what matters.

MR. FENTON:  Let’s go back to Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, if I could just — yeah, thank you.

MR. FENTON:  Yeah.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you.  Sorry to miss that second part of the
question.  Dr. Daskalakis is exactly right.  We’ve done extraordinary
outreach to providers in those educations.  We’ve had guidance and calls
with K though 12 educators, with university presidents, health educators
to really make sure that they know what they’re looking for should a
patient come in. 

But again, as Dr. Daskalakis noted, we’ve really seen terminal chains. 
If and should there be a single case, we generally don’t see extension
of those cases in those settings.

MR. FENTON:  Thank you.  Kevin, we’ll take another question.

MR. MUNOZ:  We’ll go to Madison Muller at Bloomberg.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  You know, you said that you are
keeping the gas on the pedal and really, you know, honing in on ensuring
that the infections continue to go down. And so, I’m sort of wondering
like what the strategy is now going forward.  I know that you’re
focusing on equity, but also just, you know, what are the things that
you’re doing to ensure that there’s no complacency and that, you know,
we continue to drive these cases down?

MR. FENTON:  Yeah, I think — this is Bob.  So, it’s all the above.  It’s
all the tools that Dr. Daskalakis briefed going forward.  It’s
continuing to make sure that — you know, that we ensure that vaccine
uptake continues to improve, and we continue to work to vaccinate
especially those that are that are the hardest to reach and really bring
vaccine to them through some of these interventions.

But let me turn to Dr. Walensky first and then Dr. Daskalakis to speak
in some more detail about some of those efforts.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I mean, a lot of this is — in addition to
vaccination and providing those vaccines, it’s the education.  At every
single one of these large events, there’s been a massive amount of
resources, education, folks on the ground teaching people in the
community what to look out for, how they can protect themselves, what
behaviors might lead to more infection, what behaviors — how they might
change their behavior to lead to less infections. 

And the more and more we do that, the more that knowledge increases. 
When we have that knowledge increase, as Mr. Fenton just noted, we see
that communities understand.  They understand how to protect themselves,
they understand the behaviors that increase risk, they understand how
vaccination could decrease risk.  So, it is it is outreach to both
providers, clinicians, so they know what they’re looking for, and to the
community.

MR. FENTON:  Dr. Daskalakis?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  So, I’ll start by saying what’s exciting is that the
administration’s strategy here is working.  And I think Dr. Walensky and
Mr. Fenton have been clear that it’s about education, about testing,
about treatment, and about vaccine.

So, you don’t use just one tool in the toolkit to build a house; you use
all the tools.  And so, we’re really using all of them together.  And I
think we have some really positive news from that study from the
University of Pennsylvania that says that our messaging is coming
through, and also some cautiously optimistic but good news from the
perspective of what we’re actually seeing with numbers in the outbreak.

Now we really have the hard part of the job to do, which is the early
adopters have listened, we really need to hunker down and get deeper
into the community as we’re doing with these two equity pilots and all
of the amazing work jurisdictions are doing on their own outside of his
equity pilots.

DR. FAUCI:  Bob, I might just mention one other thing I think is
important, because we keep talking about the lessons that we’ve learned
from HIV that are positive lessons. 

Back in the day when we were seeing patients — literally in the ‘80s,
when we were telling physicians to ask questions of patients that they
would not have asked before, like uncomfortable questions about sexual
activities, which really got diagnostics, really, right up there.

So, as Dr. Walensky and Dr. Daskalakis said, when you go out to the
providers and tell them to be alert for things that they may not have
otherwise looked for, that’s a very good way to answer the question that
was just asked about how do you make sure with surveillance that you
pick up things that might be in the community that you didn’t see
before.  It’s a very important lesson that we learned from HIV.

DR. DASKALAKIS:  I just want to add one more thing, because I — it’s
really important to say we’re not the only ones who have our foot on the
gas pedal.  The community has their foot on the gas pedal too.  And
they’re really helping us, both from the perspective of addressing the
outbreak and they will also help us from the perspective of getting the
research done that we need so that we understand how to use TPOXX and
vaccine in the best possible way.  So it’s an all-of-society effort, not
just government, and really kudos and cheers to the community for
putting their foot on that pedal.

DR. WALENSKY:  They’ve been invaluable partners.

MR. FENTON:  Thanks, Doctors, for all those responses.  Let’s, Kevin, go
to another question.

MR. MUNOZ:  Of course.  Chris Johnson, Washington Blade.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking this call.  You talked a lot about in the —
in this call how, on one hand, equity has been a primary focus of the
administration’s efforts on the monkeypox outbreak.  But at the same
time, we’re seeing numbers where the new cases are shifting increasingly
among men of color.  Why do you think these efforts for increased — for
equity are not having an effect of producing equity in the cases?

MR. FENTON:  Yeah, let me start with Dr. Walensky, and then we’ll go
from there.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I mean, this is not uncommon for many infectious
diseases, quite unfortunately.  And it is why before we even saw those
shifts, we embarked on these activities because we anticipated that this
might be happening.  And it is exactly for these reasons why we started
on these pilot projects before we even saw the shifts in data, is that
is often the case in infectious diseases that we have more vulnerable
population — racial and ethnic minorities — who are most impacted later
on. 

And so, we anticipated in this.  We have embarked on these activities to
address this in exactly this moment.

DR. DASKALAKIS:  I’ll just add, I’ve spoken to providers on the ground
and also promoters at these events who have really noted that this
effort is really unprecedented in terms of reaching deeply into these
communities.  And so, I think, as CD- — as Dr. Walensky says for CDC, I
think all of our commitment in the administration is to really focus
efforts on equity to resolve the issues that we’re seeing.

It is a hard effort and it’s a challenge.  And I think that the way to
address equity is intentionally, and this is an example of intentional
work to address equity.

MR. FENTON:  Kevin, can you see if we can have another question?

MR. MUNOZ:  Pien Huang at NPR.

Q    Hey, thanks for taking my question.  I have a question on the
research.  So, Dr. Fauci, you listed five research priorities that then
focused on vaccines and treatments.  And so I just want to know: Are
there other trials that are planned to understand basic virology
transmission?  Is there funding available to sort of pursue this full
research agenda?

DR. FAUCI:  Well, there’s two parts to your question.  When you talk
about the other basic questions that I asked, they are not yet at the
level of clinical trial.  What we will be doing is developing the tools
that will ultimately get translated into an implementable clinical
trial.

But for example, when you’re talking about fundamental, basic virology
and immunology, we’re going to be doing a number of things.  For
example, in the TPOXX study, we’re going to be looking for resistance to
TPOXX, which is really very important.  We’re going to be looking at
immune correlates.

Those are the things that we are going to be doing.  The clinical trials
that I mentioned are the ones that are ongoing. But as you know, there’s
a continuum from preclinical to early clinical to advanced development. 

In those other questions, we are still at the level, for example, when
you screen for new drugs, you develop assays looking at the replication
cycle of the virus, which, fortunately for us, we have decades of
experience with pox viruses, and we’ll utilize that to develop
vulnerable targets to be able to use molecules that are already existing
to develop them or to development of brand new molecules aimed at that.

With regard to the financing, I mean, obviously, as we’ve said many
times, I have had to move money from other areas to be able to address
the questions that I mentioned to you before.  The money that we’re
using on the clinical trials is money that we’ve taken from our poxvirus
portfolio, as well as others. 

So we hope that we get supplemental funding to be able to do the things
that I’m talking about.

MR. FENTON:  Thank you.  Kevin, another question, please.

MR. MUNOZ: Couple more questions.  Let’s go to Krista Mahr from
Politico.

Q    Thanks so much.  One follow-up question for Dr. Fauci regarding
what you just said and what Dr. Califf said yesterday at a HELP
hearing.  That’s twice I’ve heard the administration mention concerns
over resistance to TPOXX in the past couple of days.  Is this just like
a theoretical concern or is this something that there’s some evidence of
happening?

Second question is: I understand that second doses are up in the latest
tranche of vaccination data, but first doses are really dramatically
down.  And I’m just wondering if you guys have any sort of on-the-ground
feedback about why that is happening, kind of, from physicians, from
community workers.  Is there, you know, a feeling that, as cases go
down, people just don’t feel like they — the urgency is gone?  Is there
concerns about the intradermal dosing?  Those are my questions.  Thanks.

MR. FENTON:  Yeah, let’s start with CDC and Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  So to address that second question, maybe — I will just
say: This happens, you know, when we rolled out other vaccines as well. 
We see the initial people who are — have rolled up their sleeves before
they’ve reached the pharmacy.  They’re really anxious to get this.

And then we see a waning off of interest in vaccines.  And that’s where,
as Dr. Daskalakis said, is the hard work.  That’s where we need to do
the outreach. 

We’ve become accustomed to doing that outreach.  We’ve learned some
lessons from how we’ve done it during COVID, of course.  And we’re
taking those lessons learned and doing that hard work of community
outreach. 

We’ve seen successes through doing so.  We’ve seen them in these large
equity events, in these large gay Pride events.  And now we will do —
continue to do the hard work and reach the smaller events as well.

DR. FAUCI:  With regard to the first question about resistance, whenever
you have a viral illness that spread with replication largely in the
community and you have a single drug that you’re using, there is always
the theoretical possibility of resistance. 

And that’s the reason why we’re uncomfortable when you only have a
single drug that has been shown to have efficacy — or you’re proving
that it has efficacy, which is part of the clinical trial.  That’s the
reason why we’re putting an effort on looking at other targets in the
replication cycle.

MR. FENTON:  Let me see if Dr. Daskalakis wants to add anything to the
discussion.

DR. DASKALAKIS:  Just one thing to add, which is that, again, that
recent announcement from CDC about flexibility in using HIV, STD
resources to be able to address monkeypox is a really important lesson
that monkeypox is not a disease that we’re working with in isolation. 
So as we continue to do the important HIV, STD work, it’s blending with
the monkeypox work, and vice versa. 

So this is all part of a strategy to make sure that we’re able to reach
deeper in the community, whether it’s large equity events, smaller
equity interventions, or using infrastructure with demonstrated
effectiveness to reach people. All of that is in the mix to make sure
that we get education to people, testing to people, and vaccines in
people’s arms. 

Thanks.

DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe if I might just add: Our local jurisdictions
have received no resources specific for monkeypox.  So not only have we
had to move some of those resources around, but they’ve been pretty
stretched — they’ve been stretched pretty thin with regard to the
resources that have been available to them to address this outbreak. 
And so, first of all, kudos to them for all that they’ve been able to do
and achieve on limited resources.  And again, it speaks to the need for
supplemental funds.

MR. FENTON:  With that, I just want to end with summarizing: This
administration has made tremendous progress toward the fight against
monkeypox, and we’ll continue to use every tool to do that.

With that, thank you today for your questions and have a good day.

11:13 A.M. EDT
