---
date: '2022-09-15'
modified_time: 2022-09-15 23:17:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-15 23:17:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-september-15-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, September 15,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:52 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  A lot of shushing
happening.  (Laughter.)  Okay, today we have a special guest in our
briefing room.  To kick off the Hispanic Heritage Month, I have with me
today — joining me is Luisana Pérez.  She is the White House Hispanic
Media Director.

Just to give you a little bit on Luisana’s background: In 2020, Luisana,
a Venezuelan immigrant, became a U.S. citizen while working on the Biden
campaign in Florida.  And we are very, very lucky to have her here in
the White House leading our efforts to reach the Hispanic community on
TV, radio, social media, and so much more.

Q    We can’t hear you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You can’t hear me?

Q    We cannot hear you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Hello, hello.  Oh, okay so we need to fix —
(taps on microphone).  Hello?  Hello, hello?

Q    Hello!  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll start from the top.  (Laughter.)

All right, good afternoon, everybody.  Today we have a special guest to
kick us off for the start of the Hispanic Heritage Month. 

Luisana Pérez is the White House Hispanic Media Director.  In 2020,
Luisana, a Venezuelan immigrant, became a U.S. citizen while working on
the Biden campaign in Florida.  And we are very, very lucky to have her
here in the White House leading our efforts to reach the Hispanic
community on TV, radio, social media, and so much more.

With that, I am so excited to bring her here to the podium. All yours,
Luisana.

MS. PEREZ:  Thank you, Karine.  *Gracias*, Karine.

(Speaks Spanish. No translation provided.)

Q    *Gracias*!

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  *Gracias*.  Thank you so much, my friend and my
colleague. 

Okay, so just to do the English version here: Today marks the first day
of Hispanic Heritage Month.  When we honor the rich history and values
the Hispanic community contributes to our nation during National
Hispanic Heritage Month, we reaffirm that diversity is one of our
country’s greatest strengths.  The Hispanic community enriches our
neighborhoods, small businesses, workshop, media, and arts.  We uplift
the voices and accomplishments of the Hispanic community not only during
this month, but throughout the year.

We also acknowledge the struggles and injustices that they face,
particularly under the previous administration’s attack against the
community.

When President Biden took office, he made a commitment to advance
opportunity and equity for everyone in our country, including the
Hispanic community.  For the President, that promise wasn’t just words;
his commitment to the community was for real action and progress.

Thanks to President Biden, we saw the biggest one-year drop in Latina
unemployment, our administration has delivered billions of dollars in
loans to Hispanic small businesses, expanded the child tax credit to
provide help to millions of families and reduce Hispanic child poverty
by more than 40 percent, expanded access to quality healthcare to
thousands of Latino families, supported equity for Puerto Rico, hosted
regional White House Latino economic initiative summits across the
country, and protected and strengthened the DACA program while we
continue the fight to build a fair, humane, orderly immigration system.

And thanks to President Biden’s student loan debt relief program, almost
half of Latino students with federal loans will see their debts
forgiven.

This evening, President Biden will attend the 45th Congressional
Hispanic Caucus Institute Gala to kick off the White House celebration
of Hispanic Heritage Month, where he will honor the contributions of the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Latino leaders from across our nation
while highlighting the work the administration is doing to create and
advance opportunities for Latinos and their families.

This national Hispanic Heritage Month, we celebrate the progress and
prosperity we are continuing to create for Latino communities since
President Biden took office and recommit to lifting up Latino families.

Thank you so much.  Thank you so much, Luisana.  All right.

Okay, a couple — a couple more — more at the top for you all.

So — so, I want to turn to the tentative agreement that you heard the
President talk about just moments ago earli- — later this morning,
reached overnight, that will keep our railways running.

As you heard from President Biden this morning in the Rose Garden, this
is a victory for our economy and for the rail workers who work
tirelessly to deliver food, medicine, clean drinking water, and more to
communities across America every day.

The agreement includes well-deserved pay raises, improvements in working
conditions, and peace of mind on healthcare costs.  And it’s also a
victory for railway companies who will be able to retain and recruit
more workers for their critical industry.

The President thanks all parties for working hard to get this done. 
This would not have been possible without the leadership of President
Biden; Secretaries Walsh, Buttigieg, and also Vilsack; and NEC Director
Brian Deese, and also his deputy, Deputy NEC Director Celeste Drake.

This includes not only the marathon meeting of almost 20 hours that
started yesterday, but hundreds of calls from the Biden administration
to the various parties, stakeholders over the past many weeks and
months.

The agreement reached today aligns with the President’s view that we can
build a better America by rebuilding our infrastructure and supply
chains here at home, with good-paying jobs and an economy that works for
working people.

This afternoon, the President will also deliver remarks at the United We
Stand Summit at the White House.  The President is hosting today’s
summit to demonstrate that hate-fueled violence has no place in our
country.  Americans of all faiths and backgrounds have been coming
together throughout the event to say that an attack on one group is an
attack on all of us.

And this morning, we announced — and the President will talk more this
afternoon about it — that the administration’s civic, faith, and private
sector groups are all taking action to prevent and address
hate-motivated violence and foster unity.

You will hear President Biden rally a whole-of-society response to
prevent, respond to, and recover from hate-fueled violence and to foster
national unity.

He believes every American has a role to play in this effort.

The summit will end by honoring a group of unif- — uni- — uniters,
people from around the country who are leading extraordinary work in
their communities to stand together and build bridges, heal divides, and
stand together against hate. They represent the best of America.

Looking ahead, some additional details on the President’s bilateral
meeting that’s happening tomorrow with the South African President.

Tomorrow, President Biden will host South African President Ramapho- —
<s>Ramaposa</s> \[Ramaphosa\] at the White House.  President Biden looks
forward to consulting with President <s>Ramaposa</s> \[Ramaphosa\] on a
range of topics, including climate crisis, opportunities to increase
trade and investment to benefit both South American — South Africans —
pardon me — and Americans, and other pressing global challenges.

In addition, Vice President Harris will host President Rapa- — Rapa- —
Raparosa — <s>Ramaposa</s> \[Ramaphosa\] for breakfast tomorrow morning
at the Naval Observatory and looks forward to discussing the
U.S.-African — U.S.-South African partnership on global health security,
space cooperation, and other areas of bilat engagement.

And finally, on Friday, tomorrow, President Biden will hold meetings at
White House — at the White House with Brittney Griner’s wife, Cherelle
Griner, and Paul Whelan’s sister, Elizabeth Whelan, to discuss his
continuing commitment to bringing their family members home safely.

As we have said before, we believe that Russia is wrongfully detaining
Brittney and Paul under intolerable circumstances.  And as you know, we
have been directly engaged with the Russian government through
appropriate channels.  We made a significant offer a couple of months
ago through the same channels we used for Trevor Reed.  We have followed
up on that offer repeatedly, and we’ll continue to pursue every avenue
to bring them home safely.

With that, Darlene.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the meeting tomorrow with the Griner and the
Whelan families, is there anything more you can say about how we’ve
gotten to this point where he’s actually physically going to be in the
same room with the families?  It’s something they’ve wanted for a long
time. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, one of the things that the President wanted to
make clear is — and one of the reasons he’s — he is meeting with the
families is that he wanted to let them know that they remain front of
mind and that his team is working on this every day, on making sure that
Brittney and Paul return home safely. 

One family member was already scheduled to be in town, and the President
wanted to meet with both of the families on the same day. 

Q    Thank you.  And on the — the migrants that are being — that are
being bused to D.C. and other cities — there were some that showed up at
the VP’s Residence earlier this morning — is the administration looking
into whether busing migrants around the country is legal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things about this
because — and it’s come up in the briefing room before, because this has
been happening for the past several weeks. 

So, as we have said repeatedly, there is — there’s a process in place. 
We have had a process in place.  There’s a legal way of doing this and —
for managing migrants.

Republican governors interfering in that process and using migrants as
political pawns is — is shameful, is reckless, and just plain wrong. 

And remember, these are people who are fleeing communism, who are
fleeing hardship.  And if these governors truly care about border
security, they should ask Texas Governor Ted Cruz and Florida Senators
Marco Rubio and Rick Scott why they voted against the President’s
request for record — record funding for the Department of Homeland
Security. 

So, this is what they have done.  These — both senators — Senators Marco
Rubio, Senator Rick Scott — have voted against — did not vote for these
— this funding that would have helped the Department of Homeland
Security.  That is just a fact. 

And also, the fact that Fox News — and not the Department of Homeland
Security, the city, or local NGOs — were alerted about a plan to leave
migrants, including children, on the side of a busy D.C. street makes
clear that this is just a cruel, premeditated political stunt.  This is
what they are doing. 

And a couple more things.  The migrants, including children, who arrived
in Martha’s Vineyard were misled about where they were being taken and
what would be provided when they arrived — is also deeply alarming. 

The children Governor Abbott abandoned in Martha’s Vineyard, the
children that the — that Governor DeSantis abandoned as well, you know,
deserve better.  They deserve better than being left on the streets of
D.C. or being left in Martha’s Vineyard.  They deserve a lot better than
that. 

And as we have done many times in response to attempts to create chaos
and confusion by Republican governors, we are working to manage the
consequences of these two stunts as well. 

Q    And when you say there’s a legal way of doing this, are you
implying that the way it’s being done now is illegal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: We’ve been asked about if we’re
going to take any legal action; I would refer that to the Department of
Justice. 

But there is a process.  There is a process of taking in migrants. 
There is a process that is in place.  And what they are doing is illegal
stunt; is a — is a political stunt.  And — and it’s — it’s really just
disrespectful to humanity. 

It is — it doesn’t afford them any dignity, what they’re doing, when you
are abandoning families and children in a place where they were told
they were going to get housing and a place where they were told they
were going to get jobs, or abandoning in the D.C. — on the D.C.
streets.  It is just cruel. 

And it’s not about — it’s not about the process, actually.  It’s about a
political tool — a political stunt that they’re moving forward with. 

Q    On the situation along the border: Crossings are up.  Drownings
along the border are increasing.  We’ve been to one town recently where
the morgue is overwhelmed by migrant deaths. 

Are you confident and do you feel that the situation at the border is
under control?  Are you doing enough?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what we have — what we have been doing is doing the
work that wasn’t done by the last administration.  We are fixing a
broken system.  It is not like turning the light switch on; it is going
to take some time. 

But I’ll say this: More individuals encountered at the border will be
removed or expelled this year than in any previous year.  That is
something of the work that DHS has been doing and how we have been
moving forward and making sure that we’re doing our part here. 

We have made — we have made over 3,000 arrests in the first three months
of launching an aggressive campaign to combat the multibillion-dollar
human smuggling industry.  So we have seen the work that we have done
and how it’s been effective. 

And again, we’re — there is a process in place to manage migration
flows.  That includes expelling migrants as required by court order
under Title 42, transferring them to ICE custody, or monitoring migrants
through the alternatives to detention program as they await further
processing.  So there is a process in place. 

What these Republican governors are doing, again, is a political —
they’re using people, they’re using desperate people — people who are
trying to come here because they’re fleeing communism themselves — as a
political pawn.  And it’s horrific, and it’s shameful. 

Q    The busing aside, how do you explain this influx?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, again, we understand that we have work to do. 
We understand that.  And we have been doing the work to do that. 

We have taken unprecedented action over the past year and a half to
secure our border and rebuild a safer and orderly process system. 

In the last year and a half, we have installed new border technology and
set up joint patrols in Mex- — with Mexico and Guatemala to catch more
human traffickers. 

We have already made 3,000 arrests, as I just mentioned.

We have secured record levels of funding for the Department of Homeland
Security. 

And we have put in place dedicated immigration judges so asylum seekers
can have their cases heard faster. 

We — we have expanded labor pathways, including H-2B — H-2B visas.

So we are doing the work.  We know that — we know that it’s going to
take some time.  But again, we have removed more individuals or
encountered more individuals at the border — they will be removed or
expelled this year than in any previous year. 

And so, that is — tells you a little bit about the facts of what we’ve
been doing. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And congratulations on your — on your new job, your
new role.

Q    Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ll be leaving us, I guess.

Q    Not yet, though.  You’ve got a few more weeks of me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, boy.  Oh, gosh.

Q    (Laughs.)  So, don’t worry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Karine, I have a question about the meeting tomorrow with the
families of Paul Whelan and Brittney Griner. 

But first, you know, you just had a pretty impassioned response to these
buses of migrants getting dropped off.  I wonder: What was President
Biden’s response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not spoken to him about this specifically.  As
you know, we’ve been busy — he’s been busy the last several hours with
the rail — with the rail negotiations and averting a crisis, and with
the work that he’s been doing with his administration.  So, I’ve not had
a direct conversation about this specifically.

Q    And these meetings tomorrow with the families of Paul Whelan and
Brittney Griner — are they going to happen simultaneously?  Or are these
separate meetings that he’s having?  And is he going to offer any kind
of update for them on efforts to bring their loved ones home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any specifics on how the — how the
meetings are going to be executed.  We’ll have more tomorrow for sure,
but wanted to let you all know that the meetings were happening and
confirm that for — for all of you. 

So while I would love to say that the purpose of this meeting is to
inform the families that the Russians have accepted our offer and we are
bringing their loved ones home, that is not what we’re — we’re seeing in
these negotiations at this time. 

Look, as we have said, the Russians should accept our offer.  They
should accept our offer today.  We will keep working diligently until
the day we get to share that good news. 

But again, the President wanted to make sure that their families
understood that they were front of mind and that his team was working
tirelessly every day to get Brittney and Paul home safely. 

Q    But they shouldn’t be expecting any kind of an update in that — in
a substantive way on that front, you’re saying?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, like I said, I would love to — we would love to
be saying today that we have news about Brittney and Paul coming home
today.  That is — unfortunately, that is not where the negotiations are
at this time. 

Again, the Russians should accept the offer that’s at the table, and we
will encourage them to do that. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Andrea Shalal, welcome back. 

Q    Hey.  Thanks so much.  I just wanted to follow up on the Martha
Vineyard — Martha’s Vineyard situation.  Is it possible to — I don’t
know, I mean, are there — what recourse do you have when those kind of
situations happen? 

And then I have another question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So, I can tell you what the administration is doing. 
So, as we have done many times in response to these types of attempts by
Republican governors to create — really, what they’re doing is creating
chaos and they’re creating confusion.  So, we are working to manage the
consequences of these stunts. 

The administration has been in regular touch with the cities, and FEMA
Regional Administrators have been meeting with city officials on site to
coordinate available federal support from FEMA and other federal
agencies. 

Funding is also available through FEMA’s emergency food and shelter
program to eligible local governments and not-for-profit organizations
upon request to support humanitarian relief for these migrants.

Q    Okay.  And then, just today, the World Bank and, then separately,
the IMF warned about real risks, downside risks to the global economy. 
The World Bank says that there’s a growing risk of a global recession. 

And, you know, obviously, a lot of concern about high inflation here in
the United States and the rise in interest rates all over that is
impacting developing countries particularly.  Can you say, at this
point, whether you think a global recession can be avoided and what your
concerns are about the interest rate increases?  I realize the Fed is
independent, but the consequences of these, sort of, synchronized
interest rates.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so a couple of things.  I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals.  I’m not going to predict from here, especially on
something so important as the economy.  I’ll leave that to the experts
to do. 

Look, what we have said, what the President has said very clearly is
that the number one economic priority is tackling inflation.  You think
about just two days ago, where the President held an event on the South
Lawn with thousands of supporters, thousands of Americans on the South
Lawn, talking about — or celebrating the Inflation Reduction Act, which
is part of the President’s plan to do everything that he can to lower
prices. 

And you look at that plan: It’s going to lower prices — healthcare
prices.  It’s going to lower Medicare costs for our seniors, which is
important, which is a fight that members of Congress and the President
included, had been fighting decades and decades against Big Pharma.  And
the American people won.  We were able to beat wealthy special
interests.

And let’s not forget the gas prices, as you hear us talk about over and
over the last couple of weeks of how we’ve seen those gas prices go down
for more than 90 days every day during the summer — summer months.  And
it’s gone down by more than $1.30. 

This is the work that the President is going to continue to do to make
sure that we’re lowering costs.  And it’s part of his economic plan to
make sure that we don’t leave anybody behind, that we’re building an
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, as you heard him say as
well.

Look, it is — it is something — as far as the interest rate — and, you
know, we’re — the Federal Reserve is independent.  One of — one of the
areas that is a part of the President’s plan is that they have their
independency.  And we leave it to them to make their decision on what —
what fighting inflation is going to look like, what the monetary tools
they’re going to use to do just that.  Again, they’re independent, so we
will not comment on that. 

But look, we also understand that, you know, high costs are really
hurting families, which is why we have done the work that we have done
these past several months.  And we’ll continue to do — continue to make
sure we — we find ways that — to lower costs for families.

Q    I think what I’m asking you is: What is the impact?  You’re working
on a domestic problem and lowering the prices here and lowering
inflation here, but it’s having a profound impact on the rest of the
economy.  And I wonder if you’re concerned about the impact this is all
having on developing countries.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    I mean, development is arrested, stopped.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — no, I — I understand —

Q    You know, cutting poverty has stopped.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  You were asking me also for me to
predict, which I — I can’t do from here.  I am not an economist, so I
cannot predict for you.

Look, we’re dealing with a global challenge.  We have talked about
this.  We’re dealing with the global challenge of a once-in-a-generation
pandemic.  And we’re dealing with the global challenge of a war in
Ukraine that was started by the Kremlin that has hurt food prices, that
has hurt oil prices, which is why we have done the work that we have
done to lower gas prices over the last couple of weeks.

But yet — yes, this is a global challenge.  It’s not just America, as
you all know — as you’re laying out for me — that’s dealing with
inflation.  And this is why the President has made this top of mind and
continues to make his priority — tackling inflation his number one
economic priority.  So we’re going to continue to do that and focus on
that. 

Remember, there’s the Inflation Reduction Act.  There’s the CHIPS and
Sci- — and Science Act that just passed.  There’s the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation.  There’s the American Rescue Plan.  All of
those things, in particular the American Rescue Plan, put us on a better
footing than most of — than most of our global partners.  And so that’s
because of the work that we have done the last 19 months. 

Okay.  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the railroad tentative agreement, it’s been
reported that the companies have agreed to give the workers one paid
sick day.  The unions asked for 15 paid sick days.  Why is that a deal
the workers should now accept as it goes to a ratification vote?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, Steve, the government is not a party
to this deal, and so we’re going to leave the specifics of the deal to
the two sides.  It’s not something that we’re going to comment on. 

Q    But the President today called it a “win for the country.”  He
suggested that the working conditions will improve.  Is he going to get
engaged to see to it that the workers ratify these contracts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the way that — as we look at the terms that was
agreed upon, look: Rail workers will get well-deserved pay increases. 
That matters.  That is important.  Improved working conditions.  That is
important.  And peace of mind around their healthcare costs.  All of
this is hard earned. 

So the agreement is — it is indeed a victory for railway companies as
well, who will be able to retain and recruit more workers for an
industry that will continue to be part of the backbone of American
economy for decades to come. 

But we have to remember what we averted here.  This would have been
devastating for our economy, devastating for our supply chain. 

So what we saw, you know, the last few hours in this — in this — in this
agreement is that, you know, we’re — we are — it is good for our
economy, and it is good for the American people. 

Q    What did the President say when he called into the talks last
night?  What did he say that maybe pushed it over the finish line?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President message, it was very clear: We must
get a deal done.  He pushed them, once again, to recognize the harm that
would hit families, farmers, businesses, and entire communities if there
was a shutdown.  He asked them to be creative, to be flexible, meet the
other half — the others halfway as well.  And he emphasized how
significant the economic impacts could be.

Q    Karine, Senator Baldwin had said this afternoon that the bill on
same-sex marriage is going to be pushed until after the election and
that she’s confident that it will pass at that point, signaling, I
suppose, that they think the Republican votes will be available after
the election, not before.  I’m wondering whether the White House has any
comment on the timing of that bill.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the American people — Democrats, Republicans alike
— support marriage equality.  And so we see that just across the board. 
We believe the Senate should fin- — should find consensus, just as the
American people have. 

The President has been clear that the right to marry whom you love is
nonnegotiable.  And he’s been steadfast in his support for marriage
equality, as well as the need for this legislation, given the Supreme
Court’s extreme actions, so this right is protected everywhere. 

So — so, you know, as far as the mechanics of this and how we move —
this moves forward in the Senate, we leave that to Congress.  We leave
that to the leadership in Congress.

Q    And there’s — on another sort of very different topic: A couple of
Republicans wrote the White House today seeking information about the
student debt plan.  It’s Representatives James Comer and Virginia Foxx. 
They’re concerned that the officials who worked on the plan themselves
may benefit from it, and are seeking documentation about how many White
House aides would benefit from the student debt cancellation.  Do you
have any response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    I’m pretty sure you just got the letter today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I haven’t seen the letter, so I — certainly I’m
not going to respond to something I haven’t received.  But I’ll say —

Q    They’re essentially saying that they wonder if something is amiss,
if people who —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I —

Q    — have debt are working on the plan (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s be very clear here.  There’s — there’s always so
much noise around the student let — the student loan debt relief. 

Let’s be very clear on what this is going to do: This is going to help
peo- — Americans and families who are making — Americans who are making
— 90 percent of them are making less than $75,000 a year.  That is going
to give a huge relief to so many of them who are going to now maybe be
able to put money down on a — on a house, who are going to be maybe able
to start a family.  That’s — 90 percent is for people who make $75,000
and under.  This is going to be a game changer. 

And — and so that was the plan for — that the President had.  This is
part of his economic plan.  This is part of giving people a little bit
more of breathing room.  And this is what the student debt relief will
do. 

And I’ll leave it there.

Q    Does the White House think that aides who worked on it were biased
in any way if they themselves had student debt (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to respond to a letter I haven’t
seen.  What I can tell you is the facts and how this is going to give
some breathing room to — just imagine — 90 percent of people who are
making less than $75,000 a year. That matters, and it’s going to be a
game changer.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you just first start off by talking about the
reports that Bill Richardson is in Moscow trying to engage in the
discussions to bring Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan home?  And does the
administration support his efforts to do that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as the State Department said yesterday — they
spoke to this — private citizens attempting to broker a deal do not and
cannot speak for the U.S. government.  We have warned private citizens
not to travel to Russia, owing to — Russia — owing to the dangers that
they would face and that the State Department’s Russia Travel Advisory
remains at level four.

And so what we have said, and we have been very clear — and the State
Department, as I just mentioned, spoke to this yesterday — is do not
travel.

Q    Is there any concern that he could actually complicate the talks
that the administration is having or set them

back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this, as it relates to Bill Richardson:
So we have been in contact with the Richardson Center.  I’m just not
going to comment on the governor’s travels or the governor’s
activities.  But again, we have been very clear about American citizens
traveling to Russia.

Q    Okay.  And I want to ask you: On the topic of immigration, the Vice
President said to my colleague, Chuck Todd, over the weekend, “The
border is secure.”  She also caveated that to say we also have a broken
immigration system and talked about the need to fix that.  But does the
White House stand by those comments that the border is secure?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we stand by is that we’re doing everything that
we can to make sure that we follow the process that’s been put forth. 
That’s why we have historic funding to do just that, to make sure that —
you know, to make sure that — to make sure that the folks that we
encounter at the border be removed or expelled.

And again, the facts are: More individuals encountered at the border
will be removed or expelled this year than in any previous year.  But
that’s the work that’s —

Q    Is the border secure, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that we have been doing.

Q    Is the border secure?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to refer back to the Vice President. 
We agree with her.  She is saying that there’s a lot of work to do. 
Right?  She also said that in that very statement.  We agree that the
border is secure, but there is still more work to be done.

Q    But I guess, you know, the question becomes how you can make that
argument when DHS has said it’s bracing for these potentially 2 million
migrants to come, which would be a record, in the coming months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we’ll say this: Rebuilding the
immigration system, especially one that was decimated under the previous
administration, won’t happen overnight.  We’re not going to flip a
switch and get that done.  That’s what I said at the beginning.  We know
that there’s work to be done, but we’re doing the work to make sure that
— that we remove and expel folks who are coming here who are being
encountered at the border.

So, as the actions I’ve listed out show — as I’ve listed out show, we’re
committed to getting it done and getting it done right.  We need to do
it in a humane way.  We need to do it in a safe way.  And as we have
repeatedly said, a long-term solution can only come from a comprehensive
legislation that brings lasting reform to a fundamentally broken
system.  We understand that.  And that’s why we continue to call on
Congress to also act.

So we get it. It’s a — it’s a — it’s a fundamental, long-term issue.  It
is a broken system.  But we are also doing the work.  And, you know, I
have to say, the work that — what we’re seeing Republicans doing,
elected officials using — using migrants as a pawn is not the way to
move forward on this.  That’s not how we’re going to get this done. 

If they want to help us, then they should help us by voting for funding
that will get the Department of Homeland Security funding that they need
to fix the system, or by helping pass a comprehensive immigration reform
bill.

So just one thing I — one more thing I want to say:  According to NPR,
the migrants said a woman they identify as “Perla” approached them and
lured them into boarding the plane, saying they would be flown to Boston
where they could get expedited work papers.  The migrant said she,
Perla, “offered us help — help that never arrived.” 

That’s not how you treat people.  That is inhumane.  That’s not how we
should be doing things. There is a process in place. Yes, is there more
work to be done?  Yes, absolutely.  But there is a process in place. 
And that’s what we should be — that’s what these governors should be
doing.

Q    Sure, just one question.  On the President’s remarks in a little
bit over an hour, some have accused Biden of sort of fomenting
divisiveness in his own right by labeling folks “MAGA Republicans,”
associating them with fascism.  I wonder if there’s going to be any
effort in the President’s speech to sort of reconcile that or to address
that.  And is there any concern that as he tries to draw a line of
demarcation between Democrats and Republicans in ensuing weeks, that
that’ll contribute to divisiveness?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President has been very clear that — and he
said this repeatedly, I’ve said this repeatedly — not all Republicans
are extreme MAGA Republicans; many are not.  He’s worked with mainstream
Republicans on a whole range of issues, including efforts to reduce
violence and promote public safety, like COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act and
the Bipartisan Safety Community Acts, the most significant piece of
legislation to reduce gun violence in nearly 30 years.

So the President is hosting this event to highlight that the vast
majority of Americans, despite our myriad of differences, are united in
opposition to hate-fueled violence.

So this is a core American value that is shared by people of all faiths,
backgrounds, and political parties.  And he’s been very clear about
that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you. Thank you.  I wanted to ask you about Pakistan.  Last
week, U.S. has announced that they’re giving $450 million F-16 fighter
jet fleet sustainment program to Pakistan, and (inaudible) January 2018
that the then-President had announced a blanket ban on all kinds of
security assistance to Pakistan at that point.  And this has remained so
far.  Has President Biden lifted that restrictions on Pakistan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I want to be very clear about this.  The proposed
F-16 sustainment package for Pakistan is a proposed sale and is
consistent with standard sustainment packages.  So I would refer you to
the State Department for more information on that particular package.

Q    But what about the President’s restrictions on — in security
assistance to Pakistan?  Does that remain in place, or has that been
lifted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, you were asking me about the F-16, so I
just — I just laid that out for you.

So I’ll say this: The strategic partnership between the U.S. and India
is grounded in our shared commitment to the gover- — to the advancement
of free and open Indo-Pacific region, the rule of law, and the promotion
of human freedom and dignity.  We consult closely with India on a re- —
regional developments.  But I’m just not going to comment on any
diplomatic discussions.

I just laid out what the pack- — the F-16 package is consistent with our
standard — stan- — sustainment packages, as I just laid out.  Any more
on that, any more on our — on our diplomatic engagement, I would refer
you to the State Department.

Q    But I was not able to explain.  My question was about U.S.
assistance to Pakistan, security-related issues.  It was not about
India-U.S. relationship.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Because you said about the F-16.

Q    Yes, F-16.  But this is the first time in three and a half years
that U.S. has given any security assistance to Pakistan.  And this was
blocked in 2018 with tweet by then-President Trump.  After that, U.S.
has not given any security assistance to Pakistan.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    This is for the first time after that.  So my question is: Has
President Biden lifted that restrictions on Pakistan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So with that specific question on security
assistance, I would have to go back to the team and get back to you on
that.  I thought you were asking about F-16s specifically, and that’s
the answer that I provided for you on that.  Nothing has changed on that
particular package.

But on the security assistance, I’m happy to check with the team and get
back to you.

Q    And secondly, on Pakistan —  it’s going through a lot these days
because of floods.  What is U.S. assessment of the humanitarian
situation there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve provided a total of $53.1 million this year
alone to support disaster resilience and flood response in Pakistan. 
Additionally, CENTCOM is airlifting 41- — 41,200 kitchen seats; 1,500
rolls of plastic sheeting; 35,000 plastic tarps; and 8,700 shelter
fixing kits, helping more than 300,000 people with shelter and household
needs.

And USAID has deployed a disaster assistance response team to lead the
U.S. government’s continuing humanitarian response efforts in Pakistan
and has deployed technical experts from CDC to assist with the public
health impacts of the flood.

Again, since 2010 floods, the United States has supported preparedness,
resilience, and disaster risk reduction efforts in Pakistan, improving
the ability of communities to withstand and respond to disasters like
this one.

I’m going to move around.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to — no, I’m going to move around.

Go ahead, April.

Q    Karine, two topics.  What teeth are we expecting from the summit
today — things that are punishable, things that are not just policy but
could move into a law?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So you’re asking, like, what are the deliverables
essentially?

Q    What are the deliverables — concrete tangible deliverables?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple of things that we’ve announced already is
a new agency actions to strengthen the federal government’s coordination
and community engagement to prevent, respond to, and recover from
hate-fueled violence.  Federal agencies are also announcing new steps to
strengthen the resources available to local schools, law enforcement
agencies, and cultural institutions like museums and libraries to
prevent and respond to hate-fueled violence.

There’s bipartisan former White House officials — they will launch
Dignity.us, a citizen’s initiative to address hate-fueled violence in
America, to foster dialogue to communities across the country, and
identify solutions to address hate-fueled violence.

There’s — the New Pluralists, a cross-partisan group of philanthropic
and field leaders, is mobilizing $1 billion in new investments to
increase support for programs that build bridges among Americans to — of
different backgrounds to foster unity.

And also more than 140 mayors have signed a new bipartisan Compact to —
Compact to Combat Hate and Extremism, committing to stand up against
hate, violence, and increase their support of local initiatives and heal
divides.

And then, there’s also service organizations led by interfaith America
that YMCA and Habit- — Habitat for Humanity are launching “A Nation of
Bridge Builders,” a new partnership that will train 10,000 Americans to
be bridge builders in their neighborhoods and will host over 1,000
bridge-building events in over 300 communities.

And one last thing.  When we think about technology communities, tech
companies including YouTube, Twitch, Microsoft, and Meta are announcing
new actions their platforms are taking to prevent hate-fueled violence
as well.

So these — this is going to be the deliverables that are going to come
out of the summit.

Q    So, this is about prevention.  But is there an effort to work with
Congress in this moment, as you’re having this summit, to bring forth
new laws, worse punishments, different punishments?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything new to preview at this time
that’s happening with Congress.  Clearly, we believe these deliverables
is — a rundown of actions that I just provided — is a first step to
getting us into a place where we’re dealing with a real issue, where
we’re addressing hate-fueled violence in communities that we see across
the country. 

Q    And then the last topic.  On what you call this political stunt
with the asylum seekers, let’s specifically get into the locations:
Martha’s Vineyard, the Naval Observatory.  Can you talk to the issue of
— you said Boston.  It’s an island that they sent the asylum seekers to
— an island that is known to be, in some instances, a Democratic haven. 
Former presidents, former Democratic presidents vacation there, own
homes there, et cetera.  Could you speak to that, as well as the Naval
Observatory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I could say, and I’ve been very clear: It is a
political stunt.  That’s what we’re seeing from governors — Republican
governors in particular. 

And it is a cruel, inhumane way of treating people who are fleeing
communism, people who are — who are — and we’re not just talking about
people.  We’re talking about children.  We’re talking about families who
were promised a home, promised a job, put on a bus, and, you know,
driven to a place that they do not know.  And it is a cruel thing to
do. 

According to local reports, Governor Ron DeSantis sent a hired
videographer on the plane to Massachusetts in order to capture footage
of them being dropped off.  Remember, there were children on this
plane. 

So, I cannot speak to anything outside of what we’re seeing — right? —
which is — it is indeed a political — a political play.  It’s cruel.  It
is a cruel way for elected officials — the people who have power, the
people who are elected by their constituencies — to behave in this way. 
And — and we should call it out.

And other Republicans should call it out.  Republicans should be — their
colleagues should be calling out the cruel way that they are playing and
what they’re doing with their cruel political games. 

And again, these are — these are families that are including children. 

All right.  Go ahead.

Q    House Democrats are currently making a push to try and include for
universal school meals in the CR as a waiver for this year.  Is that
something that the President would support?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to speak to any — any specifics of
what’s going to be in or out of the CR.  What we believe is that we’ve
been here before — we were here just last year — and we were able to get
this done.  And we believe Congress can move forward, just like we were
able to do — to do this last year. 

Look, we’re going to do our job.  We’re going to talk to — talk to
members of Congress on the Hill.  We’re going to have conversations. 
We’re going to make it very clear how important it is to make sure the
CR gets passed.  But I’m not going to get into specifics of what we’re
going to accept or not accept.

Q    Yeah.  On trains, the deal with the railroads came down to offering
unpaid sick leave.  Is that a good deal for the workers?  And what is
the President going to do to convince workers that they should vote for
that contract?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just to — just to step back for a second, this is a
tentative deal, and it is actually a standard part of the ratification
process. 

The tentative agreement now goes back to the unions for a vote.  And as
part of this tentative agreement, the parties have already agreed to a
post-ratification cooling-off period of several weeks to make sure that
if a vote doesn’t succeed for any reason, there is not an immediate rail
shutdown. 

So this deal is on — is right on track.  And we expect the broad support
for both the labor and industry sides to continue. 

I’m not going to speak to specific items of the deal.  That’s for them
to decide. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  To go back to Bill Richardson and Kristen’s
questions, has the President spoke to Bill Richardson around this trip
to Moscow that he’s taken?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview.  All I can tell you
is that we have been in touch with the Richardson Center. 

Q    Okay.  And you said that Russia should accept the significant offer
that the administration had made for Griner and Paul Whelan, and you had
said that the administration has followed up on that offer repeatedly. 

What does that follow-up look like?  Is Russia not responding?  Or has
Russia rejected that offer repeatedly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into private negotiations at the
podium just because of security reasons and we want to make sure that,
you know, we’re having these conversations in private.  So, I’m not
going to go into specifics.

But I can say the Russians should accept our offer.  We made a
substantial offer.  And I’ll leave it there. 

Q    But when you say “followed up repeatedly,” there’s clearly — it
sounds like there’s a frustration that there’s something that’s not
coming back from the Russians.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, the Russians should accept our offer.  I’m not
going to go into any specifics or any more on that.

We’ll go the front, sorry.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to clarify something you said at the
top.  So, the administration got no advance notice that this bus was
heading to the side of Massachusetts Avenue in front of the Vice
President’s Residence?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I haven’t spoken to the Vice President about this
to — or her team to ask specifically if they were aware of this — of
this this morning or last night when it occurred.  So I can’t speak to
that at this time. 

Q    Because you mentioned at the top that you weren’t alerted, but Fox
News was.  So I just wanted to make sure I understood you correctly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  That is exactly what — what we have learned. 

Q    Okay.  Is there anything that the administration —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I see what you’re asking me. 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re asking me — yes.  No, we were not alerted. 
Like, Department of Health — Health — the Department of Homeland
Security was not alerted.  We were not alerted of this. 

I thought you were asking me specifically about the — if they — the VP’s
Residence. 

Q    Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    No, no, no.  I meant — I mean, did you get any —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — any advance notice from the state of Florida?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no.  What I — my statement stands.  We were not
alerted. 

Q    Okay.  Is there anything that the administration can do to prevent
the governors of Florida or Texas or any other state from sending buses
of migrants to the states of their choice?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, as far as — as far — and some folks have
asked us about a legal action.  That’s going to go to the Department of
Justice.  I can’t speak to that. 

What we have done is, you know, we have — the administration has been in
regular touch with the cities that have to deal with this.  And FEMA
Regional Administrators have been meeting with city officials on site to
coordinate available federal support from FEMA and other federal
agencies.  And so, that’s how we have dealt with this particular issue. 

I think, for us — how do we stop this?  We call this out.  We call this
out, and we call it what it is.  It is a political stunt that we’re
seeing from these Republican governors.  That is what is happening.

And other Republicans should call this out as well.  It is — it is
endangering people’s lives.  It is inhumane.  It is taking away people’s
dignity, not affording the dignity that these — that these people should
be afforded. 

And also, we’re talking about children.  We’re talking about families
and children that are being left on the side — you know, the side — the
streetside of D.C. and in — and in Massachusetts.  And — and it’s
shameful, and we should call this out. 

Q    So you can highlight it, but there really aren’t any political
levers to prevent it at this time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, it’s a political stunt that Republican
governors are using.  And — and, you know, the question is: Will
Republican — Republicans call out their colleagues for playing political
— a cruel political game, a cruel political stunt with migrants and
families and children who are fleeing communism.  That is what they’re
fleeing; they’re fleeing communism. 

So, okay, let’s see whether Republicans will call this out as well. 

Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Today, for the first time since Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, Vladimir Putin met with Xi Jinping of China.  He —
Putin did say that he understood that China had some, quote, “questions
and concerns” about the invasion that said he would address them to Xi. 
Xi also declared Putin was a, quote, “old friend.”  So does the White
House have any early reaction to the — this meeting between these two
leaders? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve made clear our concerns about the depth of
China’s alignment with and ties with Russia, even as Russia prosecutes a
war of aggression in Ukraine, a brutal war, a unprovoked war that the
Kremlin started in Ukraine.

This meeting is an example of that alignment.  I’m not going to go
beyond — beyond those comments. 

Q    Thank, Karine.  Do you think that Americans believe that the border
is secure?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is the record and the process that
we have been using to make sure that we do our best to secure the
border, we do our best to make sure that we fix a broken system that was
left behind by the last administration. 

And that’s what we’re — we’re going to continue to do.  We understand
it’s not like flipping a light switch.  This does not happen overnight. 
This is an immigration system that is fundamentally broken, and it’s
going to take some time. 

But we also need Congress to take action.  We need Congress to act and
to work with us on fixing this immigration system. 

And what we’re seeing from Republican governors is not the way to do
it.  It is, again — and I’ll keep saying it — it is inhumane.  It is
cruel what they’re doing to children and to families. 

And if they want to work with us on securing the border, on fixing the
immigration system, we’re happy to do that. 

Q    Isn’t there some risk, though, that voters might feel like they’re
being lied to?  When you — we’re seeing images of — you know, in El
Paso, they’ve released a thousand migrants on the street because the
processing centers are overwhelmed there.

You know, how is that humane?  How is that safe, as you guys talk about
so often, when it’s overwhelming border cities?  And they’re asking the
— the Biden administration to reimburse them for charter buses to get
them out of the area, because they’re — they’re totally overwhelmed. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, it is a broke- — a broken system, the
immigration system.  And it was — it was decimated by the last
administration.  That is a fact; it was decimated by the last
administration. 

What the last administration wanted was a border wall that was
ineffective and used — a use of taxpayers’ dollars.  And — and that’s
what we saw from the last administration. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But just recently, CBP reported that that new wall
along the southwest border was breached over 3,000 times — that new
wall.  And between fiscal year of 2019 and 2021, it’s required $22.6
million in repairs.  That’s what we’re trying to deal with with a
decimated system that was certainly not helped by the last
administration. 

Look, we understand.  I’m not saying that there’s not more work to do. 
We are saying there’s more work to do.  We are saying that the system is
broken.  But we are saying that as well, we have — we have done — we
have done a lot of work here to fix this system. 

And again, more individuals encountered at the border will be removed or
expelled this year than in any previous year.  That is — those are the
facts.

Q    Do you have a message for the migrants though who are saying that
the border is open?  I mean, today we talked to a few who arrived in
D.C.  They said that the border is open.  “We know it’s open because we
come, we enter, no problem.”  We haven’t heard a message from the
administration in a few months telling people not to come.  We’ve heard
you guys talking about trying to make it a more orderly process, but
you’re not telling people not to come.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the Department of Homeland Security — Secretary
Mayorkas has been very clear.  He was on TV recently talking about this,
talking about the work that they do.  And so, I will leave it to the
Department of Homeland Security to speak to that, specifically. 

But, again, this is a broken system.  And we are — we want to see
Congress act.  We want to see bipartisanship to fix the immigration
system. 

We are fixing — trying to fix a system that was decimated by the last
administration. 

And, again, we are calling for Congress to take action.

Q    And one other question on inflation.  The President dismissed the
inflation report and the stock market selloff on his way out of town
yesterday.  And then he said that test driving an electric car that cost
more than double the average American’s yearly salary made him feel
optimistic.  Is there — do you have a response to critics who say that
this administration is “out of touch”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But can you say that one more time?  The President
dismissed —

Q    He dismissed the inflation report.  He said he wasn’t worried about
it.  We’re talking about one tenth of one percentage. 

And then he said he wasn’t concerned about the stock market selloff,
because he said the stock market doesn’t represent the broader economy. 

And then he went to Detroit and test drove a vehicle, an electric car,
that’s just out of price range for the average American. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me — so, I get your question now.  So the
President’s number-one priority — economic priority has been lowering
costs for the American people.  You think about the Inflation Reduction
Act, which was only passed by Democrats; Republicans refused to — to get
on board and pass it in a bipartisan way.  It lowered costs for — for
Medicare recipients — capped — capped that at $2,000, a year when our
seniors are paying $2,000 or more a month. 

And then you have Republicans as well who want to put Social Security
and they want to put Medicare on the chopping blocks. 

So that is the work that we are doing as Democrats.  We’re trying to do
everything that we can to lower costs.  We’re trying to do everything
that we can to make sure that, you know, families keep their Social
Security, unlike Republicans; and families have Medicare, unlike what
Republicans want to do, which is take that away. 

Look, the question that the President was asked about the day before
yesterday, which shows more progress — that data — the CPI data, which
is what he was — he was speaking to — shows more progress in bringing
global inflation down in the U.S. economy.  Overall, prices have been
essentially flat in our country these last two months.  That is welcome
news for American families. 

But no doubt — no doubt, we have more work to do, and we understand
that.  And so, we are seeing some encouraging signs, including in —
inventory is up, used vehicle price is down, and a cooling housing
market, which is important. 

It will take more time and resolve to bring inflation down, which is
why, again, we passed the Inflation Reduction Act –“we,” meaning
Democrats, not Republicans — to lower costs of healthcare, to lower
costs of prescription drugs, to lower cost of energy. 

And, you know, the President’s economic plan is creating good jobs and
bringing manufacturing back to America.  We’ve seen more than 600,000
manufacturing jobs return to the U.S. in the — in the last 19 months of
this administration. 

I’m going to move on.

Okay, go ahead.

Q    Yeah, you took — you mentioned that you — on immigration — that you
would like to see, you know, Congress act.  Has the White House at all
engaged with, you know, lawmakers on Capitol Hill on this?  Has there
been any sort of updated timeline on, kind of, what you want to see any
action on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we would like to see an action as soon as
possible. 

So, the President proposed a comprehensive immigration reform package on
his first day in office, and he continues to call on Congress, as you
just heard me say, to get — to get this to his desk for him to sign. 

So, again, congressional Republicans should stop blocking bills to build
a set — safe, orderly, humane immigration system.  It is not — there’s
not a — there is not action from them to actually deal with this issue
that we’re seeing with the immigration system. 

So, the team here at the White House is in regular touch with Congress,
as you’re asking me, on a number of priorities, including immigration
reform, and we will continue to, again, urge Congress to get that bill
to his desk. 

Q    And another question.  Reuters is reporting that, you know, the
Biden administration is kind of asking Mexico to accept more migrants
from Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela under Title 42.  Is this something that,
you know, the administration is asking for?  You know, are there
concerns that if there’s an increase of, you know, individuals coming
from those countries?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: Any diplomatic negotiations or
conversations, I would refer you to the State Department on that
specific question.

But, more broadly, on the matter of Title 42, our views have been very
clear.  Title 42 is a public health authority.  It is not an immigration
authority, and that authority rests with the CDC. 

As you’ve heard us say many times, a court order — a court ordered us to
continue enforcing the CDC’s Title 42 authority, and we will continue to
comply with the court orders for as long as it remains in effect.

But anything with negotiations with any of the countries, I would refer
you to the State Department. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay, I’m going to take — let me take two more. 

Let me try —

Q    Can we go to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m trying to call on folks —

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Can I do a quick follow-up on the upcoming summit, please? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Simon.

Q    Okay, thank — thank you.  You said at the top that during their
bilateral meeting tomorrow with President Ramaphosa of South Africa,
you’d discuss climate crisis, investments, and other global issues. 
Will that include the Russia war in Ukraine?  We know that <s>Russia</s>
\[South Africa\] was one of the African countries that didn’t go — that
refused to be dragged into the proxy war between the U.S. and Russia.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any more specific to what I just laid out
about the issues that they would be talking about.  We will certainly
share more in our readout, as we normally do when there’s a bilat.  But
I don’t have more to share outside of that.

Q    And — and is the President aware that every time he received an
African head of state, African journalists who covered the White House
are not allowed?  Like I’m not allowed to be there tomorrow.  Is that
something that sit — sits well with you?  Are you okay with it — to have
an African journ- — an African president being received by President
Biden, and the Africans who cover the White House are not allowed —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me — let me —

Q    — to even be there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me check into that because that is — that is a
serious claim.  And we take those claims very seriously, obviously.  And
so let me check into that.  That is not something that I’m aware of. 

Q    So, my question actually is: Who makes the decision?  Who tells the
White House not to allow us when we — we send some —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you’re saying — again, I need to check in on —
on what you’re stating here.  That is a serious statement that you’re
making.  So, before I go any further, I need to just check in on that. 
I’m happy — I’m always happy to talk to anyone after the briefing in my
office or make — make a — you know, schedule an appointment to have this
conversation.

But again, what you’re saying is a — is a, you know, a strong
accusation, if you will.  And I just need to check in on that before —

Q    Yeah.  How do you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — before — before I move further.  I need to check in
on that before I moved forward.

Q    Yeah.  I will not be allowed to be there tomorrow, so it a thing
that’s been established.  And that was the same thing that happened when
Psaki was here with the President of Kenya.  And — and you understand
the frustration of people like me who cover the White House?  And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Simon, I understand.  I wholeheartedly understand your
frustration.  But before I can speak to this, I need to actually check
in on it so that I can give you a fulsome answer. 

So, let me check in on this, and we can talk about it.

All right.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  If I can please, quickly, the update on the
upcoming summit.  But, first, I’d like to extend to you a happy Hispanic
Heritage Month as the son of a Latino immigrant.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thank you.

Q    My question is very straightforward.  You just mentioned recently
about the work that Republicans have done together with the President in
combating hate.  And my question is if you could share with us some of
the prominent Republicans who are — plan to be participating in this
upcoming summit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, if you see the agenda, you’ll see we have
bipartisan group of folks participating today.  We — again, we really
believe that the vast majority of Americans — including Republicans,
including Democrats, including independents — are united against
hate-fueled violence. 

This is a core American value that is shared by people of all faiths and
backgrounds and political parties.  So this event is featuring people of
diverse backgrounds, ideologies, as well as a bipartisan group of
elected officials and leaders who share the view that we all have a role
to play in bridging the divides in our communities and working to
eradicate the hate-fueled violence that tears apart communities and
hurts our democracy.

Again, if you take a look at the agenda, you will see the bipartisanship
there. 

I’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thank you, everybody.

2:57 P.M. EDT
