---
date: '2022-09-20'
modified_time: 2022-09-20 17:01:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-09-20 17:01:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/09/20/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:11 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Good afternoon, everybody. Happy Monday.
Okay.

Q Tuesday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Tuesday! Oh, my gosh. (Laughter.) Giving myself an
extra day. All right.

Well, good to see you guys on Tuesday.

So, we are closely monitoring the impact — the impact Hurricane Fiona is
having on Puerto Rico. And as the President has said, we are keeping the
people of Puerto Rico in our prayers.

I want to provide a brief overview of our response to date. On Sunday,
before the hurricane made landfall, President Biden issued an emergency
disaster declaration to ensure the federal government has — was ready to
surge resources and emergency assistance to Puerto Rico.

Yesterday, as you all know, the President called Governor Pierluisi from
Air Force One to discuss Puerto Rico’s immediate needs as the storm made
landfall.

And today, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will be on the ground to
assess the emergency response. Right now, hundreds of FEMA and federal
responders are on the ground in Puerto Rico, including U.S. Army Corps
of Engineer, power restoration experts, and urban search and rescue
teams. More federal responders are arriving in the coming days.

Power restoration began yesterday, and FEMA is continuing to work with
LUMA to restore power and meet needs for generators in the meantime.

President Biden is receiving regular updates on the storm and these
emergency efforts, and we will all continue to keep the people of Puerto
Rico and all those in the path of the storm in our thoughts.

Also, we have a special guest, as you all know: National Security
Advisor Jake Sullivan. He is here to preview the UNGA — the UNGA
meetings and events that the President will be attending this week —
will be — the President is going to be leaving later today, as you all
know — and any other foreign policy questions that you may have.

Jake, it’s all yours.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you, Karine. And thanks, everybody. Good to be with
you. I’m just going to make a few opening comments on what we expect
from the trip in New York, a couple of comments on developments with
respect to Russia and Ukraine, and then I’d be happy to take your
questions.

As you all know, this evening President Biden will board Air Force One
for New York to participate in the U.N. General Assembly tomorrow.

And we believe that the President heads to New York with the wind at his
back. We’re making historic investments here at home. Our alliances are
as strong or stronger than they have been in modern memory. Our robust,
united support for Ukraine has helped the Ukrainians push back against
Russian aggression. And we’re leading the world in response to the most
significant transnational challenges that the world faces, from global
health, to global food security, to global supply chains, to tackling
the climate crisis.

Meanwhile, our competitors are facing increasingly strong headwinds, and
neither President Xi nor President Putin are even showing up for this
global gathering.

The President will deliver his speech before the U.N. General Assembly
tomorrow morning — this is the traditional speech the President makes
annually — in which he will describe his vision for American foreign
policy and principled leadership in the world.

Among other things, he’ll offer a firm rebuke of Russia’s unjust war in
Ukraine and make a call to the world to continue to stand against the
naked aggression that we’ve seen these past several months. He will
underscore the importance of strengthening the United Nations and
reaffirm core tenets of its charter at a time when a permanent member of
the Security Council has struck at the very heart of the charter by
challenging the principle of territorial integrity and sovereignty.

He will make significant new announcements about the U.S. government’s
investments to address global food insecurity, and he’ll lay out in
detail how the U.S. has restored its global leadership and the integrity
of its word on the world stage by delivering on the promises that we
make and that he has made as President on global health, on climate, on
emerging technologies, and so much else.

Throughout the day, the President will hold meetings with some of our
closest allies, including his first bilateral meeting with new Prime
Minister Liz Truss of the United Kingdom.

In the afternoon, he will host the pledging session for the Global Fund
to Fight HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria for the Seventh
Replenishment Conference.

The Global Fund enables programs that prevent, detect, and treat the
deadliest diseases that we face and ensure countries have the resources
they need to build strong, resilient health systems within their
communities for today and for the future.

We expect that this pledging conference will produce a historic outcome
in terms of the commitments made — financial commitments made by our
partners and by the United States.

In the evening, President Biden and the First Lady will host the Leaders
Reception where they have invited almost every head of delegation from
around the world, including some of those few remaining leaders that he
has not yet had the opportunity to meet.

In the context of the U.N. General Assembly, I’m also pleased to
announce that the President is endorsing Doreen Bogdan-Martin for the
next Secretary-General of the International Telecommunications Union.
Ms. Bogdan-Martin possesses the integrity, experience, and vision
necessary to transform the global digital landscape.

The next Secretary-General of the ITU will play an important role in
making sure that our digital future is inclusive and accessible for
everyone, especially in the developing world.

Now, if you’ll bear with me, I’d like to just make a few comments on
reports we’re seeing emerge from Russia today.

Since Russia launched its full-scale invasion back in February, the
Ukrainian military and the Ukrainian people have resisted admirably.
First, Ukraine repelled Russia’s attempt to conquer Kyiv. Then, Ukraine
held the line in the Donbas. And most recently, Ukraine undertook a
successful counter-offensive in the northeast. It is in this context
that President Putin appears to be on the brink of pursuing two actions.

First, as we’ve been warning for months, Russia appears to be proceeding
with plans to hold sham referenda in areas of Ukraine under its control,
and even in areas of Ukraine not currently under its control, in direct
violation of Ukraine sovereignty. Russia is rushing to hold these
referenda in response to Ukraine’s gains on the battlefield as well as
to prepare for potential mobilization measures.

These referenda are an affront to the principles of sovereignty and
territorial integrity that underpin the international system and let lie
at the heart of the United Nations Charter.

We know that these referenda will be manipulated. We know that Russia
will use these sham referenda as a basis to purportedly annex these
territories either now or in the future.

Let me be clear: If this does transpire — and, obviously, it’s not a
done deal yet — but if this does transpire, the United States will never
recognize Russia’s clains \[sic\] — claims to any purportedly annexed
parts of Ukraine. And we will never recognize this territory as anything
other than a part of Ukraine. We reject Russia’s actions unequivocally.
And we will continue to work with our allies and partners to impose
costs on Russia and to provide historic support for Ukraine.

Second, we are aware of reports that President Putin may be preparing to
enact mobilization measures. Like its sham annexation planning, this is
reflective of Russia’s struggles in Ukraine.

He may be resorting to partial mobilization, forcing even more Rus- —
Russians to go fight his brutal war in Ukraine, in part because they
simply need more personnel and manpower given the success that Ukraine
has had on the battlefield, particularly in the northeast, but even
pushing into other parts of previously occupied Russian territory around
the country.

The bottom line is that Russia is throwing together sham referendums on
three days’ notice as they continue to lose ground on the battlefield
and as more world leaders distance themselves from Russia on the public
stage. And Russia is scraping for personnel to throw into this fight.
These are not the actions of a confident country. These are not acts of
strength; quite the opposite.

And the United States, our allies and partners in the international
community will stand against these transparent efforts on the part of
Russia and stand firmly with Ukraine and the Ukrainian people.

And with that, I’ll be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. If both of those things do transpire — the referenda —
the “sham referenda,” as you called it — taking place, and then also
President Putin ordering a — at least a partial mobilization, how does
that affect your assessment of Ukraine’s ability to hold the gains that
it has made and to carry out and continue counteroffensives? Are you
worried about Russia, sort of, countering the counteroffensive at this
point?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, Russia has made clear that it is going to continue
to try to fight. But holding sham referenda that the whole world and
everyone who are in those territories recognizes as being shams is not
going to actually strengthen Russia’s hand on the battlefield.

And, in fact, we continue to see, day by day, the Ukrainians applying
pressure against Russian positions both in the northeast and in the
south. We expect that to continue in the days ahead.

And we continue to supply Ukraine with the weapon systems that we
believe it needs to be able to successfully prosecute those offensives,
including an announcement of more than $600 million in weapons just last
week, up to a total of more than $15 billion at this point.

That being said, nobody is resting on the laurels of the recent
Ukrainian successes. The Ukrainian military is both preparing to
consolidate the gains it’s already made, continue to try to make further
gains, and defend against potential Russian counterattacks in various
places. And the United States and all of our allies and partners are
providing them with the requisite level of support for them to be able
to carry out those efforts on the battlefield.

Q And just on the mobilization piece, does that change your assessment
of how long Ukraine can withstand those Russian assaults?

MR. SULLIVAN: You know, our basic assessment at this point is that
between the consistent, steady support that the West has provided and
has indicated, as President Biden has said, we will continue to provide
for as long as it takes — between that and the skill, bravery, and
courage of the Ukrainian Armed Forces and the willingness of Ukrainians
to take up arms in very large numbers, that Ukraine, we have confidence,
will be able to continue to show on the battlefield that it is not going
to fall prey to Russian aggression, that it will be able to continue to
push back against Russian efforts to conquer territory and take over the
country.

In terms of Russia being able to put more troops onto the battlefield,
obviously, that will have an impact on the battlefield equation, but we
do not believe at this point that it will undermine Ukraine’s ability to
effectively repel Russian aggression and to continue making gains.

Yeah.

Q Jake, can you walk us through how the President’s explicit commitment
to U.S. defense of Taiwan in the event of an attack by China is not a
policy shift from what the U.S. has long held when it comes to Taiwan?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, as the President said in his interview on “60
Minutes,” we continue to stand behind the One China policy. We continue
to stand against unilateral changes to the status quo. And we continue
to stand for peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.

The President has reiterated those basic commitments on every occasion
that he’s talked about Taiwan, including in this interview where he
specifically and emphatically and unequivocally reinforced and
reiterated the One China policy.

He was asked a question — a hypothetical question in this interview. He
was asked a very similar question back in Tokyo in May. He gave a
similar answer in Tokyo in May that he gave in the “60 Minutes”
interview.

After that answer in Tokyo, someone said specifically to him, “Have you
just announced a major policy change?” And he said, “No, I have not.
I’ve answered a hypothetical question. I have not announced a policy
change.”

When the President of the United States wants to announce a policy
change, he will do so. He has not done so.

Q Jake, can I ask real quick as a follow-up: Is there a strategic effort
here when it comes to deterrence? Is the President delivering an
explicit message by answering a hypothetical, which he often doesn’t?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, all I will say is, the President is a direct and
straightforward person. He answered a hypothetical. He’s answered it
before in a similar way. And he has also been clear that he does not —
has not changed U.S. policy towards Taiwan. He stands behind the
historic U.S. policy towards Taiwan that has existed through Democratic
and Republican administrations and has helped keep peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait for decades.

Yeah.

Q Jake, assuming that this situation in Ukraine is going to be solved at
a negotiating table in a diplomatic manner, is your expectation that
these referenda will be — will shift that conversation in some way and
give Russia maybe more leverage when those conversations happen?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, from our perspective, the key right now is to provide
Ukraine what it needs to be able to continue to make gains on the
battlefield because, in our view, that will strengthen its hand at the
negotiating table. And that, to us, is the decisive factor in
determining how things ultimately play out in the conflict in Ukraine.

And particularly given just how transparent and how, in a way, thrown
together this whole Russian political effort is — I mean, announcing a
referendum three days from now in a territory that the Russians are
either holding by brutal force of occupation or don’t hold it all — A,
it’s not exactly a move of great strength on the part of the Russians,
nor do we think that it is going to give them some additional authority
at the negotiating table. Quite the opposite.

It is the act of a country that has suffered setbacks — militarily,
diplomatically. And those setbacks, we think, are giving momentum to the
Ukrainian effort and are creating a circumstance in which Ukraine’s
capacity to achieve its objectives is enhanced, not diminished.

Q And the mobilization that you’re talking about — that Russia is
planning: Do you have hard evidence that that is taking place?

MR. SULLIVAN: So we have seen public reports. I don’t have anything to
report from our own intelligence on this at this time that I can share
with you. But we have very much taken note of those public reports with
respect to mobilization and it’s some- — something we’re watching very
closely.

Q Thanks, Jake. I want to ask you about these mass graves that are being
uncovered around Izyum. What more are you learning about the Russian
invasion, you know, vis-à-vis these mass graves? What does it mean for
the war crimes case that’s being built? And what’s the next step in that
process?

MR. SULLIVAN: I had the opportunity this morning to talk to my
counterpart, the Ukrainian Chief of Staff, Andrii Yermak, and he gave me
a report on what the Ukrainians are discovering around Izyum. And he put
it quite bluntly. He said, “This is, in some ways, worse than Bucha. And
we will see more of these as we go — as Ukraine de-occupies towns that
have previously been occupied by Russian Armed Forces.” We’re finding
increasing evidence of these mass atrocities.

And the United States has said from the beginning of this conflict that
we are going to work with the international community, through every
mechanism that is available, to hold Russia accountable for this. That
is not a short process. It is not an easy process. It requires the
painstaking gathering of evidence, the identification of individuals
responsible, and then taking steps to actually hold them accountable.

But we are committed to that process. And we’re committed to seeing it
through as a critical part of our overall strategy towards Ukraine.

Q And then you mentioned the “60 Minutes” interview. The President was
also asked in that interview whether he had been briefed on the
top-secret documents at Mar-a-Lago. And he said he had not been, but
that his administration is aware of all that and so is the National
Security Council. So as a National Security Advisor, have you been
briefed on the potential ramifications of these top-secret documents
being stored the way they were at Mar-a-Lago?

MR. SULLIVAN: I have not been briefed. The investigation is obviously
being handled by the Justice Department, led by the Attorney General,
who, of course, is a member of the National Security Council. And then
the Director of National Intelligence, also a member of the National
Security Council, has indicated that they have been pursuing their own
analysis, their own assessment. And they — each of them have
communicated to the press and the public that which they are prepared to
communicate, and it’s being handled in those channels and not in my
channel. And I have not been briefed.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Can you talk a little bit about how the Ukraine
counteroffensive will be kind of employed by the President in New York
or in his speech? How will he talk about it? What will he use it as an
example of? Will he take credit? I mean, will — what — how will it be
employed for his purposes or for the U.S. purposes?

MR. SULLIVAN: It will feature prominently in his speech — the — Russia’s
brutal war in Ukraine and the bravery of the Ukrainians in pushing back
against it not only to defend their territory, but to reclaim territory
that had previously been occupied by the Russians.

The main thrust of his presentation when it comes to Ukraine will really
be about the United Nations Charter, about the foundational principle at
the heart of that charter that countries cannot conquer their neighbors
by force, cannot cease and acquire territory by force. And he will speak
to every country in the world — those that have joined our broad-based
coalition to support Ukraine and those who, so far, have stood on the
sidelines — that now is a moment to stand behind the foundational
principles of the charter.

And he will also indicate that a free people fighting for their land and
their freedom — they are going to fight with a passion and an intensity
and a capacity and an endurance that can outlast any would-be conqueror.

And that is part of what he is going to want to communicate in a larger
presentation he’s going to make — about an international system rooted
in a core set of principles that work for all countries and that pushes
back against aggressors who seek to threaten, coerce, and intimidate
their neighbors or to violently attack them.

Yeah.

Q Thank you, Jake. Just to follow up on Franco’s questions, specifically
on the strengthening the U.N. Charter but specifically on the United
Security Council, will the President be speaking on that? I know that
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield has laid out a series of principles
in terms of finding consensus to expanding the U.N. Security Council,
but where is the President on this issue in terms of expansion and in
terms of veto power?

MR. SULLIVAN: I expect that the President will speak substantively to
the question of U.N. Security Council reform while he’s in New York.
Whether he does so publicly or whether he communicates privately with
the Secretary-General and others, we’re still working through today. But
I think this will be on the agenda and you may very well see him make a
public statement that is more specific than the principles that
Ambassador Thomas-Greenfield has laid down — though, of course,
completely consistent with them — and we will reinforce those principles
in all of our diplomatic engagements.

Q And just a follow-up on Iran, please. Can we have the administration’s
reaction to Elon Musk seeking exemption to Iran sanctions on Starlink?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I saw a public statement about that. I have not,
obviously, communicated directly with him. And I would refer you to the
Office of Foreign Assets Control over at Treasury with respect to how
those exemptions work out.

We have, of course, in the past provided for various forms of exemptions
for the Iranian people’s ability to communicate with each other and with
the world. But I can’t speak specifically on that case because that has
to be handled through appropriate procedures at the Treasury Department.

Q And to go back to Ukraine —

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah.

Q In Samarkand, on the sidelines of SCO Summit, India’s Prime Minister,
Narendra Modi, bluntly told the Russian President Putin that this is not
the time for war in Ukraine. In that context, what role do you see for
India in bringing peace in the region and in the war in Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think what Prime Minister Modi said — a statement of
principle on behalf of what he believes is right and just — was very
much welcomed by the United States and for the Indian leadership, which
has longstanding relationships in Moscow, from the very top all the way
through the Russian government, to continue to reinforce that message
that now is the time for war to end.

And the way this war should end is for Russia to abide by the basic
terms of the U.N. Charter and to return the territories that it has
seized by force. This is a message that every country — however they
feel about Russia, Ukraine, the United States, everyone should be able
to center around this basic proposition: You cannot conquer your
neighbor’s territory by force, and peace will come fastest and most
decisively to Ukraine if Russia abandons that effort.

And we would like to see every country in the world making that case.
They can do it publicly if they like. They can do it privately if they
like. But sending that clear and unmistakable message to Moscow at this
time is the most vital thing I think we can collectively do to produce
peace in that region.

Yes.

Q Thanks, Jake. Just a quick one on food security. Can you talk about
what President Biden is going to announce tomorrow in terms of aid? We
heard reports about $100 million dollars to Africa. And what can be
accomplished at UNGA to bring down food prices, which continue to be
really elevated despite various action plans?

MR. SULLIVAN: So the U.S. is actually a co-host of a significant food
security event today. The President had hoped to be able to go to it,
but because of the Queen’s funeral, he was unable to make the scheduling
work.

We’re going to make very robust financial commitments on humanitarian
assistance, significantly greater than $100 million. In addition, we’re
going to work on financial facilities to help — so, beyond just the
money for humanitarian assistance — to help build agricultural systems
and resilience in the developing world, in Africa and Latin American and
in other places.

In addition to that, the President will be pressing for the elimination
of export bans and of hoarding so that there is a better supply of food
to the world market and overall prices come down.

And then, finally, he will be very focused on the nexus between climate
and food, because the impacts of climate change on the agricultural land
of many countries in many parts of the world is significant and severe.
And through some combination of technology and adaptation, we believe we
can help protect that land so that we can continue to get the level of
food production necessary to reduce global food insecurity.

He’ll speak to all of those things, both with leaders in New York, and
he will have a robust section of his speech devoted to global food
security as well.

Yeah.

Q Hey, Jake. I wanted to try one more time on the U.N. Security Council
question. Is there any discussion of removing Russia as a permanent
member of the Security Council? You mentioned that their actions were
unbefitting and violating the Charter. So I don’t know if there’s — the
United States is taking the next step or if that’s among the things that
President Biden might raise tomorrow.

MR. SULLIVAN: It is not something that he is going to raise tomorrow,
although I think the world can see that when a permanent member acts in
this way, it strikes at the heart of the U.N. Security Council. And so
that should lead everyone collectively to put pressure on Moscow to
change course.

Yeah.

Q Hey, Jake. Can you tell us anymore about the President’s meeting with
Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan’s families here at the White House? Has
that moved the needle at all? And how will the President incorporate
them and that call for their release into his meetings and conversations
in New York? Will that be a public message, or will that be in more
private conversations?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, the President had a long session with Elizabeth Whelan
and then with Cherelle Griner, Brittney Griner’s wife. And they were
both very practical, detailed discussions of both what the United States
is doing to try to secure the release of Paul Whelan and Brittney
Griner, what the family members can do to raise the profile of these
cases, and also to try to rally the world to send a clear message to
Moscow that it is time to end the unjust detention of these two
individuals.

And then the President, of course, took the opportunity just to express
his empathy, to comfort them, to make clear that anytime they needed to
pick up the phone and call just to talk about it, he would be available.

And in that sense, it was President Biden in the way that you’ve seen
him in many other contexts. And it was really important for him to be
able to look into the eyes of the family members to just reinforce his
own commitment to making sure that we get them home as rapidly as
possible.

Fundamentally, the United States, at the direction of the President, has
been prepared to take significant steps in order to secure the release
of Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan. We have communicated that to the
Russians. We’ve had direct discussions with the Russians on it on a
regular basis over the course of the past few months. Those
conversations are continuing.

I won’t say more from this podium about the precise details and nature
of them so I can protect the possibility that they will succeed. But the
bottom line is that President Biden is prepared to take hard decisions
to get them home. The Russians understand what we are prepared to do.
And from our perspective, it really is up to Moscow itself to then take
the hard decision to actually move forward with this.

And we will continue to keep you posted as things develop and as those
conversations continue at multiple levels, including through channels
between the White House and the Kremlin.

Q And, Jake, is the President planning to tell world leaders that his
view is that the pandemic is over? Is that the message on the world
stage?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think one of the core things that the President wants to
communicate when it comes to global health is that from the point of
view of dealing with pandemics, what COVID-19 should teach all of us is
that we darn well better be much better prepared for the next one. And
that means having a financing facility that the U.S. helps stand up at
the World Bank. It means making sure that we are more rapidly developing
vaccine manufacturing capability in the rest of the world. It means that
we have to be able to move testing and treatment to a much larger and
more rapid extent than we have so far.

And he will talk in his speech at the U.N. about the need for the world
to learn the fundamental lessons of COVID-19 so that we never again face
a circumstance like we did over the course of the past two years.

Q Jake, it sounds like that the main theme of the speech is going to be
on the core principles of the international order rather than this
passing of democracies versus autocracies. Is that a shift in framing?
And is that because you think that’s an argument that might be more
persuasive to other countries?

MR. SULLIVAN: So this is a speech by President Biden to the world. I can
promise you that he will talk about his support for democracy and his
belief that democracy, and not autocracy, is the model that best
delivers both for its own citizens and against transnational challenges.

That will continue to be a hallmark of President Biden’s foreign policy
and a hallmark of any major address that he gives around it.

He will also say that for every country in the world, whether they’re a
democracy or an autocracy, they’ve all signed up to the principles of
the U.N. Charter. So this is not, in our view, a shift or inconsistent
with the proposition that democracy is the right system to actually
deliver at the end of the day, but it is a way to speak to every country
gathered in that hall, including countries who recently have come out
and expressed more concern or more distancing from Russia, to say,
“Whatever you believe on X issue or Y issue and whatever your current
form of government, everyone should be prepared to stand together on the
basic underlying principle of the U.N. Charter.”

And in that respect, he is both going to be able to set out a vision for
how democracies can deliver for the world and what that world looks like
— a world of greater human rights and human dignity — and also be able
to speak collectively to the entire body about an issue of immediate,
urgent, global security significance.

Q Thanks, Jake. I wanted to ask you about the President’s meeting
tomorrow with British Prime Minister Truss. She indicated on her way to
New York today that a U.S.-UK trade deal is years away. Was that a
surprise to you guys? And what’s your reaction?

And then can you preview some of the meeting tomorrow, particularly what
the President might say about Northern Ireland and the post-Brexit talks
there?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, first, on a U.S.-UK trade deal, it’s — I didn’t hear
her say that, but it’s not a surprise to me because free trade
agreements take a long time to negotiate. I mean, that’s — if you look
back at the record of them, that would just be a fair statement of
reality about the sheer level of detail into which one must go to
complete a comprehensive free trade agreement.

And that’s doubly true with respect to a potential U.S.-UK trade
agreement because, as President Biden has said many times, he’s looking
to move beyond the old model of an FTA to a model that is actually more
geared to today’s economic realities and to the lessons of the last 30
years. So that’s going to require its own work as well.

With respect to the bilat tomorrow, I do think that they will talk about
the economic relationship between the U.S. and the UK. They’ll talk
about the current energy picture facing Europe and the United Kingdom,
as well as the United States.

They’ll, of course, talk about the war in Ukraine, where Prime Minister
Truss has indicated her robust and unwavering support for Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity.

They’ll discuss the challenge posed by the PRC.

And they will talk about Northern Ireland. And the President will
communicate his strong view that the Good Friday Agreement, which is the
touchstone of peace and stability in Northern Ireland, must be protected
and we must collectively take steps — the U.S., the UK, the parties in
Northern Ireland, the Republic of Ireland — to ensure that it is
protected.

And in that regard, he will encourage the UK and the European Union to
work out an effective outcome that ensures there is no threat to the
fundamental principles of the Good Friday Agreement. And he’ll speak in
some detail with her about that in the conversation.

Q Jake, on Iran, what is the President going to say in the speech about
Iran tomorrow? And is there anything about this week that offers the
opportunity to get talks back on track?

MR. SULLIVAN: He’s going to communicate what he’s been saying for quite
some time, which is the United States has been prepared for a mutual
compliance-for-compliance return to the JCPOA. And if Iran is prepared
to be serious about fulfilling its obligations and accepting that
formula, we could have a deal.

And you’ve heard the same thing, incidentally, from the Europeans, who
have made clear that there is a deal on the table and the ball is in
Iran’s court.

I do believe that there will be multiple opportunities for us to consult
with the other members of the P5+1, especially the Europeans, while
we’re in New York. And Iran, of course, will be having its own
engagements, not with any of the American delegation, but with other
delegations, including the Europeans.

We’ll see if anything comes to that. I don’t expect a breakthrough in
New York because it’s not the main venue for moving the JCPOA forward,
but we’ll see what happens.

I’ll take one more question.

Q Is Iran invited to the Leaders Reception or not?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m sorry?

Q Is Iran invited to the Leaders Reception or not?

MR. SULLIVAN: No.

Q Jake, given the latest border cross numbers and the large number of
Cubans among those, does — is the administration planning on resuming
migration talks at all with Cuba?

MR. SULLIVAN: We’ve actually had a series of discussions with the Cuban
government about getting visas restarted, which has been previously
announced — that the United States is providing a significant number of
visas for Cubans to be able to come directly from Cuba to the United
States and not make the harrowing journey. And we will continue to
engage with them on the question of migration.

I would make a larger point here, which is that I think the American
people need to understand that a significant part of the reason why
we’re seeing an increase in the number of people who are coming to
America’s southwestern border is because people are fleeing three
repressive dictatorships: Cuba, Venezuela, and Nicaragua. And citizens
in those three countries are struggling under the weight and yoke of the
repressive governments of those three countries, and they are trying to
get out.

And that’s what makes it so challenging for someone who works in the
national security space to see anyone from one of those three countries
— from Venezuela or Cuba or Nicaragua — be treated as some kind of pawn,
because these are people who are trying to escape brutal dictatorships.

Now, from the U.S.’s perspective, we will step up to our responsibility
to help the citizens of those three countries, but we also believe that
this is a region-wide responsibility.

So what you will see in the coming weeks is an enormous amount of
intensive diplomacy as we work with all of the countries of the region
to do their part to help deal with the migration issues coming out of
Cuba or Nicaragua and Venezuela in particular.

Thanks, guys. I’m sorry, I’m getting the (inaudible), so.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Take — why don’t you take one last one.

Q On the demonstrations that are happening in Iran right now with
respect to Mahsa Amini, I wonder if you could just quickly comment on
that.

MR. SULLIVAN: Yes. In fact, I sent out a tweet very shortly after the
reports emerged of this shocking event. And from our perspective, it is
a reflection of the complete repression and brutality of a regime that a
woman simply seeking to exercise her basic rights could die in this way.

And it is not surprising to us that we are seeing people of all walks of
life come out in Iran to object vigorously to that and say that is not
the kind of society that they want to live in.

It is not consistent with any country’s obligations under the U.N. — the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. And it’s something the United
States will speak out fiercely and unequivocally against, as I
previously have and I’m doing so again right now.

Thank you.

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much, Jake. He will be back another time.
I promise. I promise.

As you all know, the President is going to speak at about one o’clock,
so we don’t have a lot of time. We wanted to give you all as much time
with Jake since he hasn’t — I think the last time he was here was in
July.

So I have a couple of things at the top and then I’ll take as many
questions as we can.

As you all know, at 1:45, President Biden will deliver remarks on the
disclosure act, which Congress will be voting on this week. The
disclosure act would create new disclosure requirements for
campaign-related spending by super PACs, corporations, unions, political
organizations, and others.

President Biden will speak about the importance of protecting our
democracy by getting dark money out of our politics and closing off
loopholes that allow foreign entities and powerful special interests to
influence our elections and courts. President Biden believes that our
democracy must serve all people equally and that Republicans should join
Democrats this week in passing this bill.

Speaking of ensuring democracy serves all people equally, today marks
National Voter Registration Day. Today, we encourage all eligible
Americans to register to vote, as well as check their registration
location and status.

The right to vote is sacred in our country. Nevertheless,
Republican-controlled state legislatures across the country have passed
laws that make it harder to vote. Recent Supreme Court rulings have made
it even harder to counter discriminations.

The Biden-Harris administration remains committed to using every tool as
it dis- — at its disposal to protect the sacred right to vote.

Last year on the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, President Biden signed an
executive order directing an all-of-government effort to promote access
to voting. President Biden and Vice President Harris also continue to
urge the Senate to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement Act, and to change Senate rules to prevent a
minority of sena- — of senators from blocking action to protect this
fundamental right.

With that, Zeke, you want to take it away?

Q Thanks, Karine. You briefly mentioned the situation in Puerto Rico.
Does the President plan to visit and tour the damage there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to preview to you at this time on
a visit or travel to Puerto Rico.

Q And then, secondly, there are reports of a plane — the same plane that
that brought migrants to Martha’s Vineyard last week — potentially bring
migrants to the President’s home state of Delaware. Is the White House
tracking that situation? Is it working with state and local partners to
help provide shelter and resources to those migrants?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, yes, we’ve rec- — we have received word of the
flights. And, yes, we are coordinating closely with state officials and
local service providers who are prepared to welcome these families in an
orderly manner as they pursue their asylum claims.

Q Thanks, Karine. Staying on the border and the record number of arrests
that we are seeing, the President campaigned on addressing the root
causes of migration. He’s been in office now for almost two years. We
are seeing these apprehensions reach record levels. What exactly went
wrong here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, let me just give you — just to put it into context
and talk a little bit about the facts of what — of what you just
mentioned, the numbers that we have seen that was announced by DHS
yesterday.

So, first, these people are fleeing communism, as we have said, as you
heard DHS say as well. Falling authoritarian regimes in Venezuela,
Nicaragua, and Cuba are causing a new migration challenge across the
Western Hemisphere. So what we’re seeing is a new — definitely a new
pattern. So not just our southern border as well, but our Western,
clearly, Hemisphere.

But meanwhile, migration from Mexico and northern Central America has
come down for three consecutive months and is down by nearly half. And
what we saw — the increase with Nicaragua, Venezuela, and Cuba — is up
by 121 percent. So there is a change in the pattern that we have seen
most recently.

But what — we are doing what we can to work with our regional partners
to address this new challenge and process individuals as safely,
orderly, and humane way. That is a campaign commitment that the
President has made and continues to move forward with.

But you have to remember that not everyone who arrives at the border
gets to stay. There is a process in place that we have been moving
forward with. You heard us talk about the individual encounters at the
border has increased in this year in — historically, than any other
year.

DHS continues to expel migrants as required by court order under CDC’s
Title 42. And so — and those who cannot be expelled under Title 42 are
screened and processed to have their claims for relief heard by an
immigration judge in removal proceedings.

So, again, there is a process that we have been moving forward with.
More individuals are encountered at the border and move through and
without a legal basis — those without a legal basis to remain will be
removed or expelled.

Q Just a quick follow-up. You mentioned a change in pattern. Is that a
sign that there needs to be a change in strategy from the administration
to tackle it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think that what we have — what we have been able to
do — again, more individuals encountered, yes, at the border. And with —
those without a legal process who remain are removed and expelled this
year — more than any other year. So, you have seen how — how historic
the numbers have been and make sure that we are expelling folks.

But here’s the thing, you know, and we have said this many times: There
is — we have solutions. We have brought solutions on day one of this
administration. The President has been very clear. He put forth an
immigration — a comprehensive immigration bill, a piece of legislation.
And — and what we would like to see is Republicans decide to come to the
table and help us deal with a really systemic problem that we have seen
for decades when it comes to our immigration system — which, by the way,
was actually mismanaged and decimated by the last administration.

So, again, we have put forth a solution on how to move forward. But what
Republicans want to do — and we’ve been very clear; you’ve heard me talk
about this all last week — is they’re moving forward with political
stunt.

As Zeke was just asking me, what we’re seeing in Delaware today is a
political stunt that is being done by Governor DeSantis.

Let’s remember, these folks are fleeing communism. When you think about
Venezuela — what’s going on in Venezuela, when you think about what’s
going on in Nicaragua, when you think about what’s going on in Cuba:
They are fleeing political persecution only to be used as a political
pawn by the Florida governor. And that is something that the people in
Florida should be asking the governor: Why is he doing this?

Q The top Senate Republican on the Health Committee sent a letter to the
White House related the President’s comments about the pandemic being
over on the “60 Minutes,” saying there are contradictory policies in
place, if that’s the case, on offset emergency funding, enforcement of
vaccine mandates, continued federal emergency declarations. Does the
White House have a response to that, in terms of where policies
currently stand?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the President said and he was very clear in his “60
Minutes” interview that, you know, COVID remains a problem and we’re
fighting it. And we have to continue to make sure that we are fighting
this once-in-a-generation pandemic.

And so, here’s the thing: What he believes is we can acknowledge that —
the massive amount of progress that we have made. Just think about where
we were when this President walked into this administration — where,
again, a response to this once-in-a-generation pandemic was mismanaged
by the last administration.

Now, if you look at today, a hund- — 220 million people are fully
vaccinated. And now we are in a place where it is a lot more manageable,
where we know what works. There are tests. There are treatments. There
are vaccine, as I just laid out.

So, we know what works. We know the tools that are out there to fight
COVID. And for over six months — for over six months, Congress has been
made abundantly aware — as have all of you; you’ve heard us speak of
this, you’ve heard from the experts, you’ve heard from our doctors — of
our need for the funding to ensure we have access to these tools and
continue to have access to these sco- — tools.

And for over six months, there have been new excuses for why they do not
want to ensure that the U.S. remains on the — on the front froot \[sic\]
— on the front foot.

Let’s think about it — I mean, Jake mentioned this — about how about how
we have to be prepared for the next generation of vaccines and
treatments. We have to be prepared for the next potential pandemic,
ensuring that we’re leading the way when it comes to research, when it
comes to development, when it comes to innovating, and keeping testing
readily accessible.

So, ultimately, if we lose these things, we have to ask them — we have
to ask Republicans why didn’t they act. And so, that is how we’re going
to continue to move forward on this. We believe this COVID funding is
incredibly important for how we move into the future in fighting
pandemics.

Okay.

Q Two quick ones, Karine. First, I was just wondering if there were any
more UNGA one-on-ones that the President has scheduled besides Prime
Minister Truss.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything else to — to preview from what
Jake laid out moments ago.

Q And then, on Puerto Rico: I was just curious, you spoke at the top
about kind of the emergency response, but there is some kind of endemic
infrastructure issues that have led to the reasons why Puerto Rico has
such a weak grid. And I’m just curious, you know, why, given this
administration’s focus on infrastructure and the Infrastructure Bill, et
cetera — why more hasn’t been done to shore that up and what your plans
are there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, just on the grid — just to give you a little bit on
the update that we have: As damage assessments are currently underway,
but due to the scope and magnitude of the outage, full power restoration
will take at least several days. But on anything specific to that and
the power and the restoration, I definitely would refer you back to
Department of Energy.

Look, to your point, this is why the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law was
so critical and so historic and important as we’re dealing with
infrastructure and dealing with grids; dealing with, you know, our, you
know, our bridges, our tunnels — the things that is going to just not
only make us competitive just globally, but also deal with these types
of — when you have extreme weather, making sure that we are able to
endure and have an infrastructure that that holds up.

And so, again, you know, this is the importance of this historic
bipartisan infrastructure legislation. We will continue to have
conversations with the local government in Puerto Rico. Our team
continues to do that. I don’t have any specific numbers on how — on how
funding is going to be — be able to help Puerto Rico in the long run.

But this is something that the President has talked about for some time.
We’ve heard from, you know, the last administration — it was a joke
about how we were going to improve our infrastructure. This is a
President, along with a Congress, that made it happen because of his
leadership.

So, again, we’re going to help Puerto Rico in the best way that we can.
We’re going to continue to be in touch with them and — and see how we
can get them into a better place as it — as it relates to their
infrastructure.

Q Thanks, Karine. You said that the White House had received word of the
planes heading to Wilmington. Who have you received word from? And has
Governor DeSantis or somebody told the White House about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have the specifics of who — where we got
word from. I can tell you that we’ve been closely coordinating with the
folks in Delaware, the officials in Delaware. What I can tell you is
that our heads-up did not come from Governor DeSantis, because his only
goal is, as he’s made it really quite clear, is to create chaos and use
immigrants fleeing communism as political pawns. So, it’s about creating
political theater for him. It’s not about getting to a solution.

We have a solution in front of us that we are happy to have
bipartisanship on, on an issue that has been a broken system when we
look at the immigration system. But certainly, we did not get word from
Governor DeSantis. Again, this is a political stunt, but we have been in
close contact with the — with the Delaware government.

Q But we don’t know who the White House got alerted to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have specifics on where — on who alerted us. I
can tell you we’ve been in close contact with the Delaware officials on
the ground.

Q Thanks, Karine. Did the White House ever try to get in touch with
Governor DeSantis or Governor Abbott about this to try to reach some
type of understanding or a solution?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, there’s no understanding to be reached. They
are using people who are leaving a commun- — communist countries as
political stunt, instead of — instead of maybe what they should do is
call on their senators in their — in their state. Call on, you know,
Senator Marco Rubio. Ask Senator Rick Scott why is it that they did not
vote for historic funding when it comes to Department of Homeland
Security, making sure that we are dealing with this issue. That’s not
what they did.

This is, again, a political stunt that they are taking for their own —
for their own political narrative. It is not about really dealing with
what is happening and coming up with a solution.

Q And in terms of — in terms of that and understanding that the White
House does not support the use of people as a political stunt — but does
the White House support the idea or the concepts of states further from
the border accepting some more migrants, kind of sharing some of the
burden of state resources being used by increasing number of migrants,
whether they be from Venezuela, Cuba, or Nicaragua?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the way that we see it is alerting Fox News and not
city or state officials about a plan to abandon children fleeing
communism on the side of the street is not burden sharing. That is not
the definition that we see of burden sharing. It is a cruel,
premeditated political stunt. That is not what they’re — that is what
they are doing.

And so, we’re always — we’re always happy to have conversations about
ways to further improve border processing. And we could be doing more if
— again, if Republicans in Congress would stop blocking our efforts to
pass comprehensive immigration reform and also funding — historical
funding for DHS.

So, again, this is not what border \[burden\] sharing looks like. They
have used the lives of people who are fleeing persecution from communist
countries, using them as a political stunt.

Q If the governors were more open about and transparent, would that be
more acceptable?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What we’re saying is the President has put forward — on
day one, he put forward a comprehensive immigration reform, ways to deal
with what is at stake here days — the ways to deal with a broken
immigration system. He put that forward on day one.

And what we’re asking is for Republicans in Congress to help us come up
with a solution to look at what this President put forward on day one,
and they are not doing that. Instead, they’re doing political stunts.

I think I’m being pulled here. (Laughter.) The President is about to
speak, guys. Okay. Thank you, everybody.

1:02 P.M. EDT
