---
date: '2023-01-09'
published_time: 2023-01-09 15:16:09-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/09/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-womens-empowerment-event-in-mexico/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Women\u2019\
  s Empowerment Event in\_Mexico"
---
 
Mexico City, Mexico

Thank you, Patty. And thank you for the amazing work that you’ve done to
represent the United States and strengthen communities here in Mexico.
I’m also grateful to Ambassador Salazar, Hope, and Andrea for hosting us
today in your home.  
  
The Mexican-American art all around us is so powerful – I hope you all
had an opportunity to spend some time with it as well.  
  
¡Buenos Dias! Thank you all for joining us today. Meeting women like all
of you is so inspiring to me, and that’s why it’s important to lift up
your stories—so that they can inspire others as well.  
  
So, I’m honored to be here. From soft lullabies to battle cries for
justice, women nurse and nurture, teach and build, lead and dream our
world forward—each and every day. We have never been silent. But women
have been silenced.  
  
For many women around the world, simply raising their voice is a
struggle. They’ve had to fight for a seat at the table. When women are
left behind or pushed out, it hurts us all. But when women get the
opportunities that they deserve? There’s no limit to what they can do.  
  
When they earn money, they invest it in their families. They create more
economic growth.  When women have the ability to participate fully in
society, they create more stable and peaceful places to live.  
  
Our jobs are not just a pay check—they give us a sense of purpose and
pride. Being First Lady of the United States is the honor of my
lifetime. But when I took on this role, I knew I couldn’t give up the
career I had worked so hard to build. So I do what women do – I do both!
Teaching isn’t just what I do—it’s a part of who I am.  
  
Empowered women power our economies. They are the heart of a strong
democracy. And that’s why I’m so excited to be here with all of you
today.  
  
The United States understands how critical you are. And we’re committed
to supporting innovators just like you around the globe.  
  
This week, the Biden-Harris Administration released our first-ever U.S.
Strategy on Global Women’s Economic Security, which reflects our
commitment to growing economies by promoting gender parity. We’re
investing in fellowships and sharing best practices, mentoring
entrepreneurs, and working closely with rising leaders throughout the
world.   
  
I’m here today to honor you. Because the path you’ve walked hasn’t been
easy. You, too, have had to fight for your seat at the table. So, thank
you for the courage it takes to open a business and bet on yourself, to
create something out of nothing, and to bring others with you. Thank you
for mentoring the next generation of women leaders and showing us how
high women can rise. And thank you for making your communities and your
country stronger, every day.  
  
Now, I’d like to get to know you a little better. 

\###
