---
date: '2023-01-31'
modified_time: 2023-02-01 10:44:09-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-31 10:43:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/31/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-congressional-space-medal-of-honor-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Congressional Space Medal of Honor\_\
  Ceremony"
---
 
*Indian Treaty Room  
*Eisenhower Executive Office Building**

4:35 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a seat. 
Good afternoon.  
  
To the members of Congress who are here, the members of our
administration, and, of course, leaders of NASA and leaders of our
military, private sector partners, to all of you: This is a wonderful
afternoon of celebration — the celebration of excellence.  
  
So, today, for the first time in nearly 17 years, we award the highest
civilian honor that our nation can bestow upon our astronauts: the
Congressional Space Medal of Honor.  
  
Today, we welcome two American heroes to the White House: Colonel
Douglas Hurley and Colonel Robert Behnken.  
  
We also welcome their loved ones.  In fact, as many of you probably
know, for both Bob and Doug, space is a bit of a family business. 
(Laughter.)  Doug’s wife, Karen, has made multiple trips to the
International Space Station.  And Bob’s wize \[sic\], Me- — wife, Megan,
helped repair the Hubble Space Telescope.  
  
So it turns out it takes a whole family — (laughter) — to do the kind of
work that you all have done to allow us to explore the universe.  So,
thank you all, each and every one of you, for your service to our nation
and to our planet.  
  
So, early in the morning of July 21st, 2011, the Space Shuttle Atlantis
touched down for the last time on the tarmac of the Kennedy Space
Center.  
  
After 30 years of exploration, collaboration, and scientific discovery,
the Shuttle Program had come to an end.  
  
For our astronauts, and for all of the dedicated professionals at NASA,
and for our nation, it was a moment of profound pride to reflect on the
years of incredible progress made by the Shuttle and its crews.  
  
It was also a moment of real uncertainty.  
  
For three decades, the Space Shuttle had been America’s only vehicle
capable of carrying astronauts to orbit.  
  
But after the Shuttle was retired, some wondered whether the United
States could continue our longstanding leadership in space.  
  
Well, America had a vision.  
  
Even as the Shuttle wheeled off the runway at the Kennedy Space Center,
we were preparing to build a new space craft, one that would allow our
nation to lead the next era of human space flight, to make our vision
real.  
  
And so, we understood the importance of collaboration, and we then
turned not only inward to look at ourselves and our capacity, we also
turned to the private sector, including the scientists and the engineers
and technicians at SpaceX — a company whose innovation and agility has
revolutionized the commercial space industry.  
  
And we turned to two Americans who have dedicated their lives to the
service of our nation and to the exploration of space.  
  
Bob Behnken: an engineer who helped assemble the International Space
Station, a veteran of 10 space walks, and NASA’s Chief Astronaut.  
  
And we turned to Doug Hurley: a fighter pilot, a test pilot, and the
astronaut behind the controls of that final Shuttle flight.  
  
Together, Bob and Doug and the SpaceX team worked for years to design a
new crew capsule, aptly named the Crew Dragon.  
  
Every part of the capsule, from flight controls and emergency procedures
to computer displays and cockpit layout — all of that shaped by Bob and
Doug’s decades of know-how.  
  
Once the capsule was built, Bob and Doug spent hundreds of hours testing
thousands of flight scenarios.  They understood the stakes of their work
for our nation, for our world, and, importantly, for the astronauts who
would one day entrust their lives to the Dragon capsule.  
  
Last week, of course, our nation was reminded of the magnitude of that
responsibility.  
  
On Thursday, we observed NASA’s Day of Remembrance.  We honored the
members of the NASA family who gave their lives for our nation,
including the crews of Apollo 1, Space Shuttle Challenger, and, 20 years
ago tomorrow, Space Shuttle Columbia.  
  
Those brave Americans remain in our minds and in our hearts.  And we
remember their memory as we, today and every day, vow to advance their
legacy of exploration and of American leadership in space, and so that
is what we have done and will continue to do.  
  
Which brings me to May 30th, 2020.  Bob and Doug returned to the Kennedy
Space Center.  They suited up, they waved to their families, and they
rode an elevator up nearly 20 stories.  They strapped into their seats
and waited as the tanks beneath them filled with tens of thousands of
gallons of fuel.  And then, they launched.  
  
Yeah, they did.  (Laughter.)  
  
Millions of Americans watched that day.  On the hills and sand dunes of
Cape Canaveral; in living rooms, dorm rooms, classrooms across our
nation, we watched Bob and Doug’s rocket rise from the launch pad.  We
watched it climb into the sky and then disappear from our view.  
  
For the first time in almost a decade, we witnessed American astronauts
launch an American rocket from American soil.  And for the first time in
history, we saw astronauts reach orbit in a capsule built and launched
by the private sector.  
  
Sixty-four days later, we celebrated as those astronauts splashed down
safely off the Florida coast.  
  
Bob and Doug, together, have written the first page of a new chapter in
the history of American space flight.  
  
Through their ingenuity and bravery, they have helped rebuild America’s
bridge to low-Earth orbit and to the International Space Station, where
we conduct some of our most significant and advanced scientific
research.  
  
In fact, in April of 2021, on the second flight of the Dragon Capsule,
we saw Megan fly to the — to the International Space Station on the
Dragon Capsule.  And there she was.  She flew in the very same seat as
her husband and where he sat just a year before.  Think about that.  
  
And by partnering with commercial companies to advance their space
capabilities, these two and these families have enabled NASA to deepen
its focus on exploration; to invest in the first commercial space
stations; to return American astronauts to the Moon through the Artemis
program; and to go to Mars and beyond.  
  
In the coming years, there is no doubt hundreds of people will fly to
orbit in the capsule that they helped to test and build — career
astronauts and also entrepreneurs, educators, artists, and, yes, even
students.   
  
Folks who otherwise would have only been able to look up and wonder will
now be able to go to orbit and help make real the incredible potential
of space, and some of those future astronauts are in the audience right
now.  
  
Today, we are joined by three engineering students — where are you guys?
— Catie — (laughter) — Sayvon, and Hailu, who are three young leaders —
I see you guys — (laughter) — three young leaders who were inspired by
the work of these two extraordinary men, and who may, one day, stand on
their shoulders.  
  
So, Bob and Doug, on behalf of President Joe Biden, on behalf of the
United States Congress, and on behalf of the people of the United States
of America — and as I said to you when we were back in the room — on
behalf of people you may never meet but who will forever be impacted
because of your work, forever, it is my great honor to award you both
the Congressional Space Medal of Honor.  
  
And now, the Military Aide will read the citations.  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Colonel Douglas G. Hurley, United States Marine Corps,
Retired.   
  
From his distinguished service as a fighter pilot and test pilot, to his
pioneering career in space, Colonel Douglas G. Hurley has embodied the
spirit of bravery and resolve that defines our nation’s greatest
heroes.  
  
Colonel Hurley piloted the final mission of NASA’s Space Shuttle
Program, and served as Spacecraft Commander of NASA’s first crewed
commercial spaceflight mission, Demo-2.  His leadership in space has
paved the way for regular commercial missions to the International Space
Station, ushering in a new era of human spaceflight.  
  
For his extraordinary achievements on Earth and in space, our nation
honors Douglas G. Hurley.  
  
(The Congressional Space Medal of Honor is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
Colonel Robert L. Behnken, United States Air Force, Retired.  
  
Colonel Robert L. Behnken has dedicated his career to advancing what is
possible for humankind in space exploration.  Before making history as
Joint Operations Commander of NASA’s first crewed commercial spaceflight
mission, Demo-2, Colonel Behnken served our nation as flight test
engineer and helped assemble the International Space Station.  
  
Through his courage and dedication, Colonel Behnken has accelerated the
establishment of a new low-Earth orbit space economy.  For his
pioneering accomplishments, which have helped extend humanity’s reach
into outer space, our nation honors Robert L. Behnken.  
  
(The Congressional Space Medal of Honor is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Bob and Doug represent the best of our nation. 
There’s no question about it.  The courage, the commitment, the
brilliance, the vision, the ability to see and understand what is
possible and then to go for it — it represents the best of who we are as
a nation.  And in that way, you two inspire all of us.  And you really
serve as a real example of the power of the ambition and the aspirations
of our nation.  
  
So, congratulations to you both.  And thank you all for joining us, and
let’s have a wonderful reception.  Thank you all.  Have a good
afternoon.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                 4:51 P.M. EST  
