---
date: '2023-01-21'
modified_time: 2023-01-21 09:10:13-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-21 09:10:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-conference-of-mayors-winter-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the U.S. Conference of Mayors Winter\_Meeting"
---
 
East Room

(January 20, 2023)  

2:31 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: (Applause.) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you,
thank you. You better sit down. You don’t want this going to my head.
(Laughter.) A kid from Scranton.

Look, Mayor Suarez, thank you for your leadership at the conference.
(Clears throat.) Excuse me, I got a little frog in my throat. But — and,
Andy, thank you for that introduction.

You know, it’s wonderful to finally welcome all of you to the White
House after not being able to because of the pandemic for so long. We
appreciate it a great deal.

And some of you know I started my career as a county councilman —
(clears throat) — in the state of Delaware. And then I ran for the U.S.
Senate because serving as a local official was too hard. (Laughter.)
They know where you live. (Laughs.) They knock on your door. And I’ve
always had enormous respect for the job you do.

And, by the way, Suarez, you and I have something else in common. Do you
know what it is? We both married way above our station. (Laughter.) Way,
way above our station. (Laughs.) You all think I’m kidding. Some things
are just self-evident. (Laughter.)

Today — today is two years since I was sworn in as President.
(Applause.) And with your help — with your help, we’ve gotten a lot
done. I think if you look around the room, we’ve got a lot of Cabinet
members who were mayors. A lot of mayors. (Applause.)

You’ve got old Mitch Landrieu from New Orleans down there, you know. And
he — that’s like being mayor of a country. (Laughter.)

Yeah, I’ll tell you what. My daughter went down to Tulane University in
large part because his dad — it’s a long story, but — when he was mayor.
And I thought she was going to come home and talk — talking funny at me,
you know what I mean, from — (laughter) — from Bayou Lafourche or
something. And I —

But — and Mayor Pete is — (applause) — even though he’s the Secretary,
they still call him “Mayor Pete.”

And, you know, you got Marty Walsh from Boston. (Applause.) I don’t know
where Marty is.

We got a lot of mayors — a lot of mayors. And that’s why I think we’re
making such progress.

Look, the fact is that, you know, I was — it’s fitting that we are here
together today because you mayors know how to get things done. And
that’s not hyperbole; it’s a fact. Because you have no choice, as a
matter of fact.

Yesterday, I was in California where — grappling with historic —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT: California. (Applause.) Started off — the governor looked
at me, and he said, “Mr. President, we used to be the fifth-largest
economy in the world, and now we’re the fourth” — and that’s true — “in
the world.” I’ll tell you what. So, I genuflected, and we moved on.
(Laughter.)

I said, “That means you don’t need that $10 billion we just gave you,
right?” (Laughter.) And you all think I’m kidding. That’s what we did:
$10 billion. But all kidding aside, he’s a great governor and has
(inaudible) well. But, look, dealing with historic storms and flooding.

You know, when your town or city faces a crisis, it’s the mayor who gets
the first call. And I’ve seen it. I’ve traveled this country after
floods and tornadoes, wildfires, hurricanes.

As a matter of fact, I was kidding, but there’s a serious piece to it.
When I pointed out that — to the governor, “We got to sta- — stop taking
these helicopter rides.” Because I went over — I think it was the fifth
one in his state, traveling the state. And more of the forest has burned
down there up in Oregon than the entire state of — of Missouri. I mean,
it’s a long, long, long way. A lot of damage.

And I want to thank the mayors across the country for doing everything —
everything they can to recover and rebuild.

It matters that the ones who — you’re the ones who make sure, as trite
as it sounds, that the garbage gets picked up, the potholes get fixes,
the buses that you can catch to work and be able to continue to be there
on time, and so much more of significant consequence.

But those things are consequential. You affect people’s quality of life
more than any other group of people in the world.

And mayors know the measure of success isn’t how many partisan points
you’ve scored. It’s how many — how many problems you fix — can you fix
the problem.

When I came to office, we had a lot problems to fix. The — (the
microphone experiences technical difficulties).

Can you hear me?

The pandemic was raging. Our economy was reeling. But we acted together.
Now, two years in, it’s clearer than ever that our plan is working.
We’re building the economy from the bottom up and the middle out. Not
just the top down.

Because when we do that, by the way, the wealthy do very, very well. And
everybody — the poor have a shot, and the middle class can have a little
breathing room. An economy that benefits the folks in the Heartland as
well as in our cities and all across America.

And, you know, I remember — you know, I — as I said, my family — I was
born in Scranton, Pennsylvania. When coal died when I was in third
grade, we had to move.

But I go back to Scranton. Everybody is — the joke is: They’re from
Scranton. Everybody is from Scranton.

But think of all the towns you know — and some of you are mayors of —
that they go through school; they want to stay where their family is,
where their relatives are, where they know everything; and they have to
say, “Mom, I’ve got to leave. There’s no jobs here. There’s no jobs here
in my town.” I’m serious. I’m deadly earnest.

And what we’re trying to do is not just rebuild an economy, but bring
back the pride — the pride and the sense of belonging and the sense of
“I want to stay where I live — where I live now, where I’m able to do
what I want to do.” And that’s the whole purpose of what we’re trying to
do.

In our cities, when people used to move out — but, you know, now they’re
beginning to move back in. Cities are growing. Not just big cities,
small towns as well.

The economy that rewards work, where we don’t need a college degree to
provide for your family. It helps to have that college degree, but you
don’t need it to provide for your family.

Two years ago this week, 18 million people were out of work — two years
ago this week. Now the — that number is under 1.6 million, near the
lowest level in decades. (Applause.)

The unemployment rate is the lowest it’s been in 50 years. We’ve created
11 million jobs, 750,000 manufacturing jobs. Where in the hell is it
written to say we can’t be the manufacturing capital of the world in
this? (Applause.) I’m — I mean it. Not a joke.

I got so sick and tired of us exporting jobs and importing product.
We’re now importing jobs and exporting product. (Applause.) That’s what
we’re going to do — that’s what we’re doing. No, I really mean it.
Because we’re beginning to invest in ourselves again, because of you
all.

Over the last two years, more Americans applied to start a small
business than any year in history — any year on record. They make up 50
percent of all the economy in America.

Fewer families are facing foreclosure and eviction before — than before
the pandemic. Families in our communities are starting to breathe just a
little bit easier.

But, folks, it’s not only that. Pride is coming back to American
communities and to American cities. And that’s not just on the coasts,
as I said. It’s in every part of the country, including many towns and
cities and local communities that have been forgotten for much too long
— much too long.

And it’s not an accident. It’s a strategy that, when I came to office —
a strategy that we stuck to even in the face of a lot of criticism. A
strategy that we put into action. A strategy to re- — to recover and
rebuild and invest in America.

You know, hesitate a second — just to digress a little bit. We used to
invest 2 percent of our GDP in research and development every year.
That’s what we did in America. But then, along the way, we stopped. We
stopped investing in American research and development. We invest now
seven tenths of 1 percent.

We used to be number one. Now China is number two. We’re number eig- —

I mean, there’s — the things we’ve allowed to happen. It’s not been
conscious. It just, sort of, slipped up on us. We just — and the way in
which we changed the way we dealt with corporate law. A whole range of
things.

But we’re changing it. And we’re changing it. As I said, we’re going to
export product, not jobs.

With your support, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan to deliver
immediate economic relief to families and communities that needed it
most.

One study found that before the law was passed, 70 percent of the mayors
in America expected to cut critical jobs like teachers and transit
workers. Twenty-seven percent of you were facing steep cuts in police
department budgets. So, we acted.

And with the CARES Act we passed under the previous administration,
someone had to go to your — you had to go to your legislatures for
permission to get the money.

I’ve been the bad guy when I was a senator and as Vice President — a
pain in the neck. Why do you have to go through the legislature?
(Laughter.) No, no, I’m serious. I’m deadly earnest about that.

Because if you go through the legislature, you can’t blame them. They
say, “I want a piece of my district.” But you can apply directly.

(Inaudible) when I wrote the COPS bill years ago. You didn’t have to go
to the legislature or your governor to determine. You could apply
directly. If you qualified, you got it directly. You got the money
directly. Well, that’s what we’re talking about. (Applause.) And things
are beginning to change.

Instead, we made sure the American Rescue Plan empowered you directly —
directly. To avoid painful layoffs, you put cops back on the street,
firefighters back into jobs. You kept teachers in classrooms. You asked
for the money, and you qualified for it.

In Knoxville, Tennessee, Mayor Kincannon gave a pr- — premium pay — is
the mayor here?

MAYOR KINCANNON: Yes, I’m right here.

THE PRESIDENT: There you are, Mayor. Well, you gave premium pay to
police officers and firefighters to keep them on the job. It was a big
deal.

In Mesa, Arizona, Mayor Giles — I don’t know whether the mayor is here.
I’m going to get people in trouble calling this out. (Laughter.) Mr.
Mayor, how are you? Bought five new ambulances, hired behavioral health
clinicians to help the fire department in crisis calls.

And, by the way, you know, when a cop turns up in a — in a domestic
violence case or someone is on a — standing on edge of bridge, they
don’t need a cop. They need a psychi- — a psychologist with them. That’s
why we’re putting more people — no, I’m serious.

We’re beginning to understand this all again. And a lot of you are
applying for the money and using it for these mental health issues as
well.

You know, there are countless examples.

When it comes to public safety — when it comes to public safety, we know
the answer is not to defund the police. (Applause.) Not to defund the
police.

It’s to retrain some police. It’s to make sure there’s accountability.
It’s to make sure we know exactly what’s happening. But it’s not to
defund the police. They need more funding, and they need ancillary help
as well.

And so, the American Rescue Plan — (applause) — $350 billion of state
and local governments — and we urged them to make — it was available to
them — to make communities safer.

It turned out that — one of the largest investments in public safety
ever. And every single Republican in Congress voted against it. But a
lot of the mayors said — you talked to your representative and said,
“Whoa, whoa, what — that, you know — it may be Biden’s idea, but it —
not all his ideas are bad.” (Laughter.) Oh, you think I’m kidding? I’m
not kidding. You know? (Laughter.)

Many cities from Newark, New Jersey; to Baton Rouge, Louisiana —
(laughs) — but all kidding aside — have made major investments in
community violence intervention initiatives.

These studies have shown, in some cases, they can reduce violent crime
up to 60 percent, particularly among our youth. It doesn’t always do
that much, but it can do that — that much.

But as you mayors know better than most, when you see these problems of
crime and the opioid epidemic, you know that a big part of that is
mental health — mental health.

So, I want to take a moment to talk to you about how we’re addressing
that as well.

By the way, Vivek Murthy, the Surgeon General, has been really focusing
on this a great deal. A lot of you have worked with him.

Through the American Rescue Plan, we’ve provided initial funding for
cities to start to address some of the mental health needs arising from
the pandemic: $5 billion for states and community organizations to
deliver mental health and substance abuse treatment; $103 million in
funding specifically to address mental health on front — for frontline
health professionals, like nurses.

You’ve read — in your communities, you’ve dealt with your hospitals
where the nurses are just overworked and having serious, serious
problems, in terms of their own mental health.

But we know it wasn’t enough. So, bi- — the bipartisan Safer Communities
Act, and we went even further. That provides $10 billion to address
mental health needs. Two billion of that is for young people in
particular to pay for things like school counselors.

And we know what fentanyl is doing to families and communities all
across the country. We’ve worked hard to make sure the first responders
have what they need when they respond to overdoses for young people who
are dying.

And, by the way, we’ve confiscated enormous — an enormous amount of
fentanyl not just at the border, but beyond the border. We’ve
confiscated throughout — I think it’s — let me get the number here. I
don’t want to get it wrong. We’ve confiscated 379 million doses of
fentanyl. (Applause.)

And, by the way, 100,000 — and mostly kids — have died from fentanyl,
and it’s put in things that — that they never anticipated it’s part of.

As mayors, as you know how much this matters. This is why I brought many
former mayors into the administration. Keisha Lance Bottoms is here.
(Applause.) I said it was harder being mayor of Atlanta than being
President, but I don’t know. (Laughter.) I’m — I’m only — only kidding.

But all kidding aside, well, what — she’s a senior advisor on public
engagement, led the cities through the pandemic. She makes sure to bring
the perspective of local officials and community leaders to decisions we
make here at the White House.

Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, a former mayor in Iowa, is
strengthening our nation’s rural communities. And he really is. He’s a
smart, smart guy. He knows what he’s doing. And he — I know he’s the
Secretary of Agriculture, but what he’s doing: American grocery stores
are stocked while American farmers thrive, and our young people have
access to food when schools are closed.

Secretary of Housing and Urban Affairs Marcia Fudge. Marcia is right
here. She got a hell of a job. A former mayor in Ohio — (applause) —
working very — working very hard to close the wealth gap, expanding
efforts to build generational wealth through homeownership.

How did all — all the mainstream middle-class people get their wealth?
Ninety percent of them through investing in their homes. They were able
to buy a home. They built equity in their home. That’s how they were
able to borrow to get their kids to school. That’s how they built their
equity.

Well, the same thing is happening now, and she’s working really hard to
provide that opportunity.

And as well as combating homelessness, which a lot of you are dealing
with on your streets.

And while folks continue to recover, we’re also rebuilding. Mitch
Landrieu, the former mayor in New Orleans who was president of this
organization, is now my senior advisor and infrastructure coordinator to
help me rebuild America through a once-in-a-generation Bipartisan
Infrastructure Bill. It’s always hard to ma- — (applause). He’s and
working with all of you to modernize our nation’s roads, highways,
bridges, railroads, airports, ports, water systems, the — the Internet,
and so much more.

Last year alone, nearly 7,000 projects were identified and are underway
with funding from the infrastructure law. By the end of this year,
that’ll be more than 20,000 — within 20,000.

If I can say it again for a second, to digress slightly: One of the
things I’ve been telling the press — and they look at me, like — well,
they look at me like I’m wonderful, right? (Laughter.)

No, all — no, all kidding aside, why I keep saying it: We did a lot last
year with your help. It’s only now beginning to bear fruit, because we
passed this infrastructure bill. That’s a 10-year bill, and it’s taking
time to get it off the ground.

Mitch McConnell and I just announced the pr- — the construction of a new
bridge — a billion dollars — across the Ohio River. It’s going to
fundamentally change transportation north and south not just from Ohio
and Kentucky, but across — across the nation.

So many things are happening. We passed the bill relating to the cost of
a — of insulin. Well, guess what? Only now, as of January 1st, a lot of
people are waking up and finding out, if they’re on Medicare, they only
have to pay 35 bucks a month instead of 400 bucks a month to save their
lives. (Applause.)

And I want the (inaudible) to be able to make money. But I tell you
what, (inaudible) be able to explain when they raise the price that as —
beyond inflation, that they’ve invested more money in what they did in
order to justify the price. Otherwise, guess what? We’re going to go
back and get it from them — (laughter) — under the law. No, I’m serious.
I’m serious.

We’re — so we’re — so we’re doing things that just make some common
sense — just some common sense because you all.

Labor Secretary Marty Walsh, former mayor of Boston — he’s parking his
cars. (Said in Boston accent.) (Applause.) I kid Marty.

But he’s making sure these projects have prevailing wage and purporting
them — and purporting to move and suggest for significant
apprenticeships so people can make a living off of what they’re doing.

And then, by the way, I’m going to talk in a minute about the — dealing
with the whole idea of what we’re doing in terms of new investments and
the — with the CHIPS legislation.

Well, one of the leading investors of over — I think it’s, so far, $22
billion in the United States is from another country. I said, “Why are
you investing in America?” He said, “Because you got the best workers,
and you’re the safest environment in the world in which we can do this.”

So we’re helping to rebuild our economy with jobs that don’t require
four-year degrees, promoting an economy that works for middle-class and
working-class Americans.

Transportation Secretary Pete is here. Look, we know the — better known
as “Mayor Pete” — (laughter) — but he’s working with many of you to
address those quality-of-life issues that really matter to people you
serve, not just through big bridges and highway projects, but through —
though they’re important — but also through smaller projects that are
critical to your cities.

Like in Madison, Wisconsin, where Mayor Rhodes-Conway is buying 46
electric buses, replacing those dirty diesels — bad for the health of
the environment and making it clear. No, I’m serious. It’s a big deal.
Or helping the city rebuild airport. (Applause.) There you are, okay.
(Applause.)

MAYOR RHODES-CONWAY: Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you.

And it means our kids aren’t going to be inhaling that diesel fumes when
they get off the bus. For real. It matters. Environmentally, it matters,
as well.

And so, you know, we’re helping cities rebuild airport terminals in
Atlanta with Mayor Andre Dickens, in Orlando with Mayor Buddy Dyer, in
LA with Karen Bass.

And with the leadership of Vice President Harris, we’re partnering with
you to deliver affordable high-speed Internet to every single household
in America — affordable high-speed Internet — so no parent has to park
in front of a McDonald’s when — to do the homework with their kid when
they’re on — when the school is not in session, when they can’t go to
school. It’s a big deal.

It’s a big deal for farmers, I might add, and a whole lot of other
people that know exactly what products are costing and selling for.

And now we’re — 50 million households have affordable Internet that they
didn’t have just before we passed the law.

We’re also making the biggest investment ever — ever, ever — in climate:
the Inflation Reduction Act. (Applause.)

We’re creating millions of good-paying jobs and investing in fence-line
communities that have suffered the most as a consequence of being
smothered by pollution. Think of the Cancer Alley in Louisiana or Route
9 in Delaware, where all those facilities are. Well, we made a
commitment. We’re going to invest, first and foremost, as we clean up
those communities (inaudible) the people from that community. And we’re
going to invest in that community to make that community better again.

Our economic agenda ignited a manufacturing boom, a semiconductor boom,
the battery boom, the electric vehicle boom. We’re making things in
America again and in every part of America, cities large and small.

The mayor of Phoenix, Kate — is Kate here? Thank you, Kate, for being
here. (Applause.) I was with her last month to announce a small
investment: $40 billion. (Laughter.) $40 billion invested by TSC — TMSC
\[TSMC\], the two semiconductor factories and thousands of union workers
helping to build them.

And, Andy, you know, I — the “Field of Dreams” outside of Columbus,
where Intel is investing 100 acres, but they’re investing $20 billion to
expand semiconductor manufacturing. I said 100 — 1,000 acres. I dubbed
it — I didn’t mean to; I shouldn’t have — but I said this is a “Field of
Dreams.” It is. It’s a “Field of Dreams.”

And, by the way, of those jobs, about — of those 12,000 jobs, 7,000 are
construction jobs. But guess what? They’re paying prevailing wage. And
those 5,000 jobs left, the average salary at those places, they tell me,
are going to be 123,000 bucks a year, and you don’t need a college
degree to do those jobs. (Applause.)

This is, in part, urged by all of you. This happened in no small — small
part because of bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act. Everybody signed on.

The folks who joined me at the bill signing and other victories, with
your support, so many of you signed the first — we’ve signed the first
major gun legislation in 30 years. (Applause.)

Now I’ll say what I’ve said before, and not all of you are going to
agree with me, but we’re going to ban assault weapons. I did it once,
and we’re going to do it again. (Applause.) And the number of bullets
that can be in a clip.

On Sunday, we acknowledge what would have been the 50th anniversary of
Roe v. Wade. We’re continuing to fight and protect a woman’s right to
choose.

Last year — (applause) — and last year, when I held the
first-of-its-kind White House summit, at the request of others, against
hate-fueled violence, this group led the effort with 150 mayors to sign
a compact — Democrats, Republicans, independents — to prevent and
address this type of violence in our communities. I’m committed to
continuing this work with all of you, but I need you badly.

But there’s more to do. As was mentioned by the — by your president,
immigration is another major issue affecting many of your communities,
particularly border communities and near — and near communities.

I visited the border earlier this month, the first time as President.
I’ve been there before, but for the first time as President. And I’m
taking action where I have the legal capacity to do so. I’ll continue to
call on Congress to act to pass comprehensive immigration reform to fix
the system. (Applause.)

The first bill I introduced was a comprehensive reform legislation on
immigration. But because of some in the Congress, they refused to
consider it. They found it a better issue to campaign on than an issue
to solve.

So, we have a choice: They can keep using immigration to try to score
political points, or we can help solve the problem. Immigration reform
used to be a bipartisan issue. And we can make it that again, in my
view.

Let me close with this: I ran for office for three reasons. One was —
and I was — even my campaign team thought I was wrong, in terms of what
the basis upon which I was running. But one of the things after — you
know, I — when I got elected as a 29-year-old kid to the Senate — I had
to wait to be — legally be — to be able to be sworn in, because I wasn’t
old enough. No — no joke. I — you know, I was — they talked about, you
know, my being, you know, the youngest; I wasn’t. There was one younger,
elected popularly, than I was.

But, you know, I spent a lot of time — I used to get asked all the time,
Mr. Mayor, “What’s the secret?” Because if I won against a really good
guy, he was a decent man, we never had a cross word with us (inaudible)
a progressive Republican who helped write the Clean Water and Clean Air
Act, et cetera. But we had disagreements on a number of other things.
And second time I ran, he actually endorsed me.

But the point of this is — it’s simple. I used to get asked, “What’s the
— there must be a secret. If you could have won, there must be some
secret.”

And I used to think about it. People, for the next three, four years
would ask me that, who were running for office in Delaware. And I
finally figured it out. And you all are successful, and you know it. I
said, “The secret is, have you figured out what’s worth losing over?
Have you figured out what’s so important to you, you’d rather lose than
win and have to compromise on it?”

And so, when I ran this time — and I had not planned on running again,
and all you were probably saying, “Why the hell didn’t you follow your
instinct?” — (laughter) — but — but I honest to God didn’t. My son had
passed away, and I had no desire to — I was a professor at the
University of Pennsylvania. Things were going fine.

To make a long story short, when I did, I decided there were three
reasons to run. And I mean it. One was to restore the soul of America —
the decency, honor, the idea we could deal with one another. (Applause.)
No, I — I — I genuinely mean it.

(Inaudible) the way — and I’ve been this way my whole career — how we
build the economy, from the bottom up and the middle out. For real. I —
look, I come from the state of corporate America. More corporations are
incorporated in my state than every other one of your states combined.
Combined. And I got elected seven times though. So, you know, I wasn’t
always anti-corporate, but I have a different view in terms of what the
priority should be.

And so, as I said, when the middle does well, they generate hope, give
chance to the working class. And when they do well, the wealthy do very,
very well.

Well, and the third reason I ran, which has been turned out to be the
hardest to deal with, and that’s unite the country. We are a democracy.
We cannot be sustained if we stay 50 different islands or two different
parties that no longer talk to one another.

For the last two years since my inauguration, I think we made some
progress, in large part because of many of you sitting in this room. And
I’m really optimistic in the year ahead that we’re implementing the laws
we’ve already passed. We will deliver real benefits, and people are
going to feel them in their everyday lives.

You know, that work we’re going to continue to do together. Together,
we’re proving that every city and town in this country, our best days
are ahead of us, not behind us. And I really mean it.

I was asked by my senior team — and Peter remembers it: If I could do
anything to change the attitude of optimism in America, what was the one
thing I’d do? Just if I could change one thing. It’s going to sound
bizarre what I tell you. I said I’d cure cancer. And they looked at me
like, “Well, cure cancer?” Because nobody thinks — it’s the most
frightening thing to people. And if we did it, America can do big things
again.

There’s nothing beyond our capacity. I swear to God. There is nothing
beyond the capacity of the United States of America. Remember who in
hell we are. We’re the United States of America. When we work together,
there’s nothing beyond our capacity. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
(Applause.) We got to work together, folks.

God bless you all. May God protect our troops. (Applause.) And now I’m
going to turn it over to Julie. (Applause.) Thank you.

They gave me a different mic they can turn off. So, I —

MS. RODRIGUEZ: Thank you so much, Mr. President. And now we have a
couple of questions that we will take from a couple of mayors.

We’ll start with Mayor Tishaura Jones from St. Louis, Missouri.

MAYOR JONES: Good afternoon, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT: Mayor, how are you?

MAYOR JONES: Great. Great. Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
and the CHIPS and Science Act, we’re seeing jobs return to our cities,
and we’re preparing our citizens for the many opportunities to come.
What can we as mayors do to help you further your agenda of shoring up
our national security and bring more high-quality jobs to America’s
cities?

THE PRESIDENT: I think two things. One, be realistic and don’t confuse
the national debt with — with debt reduction on a yearly basis.

The debt we’re paying on — and we’re going to have a little discussion
about that with the — with the new Majority Leader of the House — has
accumulated over 200 years. Over 200 years. Not a joke. That’s how long
— that’s what — that’s what the national debt is. It’s over, you know,
$31 trillion, but it’s over 200 years.

And one quarter of that debt — one quarter of that debt was accumulated
in the four years of my predecessor. One quarter of it.

So what we’ve actually done, Mayor, we’ve actually cut the deficit on a
yearly basis. In the first year, because of what you — now, I’m not
being solicitous — because of what you all did — $350 billion. And last
year — this year, we cut that deficit on a yearly basis by over a
trillion dollars. So, it’s over a trillion — roughly — four hundred
billion dollars we’ve cut the deficit, the yearly deficit — the year to
year.

We got to focus on making sure we do not accumulate more debt on the
historic 200 years and gradually continue to reduce it.

One of the things that we’ve done is: The — the budget we’re going to be
introducing, and you all are going to see, is expected to reduce the
debt another trillion dollars this next year by spending more — spending
less than we — than we — spending less than we bring in.

Now, the big debate — and I’ll be honest with you, and I’m going to talk
about in the State of the Union — is a fundamental disagreement on what
we should do to cut — what — what do we cut? Well, it’s not just
cutting. What do you raise? What taxes do people pay? How do they pay
their taxes, and do they pay it fairly?

And so, one of the things that’s going to be a big issue in dealing with
the national debt that could — if we don’t meet our national debt and
renege on the first time, we have a calamity that exceeds anything
that’s ever happened financially in the United States.

And so, one of the things that we’re going to do is it’s going to get
down to a decision of whether do we, in fact, make sure that folks — do
we cut Social Security to raise taxes on trillionaires? Bil- — I mean,
billionaires. There’s 745 or -50 billionaires in America. Average tax
rate they pay is 2 percent. I think you should be able to be a
billionaire, but I think you should pay a little more than 2 percent.
(Applause.)

No, no, I — I’m — I’m — and, by the way, I’m — I’m — I’m not trying to —
as Mayor Duggan knows me well, I’m not trying to be alarming about it.
But, I mean, it’s a reality.

Now, the argument — there’s a lot of arguments why that shouldn’t be,
because they generate so much energy and so much growth, et cetera. But
there’s a lot of things we can do.

Now, the option that’s being — is going to be offered, you’re going to
see, is they want to — the way to deal with cutting that debt is to cut
Social Security, cut Medicaid. We got to do something about Social
Security and Med- —

No, but — but this is — these are the kind of debates we’re going to
have. And they’re going to be honest debates.

For you, it seems to me — for a mayor, the things that I believe — and I
have not been a mayor, but I think I’ve watched long enough to know the
difference between great ones like you and folks who don’t do much —
(laughter) — or don’t — I shouldn’t say “don’t do much.” I shouldn’t say
that. Who have had more difficult — is focus on the things that make
your city unique and make it grow.

What are the things that make it grow? Well, first of all, let me — I
could go on, but I’m just going to give you one example.

We’re in a situation where, if you were a — one of the reasons why
America became the most advanced and economically prosperous nation in
the 21st century: We’re the first nation in the world have a universal
education system, ga- — grades 1 through 12. Now, others had systems
that were superior to ours, in terms of their exclusiveness, but not
universal.

Now, I wonder if anybody — if today we were starting off and saying,
“Oh, we’re going to decide — we decide we’re going to have to have a
universal education system,” would anybody think, in the second quarter
of the 21st century, that 12 years was enough to compete? I don’t think
so. For — I mean, for real.

So, a lot of you are doing a lot of experimental work, in terms of not
just pre-K, but you’re doing it in terms of education — teaching kids to
read, write, add, and subtract at three and four and five years old, and
not — and you’re focusing on apprentice programs after — after college.

You’re focusing on — I mean, after high school. And you’re focusing in
high school on allowing people to learn trades instead of — remember,
there used to be even — even you’re old enough to remember, they’re —
not you, Mayor. (Laughter.)

But when, you know, there — there were shop classes in school where
people learned whether they could — they’re comfortable working with
their hands, whether they — so, there’s a lot of things that we can do
in education.

There’s a lot of things you can also do in terms of dealing with — I’m
going to get you a lot more money, God willing, because I think we have
universal support for it, beyond the money that came out of the original
legislation. There’s proposal that I’ve just presented to — I’m the guy
that wrote the community policing law but got very bad publicity.

But guess what? People are figuring out — guess what? — it works. The
people who most need the help, the most victimized are the poorest
communities. So, we need cops in those communities from those
communities, but cops that are held accountable to everything that they
say we’re supposed to do. And we can do that.

So, focusing on law enforcement that, in fact, is equitable; focusing on
— you know, for example, nationally, I still think we should have the
George Floyd legislation, but I didn’t able to do that. So, what I was
able to do — I said no-knock warrants are limited significantly. We’re
in a situation where you have to — no chokeholds. There are certain
basic things.

You know, when I was coming up as a kid, you know, cops were learned to
— you know, required to learn to shoot to kill. Well, you ought to be
able to shoot to stop. You know? Everything shouldn’t be an extreme.
There’s — so the way we train police officers is changing.

And there’s a lot of things you can look at to determine whether or not
you can affect the safety of your city. And — and also, I think that —
well, I’m not going to go on, but — so there’s a lot of things you can
do. Because I believe you’ll have the economic wherewithal, through the
programs and the federal government not telling you what to do, but
giving you the wherewithal to do the things that you think most need to
be done. And every community has a slightly different need — a slightly
different need, in terms of emphasis.

And, you know, I think one of the great mayors in the country is Duggan
from Detroit. Not a joke. I got a — I was — (applause) — I’ll tell you
what: He inherited a hell of a situation.

And I remember Barack Obama turned to me one day and said — not — not a
joke — “Joe, fix Detroit.” I said, “Oh, no problem.” (Laughter.) “No
problem.” Well, I got to know Detroit. I found out things the mayor
taught me was — guess what? — that something was as close to 70 percent
of the people in this — 60 percent of the people in the city who were
high school educated, had jobs — they were outside the city. And they
couldn’t get there. They didn’t have — 60 percent of them didn’t have
cars. So, we ended up getting — what? — 20 new buses, was it, initially?

I mean, you know, just practical things to determine what are the things
that both allow neighborhoods to stay united and move.

And, again, there’s a lot — and one of the things that — that Mayor
Landrieu, as I still call him the “mayor,” but he’s much more than that.
He — he’s running this show for me because we also have — I can’t
remember the — I asked for the phone number, and I forgot it.

MAYOR LANDRIEU: 881-

THE PRESIDENT: 881-

MAYOR LANDRIEU: 89-

THE PRESIDENT: 89-

MAYOR LANDRIEU: 46.

THE PRESIDENT: 46.

That you can call because we have people in here — no, no — no, I’m not
joking. A lot of people know we have these programs, but they’re hard to
navigate. So, you can pick up the phone and call. “How do I get the
money to do A, B, C, or D? Can I do this with that?” — to cut through
the red tape.

Anyway, I hope I answered —

MS. RODRIGUEZ: Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: (Laughter.) You’re about to cut me off.

MS. RODRIGUEZ: Thank you, Mr. President. We do have one more question
from Mayor Schieve, from Reno, Nevada.

MAYOR SCHIEVE: Hi, thank you. (Applause.) So, first of all, thank you
for inviting us to your home. We love what you’ve done with the place.
(Laughter.) It’s beautiful.

And also, I want to say thank you —

THE PRESIDENT: You like museums, right? (Laughter.)

MAYOR SCHIEVE: I want to say thank you from the bottom of all of our
hearts. I know everyone in the room is so grateful that you have brought
mayors into your Cabinet. I think it should be a requirement of every
President. (Applause.)

Mayor Landrieu, I love you. Mayor Pete, I love you. And I honestly
believe, like, more has been done because of that.

And so, thank you so much for your leadership. We are so grateful.

THE PRESIDENT: We have, what, six — six mayors in Cabinet positions?

MAYOR SCHIEVE: I think six. All right, maybe we can get to 12?
(Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: Well, we have —

MAYOR SCHIEVE: I know six more in here that would like to come.

THE PRESIDENT: We have more women than men. (Laughter.)

MAYOR SCHIEVE: See? Love that too. Love that too. (Applause.)

So, you talked a little bit about mental health, and I want to say thank
you so much for your leadership on that. It means the world to me. We
are so fortunate to work with your Surgeon General. He is fantastic. He
is fantastic. (Applause.)

So, all your mayors in the room are going to become mental health
warriors. And we’re going to be addressing addiction and loss and grief.
And I’m going to ask you something very personal. You’ve had a lot of
loss and grief in your life. And I know over the last few years, a lot
of Americans have had a loss — a lot of loss and grief because of the
pandemic.

What would be your — what would — what would you say to them, and your
advice to someone experiencing personal loss and grief?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, as close staff knows, I spend a lot
of time with folks who have gone through loss — wife, daughter, husband,
children, et cetera.

And, granted, I did lose my wife and daughter right after I got elected
to the Senate. A tractor trailer broadsided them, killed my wife and
daughter. And my two boys were little boys; they were on top of their
deceased mom and sister for a long while because it took the — my local
fire department a long time to get the Jaws of Life to get them out.

And then I — the guy who should be standing here, if there was any Biden
who was going to be President — and I’m not — it’s not hyperbole — is my
son Beau. He’s more qualified than I was.

And — but he — he decided — I’ll never forget. He asked me one Friday,
he said, “Dad, what are you doing on Friday?” And I said, “What do you
need?” He said, “I’d like you to swear me in.” I said, “Swear you in?
You’re Attorney General of the state of Delaware. Swearing you in to
what?” He said, “I joined the United States National Guard, the Delaware
National Guard.”

And then, when they — his unit got sent, he didn’t have to go but he got
an exemption to go as long as he gave up the seat. And, you know, that
was tough.

But you know what? I had family. I had an incredible wife. No man
deserves one great love, let alone two. And I had a mom and a dad and a
sister and a brother who were alive.

And — and, for example, when I — when the accident happened, early on —
my sister is my best friend in the world. Gave up her home, and she and
her husband moved into my house to help me raise my kids. Without being
asked. Just moved in and — and — and, by the way, five days after I was
married, they were gone. (Laughter.)

But I say that not about me, but it’s about what mental health does. I
had people around me that were there to help me. I was lucky.

I sti- — everybody thinks I commuted every day for — I’ve traveled over
1,200,000 miles on Amtrak. Not a joke. I commuted every single day for
36 years — and then beyond that, as Vice President — to go home.
Everybody thought I got — went home because — I went home because I
couldn’t afford two places. But, anyway — no — (laughter).

I went home because I’d get to, you know, kiss my boys goodnight and lay
down, we’d say our prayers. And then my daughter, et cetera. But I had
my mother. I had my mother there.

Every morning, I’d drop the boys off when they were little at my mom’s
house. And then later, I’d be able to drive them to school, and they’d
be picked up. But my point is, I had so much help. And I had
psychological help.

Everywhere and down, there was someone there to, basically, hold my
hand. Well, that’s the mental health that a lot of families don’t have.
They don’t have.

And a lot of — and a lot of folks are in a situation where if they just
had somebody to talk to, they just had — and that’s why I think some of
the things we can do that can also help families going through some
really difficult times is, for example, a preschool education. Reading,
writing, arithm- — age three.

That does two things. It helps your kid get an advantage, but it also
helps mom or dad or a single parent or parents who are going through
hell to have somebody there until five o’clock taking care of your kid
by the — while they’re learning.

So, there’s a lot of things that it does, that gives people — but in
addition to that, people who’ve gone through really tough times with
drug addiction and a whole range of other things — alcoholism — they
also are in a situation where they find themselves being able to have
the kind of medical help that is needed in the mental health side of it.

And so I just think having people to reach out who are professionals,
who know how to deal with people going through trauma, tragedy, or — or
self-inflicted wounds that they’ve had. And — and it makes a gigantic
difference.

The need for — I mean, look at what’s happened. And I think we — I
sometimes underestimate it because I stopped thinking about it, but I’m
sure you don’t: We lost 1 — over 1 million people in several years to
COVID.

What that means is — and the study was done that there are eight people
close to every one of those — on average — those 1 million people. How
many mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters, uncle, aunts, got up in the
morning or sat down for dinner at night and there was an empty chair?
How many? And what impact does that have on the rest of the family?

And there’s a lot of tricks that you can be taught — a lot of things you
can do to engage the children who survive, engage the children who
aren’t addicted, engage the parent who — so I just think there’s so many
things that you can do.

And the reason I gave you my personal story was: I think it’s just about
knowing somebody is there, knowing somebody you can reach out to when
you get scared and hold their hand. Whether it’s a drug problem, whether
it’s a physical problem, whether it’s just a —

And, by the way, my wife, Jill, got very engaged with the Brits and U.S.
military in dealing with trying to convince people —

Think of the military. The one thing you’re taught to, as a — as a — as
a warrior, is never complain, never explain, man. Don’t complain. Well,
guess what? Mental health is a problem. It’s a serious problem. You have
more people dying of suicide in the United States military than any
other reason today — more people.

And so we got involved in reaching out to help families so that you
don’t make it — and then I’ll conclude with this.

We have to take the stigma off of mental health. Mental health is no
different than if you break your arm or your leg. No, it really isn’t.
It’s the God’s truth. It is a problem that is a medical problem.

And so, hardest part is to get people — a lot of people — I’d say most
people — to say — to acknowledge that “I’m getting help.” “I’m getting
help.”

That’s why we had this effort to deal — my wife dealt with this program
to provide for health for, you know, post-traumatic stress for so many —
so many warriors.

Pete, you — you toted a rifle, man. You were there. You see all the
people.

I don’t know how many people that — you just — that need the help. But
they — it’s a help that you need any more than you need if you broke
your leg. But we got to take the stigma away — the stigma away from the
notion that you need mental health. Because it’s no different.

And, by the way, think of this: How many folks do you know, how many
cops on your department need some mental health because they’re
suffering from post-traumatic stress, what they went through?

I mean, we — we don’t look at them and say, you know,  
“They’re weak.” But, you know, it’s just about —

Anyway, we just got to reach out and change the notion of a stigma
associated with the notion of seeking mental health. And it starts
early.

When you — you can detect, with children, whether they need some
guidance really — or, it doesn’t mean they’re, quote, “crazy”; it means
they have some disposition that has to be treated. And there’s a lot
that can be done.

I’m talking too much. I apologize, guys. Thank you all very much for
(inaudible). (Applause.)

3:20 P.M. EST
