---
date: '2023-01-23'
modified_time: 2023-01-23 18:27:56-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-23 18:27:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-secretary-of-energy-jennifer-granholm-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Secretary of Energy\
  \ Jennifer\_Granholm"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:44 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Happy Monday.  As many of
you are tracking, this week, House Republicans will vote to raise gas
prices on American families.  The contrast in priorities could not be
more stark.  The President spent the last two years, as you know, doing
everything he could to lower gas prices for American families, and
prices are down about $1.60 a gallon since last summer.  
  
Now, House Republicans are using their narrow majority to force the
American people to pay higher gas prices, just as big oil companies are
amassing record profits.  What’s even more alarming is that this isn’t —
this is only — this is not the only attempt by House Republicans’
majority to raise costs on middle — middle-class families.   
  
House Republicans are also pushing a tax increase on middle-class
families, an inflation-worsening tax cut for the rich, and high
prescription drug costs as well.   
  
These extreme policies would subject working families to immense
financial pain and balloon our deficit, all just to benefit the
wealthiest taxpayers and big corporations.  
  
Joining me today, as you all see to my right, is Energy Secretary
Jennifer Granholm to talk about how the House Republicans’ latest
attempt to raise prices for American families will result in oil supply
shortages and help Putin’s war aims by interfering with our ability to
release oil.  
  
Secretary Granholm, the floor is yours.  Thank you for joining us.  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Great.  Thank you so much, Karine.  Appreciate
it.  
  
Hello, everybody.  I’m honored to be here again.  As Karine said, you
know, President Biden really has been singularly focused on reducing
costs for American families, especially energy costs, especially both
transportation as well as at home, whether it’s, you know, increasing
the biofuel blends of gasoline to offering additional funds through
weatherization for lowering costs for low- and moderate-income
households.  
  
But particularly, he has acted to shore up additional oil supply
following the market disruptions that were the result of Vladimir
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.  Coordinating with allies and with partners
through the International Energy Agency, he secured globally a
collective release of 240 million barrels of oil from strategic
petroleum reserves worldwide.  
  
As Karine said, the average price of a gallon of gas is now down about
$1.60 from last summer’s peak, about a 30 percent decline.  And, in
fact, prices are lower today — gas prices are — than what they were at
the start of Russia’s invasion.  
  
Analysts who have looked at this have credited the releases from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve for filling the supply gaps that were
resulting from the invasion and the lessening of Russian oil on a global
market, and have credited the SPR with lowering prices.  
  
Earlier in January, for example, the Global Head of Energy Analysis for
the Oil Price Information Service said, and I’m quoting him — his name
is Tom Kloza — “There is no question that SPR sales mitigated the price
impact of crude last year.”  
  
Yet, as Karine said, House Republicans are now pursuing this extreme
agenda that risks worse- — worsening supply shortages in times of
crisis, and risks raising prices — gas prices for American families.  
  
When you consider H.R. 21, which is a bill that they’ve introduced, it
needlessly aims to weaken the Strategic Petroleum Reserve’s usefulness
as a tool to ensure energy security in America.  The SPR — the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve — gives us the means to increase supply when the
market need it — needs it most, and it gives us the tool to increase it
quickly — “quickly” being the operative word.  Speed is key.  
  
But H.R. 21 would impose unnecessary, unhelpful restrictions on when the
SPR can be used to help provide supply.  It would require these
arbitrary reports regarding energy production on federal lands before
waiving any new restrictions.  It would not offer any tangible benefits
to the American people.  Instead, it would interfere with our ability to
be responsive to release oil de- — during an international emergency,
helping Putin’s war aims.  It would potentially delay allowing oil to be
released for domestic emergencies following a natural disaster or a
pipeline outage at home, leaving, again, prices at risk of rising during
— in the wake of a market shock because of emergencies due to extreme
weather events.  
  
As I noted in the letter I sent to the Hill last week, be clear: There
is nothing standing in the way of domestic oil and gas production.  In
fact, production is on track for a new record in 2023.  
  
From the beginning, the President set out to use SPR as a bridge,
boosting oil supply while the production ramped up.  So, production was
down globally because of Russia’s invasion and the pulling of Russian
barrels off the market.  He wanted to increase the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve amounts to make a bridge while calling upon domestic oil and gas
industry to increase production.  And that is exactly what has
happened.  
  
Today, the SPR remains the largest strategic petroleum reserve in the
world.  And with our plans to refill it at the lowest — you know, at
lower prices than what we sold at, the use of the SPR not only saved
Americans money, but these releases will end up delivering a return for
taxpayers.  
  
And so, it’s not a tool that we should be taking off the table.  We are
willing to work with Republicans and with Democrats alike to make our
system — actually do it — more reliable and more resilient, and our
country more energy independent, and costs more affordable.  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act is already reducing costs, and it’s made the
United States the most attractive country in the world to invest in
clean energy production.  We believe there’s room for bipartisanship to
advance a managed transition.  We believe that there is room for
bipartisanship to expand our ability to create more affordable, reliable
energy in America.  
  
But proposals like H.R. 21, which risks raising these gas prices and
making it offer to — harder to offer Americans relief in the future are
simply nonstarters.  
  
So I’ll be very clear: If Congress were to pass H.R. 21, the President
would veto it.  He will not allow the American people to suffer because
of the backwards agenda that House Republicans are advancing.  
  
So, with that, I’m happy to take your questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Let’s go to the back.  Alex?   
  
Q    Thank you.  Secretary, two questions, please.  First, on our
exports of liquefied natural gas and the criticism that some
environmental groups have surfaced regarding that and climate change,
can you address that?  
  
And number two, Texas is now, I think, poised or has already surpassed
California in renewable energy production.  Is there — what do you make
of Republican states like Texas going in on green energy?  And are there
lessons to be learned from the way they’re doing it, as opposed to blue
states?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, so, first, with respect to LNG, we know that
our liquefied natural gas exports have been a significant help to our
allies.   
  
And it’s an important — it’s very important to make sure that they have
the means.  We are fortunate in that we have an abundance, obviously, of
natural gas in this country.  Our prices are low.  But during times of
challenge, we want to help our allies as well.   
  
We want to make sure it’s the cleanest natural gas, which is one of the
reasons why the Inflation — excuse me — the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law really invested in carbon capture strategies and storage
strategies.   
  
So, that’s an ongoing issue and an ongoing conversation we’re having
with industry, and that includes reducing methane as well.   
  
But with respect to Texas, what an opportunity for every state to be
able to produce clean energy.  And, in fact, a Politico story this
morning suggested that there was an abundance of announcements coming
out of red states.  Great!  That is fantastic.   
  
We want to be able to see energy — clean energy produced in every pocket
of the country: blue states, red states.  Really, it helps to save
people money, so it’s really all about green.  And green in the sense
of: Yes, it’s helpful to the planet, but it’s also helpful for jobs. 
And it’s also helpful for us to be energy independent, which is exactly
what the President would like to see — homegrown clean energy,
independent — so that we are strong and resilient.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    What sort of conversations with the Senate have you been having
about H.R. 21?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, we — I think the Senate knows the position
that we have with respect to it, and we’ll see what the Senate does with
it.   
  
But obviously, I think there’s a lot of concern that — anything that it
hampers.  I don’t care whether it’s a Democratic president or a
Republican president; why would you hamper the ability of the country to
be able to respond to emergencies and hamper the ability of us to be
able to lower costs as a result of those emergencies?  
  
So, I think the Senate understands the importance of that and hopefully
will act accordingly.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thanks, Madam Secretary.  You mentioned the refilling or
replenishment of the SPR.  I know in January, you guys, I think, kind of
rejected offers that you didn’t feel like were adequate to start that
process, kind of delaying, at least from the February perspective.   
  
What’s your sense of how successful the process you guys have laid out
will be, given this first delay or insufficient offers?  And do you have
any concerns about the ability to get exactly what you need based on the
floor and the plan that was laid out a couple months ago?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, I have no concerns that we will be able to
refill and replenish the SPR and do it at a savings to taxpayers.  And
our goal was to start with the first 60 million barrels of
replenishment.   
  
The offers that we received did not meet specification or price.  And
so, we’re going to — stay tuned for an announcement on how we’re going
to go back at that first 60.   
  
But we have a three-part strategy too.  One is to accelerate some of the
exchanges that were announced before to get those back in.   
  
And second was: In the omnibus bill at the end of last year, we canceled
the sales of the congressionally mandated sales for ‘24 and ‘25 — up
through ‘27, actually.  So, there was a significant savings of having to
send out oil.   
  
But we’re going to continue to work on this.  I think, in the end,
because of the way this has been managed, people will be pleased to see
the savings to taxpayers.   
  
Q    Just real quick, could you tease a little bit of the statement that
we’re supposed to be staying tuned for?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well —  
  
Q    Maybe a little bit?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Just stay tuned.  It’s going to happen very soon. 
(Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just a couple more.  Go ahead, Ed, and then April.    
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Secretary Granholm.  So, gas prices are
now up 33 cents over the past month.  The President took credit for the
prices coming down.  The Strategic Petroleum Reserve, as you mentioned,
is no longer releasing.  Does the President get credit for the price of
gas going up?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, it’s obviously based upon international and
climate events.   
  
So, for example, Winter Storm Elliott pulled 2 million barrels off the
U.S. market because of refineries that went down.  That crimp in supply
causes prices to go up.   
  
What happens in China?  Are they going to be opening up soon?  Is there
expectations regarding an increase in demand? That is something that
happens on a global market.   
  
The whole point of this is that this Strategic Petroleum Reserve is a
tool that we have, that we can control.  We may not be able to control
the weather.  We may not be able to control what happens at OPEC+ or
China.  But we can control what we have access to, and that’s why this
tool is so incredibly important.   
  
We’ll see what happens with respect to the price of gas.  We know that
there are still refineries that have been pulled down, both for
maintenance as well as because of Winter Storm Elliot.  But in the end,
we think it’ll — it’ll be balancing out soon.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.  
  
Q    Secretary Granholm, two questions.  You’re sounding the alarm about
H.R. 21.  But let’s say they do pass in both the House and the Senate
and, for whatever reason, the President didn’t veto.  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  That’s a big assumption.   
  
Q    I know it is.  (Laughter.)  And (inaudible).  As you’re sounding
the alarm —  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and we’ve seen some of the most — the highest gas prices we’ve
ever seen in this country.  If H.R. 21 were to pass and be signed into
law by the President, what would it look like at the pump for the
average American?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Prices would go up because we would have lost this
tool.  
  
Q    But how high?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, it’s hard to know because we don’t know the
circumstances around it.  We don’t know what would be the reason for —
for actually exercising an additional action at the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve.  But know this: Prices would go up because we don’t have this
tool.   
  
And again, it’s always in response to an emergency, like war or like,
you know, an extreme weather event.  We do know that taking that tool
off the table would harm the American family.   
  
Q    And lastly, the second question: When the President did release the
strategic oil reserves and — and a million-a-day gallons came out — or
barrels — whatever the —  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Million barrels a day.  
  
Q    Yeah.  I forget the numbers.  But in the midst of that, there were
some communities that felt the relief.  Other communities did not,
particularly those in urban areas; there was price gouging, et cetera. 
Could you talk about that?  Because we’re still very — we’re still —
this is — this could actually happen again, at some point.   
  
And could you explain why there was such a difference in communities
with gas prices in one community versus the other?  
  
SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah.  I mean, there — there are definitely
differences in terms of infrastructure across the country.  And so, some
rural areas, for example, or some who might be at the very end of a — of
a line or may not even have a line — that may get it trucked in — it
takes longer and it’s more expensive.   
  
If you’re not near a refinery, that’s another reason why the
transportation costs are tacked on at the pump.  So you’re seeing, for
example, when refineries go down in regions, then the prices go up in
those regions much more than they would nationwide.   
  
So, a lot of it depends on local infrastructure.  
  
Q    But specifically, the urban areas.  Because there was still a big
pinch in urban areas with these gas prices when the outlying
communities, particularly majority white communities, were seeing the
drop to $3, and many of these urban areas were seeing $4 and $5 gas
prices.  Could you speak to that?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Yeah, here’s what I would say, is that, obviously,
gas station owners are often indi- — they’re often owned by
individuals.  Most of them are not part of the branded oil companies. 
Most of them are owned by individuals. 

And so, if an individual is taking advantage in a region, that is
something that for sure — I know I did when I was an attorney general —
local attorney — I mean, state attorney generals should go after because
gouging is illegal.  You cannot take advantage of a crisis to jack up
the prices in that way.

So, we en- — we encourage local law enforcement to really get on it,
because that should not be happening ab- — absent some other, dis- — you
know, infrastructure lack that might cause prices to go up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, last question.  Kelly O.

Q    Since you oversee the nation’s nuclear arsenal and it’s 11 months
now with war in Ukraine, has anything changed in your management,
maintenance, and so forth of the nuclear arsenal, given the potential
concerns of war and some of the threats that have come from Russia?

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Well, it is clear that we are singularly focused at
the NNSA of making sure that we have a stockpile that is safe, secure,
and effective.  And so, all of the modernization plans that are
happening at the NNSA are — are pointed in that direction.

So, it is — we’re watching this very carefully, obviously.  But people
should know that we have an incredible relationship with the Department
of Defense and incredible professionals — professionals who are experts
at the NNSA who are focused on making sure that those three things —
safe, secure, and effective — are the adjectives that we apply to the
stockpile.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Secretary.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  Okay.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  You bet.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks for coming, again.  It’s always good to have
you.  Thank you.

SECRETARY GRANHOLM:  All right.  Great.  Thanks, you guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, just a couple of things, and then we’ll get
going.

Thank you, guys.

As you saw last night, the President and the First Lady shared their
condolences for those killed and injured in the deadly mass shooting in
Monterey Park — which is in California, as you all know — this past
weekend.  
  
The President was briefed early yesterday morning by his Homeland
Security Advisor, Liz Sherwood-Randall — -Randall, and directed her to
ensure full federal support for local officials responding to the
situation.  She continued to provide him with updates throughout the day
and evening.

Our team continues to be in regular contact with law enforcement
officials leading the response, and the President has been briefed today
on the latest developments.  
  
As the President said last night: While there is still much we don’t
know about this attack, we do know how deeply it has impacted the AAPI
community.  
  
Monterey Park is home to one of the largest AAPI communities in America,
many of whom were celebrating the Lunar New Year along with loved ones
and friends this past weekend.  
  
But instead of celebrating, yesterday many families in Monterey Park
were grieving or praying that their loved one will recover from their
wounds.  
  
Last night, the President lowered the flags at the White House to
half-staff to honor those who lost their lives this weekend.  
  
Now, turning on to another piece of news for all of you. 

As you all saw last week, the State Department launched the Welcome
Corps, a new private sponsorship program that will create opportunities
for Americans to directly sponsor refugees from around the world
arriving through the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.  
  
The Welcome Corps is the boldest innovation in U.S. refugee resettlement
in four decades and will make a meaningful difference in the lives of
refugees and Americans alike.  
  
The Welcome Corps program is designated to strengthen and expand our
country’s capacity to resettle refugees by harnessing the energy of
private sponsors from all over the United States.  
  
Local communities have long been at the heart of America’s resettlement
program.  And we have seen over the past year the overwhelming response
of the American people to welcome our Afghan allies, Ukrainians
displaced by war, and Venezuelans fleeing violence and oppression.  
  
The Welcome Corps builds on this enthusiasm by establishing a durable
program for Americans to privately sponsor refugees from around the
world.  
  
Groups of private sponsors will help refugees find housing and — and
employment, enroll children in school, and connect with other essential
services so they can thrive in their new home.  
  
The State Department is working with a consortium of non-profit
organizations with expertise in welcoming, resettling, and integrating
refugees into U.S. communities to make this program a success.  This
Welcome Corps team will pro- — will guide private sponsors through every
step of sponsorship journey.  
  
Our goal for the program’s first year is to mobilize at least 10,000
Americans to step forward as private sponsors and offer a welcoming hand
to at least 5,000 refugees.   
   
I’m proud to share we’re already off to a strong start, thanks to the
generosity and tremendous support of Americans across the country. 
Nearly 250 diverse organizations representing every sector, national and
community-based service organizations, veterans’ groups, and a wide
diversity of faiths have already joined in expressing their support for
the program.  More than 100,000 people have visited the Welcome Corps
website since its launch this past Thursday, and over 10,000 people have
signed up for more information.   
  
And this week, Director of the Domestic Policy Council Ambassador Susan
Rice and Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer will host
a briefing with stakeholders to dicu- — discuss the Welcome Corps.  
  
President Biden made a commitment to rebuild, enhance, and expand the
U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, and the Welcome Corps is one of the
many ways in which we are doing this.  
  
We encourage anyone who is indeed interested in sponsoring refugees to
visit WelcomeCorps.org to learn more about the program.

Finally, we have a preview for some new travel on the President’s
schedule for next week.

Next Monday, the President will travel to Baltimore, Maryland.  And next
Tuesday, he will travel to New York City to discuss how his economic
plan, including his success bringing Republicans, independents, and
Democrats together to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is
strengthening America’s economic competitiveness, creating good-paying
jobs, and proving that we can still do big things when we all work
together.  
  
In Baltimore, the President will discuss how Bipartisan Infra- —
Infrastructure Law funding will replace the 150-year old Baltimore and
Potomac Tunnel — as you — many of you have probably experienced and gone
through during your — your outing in your cars — to address the largest
bottleneck for commuters on the Northeast Corridor between Washington,
D.C., and New Jersey.

In New York City, the President will discuss how Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law funding for the Hudson River Tunnel project will
improve reliability for the 200,000 passengers trips per day on Amtrak
and New Jersey Transit.

Both projects will create good-paying jobs, including union jobs; lower
commu- — commuting times; and enhance safety.  
  
These two critical, important projects funded by the President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, much — much like the — the Brent Spence
Bridge project connecting Ohio and Kentucky that the President visited
just a few weeks ago, alongside Senator — Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell, along with thousands of other projects across the country,
will make life better for people in communities nationwide.

During both visits, the President will also discuss how his economic
plan to build an economy from the bottom up and the middle out is
leading to billions of dollars in private sector investments in
Maryland, New York, and across the country.  
  
With that, Zeke, you want to kick us off?

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the President or the Vice President have any
plans to visit the community in Monterey Park in light of this weekend’s
shooting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, that’s a good question.  Don’t have anything to
share at this time on any travel to California, specifically Monterey
Park, at this time.  But if we have — if that changes, certainly we will
share that with all of you.  
  
Q    And then, over the weekend, there was a reporting that Ron Klain
will be stepping down as Chief of Staff, being replaced by Jeff Zients. 
Can you confirm that?  And when will that changeover be effective?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I know many of you have a lot of questions
on this.  I know that you might have some — a lot of questions today on
this particular story.  I don’t have anything to preview or share or
announce at this time.   
  
I do want to take just a personal — pers- — point of personal privilege,
as — when the President was senator would say.  Look, Ron has been an
incredible boss.  He is someone that I’ve enjoyed working with every
day.   
  
And we are — many of us — and I think all of us here are a part of the
“Klainiacs.”  If you don’t know, I would suggest you go on Twitter and
find out what the Klainiacs are.   
  
But he has been an incredible leader, an incredible boss, as I just
stated.  And we credit the President, as we should, for the impressive
legislative successes, historic successes that the President has had the
first two years.  But in part, it was because of Ron’s leadership —
incredible leadership that we were able to get that done.   
  
So, again, don’t have anything to share with you all today at the — on
this front.   
  
But, again, Ron has been an incredible, incredible leader these past two
years.  
  
Q    So just an out-of-context praise for Ron?  (Laughter.)  
  
And then — I’ll let some of my colleagues follow up on that one.  And
then, finally —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Feel free.  I’m sure they won’t be shy to follow up.  
  
Q    On the — on the FBI search of the President’s home —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    — on Friday.  The President, when the initial batch of documents
were reported a couple of weeks ago, said he was “surprised” the
documents — that there were classified documents down at the Penn Biden
Center.  Was he surprised that there was classified material found at
his home on Friday, as well the prior discovery at his house a few weeks
ago?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, there’s going to be a lot of
questions on this.  I know my colleagues from the White House Counsel’s
Office has been pretty diligent on taking questions these last couple of
days.   
  
They’re going — there’s going to be a call in less — I think less than
an hour or so from my — White House Counsel Office.  And look, they’re
going to answer the questions from — from — from here.   
  
Any specifics, the Department of Justice — any specifics to this
particular legal matter, I would refer you to the Department of
Justice.   
  
I’m going to continue to be prudent from here.  I’m going to be —
continued to be consistent and make sure that those questions go to my
colleagues in the White House Counsel’s Office.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Another question on the documents.  You have said, though, from
this podium many, many times over the last two weeks that this President
takes the handling of classified material very seriously.  And yet, we
continue to learn about more documents being found and discovered at his
home, including now some that go back decades to his time in the
Senate.  So why should the American people believe that this President
takes classified material seriously, and the handling of it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President — the American people heard from
the President directly on this when he was asked by your colleagues, at
least twice now, about —  
about how he sees this process.  And he was very clear what — with the
response of what we’re currently seeing.  And he says, “I take this very
seriously.”  He said, “I didn’t know that the documents were there.”   
  
And look, I think, as it relates to the American people and the
President standing with the American people, it is going to be up to
them to decide how they see this President.   
  
Look, this is a President that came into office — 9 million people had
lost their jobs, the unemployment rate was 6.3 percent, and hundreds of
thousands of small businesses had closed their doors.   
  
And in the past two years, we’ve created nearly 11 million jobs, the
unemployment rate is at a record low at 50 — a 50-year record low.  And
the last two years were the best years for small businesses’
applications on record.  We talked about that last week just from
here.   
  
The President has built the most significant legislative record since
LBJ.  Let’s not forget, there’s the CHIPS and Science Act, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure legislation.  I just walked through what he’s
going to see next week when he’s traveling to Baltimore and also New
York City.  The Inflation Reduction Act, which is going to deal with
lowering costs.   
  
So, the President has been in office for the last two years focusing on
the American people, and, you know, we saw that.  We saw what the
American people had to say during the midterms.  
  
As it relates — again, as it relates to this, as it relates to this
ongoing legal matter, I would refer you to — to my colleagues at the
White House Counsel.  Again, they’re going to be speaking with all of
you in just — in just less than an hour or so.   
  
Q    But I do want to ask one more time, because you have been the one
messaging that he takes this seriously.  You have also been saying over
and over again that you are cooperating fully —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — with this investigation.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That hasn’t — that hasn’t changed, Mary.  
  
Q    But given that, why then did it take several searches and the FBI
coming in to uncover the full extent of the documents at his house?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand your question.  I — I’ve said many times,
the President has said many times he takes this very seriously.  You’ve
heard directly from him.  You’ve just said that his team is cooperating
fully.   
  
And just want to add, you know — and you heard from his team — that the
FBI was invited into the President’s home.  I’m not going to go beyond
that.  That is — that was in the statement that was released on
Saturday.   
  
Again, these are questions that should — that have been answered to our
— you know, that have been answered from here, that has been answered
from my colleagues.  
  
Anything else, my colleagues or — my colleague is going to speak to all
of you in just a few minutes — a few moments.  And you can ask more —
more intel and detailed questions.  
  
Q    But I do just want to clarify one thing that you just said.  You
just said the President said that he “did not know the documents were
there.”  I’m not actually sure he has said that that clearly.  Are you
saying the President did not know —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he said he was surprised.  
  
Q    — that any of the documents were there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He said he was surprised.   
  
Q    Any of the documents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He said he was surprised.  I’m just going to leave it
there.  And I’m going to refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office. 
He — I’m just repeating what he said.  And he said —  
  
Q    But I wanted to clarify what you just said.  You said he —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He said —  
  
Q    — did not know the documents were there.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He said he was surprised that the documents were
there.  He said that and that he takes this very seriously.  That’s what
I want to make sure that the American people understand.  And I just
refer —  
  
Q    But can you understand why the American people might question
that?  Given that you keep every — I mean, every few days it seems we
are finding that more documents have been found at his house.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m telling you is what the President has said,
which is he takes this very seriously.  I will refer you to detailed
explanations from statements that have come from his — from his personal
lawyer.   
  
Again, anything further on this, my colleague is going to be taking your
questions, Mary, in — in the four o’clock hour.  I would refer you to
them.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Has Ron Klain told the President that he’s leaving, planning to
leave?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything further to share.  And just to —
to be very clear, Ron Klain is still very much the Chief of Staff.  He
is still here with us.  I just don’t have anything to share.  
  
Q    Does the President think Jeff Zients would be a good Chief of
Staff?  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    What about Steve Holland?  
  
Q    Ha!  No —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Steve Holland, do you want to be Chief of Staff? 
(Laughter.)  I think I hear a — I hear a name.  Someone just called you
out as — as poten- — Chief of Staff material.  
  
Q    So, this popped up on Friday.  When will Speaker McCarthy visit
President Biden?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So don’t — don’t have a meeting to share at this —
with all of you at this time.  The President is looking forward to — to
sitting down with Speaker McCarthy to talk about an array of issues that
—  
  
And this is — this is — this is normal, right?  During a new Congress,
it is normal for the President to sit down with the Speaker to talk
about how they can work together.   
  
You heard the President say this right after the midterms, how he wants
to work in a bipartisan way with members of Congress to deliver — to
continue to deliver on the successes that he has had this — this first
two years in good faith.  He wants to do this in good faith.   
  
So, once there’s a meeting locked — locked in, we certainly will share
that with all of you.   
  
Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the debt limit, Senator Manchin, I think today,
called the White House position on the negotiations, quote, “not
responsible.”  And yesterday, I think he called it a “mistake.”  I
understand what your position is.  Is there any concern that Democrats
not siding with that position could undercut the effort you guys are
trying to put into place over the next four months?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just let me — look, lowering the deficit has
always been a top priority when it — for this President.  As you know,
he’s lowered the deficit in record fashion at $1.7 trillion under his
presidency.  And he has said — he’s always said he is happy to talk to
anyone who wants to deal with — with that in a responsible way.  
  
But preventing default is a separate matter.  That is a separate matter
within itself.  It is a basic responsibility for Congress.  We’ve said
this over and over and again, and I’ll continue to say this.  And it’s
the responsibility that they — that Congress has to the American
people.  
  
And so, it must be done without conditions, even — even as they’ve
pushed for a tax givea- — giveaways to the rich.  Republicans want to
cut Social Security; they want to cut Medicare and other critical
programs.  
  
And let’s not forget — these critical programs have already been paid
into.  These are programs for veterans, for seniors and taxpayers.  This
is what we’re — they’re talking about taking away from these really
critical — critical programs for critical groups here.  
  
So, President Biden will never — will never allow Republicans to cut
benefits that our hardworking Americans have earned.  This is what they
have earned.  
  
So — but I’ll also note, as it relates to Senator Manchin and to your
question, Phil: He agreed on the need to protect Social Security, he
agreed on the need to protect Medicare, and called on Republicans to
take cuts to those programs off — this is a quote — “off the board right
now.”  And so, just want to make that very, very clear as well.  
  
Q    Are you actively asking Democrats not to break ranks on this
issue?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear.  I don’t —  
  
Q    Do not form groups.  Don’t start meeting with people —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we’ve been very public about this.  You
guys have all covered what we have said from here about how we see this
process moving forward, that it should be done without conditions.  This
is something that has been done 78 times, when we’re talking about
lifting the debt ceiling, in the pa- — since — since 1960, I believe. 
This is not unusual.  It was done three times in the past — in the past
administration, under Donald Trump.  
  
So, this is nothing unusual.  This is something that should be done
without conditions.  And we should not be taking hostage key programs
that that the American people really earned and care about.  Social
Security, Medicare — it should not be put into a hostage situation.  
  
And again, the President is going to continue to fight for — for those
programs.  And we’re going to be very clear about how we see how
Congress should move forward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President said last week that he has no
regrets when it comes to the handling of classified documents.  Why
doesn’t he have regrets, given that classified documents keep turning
up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I talked about this last week.  I’m not going to go
beyond what the President said.  Again, I would refer you to the White
House Counsel for anything further on — on this legal matter.  Again,
I’m just — I spoke to this yesterday.  I’m just not — last week, pardon
me — last Friday.  I’m just not going to go beyond what the President
—  
  
Q    But that’s not a legal question.  It’s about his statement —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  
  
Q    — from last week.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  And I said I’m not going to go beyond
what the President said, and I think it speaks for — speaks for itself. 
I’m not going to go into what he meant or didn’t meant.  He laid it
out.  He said it to all of you when he was — when he was out — out, I
believe in California, when he answered one of your colleagues’ question
or when he addressed this particular matter.  I’m just not going to go
into what he meant or didn’t mean.  
  
Q    But going back to what Mary was asking, when — the President says
that he takes classified material and the handling of it very
seriously.  This weekend, top Senate Democrats, who have known him for
decades, described this situation as “unacceptable” and “completely
irresponsible.”  What’s the disconnect here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They also said, I may add — if I may add — that the
President is handling this in the appropriate fashion, that the
President and his team has been completely — complying completely with —
with the investigation.  They also said that.  
  
And so, I will — I will leave it up to — their comments up to them.  I’m
not going to go beyond what they have said.  But they also said that
piece too, and I think it’s important to note that they believe that the
President has handled this properly, as well.  
  
Q    Who’s paying the President’s private attorney on this matter?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s his private — it’s his private attorney,
so I would leave it —  
  
Q    So, he’s paying them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would — I would just say it’s his private
attorney.  Any questions, anything in particular to this, I would ask
the White House Counsel Office.  
  
Q    We’ve asked his private attorney at least four times, and they
haven’t given us an answer.  Don’t we deserve to know whether he’s
paying for it or a super PAC or the DNC?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  No, I totally understand, Nancy.  My
colleague is going to be speaking to you moment in — momentarily.  You
can ask that question in that conversation — on-the-record conversation
with all of you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On Friday, when we were here, you were asked about the President
going to Rehoboth and if that had anything to do with searches, and you
declined to answer that.  Did you know Friday there was a search going
on at the President’s home?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this — and I think I said this on Friday
as well: They go to Delaware almost every — every weekend.  We put out
guidance last Monday, as you know — Monday night — that they would be
spending the weekend in Rehoboth.  So, it was indeed preplanned.  So
just want to put that out there.  
  
And I’ll just, you know, put — I’ll just mention what was said in the
statement just on Saturday, which is the DOJ requested that the search
not be made public in advance, in line with its standard procedures. 
And we — we did adhere to that.   
  
As you can understand, that is something that we are going to take very
seriously.  And it was, again, a request from DOJ for us to make sure
that we did not make that public in advance.  
  
Q    Should we anticipate other searches are possible?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That part, I would definitely refer you to the White
House Counsel’s Office.  
  
Q    More broadly, given the fact that classified documents and their
handling have been an issue, has the White House Counsel put out any
guidance to staff members here who have the opportunity to interact with
classified materials to just reaffirm how that should be done?  Or has
there been any follow-up on proper procedures for staffers — not the
President, not this circumstance?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no I get — I understand the question.  Again,
you’re going to have an opportunity to ask that very question to the
White House Counsel’s Office about if they’re going to — you know,
what’s their next steps as it relates to staff.  That’s something that’s
better for them to answer, and they’ll be speaking to all of you
momentarily.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask about — the President of Turkey
today so that he would not support Sweden’s bid to join NATO. 
Obviously, the U.S. supports that.  Is there concern that that bid could
fall through?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things that I want to make sure —
I want to echo the comments of the Swedish Prime Minister, who said,
“Burning books that are holy to many is a deeply <s>respectful</s>
\[disrespectful\] act,” and “what is legal is not necessarily
appropriate.”  
  
As we have said before, Finland and Sweden are ready to be NATO Allies. 
Both are members of NATO’s Partnership for Peace and NATO’s Enhanced
Opportunities Partnership.  Their militaries work seamlessly with
Alliance forces.   
  
Finland and Sweden have already taken concept steps — concrete steps —
pardon me — to fulfill the commitments they made under the trilateral
memorandum of agreement with Türkiye signed on the margins of the NATO
Summit in Madrid, including substantial strengthening their bi- —
substantially strengthening their bilateral cooperation with Türkiye on
key security concerns.

We continue to expect that NATO will formally welcome Finland and Sweden
as members.  This will enhance their security as well as that of the
Euro-Atlantic region.

As their membership process continues, the United States is fully
committed to Finland’s and Sweden’s accession.  The strength of that
support can be seen in our Senate’s overwhelming bipartisan vote for
their membership just weeks after their application was submitted.

Q    And just checking, did you mean “disrespectful” or “respectful”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Disrespectful act.

Q    Okay.  Just making sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you for the clarity.  “Deeply disrespectful
act.”

Q    And just one more question.  There’s a proposal right now in
Congress to tie the debt limit to GDP.  Would the White House entertain
anything along those lines?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s basically what I just laid out.  Like, when
it comes to dealing with the deficit, it’s something that the President
has made his top priority.  As I mentioned earlier, $1.7 trillion was
the record — was the — the — the record that the President was able to
lower the deficit under his administration.

Any ideas — he takes any ideas that come to him in a responsible way. 
He’s — he’s happy to listen.

But again, this is a separate matter.  When you’re thinking about
preventing default, it’s a separate matter.  And so he believes it
should not be done — it should be done — pardon me — without
conditions.  And it should be done in a bipartisan way, as it’s been
done many times before.  I mentioned the number 78 that’s been done. 
It’s 78 times since 1960, 3 times under the last President.

And again, it should be done without conditions.  And that’s where we
stand on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, can I have a follow-up to the question about Turkey?  Have
you all spoken with Turkey since they expressed this public outrage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a conversation to read out to you at this
time.  I know that we’ve had — been asked if — if we — if we see them as
reliable partners.  I was asked this last week.  And my answer to that
was “yes.”

Q    Okay.  And I wanted to ask you a follow-up, actually, about this
new members reception that is coming up.  Do you have any guidance on
how many new members the President intends to have?  And a follow-up to
that, actually.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes — no, it’s a good question.  Don’t have any
numbers to confirm to — with — to you at this time. 

Q    So it wouldn’t be the whole class?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I would have to go back to the Office of Leg
Affairs.  As you know, that process is run through them.  I don’t have a
number to share at this time on who is confirmed to attend.

Q    And is George Santos invited?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I — I do- — (laughter) — I love how everybody
laughed at that.  
Q    But it’s not funny.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, as you know, it’s a — it’s a — it’s a
event for the new member — the new — the new Congress, so everyone is
invited who is part of the new Congress.  I just don’t have a confir- —
a confirmation on who is attending at this time.

But I understand the question.  I just don’t have that.

Go ahead.

Q    All right, I hope you have an answer for this one.  On the debt
ceiling crisis: There’s so many different agencies and different social
programs that are impacted.   
  
But I want to ask you this: As we’re watching this, once again, mass
shooting, are there programs right now that are in jeopardy because of
the debt ceiling that are targeted on gun violence, mass shootings;
targeted on, you know, trying to — to fix this gun crisis in the nation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, to your — kind of to your first question, one of
the things that we have called out is Republicans threatening to — to
default, to force cuts on Social Security, to force cuts on Medicare. 
And that is indeed programs that could be at risk, which is why we
continue to call this out, which is why we have said we should not be
using this as a political football, which is why we have said that, in
the last — since 1960, 78 times this has been done in a bipartisan
way.   
  
And it is the basic responsibility of Congress to deal with this issue,
because there are programs that are incredibly important to the American
people that would be in jeopardy if this is allowed.

There’s a couple of validators that I just want to read out to you. 
Mark Zandi, Moody’s Ana- — Analytics, said, “Financial markets and the
economy will crater.”   
  
Larry Summers, former Treasury Secretary, that many of you speak with:
“A default would be <s>catastrophic</s> \[a catastrophe\].  It would
mean higher borrowing cost forever.”   
  
And lastly, Wendy Edelberg from Brookings: “It’s playing a game with the
U.S. economy and people’s lives that I think is irresponsible.”

So, yes, there are programs that will definitely be at risk if this is
the — if this is the direction that Republicans in the House decide to
take.

Q    Okay.  So, another follow-up to this.  Are there efforts afoot in
this White House, up and down Pennsylvania Avenue, to safeguard if there
is this crisis that continues to loom?

For instance, you know, you talked about Social Security checks.  Not
just Social Security — Medicaid, Medicare, and military checks and other
items.  Are you guys working on any kind of process to be a safety net
so that the military can get paid, so that these checks can come out in
the midst of this crisis, as you’re fighting about raising the debt
limit, that is constitutional?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, it’s a very good question.  And you’re
right, veterans, senior citi- — seniors are taxpayers.  This is — if —
if Republicans go down this road, they will be the ones who are hurting
here.

We’re going to continue to do what you’ve been seeing us do and hearing
us, from — from myself, from this President, which is call this out and
say very clearly that we are — we are — we — Congress should get this
done without conditions.  And that’s what you’re going to continue to
hear from us.

Q    But again, are there any meetings, any conversations about plan B,
plan C, plan D if this does go into that moment where checks aren’t
going out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, April, I hear your question.  I’m saying there’s
not — there shouldn’t be a plan A, plan B, plan C.  There should not
be.  This should be done without conditions.  We should not be
negotiating around this.

This is — again, the last president — under the Trump administration was
done three times in a bipartisan way.

So, again, we’re going to continue to talk about this.  We’re going to
be very clear and continue to have conversation with Congress.

We are talking to Congress.  I talked about this last week, how the
office of Leg Affairs has been — has been doing outreach to new members
of Congress in particular to let them know who is their point of
contact, what conversations — opening up for conversations on things
that are important to them.

And so we are having those conversations and will continue to — to
engage with Congress.  But again, this should be done without — without
conditions.  Seventy-eight times that — that Congress has been able to
do this.  And it is their basic responsibility.  Their basic
responsibility.

I’ll go in the back.  Let’s see.  My gosh.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Tomorrow, Democratic congressional leaders will
be coming to the White House.  What does the President hope to achieve? 
And will the debt ceiling be one of the agenda items discussed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, a range of issues.  As you know, this is how
these conversations happen.  There’s always a long agenda of items that
both — both sides want to talk about.  I’m not going to get ahead of
what the conversation is going to be or what’s going to be actually
discussed.

Look, the President has said very clearly — he said very clearly: When
it comes to this new Congress, when it comes to moving forward to
deliver for the American people, he’s — he wants to do this in a
bipartisan way, he wants to build on the successes that we have seen the
last two year.  That has not changed, and that’s working with Democrats
—

Q    (Inaudible) Republican leaders —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that’s r- —

Q    — as well to that meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve already — we’ve already mentioned that
there’s — this is going to be part of a series of meetings that will be
happening.  We’ve talked about the President looking forward to meeting
with Spe- — Speaker McCarthy.  So that is — we’ve already said that. 
This is just one of the first of series of meetings.

But, look, again, the President, right after a historic — a historic
midterm elections for a Democratic president in 60 years — when you look
at how the Senate turned out, when you look at that there wasn’t an
actual red wave that was being reported on — that he wants to do this
and continue moving forward in a bipartisan way.  That’s what the
American people wants to — wants us to do.  And so that’s always going
to be how the President is going to lead into these conversations.

Q    And on the energy bill, Secretary Granholm outlined that she
doesn’t want the U.S.’s ability to draw down these strategic oil
reserves to be hampered in a time of future crisis.  But would the
administration support a minimum threshold of oil to keep in those
reserves for national security purposes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into any policy decisions
that the Department of Energy is going to be making.  You heard directly
from the Energy Secretary from here — right here at the podium — moments
ago.  I’m just not going to get ahead of any potential policymaking.

Go ahead, Andrew.

Q    Thanks.  The President is scheduled to go to Camp David this
weekend.  Just to clarify, should we read any- — anything into that? 
And does he have full access to his homes right now, both Wilmington and
Rehoboth?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to the White House
Counsel’s Office.  
  
Q    And then, just really quick.  I know you can’t say much about the
Chief of Staff, but can you say whether any women or people of color
were considered for his next Chief of Staff?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, we don’t have an announcement.  We have not
made an announcement.  Don’t have —   
  
Q    Or are being considered?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  You’re asking me about a process.  We
haven’t made an announcement and don’t have anything to share on that
front at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  A follow-up on the story in the New
York Times this weekend about Russia’s agents could be directing
far-right groups to mail bombs in Spain.  Is the White House concerned
that Russia could carry out terrorist attacks in European countries that
are supporting Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As we — as — you’re asking about the letter bombs that
was — has been reported on?  Look, I’m not going to get into
intelligence matters or any ongoing investigation.  But there are a
couple of general — general points that I would like to make.   
  
First, we take extraordinarily seriously the safety and security of our
personnel — personnel abroad, including at Embassy Madrid.  That means
we’re doing everything possible to work with Spanish partners to figure
out what happened here and prevent similar threats in the future.   
  
Second, we’ve offered the Spanish full cooperation and support in their
ongoing investigations.  And they know the importance — they know the
importance to us of this matter and importance they, of course, share,
obviously.  
  
The Spanish are good partners, and we’re up apre- — we’re appreciative
for the seriousness for which they are taking this and responding to
it.   
  
Again, I’m not going to go into any — any more details on when it comes
to an intelligence matter.  
  
Q    And another question about Brazil.  The attacks in Brazil is linked
to also far-right groups here in the United States.  Members of Congress
here are already asking the administration to share information on
either some of the planning who were actually taking place here.   
  
Is the administration sharing information with the Brazilian authorities
about that?  And is there concern that the attacks originating here? 
And what could we do to counter that from happen- — from these kind of
attacks being planned here, either in Brazil and other countries?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I totally understand the question.  I want to be very
mindful on any intelligence matters.  I would — and I don’t want to
comment on diplomatic discussions here.  So, I’m just going to leave it
— leave it there.  
  
Q    Can I just — one more about that — about that.  Is the White House
considering sanctions — imposing sanctions on individuals or
corporations involved in the January 8 attacks in Brazil?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, don’t have anything to share on sanctions.  I
totally understand your question, but don’t have anything to share on
that — on that piece at this time.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I have some Africa questions today.  First of
all, how does the White House feel about the Russian Foreign Minister
being in Pretoria, being warmly welcomed and preparing to host naval
drills with South Africa together with China?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we have — the United States has concerns
about any country, as we’ve said before –country exercising with Russia
while Russia wages a brutal war against Ukraine.  We’ve said this
before.  We’ve been consistent on this.  Of course, every participating
country will make their own decision.   
  
But again, we have said this before: We do have concerns.  
  
Q    Have you expressed this to Pretoria?  Or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — don’t have any conversations to read
out.  But we’ve been very, very consistent as it relates to this.  
  
Q    And then, on other Russian involvement on the continent.  On
Friday’s announcement that Wagner has a new designation as a terrorist
group, I believe: What are the consequences for African governments that
work with them — Mozambique, Mali, so on and so forth?  Is that going to
affect the amount of cooperation between the U.S. and those countries? 
And is that something maybe that Secretary Yellen might be talking about
with those leaders during this trip?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I will leave any conversation that Secretary
Yellen is having with leaders — or has had with leaders — to her to
speak to and to her office to speak to.  
  
Look, we have — we’ve been very clear about our concerns, especially as
Russia, as we have said many times, is doing this brutal war against
Ukraine.  And — but I’m not going to go beyond that.  
  
Q    Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I’ll come back to you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the economy.  So, more companies are announcing
layoffs.  We’re seeing retail sales drop off for two months in a row
now.  And inflation is back to 40-year highs.  Is this the stable growth
that you’ve been talking about?  If not, when does that stable growth
get here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ve been very — very clear.  And when you
think about the inflation, it has been a — look at the CPI data that
came out recently, PPI data that came out recently — we have seen that
inflation has been going down for the past six months.  And that is
because of the work that we have — that this President has been doing
since he walked into the administration, focusing on crises — right? —
focusing on COVID and making sure that there was a comprehensive way to
deal with COVID, and making sure people got shots in arms; making sure
that the American Rescue Plan was passed.  That was only voted by — by
Democrats in — in Congress.   
  
And those actions that he has taken has helped deal with the economy,
has helped actually create 11 million jobs, has made sure that
manufacturing jobs — 750,000 manufacturing jobs have been created
here.   
  
Look, we are still seeing transition to a stable and steady growth. 
That is what we’re seeing when we look at the data.   
  
And, look, yes, there are layoffs that you’re ta- — you’re asking me
about.  And we’ve previously said, on the broader economy, layoffs
remain near record lows according to job opening data.   
  
So, these — we’re looking at the data.  And this is what the data is —
has been telling us.   
  
And also, let’s not forget, unemployment — unemployment is down by — is
the lowest that we have seen it in 50 years.  And so, again, this is an
economic policy, an economic plan that is working.  And a lot of it is
because the President has taken bold steps.  
  
Q    But when?  When can Americans see that stable growth you’re talking
about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think you look at this — again, I pointed to
the CPI data, I pointed to the PPI data, where we have seen inflation
coming down.  
  
Let’s not forget the Inflation Reduction Act, where it’s going to be
implement- — implemented in the next couple of months, where we’re going
to see Americans actually feel — feel some relief when it comes to
prescription drugs, when it — with Medicare being able to negotiate,
something that they have not been able to do.   
  
And so, look, the President has taken this very seriously, has an
economic plan that’s going to help Americans build the economy from the
bottom up and middle out.  And that’s going to continue to buil- — to be
his focus.   
  
Look, what we have been saying is we want to work with — with
Republicans, Democrats, and independents to continue on the successes
that we have seen in the last two years; continue on the historic —
historic legislation; implementing those legislation.  And that’s what
you’re going to see from this President.   
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  When you found out that the FBI had located
even more classified materials in Wilmington, which four-letter word did
you use?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Oh, my goodness, Peter.  
  
Q    Can’t say?  (Laughter.)  Okay.  
  
President Biden is still intending to run for re-election in 2024,
right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll just repeat what the President said after the
midterm election, which is he intends to run.   
  
I’m going to be very careful from here, as you know, because we are
covered by the Hatch Act.  And I’m not going to speak further to his
process.  
  
Q    Is there a precedent for people running for President after FBI
agents search their sock drawer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  Say that beginning part.   
  
Q    Is there a precedent for people running for President after —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It sounds like you —  
  
Q    — FBI agents are —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It sounds like you already know that — the answer to
that question.  
  
Look, here’s what I — here’s —  
  
Q    I don’t know the answer to that question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, here’s — here’s — here’s — here’s —  
  
Q    An FBI search of a President’s residence is a big, big deal.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what the President is going to focus on: He’s
going to focus on continuing to deliver for the American people.  That’s
his focus.  That’s what he focuses on every day.  That’s what he’s been
focusing on the last two years.  And nothing is going to change that.   
  
You think about the bipartisan infrastructure legislation.  You think
about the Inflation Reduction Act.  You think about the CHIPS and
Science Act.  Bipart- — those — the bipartisan one — the last two that I
mentioned, done in a bipartisan way.  That’s what the President wants to
do.   
  
He wants to continue to deliver on his economic plan that is going to
build the economy from the bottom up, middle out.   
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is what matters to the President.  
  
Q    — the House Oversight Committee Chairman says this document
situation has all the makings of a potential coverup.  Is President
Biden involved in a coverup?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have been very clear here, from this
administration.  The President has been very clear that he takes this
very seriously, when it comes to — that — when it comes to classified
information, when it comes to classified documents.  And that his team
has been — has been fully cooperative with this legal matter.   
  
Anything else, Peter — and this is — I’m going to be very serious.  You
asked me, kind of, a question that everybody laughed at, which was an
interesting question to ask.  But any other — any other underlying
questions that you may have, I would refer you to my colleagues, the
White House Counsel.   
  
I’m going to continue to be prudent.  I’m going to be — continue to be
consistent, and refer you to — any questions you have there.   
  
Go ahead, <s>Joey</s> \[Michael\].  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  We are approaching the statutory deadline for the
President to submit his budget to Congress.  The deadline is the first
Monday in February, which is two weeks from today.  So when does he plan
to submit that budget?  And will he do it before that deadline?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  <s>Joey</s> \[Michael\], it’s a good question.  When
we have more to share about that budget process, certainly we will have
that to share with you.   
  
The OMB is some- — that is something that the OMB is working — an issue
that the OMB Director is working very hard on and very closely on.  Once
we have more to share, we certainly will lay that for you — lay that out
for you.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.   
  
Q    Has the President invited the Justice Department to search his home
in Rehoboth, Delaware?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the White House Counsel’s Office
who will be speaking with all of you pretty soon.  
  
Q    Okay.  And on January 12th, in response to my question, you told me
“The search is complete.  He…” — the President — “…is confident in this
process.”  But since then, the searches have continued, more documents
have found.  Is the President still confident in this process and how
his lawyers have carried out the search for material in his
residences?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s confident in this process.  And my colleague has
talked about this.  This is an ongoing process.  And, you know, we’ve
continued to provide the information that we’ve had at the time.   
  
Anything else — anything specific, underlying issues on this or
questions that you may have, I would refer to the White House Counsel’s
Office.  
  
Q    And a non-process question then.  We had a poll with Ipsos — ABC
News/Ipsos — that was taken before the most recent items were discovered
that found that 64 percent of Americans believe the President acted
inappropriately in the way he handled classified files.  How worried is
the White House that this issue is hurting the President’s
trustworthiness in the eyes of Americans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, our focus is going to continue — basically, what
I’ve said to your colleagues — on delivering for the American people. 
That’s going to be our focus.  That’s what the President is going to do
every day in and out, which is: What can we do to make the lives of
Americans a little bit better?  And that’s what he has done.   
  
And I’ve laid out the historic pieces of legislation that the President
was able to do, some of them in a bipartisan way.  And many of the
pieces of legislation that have passed by his economic policy plan has
changed the lives and will change the lives of millions of Americans
across the country.  That’s going to be our focus.  
  
I’m not going to go into, you know, a rabbit hole or go into details or
thoughts about polls.  That’s not what I’m going to do from here.   
  
What we’re going to do is talk to all of you every day about what our
message is to the American people, and continue to have that healthy
back-and-forth, and talk about our policies, talk about what the
President is doing, again, every day with the Vice President, with his
team, to make sure that we deal with issues that truly, truly matter to
the American people.   
  
Just yesterday, you saw — you heard from the Vice President in
Tallahassee, who talked about an issue that mattered to the American
people.   
  
We saw that — right? — coming out of the midterms, which is making sure
that women’s rights were being protected.  When you think about Roe,
yesterday it would have been Ro- — 50 years of Roe, which was a
constitutional right for Americans.  
  
And so, that’s what Americans want to continue to see us do: fight for
their rights, continue to deliver in a way that they can feel it. 
Right?  When it comes to gas prices, bringing those prices down.  When
it comes to healthcare costs, bringing those costs down.  And that’s
really going to be our focus.  
  
Go ahead, Phil.  
  
Q    Thank you.  When you and the White House and the President all say
that the President takes these classified documents very seriously
without commenting on the ongoing legal issue, what would you point us
to that would demonstrate that seriousness?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to really refer you to the White House
Counsel’s Office.  I — I am.  I’m going —  
  
Q    So you can’t tell us how —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am.  
  
Q    So the President continues to say that he takes —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am.  
  
Q    — this seriously —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    — and you can’t demonstrate —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on.  I —  
  
Q    — how he takes it seriously?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me just finish.  Let me finish my answer.   
  
Q    It’s been a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to — I’m going to refer you to the White
House Counsel’s Office, and I’m going to refer you to the statements
that you’ve received from his personal lawyer.   
  
I’m going to refer you to the 45 minutes of conversation, of
back-and-forth that my colleague has had with all of you last week. 
He’s about to do another one where you can ask questions about this
particular legal matter.  Again, that’s where this belongs.  That’s
where I’m going to refer you to.   
  
But, again, you’ve seen the statements.  You’ve heard from the President
a couple of times.  You’ve heard from his personal lawyer.  You’ve heard
from the White House Counsel’s Office.   
  
And that’s where I’m going to leave it.  
  
Q    On a different topic then.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    The House has passed bipartisan legislation that would ban the
export of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to Chinese
companies.  Given that oil has flowed to China from that reserve during
both this administration and previous one, is that the type of reform
that the President would potentially support?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I think this is a little bit of what the
Secretary was talking about just moments ago.  This bill addresses a
non-issue; we’re very clear on that.  We focus — we’re focused on
advancing legislation that would lower costs for American families, not
raise them.   
  
So, I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, go ahead.   
  
Q    Just two quick ones.  One, does the Pres- — I know the President
has answered a few questions here and there.  But is there any plans for
the President to come out and sort of address this investigation in a
more fulsome way, give more of a detailed timeline?  I know you’re
referring us to the Counsel’s Office, but I’m wondering if we will hear
more fully from the President himself on this matter.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you just stated in your question to me, the
President has addressed this — spoken to — about this a couple of
times.  And I don’t have anything to announce right now.   
  
But he’s going to continue, again, to take questions from all of you, as
he has done these past several months — these two years.  And he’s going
to take these questions, as he understands, on behalf of the American
people as you guys ask questions and — and do your reporting.   
  
Just don’t have anything to announce specifically on that question.   
  
Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  See you tomorrow.   
  
3:48 P.M. EST  
