---
date: '2023-01-06'
published_time: 2023-01-06 21:18:38-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-presidential-citizens-medal/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Presentation of the Presidential Citizens\_\
  Medal"
---
 
East Room

2:40 P.M. EST    
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all very, very much.  
  
Two years ago, on January the 6th, our democracy was attacked.  There’s
no other way of saying it.  The U.S. Capitol was breached, which had
never happened before in the history of the United States of America,
even during the Civil War.

A violent mob of insurrectionists assaulted law enforcement, vandalized
sacred halls, hunted down elected officials — all for the purpose of an
attempt to overthrow the will of the people and usurp the peaceful
transfer of power.

All of it — all of it was fueled by lies about the 2020 election.

But on this day two years ago, our democracy held, because “We the
People,” as the Constitution refers to us — We the People did not
flinch.  We the People endured.  We the People prevailed.

And on this day of remembrance, joined by the Vice President and the
Second Gentleman and all of you, we honor a remarkable group of
Americans who embodied the best before, during, and after January the
6th, 2021.

For the first time in my presidency, I am bestowing the Presidential
Citizens Medal, one of our nation’s highest civilian honors.  It
recognizes, quote, “citizens of the United States of America who have
performed exemplary deeds of service for their country or their fellow
citizens.”  End of quote.

In a few moments — in a few moments, the full citation of their
exemplary deeds will be read by a military aide.

But this is who these people, these extraordinary Americans, are.

Heroic law enforcement officers.  As Congressman Bennie Thompson said —
a man of immense character and honor himself — eloquently said about
these officers.  He said, quote, “You held the line that day.  \[And\]
what was on the line was our democracy.  And history will remember your
names.” 

And history will remember your names.  They’ll remember your courage. 
They’ll remember your bravery.  They’ll remember your extraordinary
commitments to your fellow Americans.  That’s not hyperbole; that’s a
fact.  That’s a fact.

And, folks, history is also going to remember your instincts to respond
to do something, as you did — and as we all watched.  This is the irony
of it all: All America watched it — watched it on television and saw it
repeated and repeated.

In the past months, we’ve heard you testify to the nation about what
happened that day; what you were thinking of at the time it was
happening; what you’re thinking now — the threats, the violence, the
savageness of what happened, the trauma.  All real. 

And it’s not exaggeration to say America owes you — owes you all — I
really mean this — a debt — a debt of gratitude, one we can never fully
repay unless we live up to what you did.  Live up to what you did.

And what you did was truly consequential.  Not a joke.

If I can halt for a second and just say to you: The impact of what
happened on <s>July</s> \[January\] the 6th had international
repercussions beyond what I think any of you can fully understand.

The first meeting I had of what they call the G7 — the seven leading
economies in the world, democracies — I sat down — it was in February;
it was in England — and I sat next to the President of France, across
from the Chancellor from Germany, et cetera.  And I said, “America is
back.”  You know what the response was?  Not a joke.  “For how long?” 
“For how long?”

And I just there and looked.  And I believe it was the Prime Minister of
Italy who said it, but I can’t remember for certain which of seven — six
said it.  “And what would you think, Mr. President, if tomorrow you woke
up and you had a headline in the press saying that in the British
Parliament, a mob had come down the hall, broken down the doors of the
House of Commons, police officers were killed or died, the place was
vandalized in order to overthrow the election of the Speaker of the
House — a prime minister’s election?” 

Think about it.  Think about it.  What would we think if we heard that
news today that any other leading democracy in the world went through
this?

So, folks, what these people and the people representing those who
couldn’t be here because they gave their lives for this did is
incredibly consequential.  And that’s not political talk.  That’s a
historical fact.

Officer Daniel Hodges, Metropolitan Police Department, a Virginia
National Guardsman.  Eight years — eight years on the beat.  And his
first time inside the Capitol was on January the 6th.  Sprayed with
poison.  Pinned and crushed.  Eye almost gouged out.  
  
But he didn’t break.  After it was over, he was asked what he’d been
fighting for.  This is a local guy, an ordinary American.  And he gave a
simple, straightforward answer.  “What were you fighting for?”  His
spontaneous answer was: “Democracy.”  That’s what he knew he was
fighting for.  He wasn’t a scholar.  He wasn’t a historian.  He was a
red-blooded American.  He was fighting for democracy.  
  
Former Metropolitan Police Officer Michael Fanone.  We’ve become known
friends.  I’ve known him — I’ve come to know him more.  Twenty years on
the job.  A veteran narcotics investigator.  At a moment of crisis, he
was asked to do undercover work elsewhere, but he answered the crisis
call of our nation at the Capitol.  And you answered, Michael.  You
always did.  
  
He was beaten.  Beaten.  Not pushed around, beaten.  And he was tased. 
Called a traitor, as the mob shouted, if you remember, “Kill him with
his own gun.”  “Kill him with his own gun.”  
  
But he defended our democracy with absolute courage.  And ever since,
he’s spoken out forcefully to make sure people are held accountable,
because he knows it could happen again.  There’s no guarantees, except
us, all of you.  
  
Private First Class Harry Dunn from the United States Capitol Police. 
Fourteen years on the force.  On that day,  
he was outside Speaker Pelosi’s office.  He stood guard protecting
fellow officers who were already injured.  He was fighting back
insurrectionists across the Capitol while being called the vilest racist
names.   
  
His own congressman, a true constitutional scholar, Jamie Raskin — who
couldn’t be here today as he recovers from cancer treatments, but he
called — he wanted me to say the following, and I wrote it down:
“Officer Harry Dunn acted with remarkable courage and valor to defend
both our institutions and our people.”  He went on to say, “Generations
to come will think of him and these officers and thank them for their
service.”  End of quote.  
  
Officer <s>Carol</s> \[Caroline\] Edwards.  Five years on the force,
U.S. Capitol Police.  On the frontlines of the mob’s first surge, as she
stood there, she said — and I’m not — I hope I’m correctly quoting you. 
You said, “It looked like a movie.”  “It looked like a movie.” 
Sometimes in crisis, things look surreal.  “It looked like a movie.”   
  
Knocked unconscious with — with traumatic brain injury, she got back up
to help hold the line.  
  
The granddaughter of two proud military veterans, she says it was her
job to, quote, “protect America’s symbol of democracy” — end of quote:
that building.   
  
Sergeant Officer Aqui- — excuse me.  
  
SERGEANT AQUILINO:  Aquilino.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  <s>Aquinino</s> \[Aquilino\].  Thank you, pal. 
(Laughter.)  I’m glad you know your name.  (Laughter and applause.)  He
can call me President *Bid-en* from now on if he wants.  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
A proud immigrant from the Dominican Republic.  Sixteen years on the
force.  Like my son, an Iraqi war veteran with the United States
military — the United States Army — who described January 6th as
something from a medieval battle.  
  
Trying to keep insurrectionists from entering the tunnel entrance on the
lower west terrace as he got punched, blinded with a laser, speared with
an American flagpole with an American flag on it — the flag he swore to
defend.  
  
He stood tall in the breach with a deep and abiding love demonstrated
for his country.  
  
Officer Eugene Goodman, an Army veteran who put himself at risk as a
rifle squad leader conducting combat patrols to identify explosives in
Baghdad.  He came home — he came home to guard the U.S. Capitol for the
last 15 years.  
  
On January 6th, he risked his own safety to distract a charging group of
insurrectionists.  He said his duty is to serve and protect.  And he
said, that day, he was just doing part — he was “protecting.”  And he
did.  He protected.  
  
To all of you, I know this honor is bittersweet.  
  
On that day, more than 140 law enforcement officials suffered physical
injuries, and untold numbers are suffering  
from the psychological toll of the day as well.  PSD doesn’t also — only
occur in the military battlefield. 

Others are gone forever.

And I said earlier, if I can hold a minute here — I said earlier: You
know, for those who lost someone on that day, they’re proud as the devil
that their kin are being honored, but, boy, is it hard.  I know how
proud I am when my son Beau is honored on the anniversary of his death
as a consequence of burn pits in Iraq.  But it brings everything back
like it happened that moment.

So to all the families here — all the families here who lost someone, my
heart aches for you.  And I want to thank you for having the courage to
be here today so the rest of America can know what your kin did,
including Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who will be receiving
this medal posthumously.  A veteran of the New Jersey Air National
Guard.  Thirteen years on the Capitol Police force as an officer.  He
lost his life after protecting the citadel of democracy.  
  
We’re joined today by his family today, whom my wife, Jill, and I met
when we paid our respects in the Capitol Rotunda two years ago.  I know
you’re proud of the honor being bestowed on Brian, but I also know this
difficult moment, because it brings back everything as if it happened
this very day.   
  
But thank you for being here.  And thank you for letting us remember
Brian.  Thank you.

Capitol Police Officer Howard Liebengood, who’s receiving this medal
posthumously.  
  
Howard’s dad was a good friend of mine.  I served with his dad.  His dad
was sergeant at arms in the United States Senate and chief of staff for
Republican senators.  We were genuinely friends.

Officer Liebengood patrolled the grounds outside the Senate office
building on January 6th.  He worked nearly non-stop in the days that
followed.  And he lost his life after protecting the democratic
institutions he’d learned to revere growing up.  
  
His family, his widow Serena, they’re here today.  
  
Serena has honored Howard’s memory by advocating for, quote, “positive
change on mental health issues for his fellow law enforcement officers”
and other reforms, help them cope with the crises they encounter.  
  
Metropolitan Police Officer — Department Officer Jeffrey Smith, who will
be receiving this medal posthumously as well.  
  
He was part of the first line of officers who entered when the Capitol
was breached.  Assaulted many times, the last time with a metal pipe.  
  
After his death, his widow, along with — Erin — his widow, Erin, along
with many others, worked tirelessly to pa- — to pass, in the Congress,
the Public Safety Officers Support Act, which I signed into law last
summer.  
  
The law recognizes death by silent injury, like Officer Smith and
Officer Liebengood, so future families of public safety officers who die
in the wake of traumatic circumstances will get the benefits they
deserve.  It’s long overdue.  
  
Today is a ceremony to honor heroes of January 6th, but we also
recognize the late U.S. Capitol Police Officer, Billy Evans.  His family
is with us today.  
  
Three months after January 6th, while they were still cordoning off the
Capitol because threats these — by these sick insurrectionists continued
to be profligated on the Internet, again, all of America saw what
happened, what Officer Evans was killed defending a checkpoint you had
to go through to get up to the Capitol, because of these God-awful, sick
threats that continue to move forth.  And the whole world saw it.

It’s just hard to believe.  It’s hard to believe it could happen here in
America.

When I was a 29-year-old kid, got elected to the Senate, came down here
to be sworn in I was — after I was 30, the idea that if you told me — (a
video of President Biden speaking plays from the audience) — (laughter)
— that I could hear my own voice — (laughter and applause) — I would be
amazed.

But all kidding aside, think about it.  Think about this. 

Jill and I also met the family at the Rotunda to pay our respects.   
  
And I was honored to sign into law a bill awarding the Congressional
Medal — Gold Medal to those who protected the Capitol on January 6th and
to honor Officers Sicknick, Evans, Liebengood, Smith for their
sacrifices.  These officers are the best among us. 

And we’re also honored to be joined by many other members of various law
enforcement agencies here today and who were here on that January 6th. 
We thank all of them as well.  
  
I want to thank you all for your service, your strength, your courage,
and, I know it’s a corny thing to say, but your patriotism.  
  
Joining these law enforcement officer honorees are five other public
servants:  
  
Ruby Freeman and her daughter Shaye Moss — her gran- — where are you
guys? — sitting — there, right in the middle.  (Applause.)  They were
election workers from Atlanta, Georgia.  
  
Ruby, who for years has taken time away from running her own business to
work on election season to honor voting rights, the heritage of her
beloved city.  
  
Her daughter Shaye, who learned from her grandmom how older generations
of her family fought so hard to even get the right to vote.  So Shaye
decided to become a full-time election worker to help the elderly, the
disabled, the students exercise their fundamental right to vote.  
  
Both of them were just doing their jobs until they were targeted and
threatened by the same predators and peddlers of lies that would fuel
the insurrection.  They were literally forced from their homes, facing
despicable racist taunts.

But despite it all, Ruby Freeman and Shaye Moss found the courage to
testify openly and honestly for the — to the whole country and the world
about their experience to set the record straight about the lies and
defend the integrity of our elections.  
  
Ruby and Shaye, you don’t deserve what happened to you, but you do
deserve the nation’s eternal thanks for showing the dignity and grace of
We the People.  Presumptuous of me, but I’m so proud of you both.  So
proud of you both.

Albert Schmidt, a former Republican city commissioner in Philadelphia,
who spent a decade overseeing nonpartisan counting of votes.  But like
so many other local election workers, in 2020, he was harassed and
threatened as he did his job faithfully.

He did not bend, he did not bow, he did not yield to the political
threats and pressure.  
  
And he’s so trusted by both political parties that the new Democratic
Governor of Pennsylvania, Josh Shapiro, appointed him as Pennsylvania’s
Secretary of State — a Republican — to ensure that — the integrity of
the elections.  (Applause.)  That’s a high compliment.  His character
and his commitment speak volumes of We the People.  
  
That’s what we also see in Jocelyn Benson, twice elected Michigan’s
Secretary of State to protect the sacred right to vote and have that
vote counted fairly.  That’s what she did in 2020 when she oversaw a
record number of Michiganders turn out to vote in that election, only to
find an armed mob — an armed mob outside of her home on Christmas Eve
when she and her son were decorating their Christmas tree inside.  
  
But she refused to back down.  She had done her duty.  She had kept her
oath.  Full of integrity, she is a true leader in our nation.  And thank
you, thank you, thank you for what you’ve done.  (Applause.)  I mean
it.  
  
And finally, Rusty Bowers, a former Republican Speaker of the House in
the state of Arizona.

When I met him today, I said, “I hope I’m not hurting your reputation.” 
(Laughter.)  Where are you, Rusty?  See, he’s hiding behind you.  He’s
able to do that, you know.  (Laughter.)

Rusty, we may not agree on all things, but we agree on what this country
is about though.  We agree that public service is not without — is not
about what you’re willing to do to win, it’s about what you’re willing
to lose over.  What you’re willing to lose over.

Rusty put his obligation to the Constitution of this country ahead of
everything when he refused intense political pressure to decertify the
2020 election results.  His courage is probably the reason why he lost
his primary last year.   
  
Rusty, you’re an example — is a demonstration to every young man and
woman thinking about entering politics about what integrity — what
integrity is all about.  And I’m not exaggerating.  
  
Thank you, thank you for your integrity and your honor.  (Applause.)  
  
So, folks, my fellow Americans, I want you to give one round of applause
again for today’s recipients of the Presidential Citizens Medal. 
Patriots who have performed exemplary deeds in the service to this great
nation.   
  
And let me close with this.  Eighty-two years ago, on this very day in
1941, President Franklin Roosevelt delivered his State of the Union
Address that became known as his famous “Four Freedoms” speech, as he
defined America’s place in the world.   
  
He reminded the American people of, quote, the “strength from the things
which have been done to make its people conscious of their individual
stake in the preservation of democratic life in America.  Things that
have toughened the fiber of our people, renewed their faith, and
strengthened their devotion to the institutions we make ready to
protect.”  End of quote.  
  
Eighty years ago, after that speech, on this day two years ago, we were
reminded about the most fundamental of things: democracy itself.   
  
As I’ve said before, we face an inflection point in our nation’s
history.  On January 6th, it’s a reminder that there’s nothing
guaranteed about our democracy.   
  
Remember learning in undergraduate school, high school that every
generation is required to earn it, defend it, protect it?   
  
I was a senator for a long time.  I was Vice President, then President. 
I’d have to tell you: I began to think, looking back on it, that it was
just permanent, the United States.  It just was eternal.  Nothing would
happen.  
  
That’s why I was so pleased to see Democrats and Republicans work
together to pass the Electoral Count Reform Act that I just signed into
law to protect the will of the people and the pas- — peaceful transfer
of power.   
  
And defending and protecting our democracy also means that despite our
differences of opinion, we must say clearly, with a united voice, that
there is no place — none — zero, zero place in America for voter
intimidation — zero, never — and political violence.  They are
completely contrary to the notion of democracy.  
  
You know, America is a land of laws and not chaos.  A nation of peace
and not violence.  We’re not a land of kings and dictators, autocrats
and extremists.   
  
As we see in today’s honorees, we’re nation of “We the People” that
toughen our fiber, renew our faith, and strengthen our cause.   
  
Just remember who in God’s name we are.  We’re the United States of
America.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)  We’re the United States of America. 
And there’s nothing — there is nothing — there has never been a single
thing we’ve set our mind to that we’ve failed to accomplish.  There’s
nothing beyond our capacity if we act together and remember who in God’s
name we are.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  And may God
protect those who stand watch over our democracy.  
  
I now have the opportunity and the great honor to award the medals to
these incredible individuals and their representatives.  
  
Lieutenant Commander Shields, would you come and please read the
citations?  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  The Presidential Citizens Medal recipients.  
  
Jocelyn Benson.  (Applause.)  
  
Jocelyn Benson was elected twice by the people of Michigan as their
Secretary of State, where she continues her steadfast commitment to
protect the right to vote and the integrity of our elections in the
state of Michigan.  In 2020, she administered an election with record
turnout and certified the results in the face of unprecedented pressure
and threats, including armed protestors outside her home.  We the People
honor the undaunted and unflinching Michigan Secretary of State, Jocelyn
Benson, who continues her exemplary public service to advance free and
fair elections in our nation.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Russell Bowers. (Applause.)  
  
An artist, rancher, and fourth-generation Arizonan, Rusty Bowers
represented the people of Arizona for almost two decades, rising to
become Speaker of the House.  In a dire hour of our democracy, he put
country before party by refusing attempts to decertify the 2020 election
and overturn the will of the people.  He endured menacing protests,
including at his home, and eventually lost an election because of his
courageous actions.  We the People honor Rusty Bowers, a public servant
guided by a deep faith and unbreakable oath to God, family, and
country.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Harry Dunn.  (Applause.)  
  
A champion college football lineman, Harry Dunn has put his protective
instincts to a higher purpose as a U.S. Capitol Police Officer.  On
January 6th, 2021, he rushed to protect injured fellow officers fighting
back insurrectionists.  His powerful testimony describing violence and
stinging racism laid bare the day’s facts for history, and his advocacy
on behalf of officers battling lasting trauma is helping to ease the
stigma around mental health in our nation.  For defending the citadel of
our democracy and for seeking truth and healing, We the People honor
U.S. Capitol Police Private First Class Harry A. Dunn.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)

Caroline Edwards.  (Applause.)  
  
The granddaughter of proud military veterans, Caroline Edwards left a
corporate career to follow in their footsteps serving our nation.  On
January 6th, 2021, she helped stop advancing insurrectionists, even
after being knocked unconscious in the mob’s first brutal surge.  She
has also fought for colleagues as a police union board member and peer
counselor, and her congressional testimony will help ensure their valor
is never forgotten.  For her courageous defense of our democracy and
service to fellow officers, We the People honor U.S. Capitol Police
Officer Caroline Edwards.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Michael Fanone.  (Applause.)  
  
The grandson of a police officer, Michael Fanone was born to protect and
serve.  A decorated narcotics investigator, he took an off-duty call to
the Capitol on January 6th, 2021, helping to drive insurrectionists away
from a key tunnel and facing vicious attack.  He immediately became one
of the day’s most outspoken truth-seekers.  For his absolute courage in
protecting the Capitol and our democracy and his tenacious search for
accountability, We the People honor former Metropolitan Police
Department Officer Michael Fanone.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Ruby Freeman.  (Applause.)  
  
Inspired by the voting rights legacy of her beloved Atlanta, Lady Ruby
Freeman viewed her civic duty as a Fulton County election worker as a
sacred mission to ensure the people of Georgia could exercise their
fundamental right to vote freely and fairly.  In the 2020 election, she
upheld that sacred mission despite an orchestrated campaign to overturn
the election and that targeted and threatened her and her family.  To
the nation, she bore witness of the trauma and tragedy of that
experience, and, today, We the People honor Lady Ruby Freeman as part of
our nation’s voting rights history.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Aquilino Gonell.  (Applause.)   
  
As a child, Aquilino Gonell immigrated to America from the Dominican
Republic.  He became the first in his family to graduate college,
serving in the U.S. Army and then in the U.S. Capitol Police.  On
January 6th, 2021, he courageously stood firm at the doors of the
Capitol as insurrectionists stormed the entrance, sustaining serious
injuries as he protected members of Congress and defended our
democracy.  He later testified publicly to ensure our nation and history
never forget.  For patriotism that puts love of country before self, We
the People honor U.S. Capitol Police Sergeant Aquilino A. Gonell. 
(Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Eugene Goodman.  (Applause.)  
  
An Army combat veteran and a U.S. Capitol Police Officer, Eugene Goodman
embodies fearless public service.  In the breach on January 6th, 2021,
he made himself a target to divert insurrectionists away from the Senate
chamber, enabling the former Vice President, lawmakers, and staff to
escape safely.  In the face of a clear and present danger, he did his
duty and he did not flinch.  For his valor and for ensuring the
constitutional order, We the People honor U.S. Capitol Police Officer
Eugene Goodman.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Daniel Hodges.  (Applause.)  
  
A Virginia National Guardsman and Metropolitan Police Department
Officer, Daniel Hodges has dedicated his life to serving his community
and our nation.  On January 6th, 2021, he fought to push surging
insurrectionists away from a key tunnel into the Capitol, returning to
the line even after being brutally crushed and beaten.  His courageous
testimony will help ensure that we never forget or let such an attack
happen again.  For his heroism and unwavering commitment to the truth,
We the People honor Metropolitan Police Department Officer Daniel
Hodges.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Dr. Serena Liebengood, accepting on behalf of Howard Liebengood. 
(Applause.)  
  
The proud son of a U.S. Senate Sergeant at Arms, Howard Liebengood left
a career as a champion racecar driver to follow in his late father’s
footsteps protecting the democratic institutions they both revered.  He
died after battling insurrectionists at the Capitol and staying on to
restore security in the crucial days after January 6th.  His painful
loss helped change the law to better honor the unimaginable sacrifice
that too many officers and their families face.  For his deep dedication
and selfless service, We the People honor U.S. Capitol Police Officer
Howard C. Liebengood.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Wandrea’ ArShaye Moss.  (Applause.)  
  
Inspired by the stories her mother told her about the movement for
voting rights in America, Shaye Moss pursued a career as an election
worker in Fulton County, Georgia.  Because of her dedicated service, she
faced death threats, harassment, and intimidation by those seeking to
overturn the outcome of the 2020 election.  She would later testify to
the nation about her pain and resolve.  Today, We the People honor Shaye
Moss for helping to ensure the American people have a voice in the
destiny of our nation.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)

Albert Schmidt.  (Applause.)  
  
A former federal civil servant and the City Commissioner of
Philadelphia, Albert Schmidt has spent his career on the unsung yet
necessary task of making democracy work for the people.  In the 2020
election, despite intense political pressure, he did what he had always
done: ensured the integrity of the election, and faithfully oversaw the
nonpartisan counting of the ballots.  We the People honor Albert Schmidt
for his clarity of purpose to protect every American’s sacred right to
vote and to have that vote counted.  (Applause.)  
  
(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Charles and Gladys Sicknick, accepting on behalf of Brian D. Sicknick. 
(Applause.)  
  
A New Jersey Air National Guardsman who served two tours overseas, Brian
Sicknick was a U.S. Capitol Police Officer devoted to serving our
nation.  For over a decade, he guarded the Capitol, including on January
6th, 2021.  He lost his life protecting our elected representatives,
upholding the will of the American people, and defending our
Constitution.  His heroism, courage, and character set an example for
generations of Americans to come and will never be forgotten.  For his
service and his ultimate sacrifice, We the People honor U.S. Capitol
Police Officer Brian D. Sicknick.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
Erin Smith, accepting on behalf of Jeffrey L. Smith.  (Applause.)  
  
A 12-year veteran of the Metropolitan Police Department, Officer Jeffrey
Smith dedicated his life to public service.  On January 6th, 2021, as he
fought the violent mob, Officer Smith sustained devastating head
injuries from multiple assaults inside and outside the Capitol.  He died
after protecting Congress, guarding the Capitol, and preserving our
democracy.  His passing sparked changes in the law that honor the silent
injuries of our fallen officers.  For his extraordinary heroism, pure
courage, and unwavering devotion to the nation, We the People honor
Metropolitan Police Department Officer Jeffrey L. Smith.  (Applause.)

(The Presidential Citizens Medal is presented.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, as I said at the outset, this is warranted — in
some sense, it’s overdue — but also incredibly difficult for the
families and particularly the families of those who lost a hero
defending our democracy.  And — but I tell you, people who will go
through, unfortunately, similar losses are going to look at you all and
say, “That’s the grace and dignity that I want to display.”  
  
So, really, thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.   
  
I want to thank you again for your service and sacrifice.  And may God
bless your families.  May God protect our troops.  Thank you all very
much.  (Applause.)  
  
3:23 P.M. EST  
