---
date: '2023-01-12'
modified_time: 2023-01-12 17:37:21-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-12 16:28:58-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-memorial-service-for-secretary-ash-carter/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Memorial Service for Secretary Ash\_Carter"
---
 
Washington National Cathedral  
Washington, D.C.

11:41 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  This is beyond my capacity to accurately assess what an
incredible man Ash was.  Ash was a force.  He was a force of nature. 
His genius was evident, his integrity unfailing, and his commitment to
service before self was literally inspiring. 

I know we can all still picture Ash as he was until the very end. 

Professor Carter — packing students into his classroom in Cambridge,
guiding them forward toward a life of service.

Secretary Carter — advising both me and Secretary Austin on technology
and innovation.  Austin got it quicker than Biden, but —

Dr. Carter — harnessing his incredible intellect to sharpen our cutting
edge as a nation and to make sure — make sure America always leads the
world with both our power but also our purpose.

I wish so deeply that Ash had lived to enjoy the new honorific — one he
was looking forward to — of being grandfather.

But he’s smiling right now, and he’s looking down.  And he’ll be there.

Will, Ava — you were his heart.  He filled every office — at least I was
ever in — with your photos.  I kept asking, “Who’s that big guy?” 
(Laughs.)

He loved seeing you — he loved seeing you blaze your own trails in the
world, together with your wonderful spouses, Mariah and Surya.

And I think the reason he talked to me about it is — you know me, I
never talk about my children.  (Laughs.)

But, Clayton, you and Ash parented two exceptional kids together. 
Corinne and Cynthia, you were with Ash from the very beginning.  As I
told you downstairs, I was lucky, as well.  I had sisters better looking
and smarter than me.  And so did he.  And he relied on you.  Watching
your little brother — your little brother chart his phenomenal path from
theoretical physics to the world of science, but the world — to a world
leader.

And, Stephanie, everyone could see: He cherished you.  He cherished
you.  You made him whole.

I have some idea — and every case is not the same — but how hard this
is, how unreal and unfair it seems — to lose someone you love so
suddenly, someone who should have had so many years ahead of them.

The suddenness, in my view, magnifies the grief.  It makes it just
inescapable.

And on behalf of our nation, I just want to say thank you.  Thank you
for sharing Ash with us and for your own service to our country.  We’re
truly grateful.

Secretary Austin, Secretary Blinken, Secretary McDonough, Secretary
Mayorkas, Director Haines, General Milley, General Dunford, members of
Congress, and all the distinguished leaders from across the government,
our military, and private sector, and academia:

Ralph Waldo Emerson once said, “An institution is the lengthened shadow
of one man.”  “An institution is the lengthened shadow of one man.”  He
might’ve been talking about Ash.  But nowhere more than the Department
of Defense.

Over the course of four decades, working in and out of the Pentagon,
walking miles and miles of laps, Ash made an impact felt far into the
future.

Ash always took the hardest jobs, the seemingly impossible missions,
because he believed he could make a difference.  And he did make a
difference.

I stand here today as Commander-in-Chief of, as Ash always said, the
“finest fighting force the world has ever known.”  And that is not
hyperbole.  “The finest fighting force the world has ever known.” 

A force made stronger and more inclusive by Ash’s principles and
convictions. 

A force made up of warriors who are safer because of Ash’s determination
to protect them and give them what they needed. 

A force and a department forever shaped by Ash’s far-reaching vision and
his relentless — relentless innovation. 

He believed, as I do, in what America can achieve when we put our minds
to it.  He believed not just in getting things done, but getting things
done in record time, which I’m sure those who worked for him found very
interesting sometimes.  I got a lot of you — (laughter) — laughter on
this side. 

As many of you know well, he took personal pleasure in busting through
bureaucratic red tape to deliver results.  And woe unto the staffer who
failed to follow through on an assignment that Ash had given them. 
Dean, as they say in my church, “Bless me Father, for they have
sinned.” 

But I’m serious — I see some people nodding in recognition — he was an
incredible guy.

Ash was a scientist, first and always.  A truth-seeker, a teacher.  That
training shaped his leadership.  And he sought to understand a problem
from every angle.  He took the time then to explain his thinking.  And
he never let politics or expediency color his recommendation.  He always
followed where the facts led him.  And sometimes there were places we
didn’t want to go. 

That’s what made his counsel so valuable to President Obama and to me,
as Vice President, and so many other leaders.

Ash felt a duty to deliver his best possible analysis and recommendation
with exceptional candor, with exceptional discretion, and above all,
with exceptional integrity. 

As I told Stephanie when I called her the morning after Ash passed,
that’s actually the first thing I think of when I think of Ash.  I think
of a word — no, seriously: integrity.  His integrity.  It was
indomitable.  And I never, ever had to wonder — I’ve been doing this job
a long — not as President, but in — I had public office.  Never had to
wonder whether there was an edge to it, whether there was a secondary
motive I didn’t see.  How he matched his scientific principles with a
straightforward moral conviction that truth, honesty, and decency
matter.

And how Ash never lost sight of what his work at the Pentagon meant for
the safety of the American people — whether he was serving with his
mentor and great friend, Secretary of Defense Bill Perry, in the ‘90s to
reduce the risks of nuclear proliferation after the Soviet Union
collapsed or when Ash became Secretary himself in 2015, taking the fight
to ISIS to smash their hold on territories in Iraq and Syria and keep
Americans safe from terrorist threats.

Above all, Ash had an unmistakable commitment to the troops, who put
their lives on the line for our country every single day.  Ash
understood to his core that we had a sacred — we have a sacred
obligation to give them what they need and support they need when we
send them into harm’s way. 

As a nation — you’ve heard me say it, but I heard him say it in a
similar way — we have many obligations, but only one truly sacred
obligation: to properly prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way
and care for them and their families when they return home.

And there is no greater example of this than Ash’s tendencies when it
came to getting our troops serving in Iraq and Afghanistan
mine-resistant, ambush-protected vehicles — MRAPs. 

Tony and others remember. We were working together.  I became the pain
in the neck for everybody by pushing this so hard, but I had a little
guy with a — a guy whispering in my ear.  There were — some thought
there were other priorities first, but not Ash. 

In the early 2000s, 60 or 70 — 60 to 70 percent of our troop casualties
were from road IEDs — improvised explosive devices — that would rip
through our Humvees, as well as our troops who were riding in them.

I led the fight on the Senate floor in 2007 to make sure we were
forward-funding the production of these MRAPs.

I believed, along with the Commandant of the Marine Corps at the time,
that we had, and I quote, a “moral imperative” to speed up their
delivery to get our troops this critical equipment that would literally
save — and literally did save –countless American lives and limbs.

But by the time the O-Biden — the Obama-Biden administration took office
in 2009, the production and delivery of MRAPs to the field was still
going too slowly.

All that changed when Ash became the “acquisitions czar.”  It all
changed.  He made his mission to “work at war speed” to get our
warfighters the best possible protection we could give them as fast as
possible.  
  
And he was personally engaged, refining and improving the design of the
MRAP to make them safer and easier to maneur- — when — maneuver.  
  
When Ash learned that the troops in the field were having an issue with
visibility, he was at the R&D facility the very next day.  He was there
to see the problem for himself, ride the vehicle — in the vehicle, and
get it done.  
  
In 2012, Ash had been promoted to Deputy Secretary.  By that time, we
had deployed more than 24,000 MRAPs.  Casualty rates among troops
transported by MRAPs came down as much as 75 percent compared to those
riding in Humvees.  Ash got it done.   
  
And as I told the family when I met them beforehand, I have a —
probably, I don’t know, three and half, four foot long by 10 inches
high, maybe a foot high, photograph of MRAPs lined up side by side with
a note from Ash saying, “Thanks.  Ash Carter”.  I have it hanging in my
office at home — in my home.  
  
You know, it’s amazing what he did with his background as a scientist. 
I just — he got it done.  And he literally saved, I think, in
consequence of it, hundreds and hundreds, thousands of lives and
limbs.  
  
He protected our service members’ futures because they were out
defending ours.

How many of them who came home bearing the scars of war have memories of
Ash at their bedside — Stephanie right there with him — as they
recovered at Walter Reed and other places around the world?

All those quiet visits to Walter Reed — without the press, without any
fanfare, standing long before he became Secretary.

Holding the hands of wounded warriors.  Hugging the family members and
keeping them close.  Listening to their stories, which they want to tell
and we should listen to.  And finding something to smile about together,
despite their pain.

Ash’s connection to our troops and their families was more than a
professional duty.  To him, it was personal.

And to Stephanie: You were fundamental to that.  You helped Ash to bring
his fullest self to his service.  He could not have been the Secretary
of Defense that he was, the mentor he was, the man he was, without your
love and support.  It meant so much to so many. 

Remember Emerson: “An institution is the lengthened shadow of one man.” 
And it was a long shadow.

Or as Ash sometimes told his students, “You are my legacy now.”  “You
are my legacy now.”  And how many of them are.

Each of us here today — generations of national security leaders,
decades of eager and brilliant students, the entire Armed Forces of the
United States of America — we all will forever bear the imprint of Ash
Carter, thank God.

May we continue to carry the legacy of Ash with us in our hearts.  May
we be guided by his foresight, his ferocious mind, fortified by his
integrity. 

And may we always seek the truth.  May we always strive to be of
service.

May God bless Ash Carter, a dear friend, a great American.  And may God
continue to protect our troops who Ash so loved and loved him back. 

11:58 A.M. EST
