---
date: '2023-01-30'
modified_time: 2023-01-30 19:57:58-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-30 19:57:57-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/30/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-7/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure\_Law"
---
 
Baltimore and Potomac Tunnel North Portal  
Baltimore, Maryland

2:44 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello! (Applause.) Anytime I see a train
door open, I head for it.

And, by the way, I can say it now since I’m no — the — there’s different
leadership. I used to, about 15 percent of the time, ride with the
engineers. For real.

And I’m the only guy that I’m aware of, when I stopped riding Amtrak,
that had a key to get in the back. (Laughter.) So, you can — you can
tell your predecessor — he’s gone — that. (Laughter.)

Look, hello, Baltimore. (Applause.)

Is there any organized labor, any unions in the house? (Applause.)
You’re making it run, man.

Well, Brandon Scott, thank you for the passport into this great city.

And, Governor Wes Moore, Lieutenant Governor Miller, I can’t tell you
how much I appreciate you being here, and you’ve — all the money you’ve
committed to make this thing work as well.

And two of my best buddies in the United States Congress, I think — not
— no hyperbole — the — two of the best United States senators I’ve ever
served with, and I served there for 36 years in the Senate: Ben Cardin
and Chris Van Hollen. Ben and Chris, thank you, thank you, thank you.
(Applause.)

And Kweisi Mfume, I — I tell you what: When I get in real trouble,
that’s the guy I call. (Laughs.) Oh, there you are, sitting right in
front. You helped us get so much of this done, including the project
we’re here to celebrate. Thank you.

You know, look, thanks to the members of the Maryland delegation and
Congressman John Sarbanes — he and his dad and I talked a lot about
Amtrak, spent a lot of time working on it.

Dutch, you’re still here, aren’t you? I say, Du- — there you go. Hey,
Dutch. Good to see you.

As well as Steny Hoyer. Probably one of the best Leaders we’ve ever had.
Steny, you’re a hell of a guy. Where are you? (Applause.) For real.

I’ve kidded Steny for years. I’ve kidded Steny for years. He represents
the western shore of Delaware. (Laughter.) We call it the Delmarva
Peninsula. We get into it a little. At any rate, Steny, you’re the best
and one of the greatest champions the state has ever had. And an
incredible Minori- — Majority Leader and continues to serve Maryland
very well.

You know, I mean this sincerely: I don’t think there’s a better
delegation in the entire United States of America than the American —
than the delegation here in Maryland, including your state legislatures,
as well. (Applause.)

And somebody who I was senior to but never referred to me as “Senator” —
they’d always say “Biden, come here”: Barbara Mikulski. I wish Barb were
here. She did a lot to make this day happen as well, all the years we
worked on this. Baltimore particularly, Amtrak specifically.

And finally, it’s been over three years since —

Oh, I didn’t know you had seats. Man, you ought to sit down. (Laughter.)
By the way, I said — when I was running for the — in 2020, for the job,
I said, “Everybody take their seat,” and there were no seats. And the
press said, “He is really stupid.” (Laughter.) So, I don’t dare tell
anybody to take a seat unless I see the chairs.

But anyway, thank you. You know, it’s been over three years since his
passing, but my late friend, Elijah Cummings — he’s with us in the
spirit and looking down and saying, “Joe, you finally got this sucker
done.” (Applause.)

And CEO Stephen Gardner. Stephen is — he knows he’s got a strong
supporter of Amtrak. Probably too strong. I’m driving him nuts already.
I want to get it all done quickly.

And Secretary Pete Buttigieg. This is just one example of the great work
you’re doing, Pete. (Applause.) I appreciate it a lot.

Let me, at the outset — this is just the beginning — beginning — of
having a 21st century rail system that’s been so long overdue in this
country.

Back in Delaware, I’m known for riding Amtrak, for being their senator
all those years. And most of you know that a senator — as a senator, I
rode the train between Washington and Wilmington, and back and forth,
every single day that the Senate was in. And they tell me it was about
an average 200- — 117 days a year, about 265 miles a day. I put over a
million miles on Amtrak — not a joke — including as Vice — including as
Vice President. (Applause.)

Amtrak wasn’t just a way to get home to family. The conductors, the
engineers — they literally became my family. I used to have a — I used
to have a summer party at my home in Delaware. Started off with about 10
conductors and — and — and engineers. Ended up with about 70 people.
They might — became my friends. I went to an awful lot of their
children’s weddings and, unfortunately, funerals of their — of them.

When I was Vice President, I flew over a million miles on Air Force Two.
And I was going home as the United States — as Vice President, and one
of the conductors said to me, “Hey, Joe, big deal. A million whatever —
two hundred — you’ve…” He said, “You’ve — you’ve traveled over a million
miles on Amtrak.” I said, “How the hell do you know that?” And they
added up at their —

But, folks, look, I made a thousand trips through this tunnel, so I’ve
been through this tunnel a thousand times. And, you know, but when folks
talk about how badly the Baltimore Tunnel needs an upgrade, you don’t
need me to tell you. I’ve been there, and you’ve been there too.

I also know that it’s not just Amtrak. I know how important this tunnel
is to computer \[sic\] rail — commute- — computer \[sic\] rail —
commuter rail and MARC rail back and forth to Washington.

And I know how much it matters to the entire Northeast Corridor from
here to Boston. That — it matt- — it matters a great deal.

For years, people talked about fixing this tunnel. Well, I think I may
be one of the few guys — back in the early ‘80s, I actually walked into
the tunnel with some of the construction workers. You ought to get
inside and see it. This is a 150-year-old tunnel, and you wonder how in
the hell it’s still standing.

And with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, they’ll be finally getting
it done.

The law — this law is the most significant investment in American roads
and bridges since the Interstate Highway System, and it’s the single
most significant investment in rail in America since Amtrak was created
50 years ago.

And through the Infrastructure Law, we’re going to be investing over $4
billion to replace the existing Baltimore and Potomac Tunnel.
(Applause.) And that’s why it’s so important.

Over 2,200 trains run on this corridor every single day, and it’s the
busiest in the United States and one of the busiest corridors in the
world.

A problem anywhere along the line means — up and down the East Coast —
it means commuters are trying to get to and from work and they get in
trouble, businesses trying to ship their goods, travelers trying to
visit family.

If this line shuts down, in just one day it would cost the country over
$100 million.

But this tunnel is a major checkpoint \[chokepoint\] for 9 million
Amtrak and MARC computer \[commuter\] rail passengers who pass through
it each and every year. 1.4 million — excuse me — a 1.4 million — a
1.4-mile stretch with a tight curve so that trains have to slow to 30
miles an hour.

You probably all heard this already, but it’s important.

Ninety-nine percent of the weekdays, there’s been a delay here
somewhere. Trust me, I know.

This tunnel is nearly, as I said, 150 years old. This is Civil War era.
Ulysses S. Grant was President.

The structure is deteriorating, the roof is leaking, the floor is
sinking.

This is the United States of America, for God’s sake. We know better
than that. And we know we have to prove we’re much better than that.

Funding from the Infrastructure Law is fully — will re- — fully replace
this tunnel. And we’re naming the new tunnel after Frederick Douglass,
who boarded this train to freedom right here in Baltimore.

You know, and it’s especia- — and he escaped slavery, he traveled the
country by rail, fighting for abolition and civil rights. So that it’s
fitting we honor him in this way — the Frederick Dougl- —

Look, we have a lot to do. When the project is done, new trains will
travel through this — this tunnel at 110 miles an hour instead of 30
miles an hour. MARC trains will go from here to Washington in 30
minutes.

On an average weekday, that’ll eliminate nearly seven hours a day.

The Frederick Douglass Tunnel will be all electric, and we’ll continue
to invest in rail to make it easier for people to use. It has potential
to take thousands of vehicles — thousands of vehicles off the highways,
including the interstate, and save millions of barrels of oil, reducing
polletion \[sic\] — pollution.

All the studies show, if you can get from point A to point B by rail
faster than you can by automobile, you take the rail. This is going to
be a game changer for the environment as well. And so, this is what
we’re doing across the country, not just here.

Tomorrow, I’ll be in New York for a similar announcement at the Hudson
Tunnel Project, and a critical junction on the Northeast Corridor.

Earlier this month, I was in Kentucky with the Republican Leader. And
we’re standing there — and Republican governor and also Democratic
leaders. Over a billion dollars is being spent on the Brent Spence
Bridge over the Ohio River, connecting Ohio and Kentucky.

We’re repairing the original bril- — bridge and building an entirely new
one parallel to it.

Each day, trucks carry about $2 billion worth of freight across that
bridge from Florida to Canada. And it was built 60 years ago.

Folks have been talking about fixing it for decades, but now we’re
finally going to get it done.

And we’re not stopping there. We’re closing the digital divide.

Nearly 175,000 households in Maryland who haven’t had access to
high-speed Internet are now getting access to it through the Infra- —
this Infrastructure Law — Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. And our
broadband program is estimated to create 200,000 jobs across the country
just putting it in the ground. And it’s all union work.

And today — (applause) — and today, we’re announcing a nearly $4 million
grant to a great HBCU in Baltimore, Coppin State University, to buy new
laptops — (applause) — and give students digital skills and training
that they need to compete in today’s workplace.

The Army Corps of Engineers spends a mil- — spends millions each year
dredging to keep shipping channels clear at the Port of Baltimore and to
help bring larger ships with more cargo in and out of Maryland.

Now we’re investing another $84 million from the Infrastructure Law to
take the dredged material and restore the Mid-Bay Islands on the
Chesapeake, a critical habitat for fish and shellfish and birds, and
these islands are central to the fishing and tourist industry.

There’s a lot we’re going to get done. And one of the things about the
Infrastructure Law I’m most excited about is we’re doing all this with
workers, with products made in America with union labor. (Applause.)

In fact, today we’re announcing that this project will be built under a
project labor agreement. These agreements are agreements that
contractors and unions put in place before the construction begins.

They ensure major projects are handl- — handled by well-trained,
highly-skilled union workers. They resolve disputes ahead of time,
ensuring safer work sites, avoiding disruptions and work stoppages that
can cause expensive delays down the line.

So, they’re not just good \[for\] workers, they’re good \[for\]
taxpayers too.

Amtrak and the building trades have agreed that the project labor
agreement will be in place not just here in Baltimore but all across
major rail construction projects up and down the Northeast Corridor.
(Applause.)

And the Baltimore — the Baltimore Tunnel Project will lead to 20,000 —
20,000 good-paying construction jobs: laborers, electricians,
carpenters, cement masons, ironworkers, operating engineers, and so much
more. These are good jobs you can raise a family on, and most don’t
require a college degree, but they do require the equivalent of a
college degree. You have to have four to five years of an
apprenticeship. That’s one of the reasons they’re the best-trained
workers in the world. The best in the world. (Applause.)

I’m not jo- — I’ve been saying that my whole career, and it’s true.

These are jobs for folks I used to ta- — think about as I took the train
home at night going through the stretches of suburban Maryland, suburban
Baltimore, and look out the window, see the flickering lights on
people’s tables. Not a joke.

I used to look and them and just wonder what their conversations were at
their kitchen tables, their dining room table, what were they thinking
about before they put their — just before or after they put their kids
to bed, asking questions that are ordinary and profound.

“Are we going to have — we going to have money — have enough money left
over, honey, at the end of the month, after we pay our bills,” just to
have a little bit of breathing room? Is that —

My dad used to say, “You know, Joey, a job is about a lot more than a
paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect.” It’s about being
able to look your kid in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be…” — I
mean this sincerely — “It’s going to be okay.” And mean it.”

Well, guess what? Folks, too many people have been left behind in the
past or treated like they’re invisible amid the epi- — economic upheaval
of the past four decades.

They remember. They remember the jobs that went away and wonder whether
a path even exists anymore for them to succeed.

But I know we can forge a path of building an economy where no one is
left behind.

That’s what this project and others like it across the country are all
about. It’s about making investments in America’s cities, towns,
heartlands in rural America. It’s about making things here in America
again. It’s about good jobs. It’s about the dignity of work. It’s about
respect and self-worth. And it’s about damn time we’re doing it.
(Applause.)

We went through four decades where we exported jobs and imported
product. We’re exporting product and importing jobs now. (Applause.)

For too long, we’ve talked about asserting American leadership and
building the best economy in the world.

But we have the — to have the best economy in the world, you have to
have the best infrastructure in the world — that’s not hyperbole; it’s a
fact — to get products to market, to create thousands of good-paying
jobs.

For most of the last century, we led the world by a significant margin
because we invested in our people. We invested in ourselves. We invested
in research and development.

Along the way, we stopped. We used to rank number one in the world in
research and development. Now we rank number nine. China used to rank
number eight. Now it ranks number two.

The risk of losing our edge as a nation and China and the rest of the
world catching up is real.

For decades, the backbone of America — the middle class — has been
hollowed out. Too many good-paying manufacturing jobs moved overseas
because labor was cheaper.

Jobs moved overseas and factories closed down. Once-thriving cities and
towns became shadows of themselves, what they used to be.

When Carrier — one of the biggest manufacturers in Syracuse, New York —
stopped making air conditioners, they went — the town went into decline.
Now, Micron’s enormous investment of semiconductors in Syracuse is
bringing it all back and more. (Applause.)

The same thing was happening in Lordstown, Ohio, when GM shut down their
auto factory. But this past year, thanks to all we’re doing with
electric vehicles, GM and LG announced they’ll hire thousands of workers
to build the new electric vehicle batteries.

And when these towns were hollowed out, something else was lost: their
pride, their sense of self-esteem.

Folks, these are the effects of so-called trickle-down economics. The
view from Park Avenue that says, “When you do — when the wealthy do
well, it will all trickle down to everybody else.” Not in the family I
was raised. It didn’t work that way.

But there’s another one that I hold — that hold — folks in Baltimore
hold as well. Our folks in cities who were born in Scranton,
Pennsylvania, and grew up in Claymont, Delaware, like I did, they view
the backbone of America — they are the backbone. They are the people who
get up every morning and go to work just to bust their necks trying to
make an honest living.

Look, folks, I’ve said it many times: Wall Street did not build this
country. The middle class built this country. (Applause.) And unions
built the middle class. That’s a fact. (Applause.)

I ran for President to build an economy from the bottom up and the
middle out, to bring back good-paying jobs you can raise a family on
whether or not you went to college, to give working families a little
more breathing room, to invest in ourselves again, to invest in America
again. And that’s what we’ve done.

My first two years in office, we had two of the strongest years of
economic growth and job growth in American history.

We’ve created 11 million new jobs, including 750,000 manufacturing jobs,
and we’re just getting started. (Applause.)

Where in God’s name is it written that America can’t lead the world in
manufacturing again? I don’t know where that’s written.

In addition, there’s been major private investments totaling nearly $300
billion in American manufacturing, including for semiconductors and
small computer chips that power virtually everything in our lives from
our cellphones to automobiles to artificial intelligence.

You know, what a lot of people don’t remember or don’t know: We invented
the computer chips in America. We invented it, and we made it more
sophisticated.

Thirty years ago, America had more than 30 percent of global chip
production, worth tens of billions of dollars. But today, we produce
only around 10 percent of the world’s chips. Instead of the supply chain
for these chips starting with us, it starts with countries we can’t rely
on.

New automobiles need up to 3,000 of those chips just to be made.

When overseas factories that make these chips shut down during a
pandemic, automakers in America had to shut down their product lines
too. We couldn’t produce enough cars because we didn’t have enough
chips.

We can’t ever let that happen again.

That’s why we came together to pass the bipartisan CHIPS and Science
Act, and we’re seeing the results now. (Applause.)

Just a few hours north of here, IBM invested $20 billion in its fa- — in
its facility in Poughkeepsie, New York, in semi- — in semiconductor
design and manufacturing, quantum computing, artificial intelligence.

Intel is investing $20 billion building two chip factories — fabrication
facilities just outside of Columbus, Ohio.

A hundred billion with Micron in Syracuse. Forty billion with TMSC in
Phoenix.

Our economic agenda has ignited a boom in manufacturing, from
semiconductors to electric vehicles to the advanced batteries that are
going to power those vehicles.

And in addition to that — anybody from the IBEW here? — (applause) —
500,000 charging stations you’re going to build in America, so you can
go from coast to coast to coast. (Applause.)

Look, there’s much more to say about what we’re going to be doing to
modernize American rail. But let me close with this, because if we don’t
get it by a quarter after, we’re all here for the next two hours almost.
(Laughter.)

When America sees these projects popping up across the country, it sends
a really important message: When we work together, there’s not a damn
thing we can’t do. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. We can move — we
can move this. We can move this nation forward.

And it sends another message as well: the message of pride. Pride in our
country. Pride in what we can do when we do it together.

You’ve heard me say it, and I apologize for repeating. But I’m — as long
as I’m here, I’m going to say it: That it has never been a good bet —
never been a good bet to bet against America. Never.

And I can honestly say, as I stand here today, I have never been more
optimistic about America’s future.

We just have to remember who in God’s name we are. We’re the United
States of America. There is nothing — nothing, nothing, nothing — beyond
our capacity if we work together. (Applause.) We’ve never failed to meet
an objective when we set our mind to it.

So, it’s about time we say, once again, we’re going to lead the world
the second quarter of the 21st century.

May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you, thank
you, thank you. (Applause.)

3:06 P.M. EST
