---
date: '2023-01-04'
modified_time: 2023-01-04 16:51:27-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-04 16:18:13-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-rebuilding-our-infrastructure-and-creating-good-paying-jobs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Rebuilding Our Infrastructure and Creating\
  \ Good-Paying\_Jobs"
---
 
Crowley’s Yacht Yard  
Chicago, Illinois

12:54 P.M. CST  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Please
have a seat.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.

Chris, thank you for that introduction, and thank you for all the work
you’ve been doing.  He and I talked backstage about the 100th
anniversary is coming up and the whole history of the work that has
happened here that really is America’s history.  And — and I’m very
honored to be with you today and everyone here.  We have so many
leaders. 

So I want to thank you all for the work you do.  And I want to wish you
a happy new year.

  
UAW Local 551, thank you for all that you do and for being an incredible
model of the work that is happening around the country.  The work you do
here is to build Ford cars.  And it’s here — right here on the South
Side.  And there are generations of people in this community and across
our country who have benefited from your work.

  
I want to thank my longstanding friend, Senator Dick Durbin, for your
leadership, for your friendship, and for what you do for the state of
Illinois and the people of our country.  Thank you, Dick.

And, Mayor Lightfoot, thank you for the warm welcome always, on the
tarmac, and for your leadership in Chicago.

  
And, Mayor Prince, thank you — from Gary.  I talked with you about my
previous visits there.  And Gary really is part of the history of our
country as well.  So thank you for your leadership and being here.

And, of course, Cook County Board President Tony Pre- Preckwinkle, thank
you for your work and for your leadership.

  
And, of course, among the people that must be thanked, first and
foremost, is our President, Joe Biden.  (Applause.) 

  
So when President Biden and I took office, we made a promise.  We vowed
to fight for every person in our nation — every American, in every
community, in every corner of our country. 

Because, you see, the President and I, and we all here, we believe in
America’s greatness.  And we know that greatness is powered by the
incredible ambition and aspiration of the American people.  We see what
can be, unburdened by what has been.

We see, as Americans, opportunity where others might see obstacles.  We
don’t just shoot for the Moon, we plant our flag on it — especially when
we fight not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans for our
shared future and our common destiny.

That is how we best meet every challenge and overcome every obstacle. 
And that is how we build a future where everyone has the tools and the
support they need to live a life of possibility, prosperity, and most
importantly, dignity.

  
After two years in office, I can say with confidence we are building
that better future.  We are building an economy, as President Biden
often puts it, from the bottom up and the middle out — and, I’ll add,
from the outside in.

With your help, we capped the cost of insulin at $35 per month for our
seniors.  (Applause.)  That’s about dignity.  And it’s about
understanding that also allows our seniors to have more money in their
pockets to pay for their retirement.

We invested billions of dollars to make semiconductors right here in
America so that factories like Ford, and the plant here on the South
Side, can use American-made parts to keep assembly lines open and make
supply chains more resilient.

  
We will remove every lead pipe in our nation.  Why?  So that our
children can drink clean water and grow up healthy to fulfill their
God-given potential.  (Applause.)

And all of this brings me here today: the largest investment in our
roads and bridges in 70 years of America’s history.  (Applause.) 

So just look at the 95th Street Bridge behind me.  For many years, this
bridge and three more nearby have served a critical role for communities
in Chicago and Northwest Indiana. 

People across this bridge every day have traveled on their way to work
or taking their children to school. 

  
For thousands of truck drivers, this is a part of their daily route. 

And dozens of times a day, these bridges are raised so that ships can
travel from Lake Michigan all the way to the Gulf of Mexico. 

Millions of Americans who have never heard of this bridge and will never
cross it rely on products like meat and eggs that cargo ships bring
across it or drive a Ford car whose parts pass through here and was
built by UAW 551.  (Applause.)

These products are made in America.  This bridge is how they are
delivered to America.  But for decades, there’s been underinvestment in
our infrastructure, which caused Americans  
to feel the consequences in ways big and small.  
  
Take the 95th Street Bridge, which was built in 1958.  It has not had a
major repair in decades.  The result: detours and delays for families on
their way home for dinner, ambulances and firetrucks delayed when they
respond to emergencies.  And it means backups and load limits that waste
fuel, increase pollution, raise delivery costs, and disrupt supply
chains.  
  
It means supply chains that are disrupted so much so that the result is
empty shelves and higher prices at the grocery store for families,
delivery delays for small businesses, suppliers that cannot fill their
orders, and factories that run fewer shifts, which leads to cuts to
hours and wages.  
  
The consequences of infrastructure underinvestment have been a familiar
story in cities and states across our nation.

About 43,000 bridges, almost 1 in 10, show signs of severe distress in
our country.

And, you know, for years, people talked about this problem.  But now, I
am proud to say, we will finally fix this problem.  (Applause.)  
  
Earlier today, our President, Joe Biden, traveled to the Brent Spence
Bridge, which connects Ohio and Kentucky, to announce the first round of
some $12.5 billion to replace, rehabilitate, and improve some of the
busiest and most important bridges in states across our country,
including the Gold Star Memorial Bridge in Connecticut, the Golden Gate
Bridge in San Francisco, and these four bridges across the Calumet River
here in Chicago.  
  
At these bridges, we will build dedicated bicycle lanes and better
sidewalks so that people in South Deering and East Side can walk or bike
to work instead of drive, if they wish, which saves them money and is
better for our planet.  
  
We will eliminate load limits for trucks and improve the bridge raise
process so that more boats can carry goods up and down this river and so
businesses can ship more products to more markets.  
  
This is also about jobs.  We will put thousands more Americans to work
in good-paying union jobs.  (Applause.)  Jobs for laborers, operating
engineers, carpenters, and ironworkers who will repair, weld, and
restore these bridges.  Jobs for Teamsters who will drive their trucks
over these new bridges.  Good jobs at good wages.  Jobs people can take
pride in as they build America’s future.  
  
So, I’m here today because this bridge represents a very simple point:
When we invest in our infrastructure, we invest in our economy, we
invest in America’s future — a better future for workers, businesses,
families, and communities. 

It’s all connected.  And so, as the days go by, you will see it in a new
coast-to-coast network of electric vehicle charging stations, or a new
wind turbine or cutting-edge solar panel that will cut energy costs and
protect our planet, or a new water heater in your home that lowers both
your electric bill and pollution.  
  
The bottom line is this: President Joe Biden and I are making this
better, brighter future real.  And everyone here  
is an integral part of that.  
  
I thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless America.  
  
     Thank you.  (Applause.)

                                       END                1:04 P.M. CST
