---
date: '2023-01-25'
modified_time: 2023-01-25 14:38:33-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-25 13:20:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/01/25/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-presentation-of-her-2021-inauguration-day-and-evening-ensembles-to-the-smithsonian-institution/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Presentation\
  \ of her 2021 Inauguration Day and Evening Ensembles to the Smithsonian\_Institution"
---
 
Washington, D.C.

Thank you, Alexandra and Gabi. Anthea, Lonnie, your commitment to
preserving our nation’s legacy—and making it accessible for all—is
remarkable. And I’m grateful to the Smithsonian Institution and the
National Museum of American History for bringing us all together.  
  
I also want to thank Congresswoman Doris Matsui for joining us. Like all
of us, my heart is with the people of Doris’ home state of California as
they try to heal from the pain and violence of the last few days.  
  
Clothing is art and articulation. It’s a manifestation of a moment of
time. It’s history.

And today, I’m deeply honored to play a small part in a big moment in
our history, alongside two visionary designers.  
  
When I first encountered Alexandra O’Neill, she was just getting
started—the leader of a young, small team with big ideas. Her designs
seemed both timeless and new. And that was exactly what I was hoping to
find. Because young people showed up and voted for Joe in historic
numbers. And I wanted to reflect their passion, creativity, and hope
that day.  
  
Alexandra, thank you for helping me meet that moment with beauty and
boldness. I’m so proud that your work is now memorialized here at the
Smithsonian, and I hope that your story inspires other young people to
pursue their own design dreams.  
  
I became friends with Gabriela Hearst after we met at an event for Save
the Children when I was Chair of the board. Since then, I’ve had the
chance to see her generosity, talent, and commitment to living out her
values.  
  
She always pushes me to try new things—to step out of my comfort zone.
Time and time again, when I think that there’s no way I’m going to like
her suggestion—she’s right, and I love it. But I didn’t need any
convincing about the design of this dress.  
  
My focus on Inauguration Day was being a First Lady for all
Americans—doing my part to bring our country back together. Gabby
understood that. So, she adorned this dress with the flowers of every
American state and territory. And she placed Delaware, my home, just
above my heart.  
  
Gabby, thank you for making our vision of a truly united America come to
life. I’m so grateful for your talent and your friendship.   
  
Of course, both outfits feature something that will no doubt set them
apart from the other displays here at this museum: matching masks. 

They’re just small pieces of cloth—but they represent the enormity of
what we faced at the time: A pandemic that changed our world forever.
Months of closed schools and businesses. A virtual presidential
campaign. So much time spent apart.  
  
But these masks also represent the moments of courage and kindness that
helped us through the worst of it, the strength and resilience we found
to rebuild and move forward.    
  
I want to thank the Smithsonian for memorializing the history that is
sewn into every stitch of these ensembles. I’m also grateful for the
team of people who helped me through this process in a time when we just
couldn’t fly to New York or do in-person fittings.  
  
And finally, I want to thank all of the designers with us. When I became
First Lady, I knew that people would start to care a lot more about what
I wore. There have been times when I’ve welcomed that spotlight because
I knew that my clothes could help me say something important—like when I
wore my “Vote” boots on Election Day, or my “Love” jacket during our
first trip overseas. And then there were more mundane times, when I wore
a scrunchie to the bakery and it ended up on the nightly news!  
  
But in important moments and everyday ones, I’ve navigated it all with
the help of designs by so many of you here today. So thank you.   
  
These two ensembles were a voice for me on one of the most important
days of my life. They spoke to the American people then—and now, they
will continue speaking to generations to come. They will help tell not
only my story, but the story of what Americans experienced together—of
the hope, and love, and unity that we held onto, and how we let those
values guide us forward.  
  
In the future, when educators like me bring their classes through this
exhibit, I hope that these dresses will help them teach their students
about what started on that January day, about how we came together as a
nation, rebuilding shoulder to shoulder and heart to heart. I hope they
will inspire future generations to learn more about the women behind the
dresses. And, I look forward to adding some menswear to this gallery in
the future, as well!   
  
This means so much to me. It’s an honor to serve as your First Lady.  
  
Thank you.
