---
date: '2025-04-09'
modified_time: 2025-04-09 19:23:08-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-09 19:22:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/addressing-risks-from-chris-krebs-and-government-censorship/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Addressing Risks from Chris Krebs and Government Censorship
---
 
 MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

The Federal Government has a constitutional duty and a moral
responsibility to respect and promote the free speech rights of
Americans. Yet in recent years, elitist leaders in Government have
unlawfully censored speech and weaponized their undeserved influence to
silence perceived political opponents and advance their preferred, and
often erroneous, narrative about significant matters of public debate.
These disgraceful actions have taken the form of coercive threats
against the private sector — including major social media platforms — to
suppress conservative or dissenting voices and distort public opinion.
Much of this censorship took place during a Presidential election with
the apparent purpose of undermining the free exchange of ideas and
debate.

  
Christopher Krebs, the former head of the Cybersecurity and
Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), is a significant bad-faith actor
who weaponized and abused his Government authority. Krebs’ misconduct
involved the censorship of disfavored speech implicating the 2020
election and COVID-19 pandemic. CISA, under Krebs’ leadership,
suppressed conservative viewpoints under the guise of combatting
supposed disinformation, and recruited and coerced major social media
platforms to further its partisan mission. CISA covertly worked to blind
the American public to the controversy surrounding Hunter Biden’s
laptop. Krebs, through CISA, promoted the censorship of election
information, including known risks associated with certain voting
practices. Similarly, Krebs, through CISA, falsely and baselessly denied
that the 2020 election was rigged and stolen, including by
inappropriately and categorically dismissing widespread election
malfeasance and serious vulnerabilities with voting machines. Krebs
skewed the bona fide debate about COVID-19 by attempting to discredit
widely shared views that ran contrary to CISA’s favored perspective.

  
Abusive conduct of this sort both violates the First Amendment and
erodes trust in Government, thus undermining the strength of our
democracy itself. Those who engage in or support such conduct must not
have continued access to our Nation’s secrets. Accordingly, I hereby
direct the heads of executive department and agencies (agencies) to
immediately take steps consistent with existing law to revoke any active
security clearance held by Christopher Krebs.

  
I further direct the Attorney General, the Director of National
Intelligence, and all other relevant agencies to immediately take all
action as necessary and consistent with existing law to suspend any
active security clearances held by individuals at entities associated
with Krebs, including SentinelOne, pending a review of whether such
clearances are consistent with the national interest.

  
I further direct the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, in consultation with any other agency head, to take all
appropriate action to review Krebs’ activities as a Government employee,
including his leadership of CISA. This review should identify any
instances where Krebs’ conduct appears to have been contrary to
suitability standards for Federal employees, involved the unauthorized
dissemination of classified information, or contrary to the purposes and
policies identified in Executive Order 14149 of January 20, 2025
(Restoring Freedom of Speech and Ending Federal Censorship). As part of
that review, I direct a comprehensive evaluation of all of CISA’s
activities over the last 6 years, focusing specifically on any instances
where CISA’s conduct appears to have been contrary to the purposes and
policies identified in Executive Order 14149. Upon completing these
reviews, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall prepare a joint report to be submitted to the President, through
the Counsel to the President, with recommendations for appropriate
remedial or preventative actions to be taken to fulfill the purposes and
policies of Executive Order 14149.

  
This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
