---
date: '2025-04-17'
published_time: 2025-04-17 17:24:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/extension-of-hiring-freeze/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Extension of Hiring Freeze
---
 
April 17, 2025

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Extension of Hiring Freeze

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby extend through July 15,
2025, the freeze on the hiring of Federal civilian employees within the
executive branch, as initially directed in the Presidential Memorandum
of January 20, 2025 (Hiring Freeze).  No Federal civilian position that
is presently vacant may be filled, and no new position may be created,
except as otherwise provided for in this memorandum or required by
applicable law.  In addition, once a merit hiring plan has been adopted
pursuant to Executive Order 14170 of January 20, 2025 (Reforming the
Federal Hiring Process and Restoring Merit to Government Service), any
hiring shall be consistent with that plan.

Except as provided below, this freeze continues to apply to all
executive departments and agencies (agencies) regardless of their
sources of operational and programmatic funding.  This memorandum does
not affect the deadline for the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) to submit a plan for reducing the size of the Federal
Government’s workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition, as
provided in Executive Order 14210 of February 11, 2025 (Implementing the
President’s “Department of Government Efficiency” Workforce Optimization
Initiative).

This memorandum does not apply to military personnel of the Armed Forces
or to positions related to immigration enforcement, national security,
or public safety, and does not apply to the Executive Office of the
President or the components thereof.  Positions that fall within these
categories do not require review by the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM).  Moreover, nothing in this memorandum shall adversely impact the
provision of Social Security, Medicare, or veterans’ benefits.  In
addition, the Director of OPM may continue to grant exemptions from this
freeze where those exemptions are otherwise necessary.  Exemptions
previously granted by OPM shall remain in effect unless withdrawn by
OPM.

Contracting outside the Federal Government to circumvent the intent of
this memorandum is prohibited.

In carrying out this memorandum, the heads of agencies shall seek
efficient use of existing personnel and funds to improve public services
and the delivery of those services.  Accordingly, this memorandum does
not prohibit making reallocations or reassignments to meet the highest
priority needs; maintain essential services; and protect national
security, homeland security, and public safety. 

This memorandum does not restrict the nomination and appointment of
officials to positions requiring Presidential appointment or Senate
confirmation; the appointment of officials to non-career positions in
the Senior Executive Service or to Schedule A or C positions in the
Excepted Service; the appointment of officials through temporary
organization hiring authority pursuant to section 3161 of title 5,
United States Code; or the appointment of any other non-career employees
or officials if approved by the head of an agency appointed by the
President.  Moreover, it does not limit the hiring of personnel where
such a limit would conflict with applicable law. 

This memorandum shall remain in effect for the Internal Revenue Service
until the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Director
of OMB and the Administrator of the United States DOGE Service,
determines that it is in the national interest to terminate the freeze
and publishes notice of such determination in the *Federal Register*.

This memorandum does not abrogate any collective bargaining agreement in
effect on the date of this memorandum.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
