---
date: '2025-04-02'
published_time: 2025-04-02 19:23:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/further-amendment-to-duties-addressing-the-synthetic-opioid-supply-chain-in-the-peoples-republic-of-china-as-applied-to-low-value-imports/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Further Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in\
  \ the People\u2019s Republic of China as Applied to Low-Value Imports"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), section 604 of the
Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  Many shippers
based in the People’s Republic of China (PRC) hide illicit substances
and conceal the true contents of shipments sent to the United States
through deceptive shipping practices.  These shippers often avoid
detection due to administration of the *de minimis* exemption under
section 321(a)(2)(C) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C)).  
  
As noted in Executive Order 14195 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties
to Address the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of
China), as amended by Executive Order 14228 of March 3, 2025 (Further
Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the
People’s Republic of China), these exports play a significant role in
the synthetic opioid crisis in the United States.  In Executive Order
14200 of February 5, 2025 (Amendment to Duties Addressing the Synthetic
Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of China), I suspended the
elimination of duty-free *de minimis* treatment on articles described in
section 2(a) of Executive Order 14195.  The Secretary of Commerce has
notified me that adequate systems are now in place to process and
collect tariff revenue for covered goods from the PRC otherwise eligible
for duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C).
 Accordingly, duty-free *de minimis* treatment under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) shall no longer be available for products of the PRC
(which include products of Hong Kong) described in section 2(a) of
Executive Order 14195, as amended by Executive Order 14228, including
international postal packages sent to the United States through the
international postal network from the PRC or Hong Kong, that are entered
for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or
after 12:01 am eastern daylight time on May 2, 2025.  Additional duties
for such imported merchandise shall be collected at the rates described
in this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Assessment of Duties on
Low-Value Products of the PRC</span>.  (a)  Other than articles sent to
the United States through the international postal network (for which a
duty is separately provided as described in subsections (b) and (c) of
this section), all shipments of articles described in section 2(a) of
Executive Order 14195, as amended by Executive Order 14228, that are
products of the PRC or Hong Kong; that are sent to the United States;
that are valued at or under 800 dollars and that would otherwise qualify
for the *de minimis* exemption authorized in 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C);
and that are entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after 12:01 am eastern daylight time on May 2, 2025,
shall be entered by a party qualified to make entry under another
appropriate entry type in the Automated Commercial Environment (ACE)
operated by U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) of the Department
of Homeland Security, with all applicable duties, including those
imposed by section 2(a) of Executive Order 14195, as amended by
Executive Order 14228, and paid in accordance with the applicable entry
and payment procedures.  Executive departments and agencies, including
the Department of Homeland Security, through CBP, shall take all
necessary actions to effectuate the objectives of this order, consistent
with applicable law, including through temporary suspension or amendment
of regulations or notices in the *Federal Register*.  The United States
International Trade Commission shall continue to act ministerially by
modifying the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS),
as needed, to reflect the actions set out in this order.

\(b\)  Imposition of Duty. 

\(i\)    All postal items containing goods described in section 2(a) of
Executive Order 14195 and sent to the United States through the
international postal network from the PRC or Hong Kong and transported
by carriers that are valued at or under 800 dollars and that would
otherwise qualify for the *de minimis* exemption authorized in 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) shall be subject to the duties described in subsection (c)
of this section.  In order to address the threat of the PRC’s failure to
act to blunt the sustained influx of synthetic opioids into the United
States, while allowing for the orderly flow of legitimate international
mail, the duties imposed in subsection (c) of this section, except as
required by applicable law, are imposed in lieu of any other duties that
the shipments would otherwise be subject to, including the 20 percent ad
valorem duty established in Executive Order 14195, as amended by
Executive Order 14228; most-favored nation rates embodied in the HTSUS;
and duties imposed pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974.  

\(ii\)   CBP is authorized to require the carrier transporting the
international postal package into the United States to remit payment of
the duty described in subsection (c) of this section to CBP monthly or
on such other periodic time frame as CBP determines appropriate, and CBP
may issue regulations and guidance as necessary or appropriate to
implement and enforce this requirement.

\(iii\)  All carriers that transport international postal packages from
the PRC or Hong Kong to the United States as part of or on behalf of the
international postal network must report to CBP the total number of
postal items containing goods and, if electing the duty rate specified
in subsection (c)(i) of this section, the value of each postal item
containing goods, transported per conveyance, in a timeframe and manner
prescribed by CBP.  CBP may require submission of documentation and
information from the carrier to verify the total number and value of
individual postal items containing goods to be electronically
transmitted through the ACE.

\(c\)  Duty Rates.  Transportation carriers delivering shipments to the
United States from the PRC or Hong Kong sent through the international
postal network must collect and remit duties to CBP under the approach
outlined in either subsection (c)(i) or subsection (c)(ii) of this
section.  Transportation carriers must apply the same duty collection
methodology to all shipments; however, transportation carriers may
change their collection methodology once a month or on such other
periodic timeframe as CBP determines appropriate, upon providing 24-hour
notice to CBP.

\(i\)   Ad Valorem Duty.  30 percent of the value of the postal item
containing goods for merchandise entered for consumption on or after
12:01 am eastern daylight time on May 2, 2025.

\(ii\)  Specific Duty.  25 dollars per postal item containing goods for
merchandise entered for consumption on or after 12:01 am eastern
daylight time on May 2, 2025, and before 12:01 am eastern daylight time
on June 1, 2025, and 50 dollars per postal item containing goods for
merchandise entered for consumption on or after 12:01 am eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2025.

\(d\)  Bond Requirement.  Any carrier that transports international
postal items containing goods from the PRC or Hong Kong to the United
States, by any mode of transportation, must have an international
carrier bond to ensure payment of the duty described in subsections (b)
and (c) of this section.  CBP is authorized to ensure that the
international carrier bonds required by this subsection are sufficient
to account for the duty described in subsections (b) and (c) of this
section.

\(e\)  Discretion to Require Formal Entry.  CBP may require formal
entry, in accordance with existing regulations, for any international
postal package that may otherwise be subject to the duty described in
subsections (b) and (c) of this section.  An international postal
package for which CBP requires formal entry will not be subject to the
duty described in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, and instead
will be subject to all applicable duties, taxes, and fees in accordance
with all applicable laws.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation of
Duty</span>.  The Secretary of Homeland Security is directed to take all
necessary actions to implement this order.  Consistent with section 4 of
Executive Order 14195, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General,
and the Secretary of Commerce, is authorized to take such actions,
including adopting rules and regulations, and to employ all powers
granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this
order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Homeland Security
Authorities</span>.  Nothing in this order limits the ability of the
Department of Homeland Security to use any available legal authorities
granted to ensure compliance with the provisions of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Monitoring</span>.  Within 90
days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce, in
consultation with the United States Trade Representative, shall submit a
report to the President regarding the impact of this order on American
industries, consumers, and supply chains and making recommendations for
further action as he deems necessary, including a recommendation on
whether extending *de minimis* ineligibility to packages from Macau is
necessary to prevent circumvention of this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>*.*
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
 

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    April 2, 2025.
