---
date: '2025-04-17'
published_time: 2025-04-17 17:25:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/250th-anniversary-of-the-battles-of-lexington-and-concord/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 250th Anniversary of the Battles of Lexington and Concord
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

Two and a half centuries ago, a small band of minutemen answered the
call of freedom in the legendary Battles of Lexington and Concord, an
epic tale of American strength and the first major armed conflict of the
Revolutionary War.   We honor the memories, remember the sacrifices, and
summon the courage of every hero of liberty who gallantly shed his blood
for the cause of independence on April 19, 1775.

After years of intensifying frictions and escalating hostility between
the British Crown and the American Colonies, all avenues to peace and
diplomacy had been exhausted, and it became clear to the patriots that
war was inevitable.  Following the Boston Massacre, the oppressive
Intolerable Acts, and the lasting grievance of taxation without
representation, the colonists began organizing militias as a final
recourse in defense of their right to self-government.

The British regime’s reign of tyranny reached a breaking point when, in
his fearless midnight ride from Boston, Massachusetts, Paul Revere
announced the news that the Redcoats were marching to Concord,
Massachusetts, to arrest Colonial leaders and seize American arms.  By
the time they reached Lexington at dawn, the British encountered 77
intrepid American minutemen, led by Captain John Parker, boldly standing
their ground in defense of their independence.  The surprised British
fired a volley, mortally wounding eight American patriots — the very
first American soldiers to lay down their lives for our emerging
Nation. 

The British ambush at Lexington became known as the “shot heard ’round
the world,” prompting thousands of brave young men to leave behind their
homes and livelihoods to fight for our freedom on the frontlines of the
American Revolution — commencing the greatest fight for liberty in the
history of the world.

Later that morning, the Redcoats arrived at Concord to find and set fire
to patriot military supplies.  At the sight of rising smoke from atop a
lofty hill, the colonists believed the Redcoats were burning the town,
provoking them to advance to the North Bridge.  As Captain Isaac Davis,
whose company stood at the front of the column, said of his soldiers
gearing up to take on the Redcoats, “I haven’t a man who is afraid to
go.”

As 400 daring militiamen descended down Punkatasset Hill toward the
North Bridge, the startled British opened fire, killing 49 Americans,
including Captain Davis.  “Fire, fellow soldiers, for God’s sake, fire!”
shouted Major John Buttrick of the Concord militia at the sound of the
discharging muskets — sending the British running back to Boston in
retreat in a resounding victory for Colonial forces.  For the next 12
miles, the patriots relentlessly pursued the Redcoats, ambushing them
from behind trees, walls, and other cover.  As one British soldier is
said to have recalled, the Americans “fought like bears, and I would as
soon storm hell as fight them again.”

April 19, 1775, stands to this day as a seminal milestone in our
Nation’s righteous crusade for liberty and independence.  On this day
250 years ago, with the fire of freedom blazing in their souls, an
extraordinary army of American minutemen defeated one of the mightiest
armies on the face of the earth and laid the foundation for America’s
ultimate triumph over tyranny.

Two and a half centuries later, their fortitude remains our inheritance,
their resolve remains our birthright, and their unwavering loyalty to
God and country remains the duty of every American patriot.  As we
approach the 250th anniversary of our Nation’s independence next year,
we honor the valiant men who fought in defense of their sacred right to
self-government, we renew our pledge to restore our republic to all of
its greatness and glory, and we commit to rebuilding a country and a
culture that inspires pride in our past and faith in our future.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 19, 2025, as a
day in commemoration of the 250th anniversary of the Battles of
Lexington and Concord and the beginning of the American Revolutionary
War.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand thisseventeenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
