---
date: '2025-04-17'
modified_time: 2025-04-17 17:27:24-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-17 17:27:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/restoring-american-seafood-competitiveness/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring American Seafood Competitiveness
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. *** ***Background*.*  The United States controls one of the
largest and most abundant ocean resources in the world, with over 4
million square miles of prime fishing grounds.  With this vast resource
and centuries of hard work from American fishermen, our Nation has the
greatest seafood in the world.

Most American fish stocks are healthy and have viable markets.  Despite
these opportunities, seafood is one of the most heavily regulated
sectors in the United States.  Federal overregulation has restricted
fishermen from productively harvesting American seafood including
through restrictive catch limits, selling our fishing grounds to foreign
offshore wind companies, inaccurate and outdated fisheries data, and
delayed adoption of modern technology.

The United States should be the world’s dominant seafood leader.  But in
addition to overregulation, unfair trade practices have put our seafood
markets at a competitive disadvantage.  Nearly 90 percent of seafood on
our shelves is now imported, and the seafood trade deficit stands at
over $20 billion.  The erosion of American seafood competitiveness at
the hands of unfair foreign trade practices must end.

Sec. 2.  Purpose*.*  The United States must address unfair trade
practices, eliminate unsafe imports, level the unfair playing field that
has benefited foreign fishing companies, promote ethical sourcing,
reduce regulatory burdens, and ensure the integrity of the seafood
supply chain.  Previously, I signed Executive Order 13921 of May 7, 2020
(Promoting American Seafood Competitiveness and Economic Growth).  That
successful order — which remains in effect — enhanced the
competitiveness of United States seafood, streamlined regulations,
supported maritime jobs and coastal economies, and improved data
collection.  During the past 4 years, our fishermen were once again
crushed under the pressure of unnecessary regulations and unfavorable
policies.  It is vital that we now build upon our previous hard work
with new, additional measures to promote domestic fishing.

Sec. 3.  Policy*.*  It is the policy of the United States to promote the
productive harvest of our seafood resources; unburden our commercial
fishermen from costly and inefficient regulation; combat illegal,
unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing; and protect our seafood
markets from the unfair trade practices of foreign nations.

Sec. 4. ** **A New Era of Seafood Policy*.*  (a)  The Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services and with input from the United States fishing industry, shall
immediately consider suspending, revising, or rescinding regulations
that overly burden America’s commercial fishing, aquaculture, and fish
processing industries at the fishery-specific level.  Within 30 days of
the date of this order, the Secretary of Commerce shall identify the
most heavily overregulated fisheries requiring action and take
appropriate action to reduce the regulatory burden on them, in
cooperation with the Regional Fishery Management Councils, interagency
partners, and through public-private partnerships, as appropriate.  This
process shall include the following actions:

\(i\)    The Secretary of Commerce shall request that each Regional
Fishery Management Council, within 180 days of the date of this order,
provide the Secretary of Commerce with updates to their recommendations
submitted pursuant to Executive Order 13921, to reduce burdens on
domestic fishing and to increase production.  Building upon the earlier
goals, identified actions should stabilize markets, improve access,
enhance economic profitability, and prevent closures.  The Regional
Fishery Management Councils will commit to a work plan and a schedule
for implementation to ensure these actions are prioritized.

\(ii\)   The Secretary of Commerce shall solicit direct public comments,
including from fishing industry members, technology experts, marine
scientists, and other relevant parties, for innovative ideas to improve
fisheries management and science within the requirements of the
Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act (16 U.S.C. 1801
*et seq.)*; the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 *et
seq*.); the Marine Mammal Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq*.); and
other applicable laws.

\(iii\)  The Secretary of Commerce shall pursue additional direct public
engagement to ensure executive departments and agencies (agencies) are
focusing core fisheries management and science functions to directly
support priority needs that strengthen our Nation’s seafood supply
chain.

\(b\)  Upon completion of the process described in subsection (a) of
this section, the Secretary of Commerce shall consider updating the
Department of Commerce’s contribution to the Unified Regulatory Agenda.
 The Secretary of Commerce shall resume submission of annual reports to
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy, and the Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality pursuant to these activities as described in Executive Order
13921.

\(c\)  The Secretary of Commerce shall direct the National Marine
Fisheries Service to incorporate less expensive and more reliable
technologies and cooperative research programs into fishery assessments
conducted pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1867.  As soon as practicable, the
Secretary of Commerce shall expand exempted fishing permit programs to
promote fishing opportunities nationwide.  Further, the Secretary of
Commerce shall take all appropriate action to modernize data collection
and analytical practices that will improve the responsiveness of
fisheries management to real-time ocean conditions.

\(d\)  The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
Agriculture, shall develop and implement an America First Seafood
Strategy to promote production, marketing, sale, and export of United
States fishery and aquaculture products and strengthen domestic
processing capacity.  This program shall accelerate the Department of
Agriculture’s efforts to educate American consumers about the health
benefits of seafood and increase seafood purchases in nutrition
programs.

\(e\)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce and the United States Trade Representative, in consultation
with members of the Interagency Seafood Trade Task Force, shall assess
seafood competitiveness issues and jointly develop a comprehensive
seafood trade strategy.  The strategy shall be based upon the Seafood
Trade Strategy of November 3, 2020, that improves access to foreign
markets and addresses unfair trade practices — including IUU fishing and
unjustified non-tariff barriers — while ensuring a fair and competitive
domestic market for United States seafood producers.

(f)  The United States Trade Representative shall examine the relevant
trade practices of major seafood-producing nations, including with
regard to IUU fishing and the use of forced labor in the seafood supply
chain, and consider appropriate responses, including pursuing solutions
through negotiations or trade enforcement authorities, such as under
section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2411).

(g)  The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and other
relevant agencies, shall immediately consider revising or rescinding
recent expansions of the Seafood Import Monitoring Program to
unnecessary species and further improve the program to more effectively
target high-risk shipments from nations that routinely violate
international fishery regulations.  The Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall use cost savings to improve thorough checks at United
States ports to prevent IUU seafood from entering the market.  The
Secretary of Commerce shall further consider options to use improved
technology to identify foreign fishery-related violations.

\(h\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall
review all existing marine national monuments and provide
recommendations to the President of any that should be opened to
commercial fishing.  In making these recommendations, the Secretary of
Commerce will consider whether the opening of the monuments to
commercial fishing would be consistent with the preservation of the
historic landmarks, historic and prehistoric structures, and other
objects of historic or scientific interest originally identified in the
proclamations establishing the marine national monuments.

Sec. 5.  General Provisions*.*  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

April 17, 2025.
