---
date: '2025-04-02'
modified_time: 2025-04-02 17:39:11-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-02 17:37:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/regulating-imports-with-a-reciprocal-tariff-to-rectify-trade-practices-that-contribute-to-large-and-persistent-annual-united-states-goods-trade-deficits/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Regulating Imports with a Reciprocal Tariff to Rectify Trade Practices that
  Contribute to Large and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade Deficits
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)(IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.)(NEA), section 604 of
the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of
title 3, United States Code,   
  
I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of America, find that
underlying conditions, including a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral
trade relationships, disparate tariff rates and non-tariff barriers, and
U.S. trading partners’ economic policies that suppress domestic wages
and consumption, as indicated by large and persistent annual U.S. goods
trade deficits, constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and economy of the United States.  That threat has its
source in whole or substantial part outside the United States in the
domestic economic policies of key trading partners and structural
imbalances in the global trading system.  I hereby declare a national
emergency with respect to this threat.  
  
On January 20, 2025, I signed the America First Trade Policy
Presidential Memorandum directing my Administration to investigate the
causes of our country’s large and persistent annual trade deficits in
goods, including the economic and national security implications and
risks resulting from such deficits, and to undertake a review of, and
identify, any unfair trade practices by other countries.  On February
13, 2025, I signed a Presidential Memorandum entitled “Reciprocal Trade
and Tariffs,” that directed further review of our trading partners’
non-reciprocal trading practices, and noted the relationship between
non-reciprocal practices and the trade deficit.  On April 1, 2025, I
received the final results of those investigations, and I am taking
action today based on those results.    
  
Large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits have led to the
hollowing out of our manufacturing base; inhibited our ability to scale
advanced domestic manufacturing capacity; undermined critical supply
chains; and rendered our defense-industrial base dependent on foreign
adversaries.  Large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits are
caused in substantial part by a lack of reciprocity in our bilateral
trade relationships.  This situation is evidenced by disparate tariff
rates and non-tariff barriers that make it harder for U.S. manufacturers
to sell their products in foreign markets.  It is also evidenced by the
economic policies of key U.S. trading partners insofar as they suppress
domestic wages and consumption, and thereby demand for U.S. exports,
while artificially increasing the competitiveness of their goods in
global markets.  These conditions have given rise to the national
emergency that this order is intended to abate and resolve.  
  
For decades starting in 1934, U.S. trade policy has been organized
around the principle of reciprocity.  The Congress directed the
President to secure reduced reciprocal tariff rates from key trading
partners first through bilateral trade agreements and later under the
auspices of the global trading system.  Between 1934 and 1945, the
executive branch negotiated and signed 32 bilateral reciprocal trade
agreements designed to lower tariff rates on a reciprocal basis.  After
1947 through 1994, participating countries engaged in eight rounds of
negotiation, which resulted in the General Agreements on Tariffs and
Trade (GATT) and seven subsequent tariff reduction rounds.   
  
However, despite a commitment to the principle of reciprocity, the
trading relationship between the United States and its trading partners
has become highly unbalanced, particularly in recent years.  The
post-war international economic system was based upon three incorrect
assumptions:  first, that if the United States led the world in
liberalizing tariff and non-tariff barriers the rest of the world would
follow; second, that such liberalization would ultimately result in more
economic convergence and increased domestic consumption among U.S.
trading partners converging towards the share in the United States; and
third, that as a result, the United States would not accrue large and
persistent goods trade deficits.   
  
This framework set in motion events, agreements, and commitments that
did not result in reciprocity or generally increase domestic consumption
in foreign economies relative to domestic consumption in the United
States.  Those events, in turn, created large and persistent annual U.S.
goods trade deficits as a feature of the global trading system.   
  
Put simply, while World Trade Organization (WTO) Members agreed to bind
their tariff rates on a most-favored-nation (MFN) basis, and thereby
provide their best tariff rates to all WTO Members, they did not agree
to bind their tariff rates at similarly low levels or to apply tariff
rates on a reciprocal basis.  Consequently, according to the WTO, the
United States has among the lowest simple average MFN tariff rates in
the world at 3.3 percent, while many of our key trading partners like
Brazil (11.2 percent), China (7.5 percent), the European Union (EU) (5
percent), India (17 percent), and Vietnam (9.4 percent) have simple
average MFN tariff rates that are significantly higher.    
  
Moreover, these average MFN tariff rates conceal much larger
discrepancies across economies in tariff rates applied to particular
products.  For example, the United States imposes a 2.5 percent tariff
on passenger vehicle imports (with internal combustion engines), while
the European Union (10 percent), India (70 percent), and China (15
percent) impose much higher duties on the same product.  For network
switches and routers, the United States imposes a 0 percent tariff, but
for similar products, India (10 percent) levies a higher rate.  Brazil
(18 percent) and Indonesia (30 percent) impose a higher tariff on
ethanol than does the United States (2.5 percent).  For rice in the
husk, the U.S. MFN tariff is 2.7 percent (ad valorem equivalent), while
India (80 percent), Malaysia (40 percent), and Turkey (an average of 31
percent) impose higher rates.  Apples enter the United States duty-free,
but not so in Turkey (60.3 percent) and India (50 percent).  
  
Similarly, non-tariff barriers also deprive U.S. manufacturers of
reciprocal access to markets around the world.  The 2025 National Trade
Estimate Report on Foreign Trade Barriers (NTE) details a great number
of non-tariff barriers to U.S. exports around the world on a
trading-partner by trading-partner basis.  These barriers include import
barriers and licensing restrictions; customs barriers and shortcomings
in trade facilitation; technical barriers to trade (e.g., unnecessarily
trade restrictive standards, conformity assessment procedures, or
technical regulations); sanitary and phytosanitary measures that
unnecessarily restrict trade without furthering safety objectives;
inadequate patent, copyright, trade secret, and trademark regimes and
inadequate enforcement of intellectual property rights; discriminatory
licensing requirements or regulatory standards; barriers to cross-border
data flows and discriminatory practices affecting trade in digital
products; investment barriers; subsidies; anticompetitive practices;
discrimination in favor of domestic state-owned enterprises, and
failures by governments in protecting labor and environment standards;
bribery; and corruption.  
  
Moreover, non-tariff barriers include the domestic economic policies and
practices of our trading partners, including currency practices and
value-added taxes, and their associated market distortions, that
suppress domestic consumption and boost exports to the United States.
 This lack of reciprocity is apparent in the fact that the share of
consumption to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in the United States is
about 68 percent, but it is much lower in others like Ireland (27
percent), Singapore (31 percent), China (39 percent), South Korea (49
percent), and Germany (50 percent).  
  
At the same time, efforts by the United States to address these
imbalances have stalled.  Trading partners have repeatedly blocked
multilateral and plurilateral solutions, including in the context of new
rounds of tariff negotiations and efforts to discipline non-tariff
barriers.  At the same time, with the U.S. economy disproportionately
open to imports, U.S. trading partners have had few incentives to
provide reciprocal treatment to U.S. exports in the context of bilateral
trade negotiations.  
  
These structural asymmetries have driven the large and persistent annual
U.S. goods trade deficit.  Even for countries with which the United
States may enjoy an occasional bilateral trade surplus, the accumulation
of tariff and non-tariff barriers on U.S. exports may make that surplus
smaller than it would have been without such barriers.  Permitting these
asymmetries to continue is not sustainable in today’s economic and
geopolitical environment because of the effect they have on U.S.
domestic production.  A nation’s ability to produce domestically is the
bedrock of its national and economic security.  
  
Both my first Administration in 2017, and the Biden Administration in
2022, recognized that increasing domestic manufacturing is critical to
U.S. national security.  According to 2023 United Nations data, U.S.
manufacturing output as a share of global manufacturing output was 17.4
percent, down from a peak in 2001 of 28.4 percent.   
  
Over time, the persistent decline in U.S. manufacturing output has
reduced U.S. manufacturing capacity.  The need to maintain robust and
resilient domestic manufacturing capacity is particularly acute in
certain advanced industrial sectors like automobiles, shipbuilding,
pharmaceuticals, technology products, machine tools, and basic and
fabricated metals, because once competitors gain sufficient global
market share in these sectors, U.S. production could be permanently
weakened.  It is also critical to scale manufacturing capacity in the
defense-industrial sector so that we can manufacture the defense
materiel and equipment necessary to protect American interests at home
and abroad.    
  
In fact, because the United States has supplied so much military
equipment to other countries, U.S. stockpiles of military goods are too
low to be compatible with U.S. national defense interests.  Furthermore,
U.S. defense companies must develop new, advanced manufacturing
technologies across a range of critical sectors including
bio-manufacturing, batteries, and microelectronics.  If the United
States wishes to maintain an effective security umbrella to defend its
citizens and homeland, as well as for its allies and partners, it needs
to have a large upstream manufacturing and goods-producing ecosystem to
manufacture these products without undue reliance on imports for key
inputs.   
  
Increased reliance on foreign producers for goods also has compromised
U.S. economic security by rendering U.S. supply chains vulnerable to
geopolitical disruption and supply shocks.  In recent years, the
vulnerability of the U.S. economy in this respect was exposed both
during the COVID-19 pandemic, when Americans had difficulty accessing
essential products, as well as when the Houthi rebels later began
attacking cargo ships in the Middle East.   
  
The decline of U.S. manufacturing capacity threatens the U.S. economy in
other ways, including through the loss of manufacturing jobs.  From 1997
to 2024, the United States lost around 5 million manufacturing jobs and
experienced one of the largest drops in manufacturing employment in
history.  Furthermore, many manufacturing job losses were concentrated
in specific geographical areas.  In these areas, the loss of
manufacturing jobs contributed to the decline in rates of family
formation and to the rise of other social trends, like the abuse of
opioids, that have imposed profound costs on the U.S. economy.  
  
The future of American competitiveness depends on reversing these
trends.  Today, manufacturing represents just 11 percent of U.S. gross
domestic product, yet it accounts for 35 percent of American
productivity growth and 60 percent of our exports.  Importantly, U.S.
manufacturing is the main engine of innovation in the United States,
responsible for 55 percent of all patents and 70 percent of all research
and development (R&D) spending.  The fact that R&D expenditures by U.S.
multinational enterprises in China grew at an average rate of 13.6
percent a year between 2003 and 2017, while their R&D expenditures in
the United States grew by an average of just 5 percent per year during
the same time period, is evidence of the strong link between
manufacturing and innovation.  Furthermore, every manufacturing job
spurs 7 to 12 new jobs in other related industries, helping to build and
sustain our economy.  
  
Just as a nation that does not produce manufactured products cannot
maintain the industrial base it needs for national security, neither can
a nation long survive if it cannot produce its own food.  Presidential
Policy Directive 21 of February 12, 2013 (Critical Infrastructure
Security and Resilience), designates food and agriculture as a “critical
infrastructure sector” because it is one of the sectors considered “so
vital to the United States that \[its\] incapacity or destruction . . .
would have a debilitating impact on security, national economic
security, national public health or safety, or any combination of those
matters.”  Furthermore, when I left office, the United States had a
trade surplus in agricultural products, but today, that surplus has
vanished.  Eviscerated by a slew of new non-tariff barriers imposed by
our trading partners, it has been replaced by a projected $49 billion
annual agricultural trade deficit. For these reasons, I hereby declare
and order:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">National Emergency</span>.  As
President of the United States, my highest duty is ensuring the national
and economic security of the country and its citizens.    
  
I have declared a national emergency arising from conditions reflected
in large and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits, which have
grown by over 40 percent in the past 5 years alone, reaching $1.2
trillion in 2024.  This trade deficit reflects asymmetries in trade
relationships that have contributed to the atrophy of domestic
production capacity, especially that of the U.S. manufacturing and
defense-industrial base.  These asymmetries also impact U.S. producers’
ability to export and, consequentially, their incentive to produce.   
Specifically, such asymmetry includes not only non-reciprocal
differences in tariff rates among foreign trading partners, but also
extensive use of non-tariff barriers by foreign trading partners, which
reduce the competitiveness of U.S. exports while artificially enhancing
the competitiveness of their own goods.  These non-tariff barriers
include technical barriers to trade; non-scientific sanitary and
phytosanitary rules; inadequate intellectual property protections;
suppressed domestic consumption (e.g., wage suppression); weak labor,
environmental, and other regulatory standards and protections; and
corruption.  These non-tariff barriers give rise to significant
imbalances even when the United States and a trading partner have
comparable tariff rates.   
  
The cumulative effect of these imbalances has been the transfer of
resources from domestic producers to foreign firms, reducing
opportunities for domestic manufacturers to expand and, in turn, leading
to lost manufacturing jobs, diminished manufacturing capacity, and an
atrophied industrial base, including in the defense-industrial sector.
 At the same time, foreign firms are better positioned to scale
production, reinvest in innovation, and compete in the global economy,
to the detriment of U.S. economic and national security.    
The absence of sufficient domestic manufacturing capacity in certain
critical and advanced industrial sectors — another outcome of the large
and persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits — also compromises U.S.
economic and national security by rendering the U.S. economy less
resilient to supply chain disruption.  Finally, the large, persistent
annual U.S. goods trade deficits, and the concomitant loss of industrial
capacity, have compromised military readiness; this vulnerability can
only be redressed through swift corrective action to rebalance the flow
of imports into the United States.  Such impact upon military readiness
and our national security posture is especially acute with the recent
rise in armed conflicts abroad.  I call upon the public and private
sector to make the efforts necessary to strengthen the international
economic position of the United States.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Reciprocal Tariff
Policy</span>.  It is the policy of the United States to rebalance
global trade flows by imposing an additional ad valorem duty on all
imports from all trading partners except as otherwise provided herein.
 The additional ad valorem duty on all imports from all trading partners
shall start at 10 percent and shortly thereafter, the additional ad
valorem duty shall increase for trading partners enumerated in Annex I
to this order at the rates set forth in Annex I to this order.  These
additional ad valorem duties shall apply until such time as I determine
that the underlying conditions described above are satisfied, resolved,
or mitigated.     
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation</span>.  (a)
 Except as otherwise provided in this order, all articles imported into
the customs territory of the United States shall be, consistent with
law, subject to an additional ad valorem rate of duty of 10 percent.
 Such rates of duty shall apply with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025, except that goods
loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the final
mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5,
2025, and entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 5, 2025,
shall not be subject to such additional duty.    
  
Furthermore, except as otherwise provided in this order, at 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025, all articles from trading
partners enumerated in Annex I to this order imported into the customs
territory of the United States shall be, consistent with law, subject to
the country-specific ad valorem rates of duty specified in Annex I to
this order.  Such rates of duty shall apply with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025, except that
goods loaded onto a vessel at the port of loading and in transit on the
final mode of transit before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
9, 2025, and entered for consumption or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 9, 2025,
shall not be subject to these country-specific ad valorem rates of duty
set forth in Annex I to this order.  These country-specific ad valorem
rates of duty shall apply to all articles imported pursuant to the terms
of all existing U.S. trade agreements, except as provided below. 

\(b\)  The following goods as set forth in Annex II to this order,
consistent with law, shall not be subject to the ad valorem rates of
duty under this order:  (i) all articles that are encompassed by 50
U.S.C. 1702(b); (ii) all articles and derivatives of steel and aluminum
subject to the duties imposed pursuant to section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962 and proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 of March 8,
2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), as amended,
Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the
United States), as amended, and Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020
(Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel
Articles Into the United States), as amended, Proclamation 10895 of
February 10, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United
States), and Proclamation 10896 of February 10, 2025 (Adjusting Imports
of Steel into the United States); (iii) all automobiles and automotive
parts subject to the additional duties imposed pursuant to section 232
of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, and proclaimed in
Proclamation 10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles
and Automobile Parts Into the United States); (iv) other products
enumerated in Annex II to this order, including copper, pharmaceuticals,
semiconductors, lumber articles, certain critical minerals, and energy
and energy products; (v) all articles from a trading partner subject to
the rates set forth in Column 2 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS); and (vi) all articles that may become subject to
duties pursuant to future actions under section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962.

\(c\)  The rates of duty established by this order are in addition to
any other duties, fees, taxes, exactions, or charges applicable to such
imported articles, except as provided in subsections (d) and (e) of this
section below. 

\(d\)  With respect to articles from Canada, I have imposed additional
duties on certain goods to address a national emergency resulting from
the flow of illicit drugs across our northern border pursuant to
Executive Order 14193 of February 1, 2025 (Imposing Duties To Address
the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our Northern Border), as amended by
Executive Order 14197 of February 3, 2025 (Progress on the Situation at
Our Northern Border), and Executive Order 14231 of March 2, 2025
(Amendment to Duties To Address the Flow of Illicit Drugs Across Our
Northern Border).  With respect to articles from Mexico, I have imposed
additional duties on certain goods to address a national emergency
resulting from the flow of illicit drugs and illegal migration across
our southern border pursuant to Executive Order 14194 of February 1,
2025 (Imposing Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern Border),
as amended by Executive Order 14198 of February 3, 2025 (Progress on the
Situation at Our Southern Border), and Executive Order 14227 of March 2,
2025 (Amendment to Duties To Address the Situation at Our Southern
Border).  As a result of these border emergency tariff actions, all
goods of Canada or Mexico under the terms of general note 11 to the
HTSUS, including any treatment set forth in subchapter XXIII of chapter
98 and subchapter XXII of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, as related to the
Agreement between the United States of America, United Mexican States,
and Canada (USMCA), continue to be eligible to enter the U.S. market
under these preferential terms.  However, all goods of Canada or Mexico
that do not qualify as originating under USMCA are presently subject to
additional ad valorem duties of 25 percent, with energy or energy
resources and potash imported from Canada and not qualifying as
originating under USMCA presently subject to the lower additional ad
valorem duty of 10 percent.  

\(e\)  Any ad valorem rate of duty on articles imported from Canada or
Mexico under the terms of this order shall not apply in addition to the
ad valorem rate of duty specified by the existing orders described in
subsection (d) of this section.  If such orders identified in subsection
(d) of this section are terminated or suspended, all items of Canada and
Mexico that qualify as originating under USMCA shall not be subject to
an additional ad valorem rate of duty, while articles not qualifying as
originating under USMCA shall be subject to an ad valorem rate of duty
of 12 percent.  However, these ad valorem rates of duty on articles
imported from Canada and Mexico shall not apply to energy or energy
resources, to potash, or to an article eligible for duty-free treatment
under USMCA that is a part or component of an article substantially
finished in the United States. 

\(f\)  More generally, the ad valorem rates of duty set forth in this
order shall apply only to the non-U.S. content of a subject article,
provided at least 20 percent of the value of the subject article is U.S.
originating.  For the purposes of this subsection, “U.S. content” refers
to the value of an article attributable to the components produced
entirely, or substantially transformed in, the United States.  U.S.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP), to the extent permitted by law, is
authorized to require the collection of such information and
documentation regarding an imported article, including with the entry
filing, as is necessary to enable CBP to ascertain and verify the value
of the U.S. content of the article, as well as to ascertain and verify
whether an article is substantially finished in the United States. 

\(g\)  Subject articles, except those eligible for admission under
“domestic status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.43, which are subject to the
duty specified in section 2 of this order and are admitted into a
foreign trade zone on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
9, 2025, must be admitted as “privileged foreign status” as defined in
19 CFR 146.41. 

\(h\)  Duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(A)-(B)
shall remain available for the articles described in subsection (a) of
this section.  Duty-free de minimis treatment under 19 U.S.C.
1321(a)(2)(C) shall remain available for the articles described in
subsection (a) of this section until notification by the Secretary of
Commerce to the President that adequate systems are in place to fully
and expeditiously process and collect duty revenue applicable pursuant
to this subsection for articles otherwise eligible for de minimis
treatment.  After such notification, duty-free de minimis treatment
under 19 U.S.C. 1321(a)(2)(C) shall not be available for the articles
described in subsection (a) of this section.  

\(i\)  The Executive Order of April 2, 2025 (Further Amendment to Duties
Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of
China as Applied to Low-Value Imports), regarding low-value imports from
China is not affected by this order, and all duties and fees with
respect to covered articles shall be collected as required and detailed
therein.

\(j\)  To reduce the risk of transshipment and evasion, all ad valorem
rates of duty imposed by this order or any successor orders with respect
to articles of China shall apply equally to articles of both the Hong
Kong Special Administrative Region and the Macau Special Administrative
Region.

\(k\)  In order to establish the duty rates described in this order, the
HTSUS is modified as set forth in the Annexes to this order.  These
modifications shall enter into effect on the dates set forth in the
Annexes to this order.

\(l\)  Unless specifically noted herein, any prior Presidential
Proclamation, Executive Order, or other Presidential directive or
guidance related to trade with foreign trading partners that is
inconsistent with the direction in this order is hereby terminated,
suspended, or modified to the extent necessary to give full effect to
this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Modification Authority</span>.
 (a)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for
Trade and Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, shall recommend to me additional action, if necessary,
if this action is not effective in resolving the emergency conditions
described above, including the increase in the overall trade deficit or
the recent expansion of non-reciprocal trade arrangements by U.S.
trading partners in a manner that threatens the economic and national
security interests of the United States. 

\(b\)  Should any trading partner retaliate against the United States in
response to this action through import duties on U.S. exports or other
measures, I may further modify the HTSUS to increase or expand in scope
the duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this
action. 

\(c\)  Should any trading partner take significant steps to remedy
non-reciprocal trade arrangements and align sufficiently with the United
States on economic and national security matters, I may further modify
the HTSUS to decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this
order.

\(d\)  Should U.S. manufacturing capacity and output continue to worsen,
I may further modify the HTSUS to increase duties under this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation
Authority</span>.  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for
Trade and Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs, and the Chair of the International Trade Commission
are hereby authorized to employ all powers granted to the President by
IEEPA as may be necessary to implement this order.  Each executive
department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its
authority to implement this order.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Reporting Requirements</span>.
 The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Assistant to the
President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and
Manufacturing, and the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final reports to
the Congress on the national emergency declared in this order,
consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1641(c)) and
section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

  
DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    April 2, 2025.
