---
date: '2025-04-11'
published_time: 2025-04-11 18:48:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/military-mission-for-sealing-the-southern-border-of-the-united-states-and-repelling-invasions/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Military Mission for Sealing the Southern Border of the United States and Repelling
  Invasions
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY PRESIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM/NSPM-4

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE  
               THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR  
               THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE  
               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY  
  
SUBJECT:      Military Mission for Sealing the Southern Border of the
United States and Repelling Invasions  
  
  
As the Chief Executive and Commander in Chief, the United States
Constitution empowers me to direct the various elements of the executive
branch to protect our homeland and ensure the territorial integrity and
sovereignty of the United States in the manner I deem most efficient and
effective, consistent with applicable law.  Our southern border is under
attack from a variety of threats.  The complexity of the current
situation requires that our military take a more direct role in securing
our southern border than in the recent past.  Through Executive Order
14167 of January 20, 2025 (Clarifying the Military’s Role in Protecting
the Territorial Integrity of the United States), I assigned the Armed
Forces of the United States the military missions of repelling the
invasion and sealing the United States southern border from unlawful
entry to maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security
of the United States.  This memorandum provides additional guidance on
securing the southern border to the heads of certain executive
departments. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.
(a) to accomplish the military missions described in Executive Order
14167, and to ensure the safety and security of the military and other
Federal personnel in areas of military operations within Federal lands
along the southern border, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall take all appropriate actions:  
  
(i)    to provide for the use and jurisdiction by the Department of
Defense over such Federal lands, including the Roosevelt Reservation and
excluding Federal Indian Reservations, that are reasonably necessary to
enable military activities directed in this memorandum, including
border-barrier construction and emplacement of detection and monitoring
equipment; and  
  
(ii)   to provide for transfer and acceptance of jurisdiction over such
Federal lands in accordance with applicable law to enable military
activities directed in this memorandum to occur on a military
installation under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense and for
the designation of such Federal lands as National Defense Areas by the
Secretary of Defense.  
  
(b)  The Secretary of the Interior shall allow the Secretary of Defense
to use those portions of the Roosevelt Reservation not yet transferred
or withdrawn under this memorandum. In accordance with Proclamation
10886 of January 20, 2025 (Declaring a National Emergency at the
Southern Border of the United States), 43 U.S.C. 155 is hereby invoked
and the Secretary of the Interior may make withdrawals, reservations,
and restrictions of public lands to provide for the utilization of
public lands by the Department of Defense to address the emergency at
the southern border, without regard to any limitation on withdrawals
otherwise applicable under the terms of the Engle Act, 43 U.S.C.
155-158.  
  
(c)  The Secretary of Defense may determine those military activities
that are reasonably necessary and appropriate to accomplish the mission
assigned in Executive Order 14167 and that are necessary to protect and
maintain the security of military installations, consistent with section
2672 of title 10, United States Code, and the longstanding authority of
a military installation commander to exclude persons from a military
installation, as recognized in section 21 of the Internal Security Act
of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 797) and 18 U.S.C. 1382.  
  
(d)  In carrying out activities under this memorandum, members of the
Armed Forces will follow rules for the use of force prescribed by the
Secretary of Defense.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Phased
Implementation</span>. The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the
Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security will initially implement this memorandum on a limited sector of
Federal lands designated by the Secretary of Defense.  Within 45 days of
the date of this memorandum, the Secretary of Defense shall assess this
initial phase.  At any time, the Secretary of Defense may extend
activities under this memorandum to additional Federal lands along the
southern border in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor, and other
executive departments and agencies as appropriate.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">General
Provisions</span>.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed
to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)    the authority of the Secretary of Defense to authorize and
request that State Governors order members of the National Guard under
authority of title 32 of the United States Code to conduct Department of
Defense activities, including as appropriate to support law enforcement
activities under the responsibility of the Attorney General or the
Secretary of Homeland Security, if requested by such official;

(ii)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
(iii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
