---
date: '2025-04-09'
modified_time: 2025-04-09 19:30:46-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-09 19:29:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/addressing-risks-associated-with-an-egregious-leaker-and-disseminator-of-falsehoods/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Addressing Risks Associated with an Egregious Leaker and Disseminator of Falsehoods
---
 
  MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES    
  
Miles Taylor was entrusted with the solemn responsibility of Federal
service, but instead prioritized his own ambition, personal notoriety,
and monetary gain over fidelity to his constitutional oath.  While
serving as an administrative staff assistant at the Department of
Homeland Security, Taylor stoked dissension by manufacturing
sensationalist reports on the existence of a supposed “resistance”
within the Federal Government that “vowed” to undermine and render
ineffective a sitting President.  He illegally published classified
conversations to sell his book under the pseudonym “Anonymous,” which is
full of falsehoods and fabricated stories.  In so doing, Taylor
abandoned his sacred oath and commitment to public service by disclosing
sensitive information obtained through unauthorized methods and betrayed
the confidence of those with whom he served.  Where a Government
employee improperly discloses sensitive information for the purposes of
personal enrichment and undermining our foreign policy, national
security, and Government effectiveness –- all ultimately designed to sow
chaos and distrust in Government — this conduct could properly be
characterized as treasonous and as possibly violating the Espionage Act,
and therefore makes such employee ineligible for access to national
secrets.  
  
In his former position, Taylor relied upon various colleagues to
facilitate his unethical laundering and release of sensitive Government
data to advance his false narratives.  It is therefore against America’s
interests to allow those associated with Taylor to access our Nation’s
secrets.   
  
Accordingly, I direct the Attorney General, the Director of National
Intelligence, and all other relevant executive department and agency
(agency) heads to immediately take all action as necessary and
consistent with existing law to suspend any active security clearances
held by Miles Taylor, in addition to individuals at entities associated
with Taylor, including the University of Pennsylvania, pending a review
of whether such clearances are consistent with the national interest.  
  
I further direct the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation
with any other relevant agency heads, to take all appropriate action to
review Miles Taylor’s activities as a Government employee.  This review
should identify any instances where his conduct appears to have been
contrary to suitability standards for Federal employees, and where his
conduct appears to have involved the unauthorized dissemination of
classified information.  Upon completing this review, the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall prepare a report to be submitted to the
President, through the Counsel to the President, with recommendations
for appropriate remedial or preventative actions to be taken to protect
America’s interests.  
  
This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
