---
date: '2025-04-24'
published_time: 2025-04-24 17:22:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/strengthening-probationary-periods-in-the-federal-service/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Strengthening Probationary Periods in the Federal Service
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301 and 3302
of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  The American
people deserve a Federal workforce that is high-quality, efficient,
dedicated to the public interest, and no larger than necessary.
 Probationary periods (for employees in the competitive service) and
trial periods (for employees in the excepted service) have provided a
longstanding critical tool to assess the fitness of newly hired Federal
employees before finalizing their appointments to Federal service.

The Government Accountability Office has documented, however, that
agencies have not been using probationary and trial periods as
effectively as they could to remove appointees whose continued
employment is not in the public interest.  As a result of this failure
to remove poor performers, agencies have often retained and given tenure
to underperforming employees who should have been screened out during
their probationary period.

Conditions of good administration require that agency approval should be
required before probationary employees become tenured Federal
employees.  As the Merit Systems Protection Board recommended in its
2005 report *The Probationary Period:  A Critical Assessment
Opportunity*, there should be “procedures so that a probationer does not
automatically become an employee in the absence of agency action.”  And
in the absence of agency certification that the probationer will be an
asset to the Government, “the probationer’s employment should
automatically terminate upon the expiration of the probationary period.”
 This order directs this commonsense change.

Further, the regulations at subpart H of part 315 of title 5, Code of
Federal Regulations, which purport to limit agency action with respect
to employees serving a probationary period, are not statutorily
required, place undue burdens on agencies in terminating probationary
employees, and deter managers from undertaking that effort.

To ensure that agencies make better use of probationary and trial
periods, this order issues a new Civil Service Rule XI that will
supersede subpart H.  Under Civil Service Rule XI, agencies will have to
affirmatively determine that the continued employment of individuals
serving probationary or trial periods would benefit the Federal service
before such appointments are finalized.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Repeal of Civil Service
Rule</span> 2.4.  Civil Service Rule II is amended by removing section
2.4 of part 2 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Civil Service Rule XI</span>.
  A new Civil Service Rule XI is added following Civil Service Rule X,
to read as follows:

**“PART 11—PROBATIONARY AND TRIAL PERIODS (RULE XI)**

Sec.

11.1 Scope

11.2 Probationary Period; When Required

11.3 Trial Period; When Required

11.4 Crediting Service

11.5 Completion of Probationary or Trial Period

11.6 Appeals

[§](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/5/10.1) 11.1 Scope

This rule applies to probationary periods in the competitive service and
trial periods in the excepted service, except where provided otherwise
by statute.  It has no application to probationary periods in the Senior
Executive Service.

§ 11.2 Probationary Period; When Required

\(a\)  The first year of service of an employee who is given a career or
career-conditional appointment in the competitive service under the
Civil Service Regulations is a probationary period when the employee:

\(1\)  Was appointed from a competitive list of eligibles.

\(2\)  Was reinstated (including reinstatement from a Reinstatement
Priority List), unless during any period of service that affords a
current basis for reinstatement the employee completed a probationary
period of at least 1 year or served with competitive status under an
appointment that did not require a probationary period; provided that
the date of reinstatement begins a new 12-month probationary period if
one is required under paragraph (a) of this section.

\(b\)  A person who is required to go through a probationary period and
then is transferred, promoted, demoted, or reassigned in accordance with
the Civil Service Regulations before he or she completes such period is
required to complete the remainder of the probationary period in the new
position.

\(c\)  Upon noncompetitive appointment to the competitive service under
the Postal Reorganization Act (39 U.S.C. 101 *et seq.*), an employee of
the Postal Career Service (including a substitute or part-time flexible
employee) who has not completed 1 year of Postal service must serve the
remainder of a 1-year probationary period in the new agency.

\(d\)  A person who is appointed to the competitive service either by a
special appointing authority or by conversion to a career or
career-conditional appointment under the Civil Service Regulations must
serve a 1-year probationary period unless specifically exempt from such
period by the special appointing authority itself.

\(e\)  Employees promoted, transferred, or otherwise assigned, for the
first time, to supervisory or managerial positions shall be required to
serve a probationary period under terms and conditions prescribed by the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  If an employee is required to
concurrently serve both a probationary period in a supervisory or
managerial position under 5 C.F.R. part 315, subpart I, and a
probationary or trial period following initial appointment or
reinstatement under this Civil Service Rule, the latter takes precedence
and fulfills the requirements of this paragraph.

§ 11.3 Trial Period; When Required

\(a\)  The first year of continuous service in the same or similar
position of a preference eligible in the excepted service, or the first
2 years of continuous service in the same or similar position of an
individual in the excepted service (other than a preference eligible),
is a trial period.

\(b\)  A person who is required to go through a trial period and is
transferred, promoted, demoted, or reassigned before he or she completes
the trial period is required to complete the remainder of the trial
period in the new position.

\(c\)  An individual who separates from the Federal service for a period
of more than 30 days after completing a trial period, and who
subsequently is reappointed to an excepted service position, must
complete a new trial period unless such individual is appointed to the
same or a substantially similar position in the same agency as their
most recently held position.

§ 11.4 Crediting Service

\(a\)  Prior Federal civilian service (including nonappropriated fund
service) counts toward completion of a probationary or trial period, as
applicable, when the prior service:

\(1\)  Is in the same agency, e.g., Department of the Army;

\(2\)  Is in the same line of work, as determined by the employee’s
actual duties and responsibilities; and

\(3\)  Contains or is followed by no more than a single break in service
that does not exceed 30 calendar days.

\(b\)  Periods of absence while in a pay status count toward completion
of a probationary or trial period.  Absence in nonpay status while on
the rolls (other than for compensable injury or military duty) is
creditable up to a total of 22 workdays.  Absence (whether on or off the
rolls) due to compensable injury or military duty is creditable in full
upon restoration to Federal service.  Nonpay time in excess of 22
workdays extends the probationary period or trial period by an equal
amount.

\(c\)  The probationary or trial period for part-time employees is
computed on the basis of calendar time, in the same manner as for
full-time employees.  For intermittent employees, i.e., those who do not
have regularly scheduled tours of duty, each day or part of a day in pay
status counts as one day of credit toward the 260 days or 520 days, as
applicable, in a pay status required for completion of a probationary or
trial period.  Under no circumstances shall the probationary or trial
period be completed in less than 1 year of calendar time.

[§](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/5/10.1) 11.5 Completion of
Probationary or Trial Period

\(a\)  Agencies shall utilize probationary and trial periods required
upon initial appointment or subsequent reinstatement to evaluate
employees’ fitness and whether their continuation of employment advances
the public interest.  If not terminated sooner, an employee’s service
terminates before the end of the tour of duty on the last day of their
probationary or trial period unless their agency certifies within the 30
days prior to that date that finalizing their appointment advances the
public interest.

(b)  A probationary or trial period ends when the employee completes his
or her scheduled tour of duty on the day before the anniversary date
(or, as applicable, 2-year anniversary date) of the employee’s
appointment.  For example, when the last workday is a Friday and the
anniversary date is the following Monday, a probationer will be
separated before the end of the tour of duty on Friday if their agency
does not make the requisite certification that their continued
appointment advances the public interest.

\(c\)  An employee on a probationary or trial period bears the burden of
demonstrating why their continuation in employment through the
finalization of their appointment to the Federal service is in the
public interest.

\(d\)  In determining whether it is in the public interest to finalize
the appointment to the Federal service of an employee in a probationary
or trial period, the agency head, or his or her designee, may consider,
in his or her sole and exclusive discretion:

\(1\)  the employee’s performance and conduct;

\(2\)  the needs and interests of the agency;

\(3\)  whether the employee’s continued employment would advance
organizational goals of the agency or the Government; and

\(4\)  whether the employee’s continued employment would advance the
efficiency of the service.

\(e\)  Before an agency terminates the service of an employee serving a
probationary or trial period, it shall notify such employee in writing
as to the effective date of the action.

\(f\)  If an agency fails to make a certification under Civil Service
Rule 11.5 due to an administrative error, the agency head may petition
the Director of OPM within 30 days from the date of termination to
reinstate the employee.

(g)  This section shall not apply to an employee serving a probationary
period due to being promoted, transferred, or otherwise assigned, for
the first time, to a supervisory or managerial position, unless such
employee is required to concurrently serve both a probationary period in
a supervisory or managerial position and a probationary or trial period
following initial appointment or reinstatement under this Civil Service
Rule.

[§](https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/5/10.1) 11.6 Appeals

\(a\)  The Director of OPM may by regulation prescribe circumstances
under and procedures by which employees terminated from a probationary
or trial period may appeal such termination.

\(b\)  Except as otherwise required by law, such appeals shall be the
sole and exclusive means of appealing terminations during probationary
or trial periods.”

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Modifications to the Civil
Service Regulations</span>.  (a)  This order supersedes subpart H of
part 315 of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations (Probation on Initial
Appointment to a Competitive Position), which is hereby rendered
inoperative and without effect.  No agency shall give force or effect to
its provisions.

\(b\)  The Director of OPM shall within 30 days of the date of this
order prepare and publish a rule rescinding subpart H and making
conforming amendments.

Sec. 5.  Review During Probationary and Trial Periods.  (a)  Within 15
days of the date of this order:

\(i\)   The head of each executive department and agency (agency) shall
identify each employee at their agency serving an initial probationary
or trial period in the Federal service that ends 90 days or more from
the date of this order. 

\(ii\)  Each agency head shall designate in writing individuals at their
agency who shall be responsible for evaluating the continued employment
of employees serving an initial probationary or trial period in the
Federal service.  Agency heads should limit such designations to those
individuals who can properly assess the needs and interests of the
organization and alignment with the organizational goals of the agency
or the Federal Government.

\(b\)  At least 60 days prior to the end of each employee’s initial
probationary or trial period, individuals designated pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section shall, to the extent practicable, meet
with each employee serving an initial probationary or trial period to
discuss the employee’s performance and conduct (based in part on input
from the employee’s supervisor), the needs of the agency, and whether
the employee’s continued employment would advance the public interest,
the organizational goals of the agency, and the efficiency of the
service.

\(c\)  Within 30 days of the end of each employee’s probationary or
trial period, the agency head or an individual designated by the agency
head pursuant to subsection (a) of this section, consistent with Civil
Service Rule XI and other applicable law, shall determine whether to
finalize the employee’s appointment to the Federal service, or whether
to terminate their service.  

\(d\)  Before finalizing an employee’s appointment to the Federal
service at the conclusion of the probationary or trial period, the
agency head or an individual designated by the agency head pursuant to
subsection (a) of this section must certify in writing that such
individual’s continued employment will advance the public interest.

Sec. 6.  Effective Date.  This order is effective immediately, except
that the requirements of sections 5(b) through 5(d) of this order and of
Civil Service Rule 11.5 shall become effective 90 days from the date of
this order.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\)  If any provision of this order, including any of its
applications, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this order and all
of its other applications shall not be affected thereby.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 24, 2025.
