---
date: '2025-04-23'
modified_time: 2025-04-23 18:31:27-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-23 18:21:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/reforming-accreditation-to-strengthen-higher-education/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Reforming Accreditation to Strengthen Higher Education
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>.  A group of
higher education accreditors are the gatekeepers that decide which
colleges and universities American students can spend the more than $100
billion in Federal student loans and Pell Grants dispersed each year.
 The accreditors’ job is to determine which institutions provide a
quality education — and therefore merit accreditation.  Unfortunately,
accreditors have not only failed in this responsibility to students,
families, and American taxpayers, but they have also abused their
enormous authority.

Accreditors routinely approve institutions that are low-quality by the
most important measures.  The national six-year undergraduate graduation
rate was an alarming 64 percent in 2020.  Further, many accredited
institutions offer undergraduate and graduate programs with a negative
return on investment — almost 25 percent of bachelor’s degrees and more
than 40 percent of master’s degrees — which may leave students
financially worse off and in enormous debt by charging them exorbitant
sums for a degree with very modest earnings potential.

Notwithstanding this slide in graduation rates and graduates’
performance in the labor market, the spike in debt obligations in
relation to expected earnings, and repayment rates on student loans,
accreditors have remained improperly focused on compelling adoption of
discriminatory ideology, rather than on student outcomes.  Some
accreditors make the adoption of unlawfully discriminatory practices a
formal standard of accreditation, and therefore a condition of accessing
Federal aid, through “diversity, equity, and inclusion” or “DEI”-based
standards of accreditation that require institutions to “share results
on diversity, equity, and inclusion (DEI) in the context of their
mission by considering . . . demographics . . . and resource
allocation.” Accreditors have also abused their governance standards to
intrude on State and local authority.

The American Bar Association’s Council of the Section of Legal Education
and Admissions to the Bar (Council), which is the sole federally
recognized accreditor for Juris Doctor programs, has required law
schools to “demonstrate by concrete action a commitment to diversity and
inclusion” including by “commit\[ting\] to having a student body \[and
faculty\] that is diverse with respect to gender, race, and ethnicity.” 
As the Attorney General has concluded and informed the Council, the
discriminatory requirement blatantly violates the Supreme Court’s
decision in Students for *Fair Admissions, Inc. v. President and Fellows
of Harvard College*, 600 U.S. 181 (2023).  Though the Council
subsequently suspended its enforcement while it considers proposed
revisions, this standard and similar unlawful mandates must be
permanently eradicated.

The Liaison Committee on Medical Education, which is the only federally
recognized body that accredits Doctor of Medicine degree programs,
requires that an institution “engage\[\] in ongoing, systematic, and
focused recruitment and retention activities, to achieve
mission-appropriate diversity outcomes among its students.”  The
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education, which is the sole
accreditor for both allopathic and osteopathic medical residency and
fellowship programs, similarly “expect\[s\]” institutions to focus on
implementing “policies and procedures related to recruitment and
retention of individuals underrepresented in medicine,” including
“racial and ethnic minority individuals.”  The standards for training
tomorrow’s doctors should focus solely on providing the highest quality
care, and certainly not on requiring unlawful discrimination.

American students and taxpayers deserve better, and my Administration
will reform our dysfunctional accreditation system so that colleges and
universities focus on delivering high-quality academic programs at a
reasonable price.  Federal recognition will not be provided to
accreditors engaging in unlawful discrimination in violation of Federal
law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
** **<span style="text-decoration: underline">Holding Accreditors
Accountable for Unlawful Actions</span>.  (a)  The Secretary of
Education shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, hold
accountable, including through denial, monitoring, suspension, or
termination of accreditation recognition, accreditors who fail to meet
the applicable recognition criteria or otherwise violate Federal law,
including by requiring institutions seeking accreditation to engage in
unlawful discrimination in accreditation-related activity under the
guise of “diversity, equity, and inclusion” initiatives.

(b)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Education shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, investigate and take
appropriate action to terminate unlawful discrimination by American law
schools that is advanced by the Council, including unlawful “diversity,
equity, and inclusion” requirements under the guise of accreditation
standards.  The Secretary of Education shall also assess whether to
suspend or terminate the Council’s status as an accrediting agency under
Federal law.

(c)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Education, in
consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall
investigate and take appropriate action to terminate unlawful
discrimination by American medical schools or graduate medical education
entities that is advanced by the Liaison Committee on Medical Education
or the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or other
accreditors of graduate medical education, including unlawful
“diversity, equity, and inclusion” requirements under the guise of
accreditation standards.  The Secretary of Education shall also assess
whether to suspend or terminate the Committee’s or the Accreditation
Council’s status as an accrediting agency under Federal law or take
other appropriate action to ensure lawful conduct by medical schools,
graduate medical education programs, and other entities that receive
Federal funding for medical education.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.
** **<span style="text-decoration: underline">New Principles of
Student-Oriented Accreditation</span>.  (a)  To realign accreditation
with high-quality, valuable education for students, the Secretary of
Education shall, consistent with applicable law, take appropriate steps
to ensure that:

\(i\)    accreditation requires higher education institutions to provide
high-quality, high-value academic programs free from unlawful
discrimination or other violations of Federal law;

\(ii\)   barriers are reduced that limit institutions from adopting
practices that advance credential and degree completion and spur new
models of education;

\(iii\)  accreditation requires that institutions support and
appropriately prioritize intellectual diversity amongst faculty in order
to advance academic freedom, intellectual inquiry, and student learning;

\(iv\)   accreditors are not using their role under Federal law to
encourage or force institution to violate State laws, unless such State
laws violate the Constitution or Federal law; and

\(v\)    accreditors are prohibited from engaging in practices that
result in credential inflation that burdens students with additional
unnecessary costs.

\(b\)  To advance the policies and objectives in subsection (a) of this
section, the Secretary of Education shall:

\(i\)    resume recognizing new accreditors to increase competition and
accountability in promoting high-quality, high-value academic programs
focused on student outcomes;

\(ii\)   mandate that accreditors require member institutions to use
data on program-level student outcomes to improve such outcomes, without
reference to race, ethnicity, or sex;

\(iii\)  promptly provide to accreditors any noncompliance findings
relating to member institutions issued after an investigation conducted
by the Office of Civil Rights under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of
1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d *et seq*.) or Title IX of the Education Amendments
Act of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681 *et seq*.);

\(iv\)   launch an experimental site, pursuant to section 487A(b) of the
Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1094a(b)), to accelerate
innovation and improve accountability by establishing new flexible and
streamlined quality assurance pathways for higher education institutions
that provide high-quality, high-value academic programs;

\(v\)    increase the consistency, efficiency, and effectiveness of the
accreditor recognition review process, including through the use of
technology;

\(vi\)   streamline the process for higher education institutions to
change accreditors to ensure institutions are not forced to comply with
standards that are antithetical to institutional values and mission; and

\(vii\)  update the Accreditation Handbook to ensure that the accreditor
recognition and reauthorization process is transparent, efficient, and
not unduly burdensome.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.
 (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 23, 2025.
