---
date: '2025-04-03'
published_time: 2025-04-03 22:12:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/national-child-abuse-prevention-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Child Abuse Prevention Month, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America   
A Proclamation

  
America’s children are the foundation of our families, the heirs of our
freedom, and the stewards of our national promise.  This National Child
Abuse Prevention Month, we commit to empowering every child in America
to lead a fulfilling life of dignity and love — and we pledge to bring
every abuser, predator, and evildoer who threatens the health and safety
of our children to swift justice.  
  
As citizens, each of us is entrusted with the sacred responsibility of
caring for the most vulnerable among us, especially children uniquely at
risk of trauma and abuse.  My Administration recognizes that the most
powerful safeguard against child abuse is a stable family with loving
parents, and that there is no substitute for a strong mother and
father.  For this reason, I am working every day to fortify our families
and embolden our Nation’s children to live their lives full of
happiness, health, and success that they so dearly deserve.  I call on
every American to take steps to prevent child abuse and neglect before
it occurs.  By doing so, we can reduce the risk of depression, suicide,
substance abuse, and developmental challenges in our youth.  
  
Sadly, one of the most prevalent forms of child abuse facing our country
today is the sinister threat of gender ideology.  Proponents of the
gender ideology movement are outrageously indoctrinating our children
with the devastating lie that they are trapped in the wrong body — and
that the only way they can be truly happy is to alter their sex with
hormone therapy, puberty blockers, and sexual mutilation surgery.  The
evil and backwards lies of gender insanity are robbing our children of
their happiness, health, and freedom, while imposing unimaginable
heartbreak on parents and families.  As I stated during my Joint Address
to the Congress last month, my message to every American child is
simple:  you are perfect exactly the way God made you.  
  
As President, I proudly signed Executive Order 14187 prohibiting public
schools from indoctrinating our children with transgender ideology,
while also taking action to cut off all taxpayer funding to any
institution that engages in the sexual mutilation of our youth.  To
further protect our children, I have taken historic action to secure our
southern border and end child trafficking — and am working diligently to
make our young people healthy again.  
  
This National Child Abuse Prevention Month, we pledge to stop the
atrocity of child abuse in all its forms.  We affirm that every
perpetrator who inflicts violence on our children will be punished to
the fullest extent of the law.  Above all, we vow to give our children
the tools they need to fully embrace God’s gift of life, and to carry
that radiant torch of American Liberty generations into the future.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2025 as National
Child Abuse Prevention Month.  I call upon all Americans to invest in
the lives of our Nation’s children, to be aware of their safety and
well-being, and to support efforts that promote their psychological,
physical, and emotional development.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
third day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
