---
date: '2025-04-09'
modified_time: 2025-04-10 10:34:16-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-09 23:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/04/modifying-reciprocal-tariff-rates-to-reflect-trading-partner-retaliation-and-alignment/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Modifying Reciprocal Tariff Rates to Reflect Trading Partner Retaliation and
  Alignment
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), section 604 of the
Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483), and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, I hereby determine and order:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Background</span>.  In
Executive Order 14257 of April 2, 2025 (Regulating Imports With a
Reciprocal Tariff to Rectify Trade Practices that Contribute to Large
and Persistent Annual United States Goods Trade Deficits), I declared a
national emergency arising from conditions reflected in large and
persistent annual U.S. goods trade deficits, and imposed additional *ad
valorem* duties that I deemed necessary and appropriate to deal with
that unusual and extraordinary threat, which has its source in whole or
substantial part outside the United States, to the national security and
economy of the United States.  Section 4(b) of Executive Order 14257
provided that “\[s\]hould any trading partner retaliate against the
United States in response to this action through import duties on U.S.
exports or other measures, I may further modify the \[Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States\] to increase or expand in scope the
duties imposed under this order to ensure the efficacy of this action.” 

In the Executive Order dated April 8, 2025 (Amendment to Reciprocal
Tariffs and Updated Duties As Applied to Low-Value Imports from the
People’s Republic of China), pursuant to section 4(b) of Executive Order
14257, I ordered modification of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the
United States (HTSUS) to raise the applicable *ad valorem* duty rate for
imports from the People’s Republic of China (PRC) established in
Executive Order 14257, in recognition of the fact that the PRC announced
that it would retaliate against the United States in response to
Executive Order 14257.

On April 9, 2025, the State Council Tariff Commission of the PRC
announced that, in response to the Executive Order dated April 8, 2025,
an 84 percent tariff would be imposed on all goods imported into the PRC
originating from the United States, effective at 12:01 a.m. on April 10,
2025.  Pursuant to section 4(b) of Executive Order 14257, I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate to address the national
emergency declared in that order by modifying the HTSUS and taking other
actions to increase the duties imposed on the PRC in response to this
latest retaliation.  In my judgment, this modification is necessary and
appropriate to effectively address the threat to U.S. national and
economic security posed by the PRC’s contribution to the conditions
reflected in large and persistent trade deficits, including PRC
industrial policies that have produced systemic excess manufacturing
capacity in the PRC and suppressed U.S. domestic manufacturing capacity,
which conditions are made worse by the PRC’s recent actions.

Section 4(c) of Executive Order 14257 provided that, “\[s\]hould any
trading partner take significant steps to remedy non-reciprocal trade
arrangements and align sufficiently with the United States on economic
and national security matters, I may further modify the HTSUS to
decrease or limit in scope the duties imposed under this order.”  Since
I signed Executive Order 14257, in contrast to the PRC’s actions, more
than 75 other foreign trading partners, including countries enumerated
in Annex I to Executive Order 14257, have approached the United States
to address the lack of trade reciprocity in our economic relationships
and our resulting national and economic security concerns.  This is a
significant step by these countries toward remedying non-reciprocal
trade arrangements and aligning sufficiently with the United States on
economic and national security matters.

Pursuant to section 4(c) of Executive Order 14257, I have determined
that it is necessary and appropriate to address the national emergency
declared in that order by modifying the HTSUS to temporarily suspend,
for a period of 90 days, except with respect to the PRC, application of
the individual *ad valorem* duties imposed for foreign trading partners
listed in Annex I to Executive Order 14257, and to instead impose on
articles of all such trading partners an additional *ad valorem* rate of
duty as set forth herein, pursuant to the terms of, and except as
otherwise provided in, Executive Order 14257, as modified by this
order. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Suspension of Country-Specific
*Ad Valorem* Rates of Duty</span>.  Effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10, 2025, enforcement
of the second paragraph of section 3(a) of Executive Order 14257 is
suspended until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 9, 2025. 
Effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10, 2025, and
until 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 9, 2025, all articles
imported into the customs territory of the United States from the
trading partners enumerated in Annex I to Executive Order 14257 shall
be, consistent with law, subject to an additional *ad valorem* rate of
duty of 10 percent, subject to all applicable exceptions set forth in
Executive Order 14257. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Tariff Modifications</span>. 
In recognition of the fact that the PRC has announced that it will
retaliate again against the United States in response to the Executive
Order dated April 8, 2025, which amended Executive Order 14257, and in
recognition of the sincere intentions by many other trading partners to
facilitate a resolution to the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 14257, the HTSUS shall be modified as follows:

Effective with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
time on April 10, 2025: 

(a)  heading 9903.01.25 of the HTSUS shall be amended by deleting the
article description and by inserting “Articles the product of any
country, except for products described in headings
9903.01.26-9903.01.33, and except as provided for in heading 9903.01.34,
and except for articles the product of China, including Hong Kong and
Macau, as described in heading 9903.01.63 that are entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on April 10, 2025, and that were not in
transit on the final mode of transit prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on April 10, 2025, as provided for in subdivision (v) of
U.S. note 2 to this subchapter . . . . . . .” in lieu thereof;

\(b\) heading 9903.01.63 of the HTSUS shall be amended by deleting “84%”
each place that it appears and by inserting “125%” in lieu thereof, and
by deleting “April 9, 2025,” and by inserting “April 10, 2025” in lieu
thereof;

\(c\) subdivision (v)(xiii)(10) of U.S. note 2 to subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS shall be amended by deleting “84%”, and
inserting “125%” in lieu thereof, and subdivision (v)(xiii) of U.S. note
2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS shall be amended by
deleting “April 9, 2025,” and by inserting “April 10, 2025,” in lieu
thereof; and

\(d\) headings 9903.01.43-9903.01.62 and 9903.01.64-9903.01.76 are
hereby suspended, and subdivisions (v)(xiii)(i)-(ix) and (xi)-(lvii) of
U.S. note 2 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS are hereby
suspended for a period of 90 days beginning at 12:01 a.m. on April 10,
2025.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>. *<u>De
Minimis</u>*<span style="text-decoration: underline"> Tariff
Increase</span>.  To ensure that the imposition of tariffs pursuant to
section 3 of this order is not circumvented and that the purpose of
Executive Order 14257, as modified by the Executive Order dated April 8,
2025, and this order are not undermined, I also deem it necessary and
appropriate to: 

(a)  increase the *ad valorem* rate of duty set forth in section 2(c)(i)
of Executive Order 14256 of April 2, 2025 (Further Amendment to Duties
Addressing the Synthetic Opioid Supply Chain in the People’s Republic of
China as Applied to Low-Value Imports), as modified by the Executive
Order dated April 8, 2025, from 90 percent to 120 percent;

(b)  increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section
2(c)(ii) of Executive Order 14256, as modified by the Executive Order
dated April 8, 2025, that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on May 2, 2025, and before 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
time on June 1, 2025, from 75 dollars to 100 dollars; and

(c)  increase the per postal item containing goods duty in section
2(c)(ii) of Executive Order 14256, as modified by the Executive Order
dated April 8, 2025, that is in effect on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2025, from 150 dollars to 200 dollars.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Implementation</span>.  The
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
United States Trade Representative, as applicable, in consultation with
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy, the Senior Counselor for Trade and
Manufacturing, the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, and the Chair of the International Trade Commission, are
directed to take all necessary actions to implement and effectuate this
order, consistent with applicable law, including through temporary
suspension or amendment of regulations or notices in the *Federal
Register* and adopting rules and regulations, and are authorized to take
such actions, and to employ all powers granted to the President by
IEEPA, as may be necessary to implement this order.  Each executive
department and agency shall take all appropriate measures within its
authority to implement this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>.
<span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>. 
<span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>. (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

DONALD J. TRUMP

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 9, 2025.
