---
date: '2022-08-26'
published_time: 2022-08-26 20:07:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/08/26/remarks-by-president-biden-before-marine-one-departure-18/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Marine One\_Departure"
---
 
South Lawn

(August 26, 2022)

THE PRESIDENT:  I haven’t seen the report on Mar-a-Lago, so I’m not
commenting.  I haven’t seen it, number one.  But I do want to say we had
a great economic report today.  
  
     Last month, minus-one inflation.  Not up, not — down.  Actually
down.  The economy is looking good.  So far, we’re hanging in, and I
feel good about it.  But we got a long way to go.  
  
     Q    If only 75 percent of the people take advantage of the student
loan program, do you consider it a success if only 75 percent of the
people take advantage of it?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll consider it a success if only 10 percent take
advantage of it.  Look, people need help.  And by the way, the end
result of this is — as I’ve met with everyone from — from the former
Secretary of Treasury to everyone else — this is not going to cause
inflation, number one.  
  
     Number two, it would generate economic growth — the opposite —
because you got people who are, in fact, now going to be freed up to be
able to go borrow money to buy a home, to be able to start businesses,
to do the things that need to be done.  
  
     And I found it absolutely fascinating that some of the folks who
were talking about “this is big spending” are the same people that got
$158,000 in PPP money, including the — what’s her name?  That woman who
believes in the — anyway.  A whole lot of Republicans got a lot of money
— the very people criticizing it.   
  
     So, it — it’s just not — I think it’s a good thing, it frees a lot
of people up, it’s going to grow the economy.  We still have a way to
go, but I’m optimistic.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, have you spoken to any of the family members of
the 13 soldiers who died last year in Afghanistan?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Not today, but I have spoken in the past.  
  
     Q    President Trump says that he declassified all these
documents.  Could he have just declassified them all?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  “Well, I just want to know, I’ve declassified
everything in the world.  I’m President.  I can do it –”  Come on. 
Declassified everything?  
  
     I’m not going to comment.  I mean, because I don’t know the
detail.  I don’t even want to know.  I’ll let the Justice Department
take care of that.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, in simple terms, is it ever appropriate for a
President to take home with them classified and top secret documents?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Depending on the circumstance.  For example, I
have, in my home, a cabined-off space that is completely secure.  I’m
taking home with me today today’s PDB.  It’s locked.  I have a person
with me — military with me.  I read it, I lock it back up, and give it
to the military.  
  
     Q    Without a specialized area in which you can declassify
documents, is it ever appropriate for a president to bring classified
and top secret documents home with them?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  It depends on the document, and it depends on how
secure the room is.  Thank you.  
  
     Q    What did you mean by semi-fascism, sir?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  You know what I mean.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, Angola just had a (inaudible) election two days
ago and everything went good.  What is the view of Mr. President? 
Because you recently announced $2 billion investment for Angola, which
everybody is very excited.  Your comment on that?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  That answers the question, doesn’t it?  You think
we’d give $2 billion if we weren’t excited about what happened?  
  
     Thank you.  
  
     Q    Mr. President, how is the First Lady feeling?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  She’s still recovering.  
  
                              END

       
