---
date: '2022-08-27'
modified_time: 2022-08-28 21:19:08-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-27 21:16:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/08/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-dnc-finance-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a DNC Finance\_Event"
---
 
*Private Residence  
Newport Beach, California*  
  
(August 27, 2022)

2:33 P.M. PDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Good
afternoon.  Thank you so much, again.  Please — do you want to sit? 
(Laughter.)  I might talk for a while.  (Laughter.)  
  
Let me just first, again, thank everybody for being here this afternoon
and all the work that you all have put into this event and to supporting
the President and me, Judy, our party, the DNC.  It really means a lot. 
I can’t tell you how much it means.  
  
I think that we who have run for office understand that the — the
support that we receive gives us the ability to fight big fights when
there is so much at stake.  
  
It represents so much, in terms of showing that there is a will and —
and a desire for us to look at what is possible in our country and
achieve it.  And — and your support gives us that kind of fuel to make
all of this work happen.  
  
So, again, I want to say thank you to everyone — in particular, John and
Stella for opening your beautiful home this afternoon.  
  
So, I want to also recognize Simon Pang — (laughter) — because Simon has
been — personally, to me — a friend and a supporter for so many years. 
And, Simon, you stay involved — with all that you have going on, you
stay involved in such an extraordinary way.  
  
As you all probably know, Simon is on the President’s Advisory
Commission and — and has been a real value to our administration and our
nation.  So, thank you so much.  Thank you.  
  
So, 73 days before the election.  Seventy-three short days before the
election.  And Judy Chu has been one of the great Californians and the
great national leaders on so many of the issues that I’m going to talk
about right now.  And she, like all of us — we know there is so much at
stake, and what we do in these next 73 days is going to make all the
difference.  
  
And I think of it in — in the context of many issues, but including what
you all did to make the win happen in 2020, because elections do
matter.  So let’s think about all of the work that went into what we
were able to achieve in 2020 through the election.  
  
Just most recently, the President being able to sign a bill — the
Inflation Reduction Act — that is going to be historic, in terms of the
$370 billion investment in what we need to do to combat the climate
crisis.  
  
When I look at our young leaders who are here today — just started ninth
grade — (laughter) — they can tell you what we all know.  Right?  
  
Whether we’re just coming from Massachusetts and a new Californian or
we’ve been in California for a while and we see the wildfires, we see
what is happening in terms of this destruction of our beautiful planet,
and then what we know we can do to slow it down and also see the
opportunity in the moment to — in the midst of investing in renewable
energies, clean energy economy — being a leader in the world in all of
these ways, also what we will do to create jobs, not to mention what we
will do to ensure that our children and their children will be able to
thrive.  
  
This is just one of the most recent accomplishments because of what
everyone did in 2020, what the DNC did in 2020.  
  
Let’s think about the fact that during the pandemic — it was not very
long ago, and remember where we were when we came in as an
administration: Schools were shut down.  The economy was plunging. 
People were dying on a daily basis at horrible rates.  People were
losing their jobs.  
  
And as of now, because of what we did in 2020, we have recovered all of
the jobs that were lost, which total about 10 million.  Schools are back
open.  And we are growing our economy to the point that we have historic
unemployment rates of 3.5 percent.  And we are seeing extraordinary
growth in terms of — just in this last year, as an example — the growth
of small businesses in America and what that means for so many of the
communities we care about, in particular when we look at — in terms of
the Asian community — what we are seeing in terms of incredible growth
among entrepreneurs and small businesses.  
  
So there’s a lot that we have, in terms of empirical evidence, that
points to the fact that elections matter.  And when we pay attention and
put resources into it, we actually yield results and a pretty good
return on our investment.  
  
Think about it in the context of what we have done with the
infrastructure law.  We are talking about roads and bridges, but also we
are talking about the fact that we are committed and on track for
everybody in the United States to have access and affordability for
high-speed Internet.  
  
Why do we care about that?  Well, for our parents and our seniors, we
know that in many places in our country, they’re going to need
telemedicine.  They don’t have the ability to travel, or hospital care
or doctors in their community.  Telemedicine is an extraordinary way to
access healthcare.  You can’t have it without access to high-speed
Internet and affordability.  
  
What we did through the last year and a half on that issue alone is
going to have a profound impact not only on our seniors but our
children.  
  
The pandemic highlighted the importance of having access to high-speed
Internet when it comes to education, not to mention what small
businesses require in terms of high-speed Internet to be able to do
their work, to sell their products, to advertise to bring in
customers.  
  
Let’s think about what we did in passing the Child Tax Credit and
extending the Child Tax Credit.  In the first year alone, we are cutting
child poverty in the United States by 40 percent.  Think about that:
cutting child poverty by 40 percent and the generational impact of that
work and that approach.  
  
So we have done a lot of good work.  
  
We have done work in recognizing that we need to pay attention to who is
serving on the courts of our land.  And our administration is very proud
that we have nominated and Congress, through the Senate and — and
leadership in the House, have confirmed historic numbers and, in
particular, representation among AAPI and women on the benches who are
going to be the ones who bring life experience and perspective to how we
interpret what is truly support of the Constitution of the United States
and the principles upon which it stands.  
  
This is the kind of work that happened — because elections matter and
the work that happened in 2020.  I bring that up to say then: 73 days
until the next election.  Seventy-three days.  
  
So let’s think about where we are right now.  We are at a moment where —
you know, I’ve given this speech everywhere from Munich to Paris to
Washington, D.C.   
  
We are at a moment in our world and in our country where so much of what
we took for granted is now unsettled; so many things that we thought
were long settled, unsettled.  Around the globe, when we think about
issues like territorial integrity and sovereignty.  Here at home, when
we look at issues like a woman’s right to make decisions about her own
body, or voting rights.  
  
There’s so much at stake when we think about the connection between
these elections in 73 days and those issues.  
  
On a global stage, we know that the election in 2020 meant that Joe
Biden was president and that our administration was able to bring
together friends and allies from around the world to strengthen the
alliance among people who value issues like sovereignty and territorial
integrity, strengthening it so that now we’re going to have two more
countries as members of NATO — unheard of, unbelieved that that would be
possible, just about two years ago.  
  
What’s at stake now?  We have to recognize that in the next 73 days, to
support our administration and what we need to do when it comes to
reinforcing those relationships and understanding the connection between
Congress and ratification of those decisions, it’s going to mean a lot. 
We want Judy Chu to stay in power and hold on to her role of leadership
as a senior member of Congress.  
  
Five seats in the United States House of Representatives are in the
balance.  Five seats.  
  
The work you are supporting for the DNC is going to be targeting those
five seats because we cannot lose the majority in the House.  In the
Senate, we need two — two more.  
  
We need to hold on to the seats we have, and we need two more seats. 
Because Joe Biden has said, for example — and we have been very clear,
he and I — that, in spite of the importance of traditions in the United
State Senate, on a couple of issues, we’re done.  
  
The filibuster will not stand in the way of us pushing for and then
signing legislation — when it gets passed, when we have those numbers —
on voting rights and on a woman’s right to make decisions about her own
body.  
  
All of this hangs in the balance when we look at the next 73 days.  And
so there’s a lot at stake.  
  
There is also the issue that must be discussed about the contrast
between Democrats and Republicans in this moment in time.  
  
I was there in Washington, D.C., after the election, when we won.  And
on January 6th, I was there in Washington, D.C. — I was still a senator
and the Vice President-elect — when there was an — a direct, tangible
attack on our democracy.  
  
When we talk about what is at stake, in terms of who represents what, we
have to understand that this is a moment in time that challenges
everyone running for office to state where they stand on preserving and
defending our democracy.  And understanding what that means in full
context, not only about January 6th but about rule of law, about the
integrity of systems, about acknowledging and agreeing that there was a
valid election that took place where the people of America spoke.  
  
What’s at stake, understanding the difference, when you realize that not
one Republican elected to the United States Congress voted for the
Inflation Reduction Act.  Not one.  Not on the Senate side, not on the
House side.  Historic investment in climate.  For any of you who know
anyone who has diabetes as a senior, we’re going to bring down the cost
of insulin to $35 a month.  We’re going to allow Medicare to negotiate
drug prices.  Not one voted for it.  An historic investment in what will
be job creation.  Not one voted for it.  
  
The contrast is clear on so many of these issues.  
  
So, we also understand that in the midst of the conflict and the debate
that is taking place in Washington, D.C., we also know that when it
comes to the core issues that we stand for as Democrats, the majority of
Americans agree with us.  
  
Think about it on the issue of choice — I’m going to go back to that. 
Kansas.  If anyone watched that election in Kansas — it’s a so-called
Red State.  And the people of Kansas said, “No, we’re not going to get
duped into this being about Democrats or Republicans.  This is about a
core issue of freedom and liberty.”  
  
Recently, in the — in a special election in New York, just practically
days ago, there was an election between two individuals, a Republican
and a Democrat.  The pundits said, “Oh, the Republican will win.  That’s
clear.”  The Democrat won because he made a position clear, which is
that he stands for a woman’s right to make decisions about her body.  
  
The majority of Americans agree with a vast majority of the work we are
doing.  And so that brings me to my last point, which is: elections
matter.  
  
In the House, five seats; in the Senate, two.  
   
I want to point out that the DNC is doing particular work — as it
relates to the Senate — in Wisconsin, Ohio, Pennsylvania, North
Carolina, and Florida.  We could win those seats.  Right?  It is within
our grasp.  
  
And so look at that.  Look at the work the DNC is doing when it comes to
the governor’s races around our country.  
  
We’re looking at six states right now — I asked my team to do a Venn
diagram.  Show me the states that are attacking voting rights, LGBTQ
rights, and a woman’s right to make decisions about her own body.  Six
states overlap doing all of those.  Let’s pay attention to what’s
happening in those states.  
  
Let’s pay attention to the secretary of state races.  Eleven people who
are now — the primaries are over.  Eleven people, as Republicans, who
are running for secretary of state right now — you know secretaries of
state run the elections in the state.  Eleven of them are denying and
challenging the integrity of the 2020 election.  Eleven.  
  
So I’ll close with this point: We have to win in November, with all of
this at stake and so much more.  And we have to do it in a way that is
about empowering people and letting them know that their voices were
heard.  
  
You know, I think about it in terms of something we’re going to discuss
this afternoon, but what we — what we said when we came in about the
need to speak up about anti-Asian hate crime and the need for people to
not feel alone and isolated and in fear.  And so we passed a law to
address that, after there was an administration that was vilifying Asian
Americans and really encouraging and fueling the fai- — flame of hate in
our country.  
  
People said they wanted a stop to that, at least to have their highest
leaders speak about it.  
  
People said that they want representation on the courts.  People said
that they want integrity in systems.  And so they put their order in and
we, together as a community, did the important and hard work of knowing
that elections matter and then participating to make sure that we would
do well.  
  
We did that in 2020.  It’s time we do it now in the next 73 days.  
  
And — and my last point is this: You know, I, as Vice President, have
had at least 100 conversations in person or by phone — Simon and I were
talking about Prime Minister Lee — where I have talked with presidents,
prime ministers, kings, chancellors.  And I will tell you, it’s captured
— my point is captured maybe in one of the first meetings I had as Vice
President when I invited to my home then-Chancellor Angela Merkel of
Germany.  
  
And so we’re having an extensive conversation and talking about a
variety of issues about threats to global security, about what we need
to do in terms of the EU — just a number of things we talked about.  And
then she leaned across the table, and she looked at me, and she said,
“Now, tell me what’s going on with voting in your country.”  
  
Because you see — and we all know it to be true, because this is the
life we all live — when you are a role model — when you are a role
model, people watch everything you do to see if it matches up to what
you say.  
  
The United States has held itself out to be a role model.  When we walk
in those rooms chin up, shoulders back, we talk about democracy, rule of
law, human rights.  Well, people around the world are fully aware of
what we’re doing and are asking questions.  
  
There is so much about what this election will be that is connected with
that point, which is going to be about: Who are we?  What do we value? 
What are we, in terms of what we stand for?  And if these are the things
we stand for, the question will also be then: Will you fight for those
things?  
  
That’s what these elections are about: fighting for the things we stand
for.  
  
So, with all of that, again, I say thank you.  And I thank you all. 
(Applause.)  
   
                         END                 2:51 P.M. PDT  
  
