---
date: '2022-08-26'
modified_time: 2022-08-26 16:15:20-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-26 16:15:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/08/26/remarks-by-president-biden-during-meeting-on-reproductive-rights-with-state-and-local-officials/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden During Meeting on Reproductive Rights with State\
  \ and Local\_Officials"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

(August 26, 2022)

11:12 A.M. EDT

     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, thanks for coming down.  And I know
you’ve been meeting with my staff — (clears throat) — excuse me — and —
and I’m just a — quote, a “drop-by.”  But I want to thank you for what
you’re doing and your focus. 

I — you know, the — the leadership of state and local officials on this
issue is incredibly important — incredibly important.

And as I said — excuse me for — I have thro- — frog in my throat here —
(drinks water) — as I said, the Court got Roe right for nearly 50
years.  And Congress, in my view, should co- — codify cro- — Roe for —
once and for all.  But right now, we’re short a handful of votes.  And
it passed the House, but in the Senate, we’re short.  And the only way
it’s going to happen is if the American people make it happen in
November. 

Remember that line in the — in the court case — in the Dobbs case saying
that women can speak?  Well, they have no idea about who — you’re going
to hear women roar on this issue, and it’s going to be consequential. 
So, I’m optimistic that we’ll get to a place where we’re already making
your voices heard, like you saw what happened with Pat Ryan up in New
York picking up that district.

I think you’re — I think the American people realize this is just beyond
the pale.  It’s — it’s — it goes too far.  
  
     In the meantime, I signed two executive orders to protect access to
reproductive healthcare, including emergency medical care, and to
protect a woman’s right to travel to get healthcare she needs.  And I
think one that’s going to turn out to be as consequential as anything
we’ve done is to protect her right to privacy so they can’t access that
information. 

And we also just had a big district court win in Idaho.  And so I’m here
today to hear what you think, what you guys are doing.  And — and so I’m
going to, as they say, yield the floor. 

And I want to — I came do a little listening, if I could, if that’s all
right.

MS. RODRIGUEZ:  Yes.  Thank you, Mr. President.  We wanted to maybe
first hear from the Mayor of Durham, North Carolina — Mayor O’Neal —
who’s joined us today.

THE PRESIDENT:  Madam Mayor.

MAYOR O’NEAL:  Mr. President, I’m so happy to be here today and on this
special day.  This is Women’s Equality Day.  And in North Carolina, we
are still a relatively safe-haven state for a woman’s right to choose. 
But where it is a threat anywhere is a threat for everybody. 

And so today, in North Carolina, we stand ready to help change the
narrative.  I do you believe that it is time for us to talk about the
encroachment — or non-encroachment — of reproductive rights for men.  
  
     The conversation in this arena has been primarily focused in on
women’s reproductive rights.  But there are two partners when it comes
to pregnancy, and we should look and see what the other side can
contribute in this conversation when it comes to reproductive freedoms.

We are all at a crucial state in our nation in a number of arenas, but
the — the right to choose is a fundamental right in so many areas.  And
when it is threatened, we must all pitch in to make sure that it’s
balanced. 

I’m a former judge.  I was a sitting judge for 24 years at the state
court.  And so balancing and fairness is very important to me and my
state and my city.  And so, I’m here today to try to tell us we must
talk about the reproductive freedoms that men have that women do not
currently enjoy.

MS. RODRIGUEZ:  Thank you so much.

THE PRESIDENT:  Tell me how you do that.  Now, I understand it — I mean,
it’s clear in its face you’re accurate.  But how, in making the case of
the freedom men have — what do you do to — other than to sort of
embarrass men into — getting into the — into the argument and voting the
right way on this issue?

MAYOR O’NEAL:  Well, I think that you can primarily list — I think one
of my colleagues here this morning mentioned

Via- — Viagra.  If you start to talk about taking away the rights of men
to take it, then what — what do we have?  Or if we think about the fact
that there are medical procedures that men can have as well — because an
abortion is a medical procedure — there are medical procedures that men
can have that will help them not to contribute to the making of a
child.  
  
     So there has to be some discussions about why that is not a part of
the conversation.  Why is it solely focused on a woman?  And I think
just having a conversation causes people to kind of rethink and reshape
that narra- — narrative.  And we don’t talk about that because those are
very personal and intimate issues.  
  
     But I do believe that it is a must that we focus in on what men can
do to contribute physically to the making of a child or not making of a
child.

  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  
  
     MS. RODRIGUEZ:  Thank you, Mayor.  And next, we wanted to hear from
Judge Hidalgo from Harris County, Texas.  Judge?

  
     JUDGE HIDALGO:  Mr. President, as you know, I’m a county executive
in Houston.  And it was tragic — just yesterday, the trigger law in
Texas came into effect.  And it means that abortion is banned from the
time of fertilization and that anyone who performs an abortion could be
charged with a felony, and the penalty could be up to life in prison. 
And so, as we celebrate Women’s Equality Day, we have everything but
equality when it comes to this issue.  
  
     I’m hearing a lot of concern from our doctors in the community. 
Our public hospital system provides abortions when they’re medically
necessary.  And those doctors are telling us they’re not going to be
able to determine anymore when it is legal to provide an abortion,
because the law in Texas has no exemptions for rape or incest; only
allows an abortion exception when the life of the mother is in danger or
they’re at danger of irreparable harm.  
  
     So, how do you determine that if you’re a doctor?  And they’re
agonizing over it.  They’re agonizing about whether they protect a life
or put themselves at severe legal jeopardy.  
  
     So, we’ve worked to invest funds in some of the — some of the
American Rescue Plan funds into tackling maternal mortality in Harris
County.  We already have the highest maternal mortality in Texas. 
Certainly, compared to the rest of the country, it’s very, very high,
and this will only exacerbate the problem.  
  
     Abortions aren’t going anywhere.  They’re just going to become a
bigger threat.  
  
     And look, I’ve dealt with fires, flood, pandemic, the winter freeze
we had in Texas.  You visited, Mr. President, right after that
tragedy.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  That’s where I saw you last.  
  
     JUDGE HIDALGO:  A lot of that — it was wonderful to have you, Mr.
President.  And look, a lot of that — perhaps the winter freeze is an
exception — they’re natural disasters.  This is a man-made disaster that
we have in Texas.  It’s a man-made disaster.  
  
     And we got to change it, as you say, at the ballot box.  But, look,
we have that, we have a bounty law, and we have a legislative session
that’s going to start in January where they’re looking at tackling
contraception — access to contraception.  
      
     They’re already talked about banning that — banning the pill that
helps women seek abortion who can’t make it to a clinic physically; that
would make it even harder for women to travel.   
  
     A woman in Houston would have to travel 600 miles to get to the
nearest abortion clinic in New Mexico.  And so, we need help figuring
out how to get women to be able to seek that abortion, to travel to
these states that are offering us safe havens.  
  
     We need funding for additional support for contraception, for
reproductive healthcare.     We’re using our local funding to
additionally support those women, to tackle maternal mortality with some
of the funds you guys have sent.  But it’s a difficult day for women in
Texas.  
  
     And I will say, I speak this as the only woman leading the largest
county in the state of Texas, third largest — third largest in the
country.  And I am not out of step with the women of Texas, because the
vast majority of Texans are opposed to this extreme law — which I refuse
to call partisan, because it is extreme.  And all of us can join in
determining that.  
  
     And so I speak for myself, I speak for women in Harris County, and
I speak for the majority of Texans when I say this law has no place, and
it’s a slap in the face to do this the day before Women’s Equality
Day.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I think you speak for women all over America.  I
think you speak for beyond women.  I think you speak for the majority of
the American people.  
  
     This is — the idea that there are no exceptions made as well is
just not something that — you see what the — what the votes — who knows
what happens in November, but you see what some of the votes that have
occurred, that have taken place in the last — the last couple months
here in the United States in various localities.  The American people —
I think this is above and beyond where everybody thought they’d — we’d
go.

MAYOR PATTERSON-HOWARD:  Thank you so much, Mr. President, for —  
  
     MS. RODRIGUEZ:  Oh —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I’m sorry.  
  
     MAYOR PATTERSON-HOWARD:  She’s —  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I — I took control.  I shouldn’t do that.  
  
     MS. RODRIGUEZ:  No problem, Mr. President.  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not allowed to do that.  Go ahead.  You tell
me.  
  
     MS. RODRIGUEZ:  I think we’re going to go ahead and have the rest
of the conversation closed press.  So, thank you all so much.  
  
     Q    Are you concerned national security could have been
compromised at Mar-a-Lago?  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Let — we’ll let the Justice Department determine
that.  We’ll see what happens.  
  
                             END                   11:24 A.M.
EDT               
