---
date: '2022-08-16'
modified_time: 2022-08-16 18:01:35-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-16 18:01:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/08/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-h-r-5376-the-inflation-reduction-act-of-2022/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden At Signing of H.R. 5376, The Inflation Reduction\
  \ Act of\_2022"
---
 
State Dining Room

3:49 P.M. EDT

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Majority Leader Schumer.  Chuck, you’ve
been a good friend a long, long time. 

And, Joe, I never had a doubt.  (Laughter.)  Joe had an operation on his
shoulder.  I just want you to know it wasn’t because of anything we
did.  (Laughter.)  He’s in great shape.

And our Whip, Mr. Clyburn, you’re — you’re amazing.  And I am reminded
often by my staff: Were it not for you — your wife telling you to
endorse me — (laughter) — I wouldn’t be standing here.  But thank you
very, very much.

And also Congresswoman Castor and my good friend Frank Pallone —
Congressman Pallone — thank you for your leadership.

You know, while they couldn’t be here, I especially want to thank Nancy
Pelosi, who was instrumental in this law, and Vice President Harris for
her incredible work she did. 

And I’m about to sign the Inflation Reduction Act into law, one of the
most significant laws in our history.  Let me say from the start: With
this law, the American people won and the special interests lost.  The
American people won and the special interests lost.

We’re in a session of — for a while, people doubted whether any of that
was going to happen.  But we are in a season of substance.  This
administration began amid a dark time in America — as Jim said, “a
once-in-a-century pandemic” — devastating joblessness, clear and present
threats to democracy and the rule of law, doubts about America’s future
itself. 

And yet, we’ve not wavered.  We’ve not flinched.  And we’ve not given
in.  Instead, we’re delivering results for the American people.  We
didn’t tear down; we built up.  We didn’t look back; we looked forward.

And today — today offers further proof that the soul of America is
vibrant, the future of America is bright, and the promise of America is
real and just beginning.  (Applause.)

Look, the bill I’m about to sign is not just about today, it’s about
tomorrow.  It’s about delivering progress and prosperity to American
families.

It’s about showing the American and the American people that democracy
still works in America — notwithstanding all the — all the talk of its
demise — not just for the privileged few, but for all of us.

You know, I swore an oath of office to you and to God to faithfully
execute the duties of this sacred office.

To me, the critical duty — the critical duty of the presidency is to
defend what is best about America.  And that’s not hyperbole.  Defend
what’s best about America.  To pursue justice, to ensure fairness, and
to deliver results that create possibilities — possibilities that all of
us — all of us can live a life of consequence and prosperity in a nation
that’s safe and secure.  That’s the job. 

Fulfilling that pledge to you guides me every single hour of every
single day in this job. 

You know, presidents should be judged not only by our words, but by our
deeds; not by our rhetoric, but by our actions; not by our promise, but
by reality. 

And today is part of an extraordinary story that’s being written by this
administration and our brave allies in the Congress.

This law — this law that I’m about to sign finally delivers on a promise
that Washington has made for decades to the American people. 

I got here as a 29-year-old kid.  We were promising to make sure that
Medicare would have the power to negotiate lower drug prices back then —
back then — prescription drug prices. 

But guess what?  We’re giving Medicare the power to negotiate those
prices now, on some drugs.

This means seniors are going to pay less for their prescription drugs
while we’re changing circumstances for people on Medicare by putting a
cap — a cap of a maximum of $2,000 a year on their prescription drug
costs, no matter what the reason for those prescriptions are.

That means if you’re on Medicare, you’ll never have to pay more than
$2,000 a year no matter how many prescriptions you have, whether it’s
for cancer or any other disease.  No more than $2,000 a year.

And you all know it because a lot of you come from families that need
this.  This is a Godsend.  This is a Godsend to many families and so, so
long overdue. 

The Inflation Reduction Act locks in place lower healthcare premiums for
millions of families who get their coverage under the Affordable Care
Act. 

Last year, a family of four saved on average $2,400 through the American
Rescue Plan that I signed into law that Congress voted in place.

In the years ahead, thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, 13 million
people are going to continue — continue to save an average of $800 a
year on health insurance.

The Inflation Reduction Act invests $369 billion to take the most
aggressive action ever — ever, ever, ever — in confronting the climate
crisis and strengthening our economic — our energy security.

It’s going to offer working families thousands of dollars in savings by
providing them rebates to buy new and efficient appliances, weatherize
their homes, get tax credit for purchasing heat pumps and rooftop solar,
electric stoves, ovens, dryers.  
   
     It gives consumers a tax credit to buy electric vehicles or fuel
cell vehicles, new or used.  And it gives them a credit — a tax credit
of up to $7,500 if those vehicles were made in America. 

American auto companies, along with American labor, are committing their
treasure and their talent — billions of dollars in investment — to make
electric vehicles and battery and electric charging stations all across
America, made in America.  All of it made in America.

This new law also provides tax credits that’s going to create tens of
thousands of good-paying jobs and clean energy manufacturing jobs, solar
factories in the Midwest and the South, wind farms across the plains and
off our shores, clean hydrogen projects and more — all across America,
every part of America.

This bill is the biggest step forward on climate ever — ever — and it’s
going to allow — it’s going to allow us to boldly take additional steps
toward meeting all of my climate goals — the ones we set out when we
ran.

It includes ensuring that we create clean energy opportunities in
frontline and fence-line communities that have been smothered —
smothered by the legacy of pollution, and fight environmental injustice
that’s been going on for so long.

And here’s another win for the American people: In addition — in
addition to cutting the deficit by $350 billion last year, in my first
year in office, and cutting it $1.7 trillion this year, this fiscal
year, we’re going to cut the deficit — I point out — by another $300
billion with the Inflation Reduction Act over the next decade.

We’re cutting deficit to fight inflation by having the wealthy and big
corporations finally begin to pay part of their fair share.

Big corporations will now pay a minimum 15 percent tax instead of us —
five- — 55 of them got away with paying zero dollars in federal income
tax on $40 billion in profit.

     And I’m keeping my campaign commitment: No one — let me emphasize —
no one earning less than $400,000 a year will pay a penny more in
federal taxes.  (Applause.)

Folks, the Inflation Reduction Act does so many things that, for so many
years, so many of us have fought to make happen.

And let’s be clear: In this historic moment, Democrats sided with the
American people, and every single Republican in the Congress sided with
the special interests in this vote — every single one.

In fact, the big trun \[sic\] com- — big drug companies spent nearly
$100 million to defeat this bill.  A hundred million dollars.

And remember: Every single Republican in Congress voted against this
bill. 

Every single Republican in Congress voted against lowering prescription
drug prices, against lowering healthcare costs, against a fairer tax
system.

Every single Republican — every single one — voted against tackling the
climate crisis, against lowering our energy costs, against creating
good-paying jobs.

My fellow Americans, that’s the choice we face: We can protect the
already-powerful or show the courage to build a future where everybody
has an even shot.

That’s the America I believe in.  (Applause.)  That’s what I believe in.

And today — and today, we’ve come a step closer to making that America
real.

Today, too often we confuse noise with substance.  Too often we confuse
setbacks with defeat.  Too often we hand the biggest microphone to the
critics and the cynics who delight in declaring failure while those
committed to making real progress do the hard work of governing.

Making progress in this country is a — as big and complicated as ours
clearly is not easy.  It’s never been easy.

But with unwavering conviction, commitment, and patience, progress does
come.

Your dad was right. 

And when it does, like today, people’s lives are made better and the
future becomes brighter, and a nation can be transformed.

That’s what’s happening now.  From the American Rescue Plan that helped
create nearly 10 million new jobs, to a once-in-a-generation
infrastructure law that will rebuild America’s roads, bridges, ports;
deliver clean water, high-speed Internet to every American; to the first
meaningful gun safety law in 30 years — and if I have anything to do
with it, we’re still going to have an assault weapons ban, but that’s
another story.  And to get significant veterans’ healthcare law in
decades, for the first time; to a groundbreaking CHIPS and Science Law
that’s going to ensure that technologies and jobs of the future are made
here in America — in America.  (Applause.)

     And all this progress is part of our vision and plan and determined
effort to get the job done for the American people, so they can look
their child in the eye and say, “Honey, it’s going to be okay. 
Everything is going to be okay.”  
  
     Everything is going to make sure that democracy delivers for your
generation.  Because I think that’s at stake.  
  
     And, now, I know there are those here today who hold a dark and
despairing view of this country.  I’m not one of them.  
  
     I believe in the promise of America.  I believe in the future of
this country.  I believe in the very soul of this nation.  And most of
all, I believe in you, the American people.

I believe to my core there isn’t a single thing this country cannot do
when we put our mind to it.  We just have to remember who we are.  We
are the United States of America.

There is nothing beyond our — nothing beyond our capacity.  That’s why
so many foreign companies decided to invest their — make chips in
America.  Billions of dollars.  We’re the best.  We have to believe in
ourselves again.  
  
     And now I’m going to take action that I’ve been looking forward to
doing for 18 months.  (Laughter and applause.)  I’m going to sign the
Inflation Reduction Law.  (Applause.)  
  
     Okay.  Here you go.  
  
     (The bill is signed.)  
  
     LEADER SCHUMER:  It’s now law.  
  
     (Applause.)

                          END                4:02 P.M. EDT
