---
date: '2022-08-18'
modified_time: 2022-08-18 12:52:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-18 12:51:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/08/18/press-briefing-by-white-house-monkeypox-response-team-and-public-health-officials-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House Monkeypox Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
   
(August 18, 2022)

MR. FENTON:  Good morning.  I’m Bob Fenton, the White House Monkeypox
Response Coordinator.  Today, Secretary Becerra, Assistant Secretary
O’Connell, and Dr. Walensky and I will provide a brief update and share
some key announcements from the Biden administration’s
whole-of-government response to the monkeypox outbreak.  We’re also
joined today by Dr. Peter Marks from FDA and my Deputy Coordinator, Dr.
Daskalakis, for questions.

Before I turn it over to Secretary Becerra, I want to provide an update
in our response efforts.

Last week, FDA and CDC acted to allow JYNNEOS vaccine to be administered
intradermally, increasing the number of doses in each vial of vaccine by
up to fivefold.

With the announcement, it increased our existing supply significantly
without compromising safety or effectiveness.  And as Dawn O’Connell
will discuss shortly, we already aggressively are increasing access for
jurisdictions to move vac- — to move more vaccine supply.

We’re focused on operationalizing the FDA decision.  Since last week’s
announcement, CDC has been working hard to provide help to providers and
clinicians with training and other resources to administer the
intradermal vaccines.

Already we’re seeing some of the country’s largest jurisdictions, big
and small, adopt this strategy, including Los Angeles County and Fulton
County, Georgia.

Overall, as of today, HHS has delivered nearly 1 million doses of
vaccines to states and cities.

We rapidly scaled up supply of vaccine out in the field, and we are
working to meet demand wherever we may find it.

In fact, we have the largest JYNNEOS vaccine program of any country in
the globe.  And we’re not done. 

As Assistant Secretary O’Connell will discuss, we have accelerated Phase
4 of our national vaccine strategy.  Starting Monday, an additional 1.8
million doses of vaccine will be available to jurisdictions for
ordering.

Jurisdictions that are adopting the intradermal administration of
vaccine and have used 90 percent of their current supply of vaccines
will be able to order more doses.  And as always, we’re getting those
dors- — doses out the door to places as soon as they’re ordered.

In addition to getting vaccines out quickly to where they’re needed,
we’re focused on helping states and local partners turn these doses into
vaccinations, because more shots in arms is how we get the outbreak
under control.

To that end, today we’re announcing that states and localities will be
able to request and receive additional vaccines to support vaccination
efforts at large LGBT events in the coming weeks and months.

HHS is launching a pilot program that will provide up to 50,000 doses
from the national stockpile to be made available for Pride and other
events that will have high attendance of gay and bisexual men.  These
doses will be on top of jurisdictions’ existing allocations and supply
of vaccine.

As Dr. Walensky will discuss in more detail, CDC will also work closely
with state and local health departments to ensure they have plans in
place for these events, not just around vaccination but also testing and
community engagement.

We’re already starting to work with jurisdictions on a number of events
taking place in the coming days and weeks.

This is important; it’s innovative — the way that we will bolster local
efforts to meet people where they are and mitigate the spread of
monkeypox.

Before I turn it over to Secretary Becerra, I want to highlight another
step we are taking to make it easier for individuals to access treatment
for monkeypox.

Next week, HHS will be pre-positioning 50,000 courses of TPOXX across
the country.  That’s nearly five times as many treatment courses than
confirmed cases in the U.S.

These courses will be made available to jurisdictions where the outbreak
is most severe so individuals can get treatment more quickly from their
healthcare providers.

In all, we are making a lot of progress on monkeypox.  This is because
of the hard work across government that is scaling access to vaccines
and tests, educating the public, and ensures — ensuring jurisdictions
are getting what they need.

This is a whole-of-government response that is built on a strong work by
Dr. Panjabi and the National Security Council built that allowed us to
rapidly accelerate our tools and resources.

Our feet remain on the gas to do everything we can to end this outbreak.

Let me stop there and turn it over to Secretary Becerra.

SECRETARY BECERRA:  Thanks, Bob.  Great to be with everyone again.

Let me start by saying: Most Americans still are learning about
monkeypox — what it is and what it is not.  CDC’s website can answer
most of those questions.

Here’s what we do want all American’s to know: It’s important that we
all take monkeypox seriously, and it’s critical that we do all we can to
keep this dangerous virus from spreading.

Here, this team, we continue building on our efforts from the beginning
to secure and make available safe and effective vaccines, treatments,
and tests.

For the more than 60 jurisdictions that have reported approximately
13,500 cases of monkeypox across the country, we have, to date, made
available more than 1 million doses of vaccine, more than 22,000 courses
of TPOXX treatment, and capacity for 80,000 tests per week.  And as
Coordinator Fenton just mentioned, that number of vaccines will scale up
dramatically.

Having declared monkeypox a public health emergency, having safely
expanded our supply of effective vaccines, and every day receiving more
fertile data about the outbreak from our many state and local partners,
we now move into a new phase of our efforts.

The fluid and collaborative allocation of vaccines and treatments to our
partners will continue as part of this latest phase, but we will also
now surge and target vaccines and treatments when and where that can be
most effective, as Administrator O’Connell and Director Walensky will
detail.

We know we have more to do to mitigate the spread of this virus and to
protect those at risk.

Our work with our state and local partners could be — could not be more
critical than at this particular moment.  We know that viruses don’t
care about state lines.  They don’t wait to spread.

And so we will continue to do all we can to work together, communicate,
and share information.  As I’ve said, we all have a role to play, and
working together will lead to our collective success.

So, with that, let me now turn it over to Administrator Dawn O’Connell. 
Dawn?

MS. O’CONNELL:  Secretary, thank you so much.

At ASPR, we continue to partner with our sister agencies, industries,
and state and jurisdictional health leaders to accelerate access to
vaccines and treatments and strengthen our response.

First, as we have done over the past three months, we continue to work
with our manufacturer to accelerate the acquisition and delivery of
vaccines to states and jurisdictions.

To date, as been mentioned already, we have shipped more than 700,000
vials of the JYNNEOS vaccine nationwide, including over 60,000
additional vials that have been shipped since the second and final round
of ordering under Phase 3 opened on Monday.  This represents more than 1
million doses currently delivered and available for use across the
country.  
  
On Monday, as Bob said, we will make approximately 360,000 vials, or up
to 1.8 million more doses, available to states and jurisdictions.  
This rounds out the distribution of the nearly 800,000 vials we received
in late July. 

In addition, as previously announced, we are accelerating the delivery
of another 150,000 doses of vaccine that was initially supposed to come
in October; it’ll now be coming in September — which represents up to
750,000 doses under the new FDA EUA.

We are also now receiving administration data from jurisdictions, which
helps us ensure we are distributing vaccines equitably across the
country while also making sure they get to those who need them most.  
  
And we continue to explore all available options to increase the amount
and speed at which we are able to deliver vaccines across the country.

On July 15th, when we announced an order with Bavarian Nordic for an
additional 2.5 million vials of the JYNNEOS vaccine, we shared that
those doses will be filled at a U.S.-based contract manufacturer using
bulk vaccine already manufactured.  We continue to work with Bavarian
Nordic and the domestic contract manufacturer to advance that goal.  We
hope to be able to share additional details about that arrangement soon.

And, based on feedback from jurisdictions, the Strategic National
Stockpile is making arrangements to deliver more vaccine to more
locations, beyond the five in each jurisdiction they already deliver
to.  More on this as well in the coming weeks, but it represents another
example of how this is not a static response.  We are continuing to
assess where we are, evaluate what we need, and make improvements in
real time.  
  
Today, as Bob mentioned, we are also announcing that we will make
available 50,000 patient courses of the antiviral, TPOXX, for
jurisdictions to begin ordering next week.  This is nearly five times,
as Bob mentioned, more courses than confirmed cases in the United
States.

Starting next week, jurisdictions will be allocated courses of TPOXX
using a formula that takes into account both the number of cases in
their jurisdiction and the number of individuals who have the highest
risk of contracting the virus, including individuals who have HIV or
other immunocompromised conditions.

And, of course, this allocation is in addition to the over 22,000
courses ASPR has already deployed from the SNS upon request from
jurisdictions.

We believe it is important for states and jurisdictions to be able to
order and pre-position these doses for quick and easy access for
patients who qualify for them. 

As I mentioned at the top, so much of what we do is in partnership with
our sister agencies, including the CDC.  With that, it’s my pleasure to
turn it over to Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Administrator.  And good morning, everyone.

Today, I’d like to provide the latest information on the current
monkeypox outbreak as well as share a few updates on the work we are
doing in CDC’s monkeypox response.  
  
So, as of August 17th, over 39,000 cases have been detected globally in
94 countries.  Here in the United States, there have been over 13,500
cases of monkeypox identified across 49 states, as well as Washington,
D.C. and Puerto Rico.    
  
Monkeypox case data reported to CDC show that 98 percent of cases are
occurring in men.  Of the more than 6,000 cases for which we have data
on race and ethnicity, nearly 35 percent of cases are occurring among
those who are white, 33 percent of cases are occurring among those who
are Hispanic, and nearly 28 percent are occurring among those who are
Black.  The median age of cases is 35.  And among cases with known
recent sexual history and gender, 93 percent of cases were among men who
reported recent sexual contact with other men.  
  
Today, HHS is announcing a pilot program for additional vaccine
allocations to state and local health departments whose jurisdictions
are hosting events that draw a majority of people from the MSM
community.  
  
Jurisdictions hosting these events can request to receive additional
vaccine allocations based on the size and nature of the event and the
ability to reach attendees who are at the highest risk of monkeypox, a
lar- — again, largely right now, men who are having sex with men.  We’re
asking the requests to include a component of how they will promote
education and awareness, as well as how they will address health equity
in delivery of both messaging as well as vaccine.  
  
CDC and HHS will continue outreach efforts to educate and make resources
available to everyone who needs them.  As part of this effort, CDC will
publish — be publishing a toolkit for health departments to assist with
planning of these large events.  
  
This toolkit, which has been developed based on the needs and feedback
we’ve received from state and local health departments, includes
ready-to-use resources to support local health department efforts when
engaging with organizers of large events to provide and promote further
monkeypox prevention strategies and key public health messages at large
gatherings.  
  
These events are important opportunities for people to connect with
their community and to enjoy themselves.  And they’re also a chance to
provide public health messages and resources to otherwise hard-to-reach
publications — populations — otherwise hard-to-reach populations.  That
includes providing safer sex guidance that empowers people to make
choices that can help them avoid monkeypox exposure, including
temporarily limiting sexual partners, and messages about monkeypox
symptoms and vaccines.  They also provide education opportunities for
communities about testing and treatment resources.  
  
Now, I want to emphasize that while we are offering the vaccine at these
events to those at high risk, this is a two-dose vaccine series, and
receiving the vaccine at these events will not provide protection at the
event itself.  
  
Now, much of our work over the last many weeks has been related to the
important outreach to clinicians and public health partners, and we have
been focused on providing them with the necessary resources and
education and tools that they need.  
  
So, related to our announcement last week, some of our recent work has
involved answering questions related to intradermal vaccine
administration for the JYNNEOS monkeypox vaccine.  
  
Importantly, intradermal administration is not a new vaccination
method.  Data suggests that the vaccine administration intradermally
will produce the same immune response as the standard dose administered
subcutaneously.  
  
We also know many intradermal vaccines may require some training for
vaccine providers.  Now, many healthcare providers already have
experience administering allergen testing or tuberculosis skin testing
by this route.  CDC has resources available to ensure that vaccine
providers can receive training and refresh their skills if needed.  
  
To be clear, we’re learning how well these vaccines work against
monkeypox and in this specific outbreak.  Although we anticipate
vaccines will provide protection, temporarily reducing or avoiding
behaviors that increase your risk of monkeypox exposure is important,
especially between your first and second doses of vaccine.  From what we
know right now, we expect protection to be the highest two weeks after
the second dose of the vaccine.  
  
At CDC, we remain committed to providing the necessary guidance,
education, and resources as we continue to respond to current — the
current monkeypox outbreak.  And we, of course, remain open to feedback
on how and where we can provide tailored information to those at highest
risk.  
  
So, with that, I’ll say thank you.  And I will turn things back to you,
Kevin.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks so much, Dr. Walensky.   
  
We’re going to try to get through as many questions as possible, so keep
your questions to one question.  
  
First, let’s go to Chris Johnson at the Washington Blade.  
  
All right.  I think, Chris, you might be having some challenge.  So,
let’s go to the next question, and we’ll go — we’ll come back to you.  
  
Jacqueline Howard at CNN.  
  
Q    Yes, thanks for taking my question.  We’ve heard from the
manufacturer that there are some concerns on the manufacturers’ end, as
far as having its manufacturing capacity meet demand.  So, my question
is: Are you working to help find domestic manufacturing partners to help
supply JYNNEOS doses?  Or what are you doing to help meet demand just in
case the capacity is not there?  How would that impact how much vaccine
we have?  Thank you.  
  
MR. FENTON:  Dawn, do you want to start with an answer for that one?  
  
MS. O’CONNELL:  Sure, Bob.  I’ll be happy to.  And then, of course, feel
free to jump in.   
  
So, thank you, Jacqueline, for the question.  We continue to work
closely with Bavarian Nordic, the manufacturer.  As you know, they’re a
small manufacturer.  
  
So, one of the first things we did as this monkeypox outbreak took hold
was begin conversations with them about how they might expand that
capacity.  They currently have one active line in the Copenhagen area
that we’re relying on for 2.5 million doses to be filled and finished. 
But when we ordered that second 2.5 million to be filled and finished,
we made it a requirement that they work with a domestic U.S. contract
manufacturing organization.  And we continue to partner with Bavarian
Nordic as they solidify that relationship.  
  
We are also helping them in other ways consider manufacturing capacity
increases — potentially working with a larger pharmaceutical company,
for example.  We don’t have anything to announce in particular at this
time, but we are working very closely in support of Bavarian Nordic’s
interest in increasing their capacity.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks.  Let’s try Chris Johnson again.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much.  I just kind of want to build off of that
regarding the reported issues that the manufacturer of JYNNEOS vaccine
has said with the proposal, the strategy of administration for the
vaccines announced last week by the administration.  
  
It seems like we’re having a lot of contradictory information from
various health officials.  We have the federal government being critical
of localities for opting to undergo a one-dose strategy.  Now we have
the manufacturer of the vaccine being critical of the federal government
for the new vaccine implementation.  
  
I mean, with so many, you know, contradictory information, how can the
public be trust — be trustful of the information they’re getting from
health officials?  
  
MR. FENTON:  Yeah, let me start — this is Bob Fenton — and then I’m
going to turn it over to Rochelle Walensky at CDC to — and Dr. Peter
Marks to talk about the dosing strategy.  
  
I think anytime that you have change, you’re going to have the need to
update, educate the community on those changes.  And I think, last week,
FDA with the EUA did a really good job of doing that, providing
scientific data on those changes.  
  
And then, what needs to happen is the training, which CDC is providing,
to go to the intradermal shots for those that need help.  
  
As I said in my opening comments, the day that we made that decision —
the day that we made that decision, or the FDA made that decision, and
we signaled the week before that this was being undertaken by FDA, there
already were a number of jurisdictions that started the training in
anticipation of that decision.  And that day, there were organiza- —
jurisdictions actually delivering the intradermal shot that day, and yet
five- — up to fivefold the number of shots.  And did that to — you know,
to areas of high risk and did that to areas that — that, you know, made
equity a factor in those decisions of where they vaccinated.  
  
So, it is happening; it is being successful.  We’ll continue to work
with those that have questions.  
  
But let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky and to Peter Marks to talk about
the science behind the decision and any questions they’re getting as
they’re providing technical assistance to jurisdictions.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you very much.  Maybe I’ll just add how closely
we’re working with state and local health departments through this
outbreak, really hand-in-glove, and in really fluid communication
through this outbreak.  
  
As articulated, we don’t yet know how well this vaccine will work in
this outbreak.  And as those data are evolving, as we had some resource
constraints early on with vaccine, we were working closely with health
departments as a way that they could maximize their coverage.  
  
We’ve met with them to talk about what data might be available for one
dose, which are really limited — and, in fact, if anything, concerning —
in terms of how well it would work.   
  
And so when the strategy for intradermal dosing, which we anticipate
will work just as well as subcutaneous dosing, we again met closely with
the health departments — Dr. Marks was on those calls — so that we could
provide the data to them.  
  
So, yes, this has been fluid, but we have been in close touch with our
state and local health departments, providing them all the data and all
the information that we have when we have it.  
  
Dr. Marks, do you have anything to add there?  
  
DR. MARKS:  No, I just — I would just very briefly add that, you know,
some of this was in response to seeing additional use of a one-dose
delayed strategy, which was, as Dr. Walensky noted, very concerning
because of the absence of data and the emergence of some data to suggest
that that might be a strategy that is not as effective as we would like
it to be.  
  
So, this was done very carefully, with a lot of thought, and we are
working very actively to make sure the community has the information
that we reviewed and can see the thought process that we used to come to
the conclusion that giving this intradermally provided the same kind of
protection that giving it by the subcutaneous route.  
  
MR. FENTON:  And just real quick, let me just ask Dr. Daskalakis if he
wants to add anything to what’s been said.  
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  I would just add, just briefly, that it’s really also
part of our job, I think from the perspective of governmental public
health, to make sure that we’re communicating about the vaccine in a way
that makes sense, that actually engenders trust in the population.   
  
So I think our clear, sort of, view that this is equivalent, whether it
is the intradermal dose or the subcutaneous dose, and the thorough
review of the data that Dr. Marks and Dr. Walensky talk about, really
give us the confidence to, I think, signal to folks that this strategy
is not only important to protect themselves, but also to allow us to get
more vaccines in arms.   
  
So it’s safe, it’s equally effective, and also allows us to expa- —
extend vaccine so that we can maximize protection in the community.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right, next question.  Let’s go to Sheryl Stolberg at
the New York Times  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my call.  Dr. Walensky mentioned some
events coming up, and there are two big ones coming on Labor Day
weekend: Black Pride in Atlanta and also Southern Decadence in New
Orleans, where monkeypox forced the cancellation of a concert.  And we
also have back to school — college, in particular — coming up.   
  
And I’m wondering if maybe Dr. Walensky, or Dr. Daskalakis — Daskalakis
can talk about specifically what are you doing to help officials in
Atlanta and New Orleans, and how are you advising colleges and
universities in handling the return to campus and dorm life.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Maybe I’ll start and pass it to Dr. Daskalakis.  Thank
you for that question, Sheryl.   
  
Part of the motivation for this pilot is for those large events.  There
were actually a few before those large events.  But we’ve been working
closely with the jurisdictions, both in Fulton County and New Orleans,
in anticipation of these events.   
And specifically, we’re asking for plans for how the education will
happen; how we can do more outreach; in some cases where they’re
testing, we can make testing available, how we can make vaccine
available; how we can do this in an equitable fashion so that we get
messaging in — out in an equitable fashion but also vaccine out in an
equitable fashion.   
  
As I’m sure you can appreciate, these are opportunities for us to reach
populations that we might otherwise not be able to reach, which we feel
is a really good opportunity to get these messages out there.   
  
So, not only are we working to set up vaccination stands and activities
with personnel in the local health departments, but we’re also working
hard to ensure that we have the right messaging for the right people
during those events.  And there are several other events, not just those
that we’re closely working with — jurisdictions who are requesting our
assistance ahead of time as well.   
  
We do have messaging for our college campuses.  We do have — which is
very consistent with the messaging that is up on our website.  And
we’re, of course, carefully monitoring that as well.   
  
Demetre, I don’t know if you — Dr. Daskalakis, I don’t know if you have
anything to add.   
  
DR. DASKALAKIS:  I would just — I just want to emphasize the importance
of really creating more opportunity for vaccine access.  It’s really
allowing us to do intervention such as this and pilots to try to get
vaccine closer to where the people are rather than have people come to
always try to find the vaccine.   
  
So I think that also, Dr. Walensky — I think that the point that this is
a multidomain intervention, it’s not just about vaccine, but also about
clear communication about how the vaccine works, which I think you
covered so well with the idea that first dose isn’t enough for
protection; second dose is what you need, plus.  But then also, there’s
so many strategies that folks can use to prevent monkeypox exposure.   
  
And so that package of interventions put in the right place means that
it gets to the right people.  So we’re really enthusiastic that
increasing vaccine availability allows us a bridge to do such events
like that.   
  
And again, great, great collaboration with jurisdictions who I think are
very enthusiastic about working with CDC and all of us on this topic.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks both.   
  
Let’s go to Pien Huang at NPR.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  I’ve been hearing from some
states that the doses being sent this week are being counted using the
intradermal dosing regimen.  So, I just wanted to confirm how doses are
being counted.  You know, is every vial sent before this to be
considered one dose?  Every vial sent this week and after considered
five?  Just hoping for a clarification on that.  
  
MR. FENTON: Yeah, let me start and then send it over to Dawn to provide
some additional detail.  So the doses that we provided this week were
counted as doses based on the new intradermal strategy and the ability
to get up to five doses per vial.  That’s how they’ve been sent.  And —
and with the announcement of going to Phase 4, we’ll continue with that
strategy if vaccine administration was at the 90 percent level.  So if
they’re providing the vaccine, especially to the at-risk community, then
they would be able to continue to order.   
  
What we want to do is accelerate this response, which is why we not only
provide 3b but 3c at one time this week, and why we’re now moving
forward with 4 is because those that are moving forward and vaccinating
individuals at risk quickly, we want to be able to continue to provide
the vaccine to protect as many people as possible.   
  
Let me turn it over to Dawn from ASPR to add to that.   
  
MS. O’CONNELL:  Terrific, Bob.  I actually think you covered it very,
very well.  What’s most important to us is to be able to get as many
doses out as quickly as possible to those that need it.  And the FDA EUA
allowed us to do that with each vial turning into five doses.  So we’ve
been counting it that way.  Since that change — so the beginning of
Phase 3, second ordering tranche on Monday — we sent it out according to
that new calculation.  
  
We do know there are situations — in a pediatric indication, for example
— where a single vial still will equal a single dose.  And if a
jurisdiction runs into some situations where they’ve administered more
of those — and we would certainly hope for in an outbreak like this —
you know, we’d be happy to work with them.  We do understand that there
are some circumstances where we will need to adjust slightly.  
  
But for — you know, as a rule of thumb, it’s been now five doses per
vial.   
  
Thanks, Bob.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  A couple more questions.  Let’s go to Mike Stobbe at the
Associated Press.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my call.  I just was hoping for a little
more clarity on the pilot project you announced.  I heard at one point
“50,000 doses.”  At another point, I heard “50,000 courses.”  “Courses”
I take to mean two-dose series.  Is it 50,000 courses or doses?  And how
will you follow up?  Like, if someone goes to an event and they — they
are traveling from another place and they come in and then they leave,
how will you follow up to make sure that they get that second dose? 
Thank you.  
  
MR. FENTON:  Yeah, so I think two different things announced.  One was
an announcement with regard to doses available for vaccine, and the
ability to go into Phase 4 ordering started Monday for those that have
vaccinated 90 percent.   
  
The second thing that was discussed was pre-positioning of TPOXX, which
is the treatment for those that are positive with monkeypox, and that’s
the 50,000 courses.   
  
So two different — you know, two different things: one vaccine, one
medication.  
  
As far as the events in providing one dose, we will work with the
jurisdictions to make sure that there’s — that those individuals that
were given one dose, if they travel back to their home of origin, that
there’s a — that within their allotment, that there’s sufficient vaccine
for a second dose. 

Let me turn to Dawn or Dr. Walensky and see if they want to add anything
to that.

MS. O’CONNELL:  Bob, I think you nailed it.  Rochelle, I’m not sure if
there’s more that you wanted to add, but it is — in the TPOXX
pre-positioning, it’s the 50,000 patient courses.  In the special
events, I believe it is the 50,000 doses.  But, Rochelle, you might have
more on that.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, no.  What I was going to add is: We recognize that
there are going to be some people who have traveled to large-scale
events and that they’re going to have to receive dose one of their
vaccine at the event, and then they will necessarily receive dose two at
their local jurisdiction.  And we anticipate that.

We’ve seen that before when we’ve had to do — when we’ve done mass
vaccination, for example, with COVID.  So we are prepared to collect the
immunization data.  And among the messaging that we will convey, as I
noted before, is that people will understand that this is a two-dose
vaccine and that they are getting their first dose at the event, that
they will need to follow up for their second dose.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right, two more questions.  Let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett
at ABC.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  I was wondering if you had any data on who is
doing intradermal injections, if you’re keeping track of what providers
are actually performing it that way, and if you can share that with us.

MR. FENTON:  Yeah, the information is just coming in this week on that. 
I’ve been in contact with a number of providers that are doing
intradermal doses.  Los Angeles is doing a lot.  We were just on a call
with Philadelphia that’s doing that.  Atlanta, there’s a number of them.

But let me turn to Dr. Walensky, who is starting to get a lot of data on
that, and see if she wants to add anything.  And then I know Dr.
Daskalakis has also been on a number of calls with providers.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  Really, what I will say: The data are coming
in.  What we’re doing really — working really hard is to work with
jurisdictions so they all get to this intradermal dosing.

As we see the administration come in — the administration data come in,
we will also have a better sense.  But ultimately, this is a precious
resource that we want to be used efficiently and wisely, and that’s the
purpose of this, without sacrificing anything on safety and
effectiveness, as far as our data show so far.  And so we’re really
moving to get all jurisdictions to intradermal dosing.

MR. FENTON:  Dr. Daskalakis, anything to add?

DR. DASKALAKIS:  No, I think it’s covered well.  Just, we’re hearing,
you know — just, jurisdictions are very enthusiastically starting this. 
And I think, you know, the training provided by CDC and the technical
support has been really important.  So, you know, I think it’s exciting
from the perspective of access.  Thank you.

MR. MUNOZ:  Last question.  Let’s go to Krista Mahr at Politico.

Q    Thanks so much for taking my question and for providing the updated
data on the case breakdown of how this is impacting different
communities really are.  A question about that.  You mentioned the
events as a particular opportunity to get particularly at-risk
communities.  Can you please talk a little bit about more specific
messaging that is going out to Black and Hispanic communities in
particular, which are being disproportionately impacted in the
outbreak?  Thank you.

MR. FENTON:  Yeah, let me start with Dr. Daskalakis and then go over to
Dr. Walensky if she wants to add anything.

DR. DASKALAKIS:  So I’ll start and say that we know really — working
really closely with organizations and trusted messengers for those
populations has been really critical.  We continue to do the work and go
deeper and deeper into engagement to make sure that messages are coming
out. 

And also, I think it’s important to note that many of the events that
we’re focusing on that are coming down the pike, to foreshadow, are
really events that do focus on populations who are overrepresented in
this outbreak, including the trends that we’re seeing in — among Black
and Latino individuals.

So I think it’s really about positioning both messaging and biomedical
intervention where people can reach it, but then also making sure that
we’re going to the right places and talking to the right people.

Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  I don’t have much to add there except to say how closely
we’re working and how critically important it is to collaborate with
communities and people on the ground.  And so we continue to do so and
certainly welcome any other ideas of how, where we can do that outreach.

MR. FENTON:  With that, I really appreciate everyone participating in
today’s call and the questions.  This is really a whole-of-community
effort.

As you heard today, we’re accelerating our response to ensure that we’re
able to vaccinate, provide testing, improve the ability to quickly treat
and really focus on educating and communicating a whole of nation
through this effort.

So, thank you for tuning in today.  I appreciate your questions

 END
