---
date: '2024-01-12'
modified_time: 2024-01-12 15:27:36-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-12 15:27:35-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/12/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-consistent-with-the-war-powers-resolution-public-law-93-148-10/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President pro tempore of the Senate\
  \ consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law\_93-148)"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:) 

Since at least November 2023, Yemen-based Houthi militants have engaged
in a series of attacks against United States military forces, including
ships and aircraft, and against maritime commercial shipping, operating
in the Red Sea, the Bab al-Mandeb Strait, and the Gulf of Aden.  These
attacks pose a threat to the safety of United States forces and
commercial ships and their crews, regional political and economic
stability, and navigational rights and freedoms.  On January 9, 2024,
the Houthi militants perpetrated their largest attack in the Red Sea,
with multiple unmanned aerial systems, anti-ship cruise missiles, and
ballistic missiles targeting United States and United Kingdom Navy
vessels.  On January 10, 2024, the United Nations Security Council
adopted a resolution demanding the Houthis immediately cease all
attacks.  The Houthi militants continue to pose a threat of future
attacks against United States forces and military vessels and against
other maritime traffic in the region.  
  
On January 11, 2024, at my direction, United States forces as part of a
multinational operation alongside the United Kingdom, with support from
Australia, Bahrain, Canada, and the Netherlands, conducted discrete
strikes against facilities in Yemen that facilitate Houthi militants’
attacks in the Red Sea region.  These facilities include air and coastal
surveillance radar sites, unmanned aerial system launch facilities and
launch sites, and cruise and ballistic missile facilities and launch
sites.  The strikes were taken to deter and degrade Houthi capacity to
conduct future attacks and were conducted in a manner designed to limit
the risk of escalation and avoid civilian casualties.  I directed the
strikes in order to protect and defend our personnel and assets, to
degrade and disrupt the ability of the Houthi militants to carry out
future attacks against the United States and against vessels operating
in the Red Sea region, and to deter the Houthi militants from conducting
or supporting further attacks that could further destabilize the region
and threaten United States strategic interests.

I directed this military action consistent with my responsibility to
protect United States citizens both at home and abroad and in
furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations.  The
United States took this necessary and proportionate action consistent
with international law and in the exercise of the United States’
inherent right of self-defense as reflected in Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter.  The United States stands ready to take further action,
as necessary and appropriate, to address further threats or attacks.  
  
I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress
fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148).  I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.  
  
                                      Sincerely,  
  
  
                                    JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
