---
date: '2024-01-31'
modified_time: 2024-01-31 14:39:30-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-31 14:39:29-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-black-history-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Black History Month,\_2024"
---
 
     This National Black History Month, we celebrate the vast
contributions of Black Americans to our country and recognize that Black
history is American history and that Black culture, stories, and
triumphs are at the core of who we are as a Nation.  
  
     The soul of America is what makes us unique among all nations.  We
are the only country in the world founded on an idea.  It is the idea
that we are all created equal and deserve to be treated with equal
dignity throughout our lives.  While we still grapple today with the
moral stain and vestiges of slavery — our country’s original sin — we
have never walked away from the fight to fully realize the promise of
America for all Americans.  Throughout our history, Black Americans have
never given up on the promise of America.  Unbowed by the forces of hate
and undaunted as they fought for centuries against slavery, segregation,
and injustice, Black Americans have held a mirror up to our Nation,
allowing our country to confront hard truths about who we are and
pushing us to live up to our founding ideals.  They have helped redeem
the soul of our Nation, ensuring the promises in our founding documents
were not just words on a page but a lived reality for all people.  In
the process, the vibrancy of Black history and culture has enriched
every aspect of American life.  
  
     Since taking office, the Vice President and I have worked to
continue this legacy of progress and lay down a foundation for a
stronger, more equitable Nation.  On my first day as President, I signed
a historic Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for
Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government.  In February
2023, I signed an additional Executive Order to acknowledge the
unbearable human costs of systemic racism and to direct the entire
Federal Government to advance equity for those who have been
historically underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by
persistent discrimination, poverty, and inequality, including the Black
community.  That includes building an economy that grows from the middle
out and bottom up, not the top down.  So far, we have created over 14
million jobs and in 2023, the Black unemployment rate was lower than in
any other year on record.  
  
     We are addressing historic health inequities for Black Americans by
making systemic changes to our health care systems that increase
healthcare access while lowering costs.  Today, more Black Americans
have health insurance than at any previous time in American history.  We
are working to address the Black maternal health crisis — ensuring
dignity, safety, and support for Black moms.  The Vice President has
helped elevate this critical issue to a national priority by calling on
States to extend Medicaid postpartum coverage from two months to one
year.   
  
     My Administration is also working to close racial gaps in education
and economic opportunity.  To that end, we have delivered over $7
billion in funding for Historically Black Colleges and Universities and
are working to expand access to home-ownership — a major source of
generational wealth for families — while aggressively combating racial
discrimination in housing.  Our update to the Thrifty Food Plan is
keeping 400,000 Black kids out of poverty every month and making sure
millions more have enough food to eat.  By 2025, we are working to
ensure that 15 percent of Federal contracting dollars goes to small
disadvantaged businesses, including Black-owned small businesses.  We
are also replacing poisonous lead pipes so every American can turn on a
faucet at home or school and drink clean water.   
  
     To deliver equal justice under the law, we are appointing judges to
the Federal bench who reflect all of America, including Supreme Court
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson and more Black women to the Federal
circuit courts than all previous administrations combined.  I also
signed a historic Executive Order that implemented key elements of the
George Floyd Justice in Policing Act:  banning chokeholds and
restricting no knock warrants by Federal law enforcement, creating a
national database of officer misconduct, and promoting effective and
accountable community policing that advances public trust and safety.  I
also signed the first major gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years as
well as a long-overdue law to make lynching a Federal hate crime in
Emmett Till’s name.  My Administration continues to call on the Congress
to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to
Vote Act to secure the right to vote for every American.  
  
     Today, I am reminded of something Amelia Boynton said when
reflecting on her march across the Edmund Pettus Bridge on what would be
known as Bloody Sunday:  “You can never know where you’re going unless
you know where you’ve been.”  America is a great Nation because we
choose to learn the good, the bad, and the full truth of the history of
our country — histories and truths that we must preserve and protect for
the next generation.  This National Black History Month, as we remember
where we have been, may we also recognize that our only way forward is
by marching together.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 2024 as National Black History Month.  I call upon public
officials, educators, librarians, and all the people of the United
States to observe this month with relevant programs, ceremonies, and
activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
