---
date: '2024-01-31'
published_time: 2024-01-31 14:35:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-teen-dating-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     During National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month, we recommit to building a future where our Nation’s young people
can live free from violence, fear, and abuse.  
  
     About 1 in 12 high school students in the United States have
experienced physical or sexual dating violence.  Violence, intimidation,
and fear — whether perpetrated in person or online — can upend the lives
of young people during some of their most formative years and have
lifelong consequences.  Survivors of teen dating violence are more
likely to suffer from symptoms of depression, anxiety, and trauma.
 Experiencing an unhealthy or abusive relationship as a teen can
increase a young person’s risk of facing violence in intimate
relationships throughout their lives.  
  
     Throughout my career, I have fought against abuses of power.  As a
United States Senator, I wrote and championed the groundbreaking
Violence Against Women Act that became law in 1994.  Preventing and
responding to gender-based violence wherever it occurs and in all of its
forms is a cause I care about deeply, and it has remained a cornerstone
of my career in public service.  
  
     That is why, last year, my Administration released the first-ever
National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, which includes resources to
prevent teen dating violence, promote healthier relationships, and equip
survivors with the resources and care they deserve.  In addition, the
White House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse is working
to help teens stay safe online and prevent the misuse of technology as
tools of abuse, harassment, and exploitation.  In 2022, I was proud to
sign the reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, which
increased investment in programs working to reduce teen dating
violence.   
  
     The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is providing tools
and training for educators, families, and community members to teach
young people how to form healthy relationships and safely leave abusive
ones.  Learn more at VetoViolence.CDC.gov.  If you or someone you know
is involved in an abusive relationship of any kind, immediate and
confidential support is available through the National Domestic Violence
Hotline’s project focused on supporting young people by visiting
loveisrespect.org, calling 1-866-331-9474 (TTY: 1-800-787-3224), or
texting “LOVEIS” to 22522.  
  
     This month, may we come together to end teen dating violence and
ensure our teens feel safe, protected, and empowered to live lives free
from violence and full of dignity and respect.    
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
February 2024 as National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month.  I call upon everyone to educate themselves and others about teen
dating violence so that together we can stop it.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
