---
date: '2024-01-12'
published_time: 2024-01-12 12:37:34-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/12/a-proclamation-on-martin-luther-king-jr-federal-holiday-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal Holiday,\_2024"
---
 
 Today, we reflect on the life and legacy of Reverend Dr. Martin Luther
King, Jr. and recommit to honoring his moral vision on the path to
redeeming the soul of our Nation.

     Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was born into America when racial
segregation was the law of the land.  He had every reason to believe
that history had already been written and division would be our Nation’s
destiny.  But Dr. King rejected that outcome.  He heard Scripture’s
command to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly.  He clung to the
Declaration of Independence’s promise of equality for all people.

     Dr. King’s mission was a moral one:  from bridges and ballot boxes
to pulpits, protests, and courthouses, he courageously stood for the
sacred idea that embodies the soul of our Nation — we are all created
equal in the image of God and deserve to be treated equally throughout
our lives.  He vocalized that idea on an August day in 1963 when he told
our Nation about his dream.  He saw that idea realized for many
Americans with the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the
Voting Rights Act of 1965, ushering in a new era of greater equality and
opportunity in our country.  That work is not yet finished.  It is the
task of our time to take up Dr. King’s mantle and make his dream a
reality.

     The battle for the soul of our Nation is perennial — a constant
struggle between hope and fear, kindness and cruelty, and justice and
injustice.  There are still those who seek to thwart progress and roll
back our rights as Americans.  But Dr. King and countless crusaders
across the span of American history teach us that each generation must
answer the call to perfect our Union.  We must heed the whispers of our
better angels.  We must see each other as neighbors and not enemies.  We
must do our best to seek a life of light, hope, and truth.  Because
nothing is guaranteed about our democracy.  We must fight to keep,
defend, and protect it.

     On this day, may we recommit to being guided by Dr. King’s light
and by the charge of Scripture:  “Let us never grow weary in doing what
is right, for if we do not give up, we will reap our harvest in due
time.”  We must continue Dr. King’s march forward by choosing democracy
over autocracy and a “Beloved Community” over chaos.  We must be
believers, doers, and, most of all, dreamers.  We must be repairers of
the breach and remember that the power to redeem the soul of America
lies in all of us — “We the People.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Monday, January 15, 2024, as the Martin Luther King, Jr., Federal
Holiday.  I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate
civic, community, and service projects in honor of Dr. King and to visit
MLKDay.gov to find Martin Luther King, Jr., Day of Service projects
across our country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twelfth day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
