---
date: '2024-01-12'
published_time: 2024-01-12 11:58:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/12/a-proclamation-on-religious-freedom-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Religious Freedom Day,\_2024"
---
 
     The constitutional right to practice our faiths peacefully and
openly is a core tenet of our democracy and helps us fulfill one of our
highest aspirations as a Nation:  to be a citadel of liberty and a
beacon of freedom.  On Religious Freedom Day, we renew our pledge to
protect that right by ensuring each person of any faith or belief can
live out the deepest convictions of their conscience with dignity and
respect.  
  
     Like so many Americans, faith has sustained me throughout my life —
serving as a reminder of both our collective purpose and our
responsibilities to one another.  But for far too many people today,
practicing their faith means facing fear and intimidation.  In recent
years, hate has been given too much oxygen.  This year, in the wake of
Hamas’ brutal terrorist assault against Israel, we have seen horrific
threats and attacks in this country that have both shocked our
collective conscience and broken our hearts.  
  
     It is in the most challenging times that our commitment to freedom
matters most.  We must work harder than ever to practice the values that
make us who we are.  That is why my Administration is working tirelessly
to protect and preserve the right to freedom of religion for everyone
everywhere.   
  
     In 2022, I established a new inter-agency group to counter
Antisemitism, Islamophobia, and Related Forms of Bias and Discrimination
within the United States.  Last May, my Administration released the
first-ever United States National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism,
which outlines more than 100 new actions we are taking to raise
awareness of Antisemitism, protect Jewish communities, counter
Antisemitic discrimination, and build solidarity across diverse
communities.  We are also developing the first-ever United States
National Strategy to Counter Islamophobia and Related Forms of Bias and
Discrimination in the United States, which will address the scourge of
hate against Muslims in America.  The strategy will also address hate
against Sikh, South Asian, and Arab American communities, among others. 
Meanwhile, we continue to work with all communities to identify,
prevent, and disrupt threats.  
  
     Everyone must be free to practice their faith without fear, whether
they are gathering for worship, attending a religious school,
participating in the activities of other faith-based organizations, or
simply walking down the street wearing the symbols of their faith.  That
is why, working with the Congress, my Administration secured the
greatest increase in funding in our history for the physical security of
non-profits — including churches, gurdwaras, mosques, synagogues,
temples, and other places of worship.  In my 2024 Budget proposal to the
Congress, I requested that this funding be raised to $360 million, and
my Administration works continually to protect places of worship,
including through an annual Protecting Places of Worship Week of Action.
 Through such initiatives, we are providing resources for faith
communities and encouraging religious organizations to share their best
practices in promoting security with one another.   
  
     As a world leader, we are also working to make it possible for
people to practice their faith freely and peacefully around the globe.
 Billions of people worldwide are persecuted for or prevented from
freely choosing, practicing, or teaching their faith.  Repressive
governments and violent extremists continue to reach across borders and
target people for their beliefs.  We have seen these abhorrent attacks
on people of all faiths, including Christians in some countries.  That
is why, since the beginning of my Administration, we have provided more
than $100 million to promote religious freedom and hundreds of millions
more to provide humanitarian assistance to victims fleeing religious
repression, including genocide.  Further, we are denying the entry of
goods into the United States that are made with forced labor — an abuse
of human rights that is oftentimes associated with the genocide of
religious minorities.  We have imposed sanctions, visa restrictions, and
export controls on actors and entities that are responsible for serious
human rights abuses like religious persecution.   
  
     On this day, we recognize that the work of protecting religious
freedom is never finished.  In our quest to build a more perfect Union,
may our faiths and beliefs help us heal divisions and bring us together
to safeguard this fundamental freedom guaranteed by our Constitution and
to ensure that people of all religions or no religion are treated with
dignity and respect.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January
16, 2024, as Religious Freedom Day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
