---
date: '2024-01-24'
published_time: 2024-01-24 16:24:34-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/01/24/message-to-the-senate-on-the-presidents-veto-of-s-j-res-38/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Senate on the President\u2019s Veto of S.J.Res.\_38"
---
 
     I am returning herewith without my approval S.J.Res. 38,
a resolution that would disapprove under chapter 8 of title 5, United
States Code, an action by the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA)
relating to “Waiver of Buy America Requirements for Electric Vehicle
Chargers.”  
  
     This resolution would eliminate the domestic manufacturing
standards for electric vehicle (EV) chargers funded by the FHWA, thereby
harming domestic manufacturing and American jobs.  If enacted, it would
weaken Buy America requirements by reverting to FHWA’s general waiver
for manufactured products, allowing Federal dollars –- including $7.5
billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law –- to be spent on
chargers made in competitor nations like the People’s Republic of China.
 Additionally, if enacted, this resolution would undermine the hundreds
of millions of dollars that the private sector has already invested in
domestic EV charging manufacturing, and chill further domestic
investment in this critical market.  
  
     Finally, if enacted, this resolution would undermine efforts to
ensure that the national network of EV chargers, being funded with
Federal dollars, must be manufactured in the United States. 
Specifically, in 2023, my Administration issued a new policy for EV
chargers that restores Buy America protections that are consistent with
the Build America, Buy America Act (BABA) standards included in the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  This policy immediately required that EV
chargers purchased through FHWA grants be manufactured in the United
States and that EV charger housing comprised of iron and steel must use
iron and steel produced in the United States.  Based on information
gathered through public outreach, the policy phases in full Buy America
coverage by requiring full BABA compliance starting on July 1 of this
year.  These actions ensure that Federal dollars for EV chargers are
used to purchase American-made products, while allowing newly announced
manufacturing capacity for EV charger components the necessary time to
ramp up production.  
  
     If enacted, this resolution would harm my Administration’s efforts
to encourage investment in critical industries and bring high-quality
jobs back to the United States.  It would not only thwart the collective
goal of the Congress and the Administration to establish a domestic EV
charger manufacturing industry, but it would also delay the significant
progress being made by my Administration and the States in establishing
the EV charging network.  Establishing resilient supply chains is
critical to our national economic and energy security, and my
Administration will not support policies that would undermine efforts to
bring this critical manufacturing back to the United States.  
  
     Therefore, I am vetoing this resolution.  
   
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  January 24, 2024.
