---
date: '2025-05-24'
published_time: 2025-05-24 19:50:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/prayer-for-peace-memorial-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Prayer for Peace, Memorial Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

Memorial Day is a sacred day of remembrance, reverence, and gratitude
for the brave patriots who have laid down their lives in service to our
great Nation.  Throughout our history, brave men and women have been
called to defend the cause of liberty on foreign shores in defense of
our homeland.  Their noble sacrifices are marked by flag-draped coffins
and the silent sorrows of those left behind.  We must never forget those
who have given everything for our country.

America’s Gold Star Families — whose sons, daughters, wives, and
husbands are among the honored — endure unfathomable heartache.  Their
loved ones selflessly gave everything to protect our sovereignty.  They
have our unwavering support, deepest gratitude, and highest respect. 
The lives lost in war serve as a solemn reminder of why we must pursue
peace through strength. 

We are eternally indebted to our Nation’s fallen heroes.  On this solemn
day, as we honor their sacrifice, the First Lady and I ask all citizens
to join us in prayer that Almighty God may comfort those who mourn,
grant protection to all who serve, and bring blessed peace to the world.

In honor of all of our fallen heroes, the Congress, by a joint
resolution approved May 11, 1950, as amended (36 U.S.C. 116), has
requested the President issue a proclamation calling on the people of
the United States to observe each Memorial Day as a day of prayer for
permanent peace and designating a period on that day when the people
might unite in prayer.  The Congress, by Public Law 106-579, has also
designated 3:00 p.m. local time on that day as a time for all Americans
to observe, in their own way, the National Moment of Remembrance.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim Memorial Day, May 26, 2025, as a day of
prayer for permanent peace, and I designate the hour beginning in each
locality at 11:00 a.m. of that day as a time when people might unite in
prayer.  I ask all Americans to observe the National Moment of
Remembrance beginning at 3:00 p.m. local time on Memorial Day.  I also
request the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and the
appropriate officials of all units of government, to direct that on
Memorial Day the flag be flown at half-staff until noon on all
buildings, grounds, and naval vessels throughout the United States and
in all areas under its jurisdiction and control.  I also request
citizens to display the flag at half-staff from their homes for the
customary forenoon period.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
