---
date: '2025-05-05'
published_time: 2025-05-05 17:50:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/national-mental-health-awareness-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Mental Health Awareness Month, 2025
---
 
During National Mental Health Awareness Month, we recognize the millions
of Americans affected by mental health challenges, and my Administration
remains committed to prioritizing their well-being. 

  
Mental illnesses can affect anyone, regardless of their background or
circumstances.  No person should have to face these challenges alone. 
Recognizing the signs, fostering open dialogue, and showing compassion
are essential steps in addressing mental health challenges and
supporting those who face them.

  
My Administration is confronting the mental health challenges facing our
Nation as part of the efforts to improve the overall health and
well-being of all Americans.  The Make America Healthy Again Commission
is addressing the root cause of our country’s escalating health crisis
and is committed to providing transparency and open-source data,
conducting gold-standard research, along with improving access to
nutritious food, and expanding treatment options to protect the health
of every American.

  
We also remain committed to making sure every man and woman who served
in uniform has access to the mental health care and suicide prevention
resources they need.  No one who has defended our country should
struggle to get support when they need it most.   

  
If you are struggling with your mental health, it is important to reach
out to others and seek professionals for support.  Together, we will
build a stronger, healthier future for all. 

  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2025 as National
Mental Health Awareness Month.  I call upon all Americans to support
citizens suffering from mental illnesses, raise awareness of mental
health conditions through appropriate programs and activities, and
commit our Nation to innovative prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.

  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
   
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
