---
date: '2025-05-27'
modified_time: 2025-05-27 14:06:52-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-27 14:06:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/101st-anniversary-of-the-united-states-border-patrol/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 101st Anniversary of The United States Border Patrol
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

For 101 years, members of the United States Border Patrol (USBP) have
courageously served as guardians of our sovereignty and protectors of
our homeland against invasion, aggression, and violence.  Every day,
Border Patrol agents selflessly risk their lives to repel the flow of
deadly drugs, weapons, criminals, and terrorists — many of whom come to
our shores from jails, prisons, and mental institutions in far-flung
countries across the globe.  On this anniversary of the United States
Border Patrol, we honor every agent for their honorable service and
pledge to support them in their mission to keep Americans safe.

For decades, the USBP has maintained the thin line between order and
chaos.  Unfortunately, the last administration — in an extraordinary act
of deception and betrayal, imported an army of unvetted illegal aliens,
including violent criminals, thugs, gang members, and terrorists from
the darkest and most dangerous parts of the world.  Their arrival over
the last 4 years ushered in record-shattering levels of immigrants
illegally coming into our country while at the same time depleting
resources and draining the morale of our incredible USBP agents.

The tide turned on January 20, 2025.  One of my first actions as
President was declaring a National Emergency at the southern border of
the United States, which provided additional authority to the Department
of Defense to support the Federal Government’s response to the crisis. 
I also designated cartels and other transnational organizations, such as
Tren de Aragua and MS-13, as foreign terrorist organizations and
Specially Designated Global Terrorists in order to end their campaign of
violence and bloodshed on our homeland.  Additionally, I have resumed
our border wall construction, reinstated the Remain in Mexico policy,
halted the practice of catch-and-release, ended asylum for illegal
border crossers, deployed thousands of American soldiers to defend and
protect our borders, and implemented the largest deportation operation
in the history of our country.

Within my first 100 days in office, daily border encounters dropped 95
percent, and migrant crossings declined by an astounding 99.99 percent. 
In March, our Nation saw the lowest monthly number of border encounters
in recorded history — and fentanyl traffic fell by 54 percent compared
to March of the previous year.  Also in my first 100 days, my
Administration arrested more than 150,000 and deported more than 135,000
illegal aliens.  Under my leadership, our USBP agents are not only
receiving the resources they need to do their job but also the respect
they have earned and deserve — and our work is only just beginning.

As we celebrate 101 years of the USBP, we honor the thousands of
patriots who dedicate their careers to defending our borders and
upholding the rule of law, even in the face of grave danger and
tremendous risk.  Above all, we pay tribute to every brave soul who has
perished in the line of duty while proudly serving our Nation.  In their
memory, and in honor of their beloved family members, we pledge to
empower the USBP to safeguard the American homeland today, tomorrow, and
beyond.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 28, 2025, as a day
in celebration of the 101st Anniversary of the United States Border
Patrol.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
