---
date: '2025-05-01'
modified_time: 2025-05-01 23:14:08-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-01 23:14:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/national-day-of-prayer-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Day of Prayer, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

From the earliest days of our Nation’s journey, America has been guided
by the grace of Almighty God.  Beginning with the opening prayer at the
First Continental Congress in 1774, our faith has perpetually stood as
the summit of our strength, the source of our unity, and the fount of
our greatness.  This National Day of Prayer, we thank God for His
endless blessings ‑- and we ask Him to grant us fortitude, wisdom,
and a renewed spirit of justice as we continue the work to save our
country and restore our national promise.

Across every chapter of our grand American story — from General George
Washington’s humble prayer at Valley Forge to Reverend Billy Graham’s
legendary rallies in the heart of Manhattan to the somber National
Prayer Service in the wake of the September 11, 2001 attacks, our
greatest leaders have always recognized the necessity of faith, prayer,
and devotion to God.  As President Washington famously stated in his
seminal Farewell Address, “Of all the dispositions and habits which lead
to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable
supports.” 

For these reasons, my Administration is fighting to defend America’s
longstanding legacy of prayer, faith, and trust in God.  As President, I
proudly established Task Forces to eradicate religious bias by
combatting anti-Semitic, anti-Christian, and additional forms of
anti-religious bias.  They are charged with the mandate to identify and
eliminate all anti‑religious policies, practices, and conduct in
executive departments and agencies.  In addition, I established the
White House Faith Office in order to strengthen our families and to
protect our religious freedom.  I will never waver in safeguarding the
right to religious liberty and protecting God in our public square.

Nine months ago on July 13, 2024, my faith took on new meaning.  An
assassin’s bullet came within a quarter of an inch of ending my life. 
In that instant, as Secret Service crowded around and knocked me to the
ground, I felt what seemed to be the supernatural hand of God.  I
believe that God spared my life for a reason — to save our country and
restore America to greatness.  It serves as a sacred reminder of our
Creator’s infinite goodness, guidance, and grace.

Through America’s victories and defeats, triumphs and setbacks, and
periods of peace and times of war, the divine force of prayer has
unfailingly sustained our people, our culture, and our beloved Nation. 
It was faith that guided our ancestors across turbulent waters to
Plymouth Rock.  It was faith that inspired our Founding Fathers to put
in writing those immortal words, “All men are created equal.”  It is
faith that freed our Nation from the clutches of tyranny nearly 250
years ago, and it is faith that has rescued our freedom from forces of
evil time and time again.

This National Day of Prayer, we recognize that the true strength of the
American spirit has always been found in churches, chapels, pews,
parishes and synagogues, and the hearts and souls of our citizens of
faith.  Today and every day, we bow our heads in prayer to thank God for
His countless gifts and to ask for His divine protection.  Above all, we
acknowledge that prayer is the foundation of our past, the guiding hand
of our present, and the light of our future.

In 1988, the Congress, by Public Law 100-307, as amended, called on the
President to issue each year a proclamation designating the first
Thursday in May as a National Day of Prayer, “on which the people of the
United States may turn to God in prayer and meditation at churches, in
groups, and as individuals.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 2025, as a National Day of Prayer.  I
encourage all Americans to observe this day, reflecting on the blessings
our Nation has received and the importance of prayer, with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities in their houses of worship,
communities, and places of work, schools, and homes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
