---
date: '2025-05-01'
modified_time: 2025-05-01 23:11:32-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-01 23:02:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/national-fallen-firefighters-memorial-weekend-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Weekend, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

Day and night, firefighters are on the front lines, rushing into danger
and risking their lives to protect fellow citizens.  Tragically, not
every hero makes it home.  The National Fallen Firefighters Memorial
Weekend, held in Emmitsburg, Maryland, commemorates the volunteer and
professional firefighters who, over the past year, have sacrificed their
lives in the line of duty.

Thousands will gather to honor the lives and legacies of the fallen, to
support the Fire Hero Families, to grieve and share memories, and to
strengthen bonds between those who uniquely understand both the enduring
pride and the profound loss of their loved ones.  Across the country,
brave men and women demonstrate heroism each day, willingly placing
themselves in harm’s way for the benefit of others.  We are indebted to
every American who chooses this noble profession — this solemn calling —
in spite of the inherent risks.

There are pivotal moments in American history in which the awe-inspiring
bravery and professionalism of firefighters stand forever imprinted on
our memory.  On September 11, 2001, firefighters rushed into the smoke
and flames of the twin towers following the horrific terrorist attacks. 
In January of this year, firefighters worked tirelessly to contain the
fury of the deadly and destructive wildfires that raged through southern
California.  These phenomenal efforts make us proud and grateful for
those who stand in the gap for our safety.  

One firefighter will forever hold a profound place in my life — Corey
Comperatore, who lost his life shielding his family from the barrage of
assassin’s bullets that pierced the air during my rally last July in
Butler, Pennsylvania.  His bravery and selflessness on that fateful day
exemplify the dedication and courage that define America’s cadre of
firefighters. 

The First Lady and I are grateful for the devotion of all who serve
their communities and our country in this extraordinary way. 
Firefighters often enter our lives only when something has gone
catastrophically wrong, yet they stand ready every day to protect our
people and communities.  This National Fallen Firefighters Memorial
Weekend, we remember the American patriots who gave their lives in
service to others, and pray for the courageous families who carry on in
their absence.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 3 through May 4,
2025, as National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Weekend.  On Sunday,
May 4, 2025, in accordance with Public Law 107-51, the flag of the
United States will be flown at half-staff at all Federal office
buildings in honor of the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial
Service. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
