---
date: '2025-05-01'
modified_time: 2025-05-01 23:15:27-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-01 23:15:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/loyalty-day-and-law-day-u-s-a-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Loyalty Day and Law Day, U.S.A., 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

The rule of law is the capstone of our constitutional order and the
crown jewel of the American way of life.  Beginning with the
ratification of the Constitution, people and nations near and far have
looked to the United States as a guiding light of liberty and justice. 
As our Nation commemorates Law Day, U.S.A., and Loyalty Day, we reaffirm
our loyalty to the Constitution, and we renew our pledge to preserve and
protect our glorious inheritance of fairness, equality, and freedom
against all threats, foreign and domestic.

For centuries, the world has revered America for its devotion to the
timeless principle of equal justice under the law.  Tragically, in
recent years, our constitutional heritage faced an existential threat
from a political class that abandoned justice in favor of political
retribution.  Under the previous administration, Federal law enforcement
agencies outrageously allowed violent criminals to roam our streets with
impunity while targeting parents, churchgoers, political opponents, and
ordinary citizens.  This weaponization of our Government is a threat to
our sovereignty and is antithetical to our Nation’s most sacred
principles, reminiscent of evil communist regimes.

This erosion of the American justice system ended the moment I took the
oath of office.  Under my leadership, our Federal law enforcement
agencies are again being guided by the cornerstone American principles
of fairness and impartiality — and the constitutional rights of every
American citizen are being swiftly restored.

As we continue the work to restore justice in our courtrooms, order on
our streets, and respect for our laws, we solemnly remember the more
than 100 million victims of communism in the 20th century whose lives
were viciously taken, and we stand in solidarity with the innumerable
people across the world currently under captivity by communist leaders.

First proclaimed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1955, Loyalty Day
was inaugurated to directly counter commemorations of May Day — which
was frequently celebrated by communist groups — and to serve as a beacon
of hope to all those still blighted by the horrors and injustices of
communism and tyranny.  To this day, America is a living reminder that
the precepts of our Nation’s Founding will always transcend the evils
wrought by communism and dictatorship.  As President Ronald Reagan
famously remarked in his 1989 Farewell Address, our Nation stands before
the entire world as a “tall, proud city built on rocks stronger than
oceans, wind-swept, God-blessed, and teeming with people of all kinds
living in harmony and peace.”

For nearly 250 years, the United States had proudly carried forth a
grand tradition of legal and political thought stretching back to the
earliest days of Western civilization.  Today, we acknowledge that our
commitment to the constitutional rule of law is our pride, our glory,
and an enduring source of American greatness.  We recognize that love of
country requires loyalty to country — and that a Nation without the free
and impartial rule of law is not a Nation at all.  Above all, we vow to
usher in a new era of justice, integrity, and honor in our culture, in
our courtrooms, and in our halls of Government.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 2025, as Loyalty Day, and in
accordance with Public Law 87–20, as amended, as Law Day, U.S.A.  I call
on all Americans to observe this day by reflecting upon the importance
of the rule of law in our Nation and displaying the flag of the United
States in support of this national observance, as well as by learning
more about the proud history of our Nation.  I urge all Government
officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government
buildings and grounds on this day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
