---
date: '2025-05-24'
published_time: 2025-05-24 19:51:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/world-trade-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: World Trade Week, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
   
A PROCLAMATION

This World Trade Week, we reaffirm our commitment to balanced and
reciprocal trade with the world.  For far too long, globalist elites
sold out the American worker and let other countries unfairly take our
factories, our jobs, and our dreams.  Those days are over.  America will
not be treated unfairly or disrespected.  The United States, and the
American worker, will be put first.  

While seeking this office, I called for a future that protects the
American worker.  A future that puts American workers’ dreams over
corporate profits.  A future that raises American wages, strengthens
American industry, builds national pride, and defends this country’s
national interests. 

My Administration is delivering that future.  Since assuming office, I
have taken action to provide a better life for all Americans and
especially the millions of Americans left by the wayside as jobs were
shipped overseas.  I have enacted reciprocal tariffs to stop the
hollowing out of American manufacturing and to bring vital jobs back to
America.  I have enacted tariffs to stop the flow of fentanyl into
America, so that our citizens are not poisoned by the hands of foreign
countries.  And to prepare for the influx of jobs and manufacturing that
is returning to America, I have prioritized initiatives for Americans to
be trained for the jobs of the future, not the past.  These are just a
few actions among many meant to benefit the American worker.  But the
point is simple:  The goal of my Administration is for our American
workers and their children to have better lives.  My Administration is
taking action to achieve our goal.

For these reasons, during World Trade Week, we commit to redoubling our
efforts to combat unfair trade practices for every American, from
farmers and fishermen to entrepreneurs and everyone in between.  We
commit to bringing jobs back home and advancing opportunities for
American businesses to compete abroad through new trade deals like the
recent United States-United Kingdom trade agreement. 

As President, I will always place the interests of America first. 
Together, we will build a new Golden Age for America with strong
economic growth and America First trade policies that protect our
workers, strengthen our industries, and unlock the American Dream for
every citizen.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 18 through May 24,
2025, as World Trade Week.  Let’s celebrate the benefits of American
trade.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
