---
date: '2025-05-09'
modified_time: 2025-05-09 18:10:03-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-09 18:09:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/mothers-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Mother\u2019s Day, 2025"
---
 
America’s mothers are the heart of our families, the light in our homes,
and the stewards of our Nation’s future.  From infancy to adulthood, our
mothers shape our characters and form our consciences — and play a
crucial role in raising the next generation of proud Americans. 

This Mother’s Day, we celebrate every extraordinary mother whose
unconditional love, warmth, support, and devotion have enriched our
lives, influenced our culture, and upheld the promise of our great
Nation.

  
From our earliest moments on Earth, mothers have nurtured their children
with patience, wisdom, caring, and kindness.  They teach us to love and
help us to navigate the triumphs and challenges of life.  Our mothers
are also always in our corner, serving as a lasting source of comfort,
reassurance, and inspiration.  Their love transcends time, generations,
and circumstances.

  
Mothers serve as our protectors, shielding the youth and guarding them
from harm.  They instill the values that shape our character, and their
time, talents, and unwavering dedication continually uplift the lives of
those in their care.  For that reason, my Administration is committed to
empowering American mothers and uplifting American families.  From
defending the God-given dignity of every human life, born and unborn, to
supporting mothers experiencing unexpected or at-risk pregnancies, to
making fertility treatments more affordable, we want families across
America to grow and thrive.  That is why I will continue to defend the
child tax credit and work to ensure that families can enjoy the highest
standard of living on Earth on a single income. 

  
Under my leadership, we are advancing the American Dream and ensuring
that it is accessible to every family and every child.  As President, I
will continue to protect the rights of parents to raise their child in a
free and fair country without the pervasive influence of far-left
ideology that isolates children and undermines parents.

  
On this Mother’s Day and every day, we honor the selfless service of
every mother in America.  We offer our heartfelt gratitude for their
endless love and lifelong devotion — and we celebrate their remarkable
contributions to our families, communities, culture, and Nation.  
The Congress, by joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat. 770),
has designated the second Sunday in May each year as “Mother’s Day” and
requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.

  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 11, 2025, as
Mother’s Day.  I encourage all Americans to express their love and
respect for birth mothers, adoptive mothers, foster mothers,
stepmothers, grandmothers, and the many women who step into the role of
motherhood — all play an important part in guiding our future as beloved
maternal figures, whether with us in person or in spirit, and to reflect
on the importance of motherhood to the prosperity of our families,
communities, and Nation.

  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
ninth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
  
  
                              DONALD J. TRUMP
