---
date: '2025-05-05'
modified_time: 2025-05-05 17:52:16-04:00
published_time: 2025-05-05 17:52:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/national-small-business-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Small Business Week, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

Small businesses power our economy from the ground up, driving
innovation and building products that keep America strong, competitive,
and secure.  During National Small Business Week, we celebrate the
unyielding spirit, creativity, and perseverance of our hardworking
entrepreneurs who dare to dream big.

Small businesses are vital to our economy.  America has 33 million small
businesses that employ 61.7 million Americans — nearly half of the
private-sector workforce — and create almost two out of every three new
jobs in the country. 

In recent years, small business owners have faced unprecedented
challenges — record high inflation, reckless Federal spending, and
burdensome regulations — yet have remained committed to delivering for
America’s communities. 

Small businesses across the country have also carried the burden of a
broken global trade system for far too long.  Originally designed after
World War II to support recovery in war-torn nations, it is now
exploited by foreign competitors.  They flood our markets with cheap
goods while shutting out quality American products. 

Too many in our Government were afraid to tackle this problem.  Now, at
last, my Administration is fixing it.  On Liberation Day, we implemented
targeted tariffs to protect American businesses from unfair trade
practices and to strengthen local supply chains.  We are putting
American people first and delivering long-overdue relief for our workers
and entrepreneurs. 

My Administration is unleashing a new era of opportunity for small
businesses built on common sense and pro-growth policies that put our
workers and our job creators first.  We are cutting red tape, keeping
taxes low, promoting fair and reciprocal trade practices, and fighting
for hardworking Americans.

The Made in America Manufacturing Initiative is creating good-paying
jobs and securing our supply chains, while cutting $100 billion in
regulations that disproportionately burden small businesses and
manufacturers.  Free from crippling compliance and regulatory hurdles,
we are empowering our businesses to focus on what they do best:
 business.

Entrepreneurship is the foundation of a free and prosperous Nation and
the engine of the American economy — built by men and women who work
hard, take risks, and believe in the power of the American Dream.  From
our fields to our factories to the frontiers of technology, our small
businesses embody the American spirit, driving growth and creating new
employment opportunities.  Our history of ingenuity and grit is
unrivaled, and by renewing our support of small businesses, we are
raising wages, strengthening American families, and leading our country
and the world into a new Golden Age.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 4 through May 10,
2025, as National Small Business Week.  I call upon all Americans to
recognize the critical contributions of America’s entrepreneurs and
small business owners as they grow our Nation’s economy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of May,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.                              

DONALD J. TRUMP
