---
date: '2025-05-09'
published_time: 2025-05-09 18:13:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/protecting-the-great-lakes-from-invasive-carp/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Protecting the Great Lakes from Invasive Carp
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR  
               THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE  
               THE SECRETARY OF THE ARMY  
               THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION  
                      AGENCY  
  
SUBJECT:       Protecting the Great Lakes from Invasive Carp  
  
  
My Administration is committed to protecting the Great Lakes — the
world’s largest surface freshwater system, and a highly valued shipping
avenue, resource for fishing and recreation, and source of high-quality
drinking water — from the economic and ecological threat of invasive
carp.  This threat affects every State that borders the Great Lakes:
 Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania,
and Wisconsin.  Curbing this threat requires immediate and effective
deployment of resources, infrastructure, and expertise.  The Federal
Government is prepared to do its part, but the States where preventative
measures can be taken must cooperate.  
  
For several decades, invasive species of Asian carp have steadily
migrated and expanded from the Southeast northward through streams,
rivers, and lakes in the Mississippi River and Midwest region.  Asian
carp, which can exceed 100 pounds in weight, spread rapidly by
outcompeting native fish populations for food and space.  They also
reduce water quality.  These invasive carp are nearing the entry point
to the Great Lakes, which, if breached, would irreparably damage native
fish species like walleye, yellow perch, and lake whitefish.  This poses
a significant risk to Great Lakes fishing, boating, recreation, and
tourism, which support tens of thousands of jobs and billions of dollars
of commerce annually.   
  
The Brandon Road Interbasin Project near Joliet, Illinois, was
authorized for construction in the Water Resources Development Act of
2020 (Public Law 116-260) and would provide multiple layers of
innovative technological deterrents designed to prevent invasive carp
from reaching the Great Lakes.  It is a joint project involving the
United States Army Corps of Engineers (Army Corps) and the States of
Illinois and Michigan.  
  
The Federal Government has provided $274 million for this project, has
undertaken design work, has started site preparation, and is ready to
begin construction of deterrent measures.  In February 2025, however,
Illinois Governor J.B. Pritzker decided to delay the State’s acquisition
of property, which is necessary for construction to begin.  Once
Illinois acquires the land, it must also issue the Army Corps a
State-level permit to begin construction.  
  
My Administration fully supports preventing the spread of invasive
carp.  The State of Illinois, where the Brandon Road Interbasin Project
is located, must cease further delay in cooperating with this effort,
for the sake of its own citizens and economy and for the sake of all of
the Great Lakes States.   
  
I am directing my Administration to achieve maximum speed and efficiency
at the Federal level.  Specifically, the Secretary of the Interior, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Army, and the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency shall determine and expeditiously
implement the most effective mechanisms, barriers, and other measures to
prevent the migration and expansion of invasive carp in the Great Lakes
Basin and the surrounding region.  This includes supporting the Brandon
Road Interbasin Project, through deadline-oriented investments of
taxpayer dollars, to ensure the State of Illinois does not stand in the
way of its construction.   
  
Specifically, for this project to remain on schedule so that it can
effectively fulfill its purpose and constitute a worthy investment of
taxpayer resources, the State of Illinois should acquire the necessary
land to begin construction of the Brandon Road Interbasin Project by
July 1, 2025, and the State of Illinois and any applicable localities
should grant all permits or approvals required to facilitate Army Corps
construction within 30 days of such permits or approvals becoming ripe
for consideration by the State or locality and should streamline all
permitting and environmental reviews to the maximum degree.  Federal
agency heads shall similarly streamline any permitting and environmental
reviews and issue any requisite Federal permits or approvals as quickly
as possible.  
  
Additionally, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
shall prioritize support for infrastructure projects to remove invasive
carp from the Upper Illinois Waterway near Lake Michigan and for
maintenance on existing infrastructure to block invasive carp from
reaching and entering the Great Lakes Basin.  
  
The Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) and the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service,
through their joint operation of the Aquatic Nuisance Species Task
Force, shall prioritize support for research and management concerning
the prevention, removal, and management of aquatic invasive species in
the Great Lakes, including invasive carp.  The Administrator of NOAA
shall also prioritize this objective through the Great Lakes Aquatic
Nuisance Species Information System and NOAA’s research and
information-sharing work related to the growth and spread of aquatic
invasive species.  
  
  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP
