---
date: '2025-05-23'
published_time: 2025-05-23 17:13:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/05/reinvigorating-the-nuclear-industrial-base/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Reinvigorating the Nuclear Industrial Base
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Purpose</span>. 
The United States originally pioneered nuclear energy technology during
a time of great peril.  We now face a new set of challenges, including a
global race to dominate in artificial intelligence, a growing need for
energy independence, and access to uninterruptible power supplies for
national security.   
It took nearly 40 years for the United States to add the same amount of
nuclear capacity as another developed nation added in 10 years.Further,
as American deployment of advanced reactor designs has waned, 87 percent
of nuclear reactors installed worldwide since 2017 are based on designs
from two foreign countries.At the same time, the Nation’s nuclear
fuel cycle infrastructure has severely atrophied, leaving the United
States heavily dependent on foreign sources of uranium as well as
uranium enrichment and conversion services.These trends cannot
continue.  
Swift and decisive action is required to jumpstart America’s nuclear
energy industrial base and ensure our national and economic security by
increasing fuel availability and production, securing civil nuclear
supply chains, improving the efficiency with which advanced nuclear
reactors are licensed, and preparing our workforce to establish
America’s energy dominance and accelerate our path towards a more secure
and independent energy future.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>. 
It is the policy of the United States to expedite and promote to the
fullest possible extent the production and operation of nuclear energy
to provide affordable, reliable, safe, and secure energy to the American
people, to power advanced nuclear reactor technologies, as defined in 42
U.S.C. 16271(b)(1)(A), and to build associated supply chains that secure
our global industrial and digital dominance, achieve our energy
independence, protect our national security, and maximize the efficiency
and effectiveness of nuclear fuel through recycling, reprocessing, and
reinvigorating the commercial sector.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Strengthening
the Domestic Nuclear Fuel Cycle</span>.  (a)  Within 240 days of the
date of this order, the Secretary of Energy, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), shall prepare and submit
to the President, through the Chair of the National Energy Dominance
Council and the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy,
a report that includes:

(i.) a recommended national policy to support the management of spent
nuclear fuel and high-level waste and the development and deployment of
advanced fuel cycle capabilities to establish a safe, secure, and
sustainable long-term fuel cycle;

(ii.) a review of relevant statutory authorities to identify any
legislative changes necessary or desirable to achieve the national
policy recommended under subsection (a)(i) of this section; 

(iii.) an evaluation of the reprocessing and recycling of spent nuclear
fuel from the operation of Department of Defense and Department of
Energy reactors and other spent nuclear fuel managed by the Department
of Energy, along with a discussion of steps the Department of Defense
and the Department of Energy are taking or must take to improve such
reprocessing and recycling processes;

(iv.) an analysis of legal, budgetary, and policy considerations
relevant to efficiently transferring spent nuclear fuel from reactors to
a government-owned, privately operated reprocessing and recycling
facility;

(v.) recommendations for the efficient use of the uranium, plutonium,
and other products recovered through recycling and reprocessing;

(vi.) recommendations for the efficient disposal of the wastes generated
by recycling or reprocessing through a permanent disposal pathway;

(vii.) a recommended process for evaluating, prior to disposal, nuclear
waste materials for isotopes of value to national security, or medical,
industrial, and scientific sectors;

(viii.) a reevaluation of historic and current nuclear reprocessing,
separation, and storage facilities slated for decommissioning and that
are identified as having valuable materials, isotopes, equipment,
licenses, operations, or experienced workers, and that may have
potential fuel cycle or national security benefits if operations are
continued or increased; and

(ix.) a program to develop methods and technologies to transport,
domestically and overseas, used and unused advanced nuclear fuels and
advanced nuclear reactors containing such fuels in a safe, secure, and
environmentally sound manner, including any legislation required to
support this initiative     (b) Within 120 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Chair of the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission and the Director of OMB, shall develop a
plan to expand domestic uranium conversion capacity and expand
enrichment capabilities sufficient to meet projected civilian and
defense reactor needs for low enriched uranium (LEU), high enriched
uranium (HEU) and high assay, low enriched uranium (HALEU), subject to
retention of such stockpiles as are necessary for tritium production,
naval propulsion, and nuclear weapons. The plan shall be implemented
based on the timeframes set forth in the plan.

\(b\) Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Energy, in consultation with the Chair of the Nuclear Regulatory
Commission and the Director of OMB, shall develop a plan to expand
domestic uranium conversion capacity and expand enrichment capabilities
sufficient to meet projected civilian and defense reactor needs for low
enriched uranium (LEU), high enriched uranium (HEU) and high assay, low
enriched uranium (HALEU), subject to retention of such stockpiles as are
necessary for tritium production, naval propulsion, and nuclear weapons.
The plan shall be implemented based on the timeframes set forth in the
plan.  
(c) The Secretary of Energy shall halt the surplus plutonium dilute and
dispose program except with respect to the Department of Energy’s legal
obligations to the State of South Carolina. In place of this program,
the Secretary of Energy shall establish a program to dispose of surplus
plutonium by processing and making it available to industry in a form
that can be utilized for the fabrication of fuel for advanced nuclear
technologies.  
(d) Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy,
in consultation with the Secretary of Defense as appropriate, shall
update the Department of Energy’s excess uranium management policy to
align with the policy objectives of this order and the Nuclear Fuel
Security Act, factoring in the national security need to modernize the
United States nuclear weapon stockpile. The Secretary of Energy shall
prioritize contracting for the development of fuel fabrication
facilities that demonstrate the technical and financial feasibility to
supply fuel to qualified test reactors or pilot program reactors within
3 years from the date of such applications.  
(e) Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy,
in coordination with the Attorney General and the Chairman of the
Federal Trade Commission, shall utilize the authority provided to the
President in section 708(c)(1) of the Defense Production Act of 1950
(DPA) (50 U.S.C. 4558(c)(1)), which has been delegated to the Secretary
of Energy pursuant to Executive Order 13603 of March 16, 2012 (National
Defense Resources Preparedness), to seek voluntary agreements pursuant
to section 708 of the DPA with domestic nuclear energy companies.The
Secretary of Energy should prioritize agreements with those companies
that have achieved objective milestones (e.g., Department of
Energy-approved conceptual safety design reports, the ability to
privately finance their fuel, or the demonstrated technology capability)
for the cooperative procurement of LEU and HALEU, including as needed by
the Federal Government for tritium production, naval propulsion, and
nuclear weapons.  
(f)  The Secretary of Energy, the Attorney General, and the Chairman of
the Federal Trade Commission shall take all necessary and appropriate
steps under sections 708(c), (d), (e), and (f)(1)(A) of the DPA (50
U.S.C. 4558(c), (d), (e), (f)(1)(A)), for the Secretary of Energy to
form agreements pursuant to subsection (e) of this section.   
(g)  The Attorney General shall, after consultation with the Chairman of
the Federal Trade Commission, consider whether to make the finding
described in section 708(f)(1)(B) of the DPA (50 U.S.C. 4558(f)(1)(B)),
with respect to any agreement and, no later than 30 days after any
voluntary agreement is reached, shall publish such finding as
appropriate.   
(h)  Such voluntary agreements shall further allow consultation with
domestic nuclear energy companies to discuss and implement methods to
enhance the capability to manage spent nuclear fuel, including the
recycling and reprocessing of spent nuclear fuel, to ensure the
continued reliable operation of the Nation’s nuclear reactors.  Such
voluntary agreements shall also allow industry consultation to establish
consortia and plans of action to ensure that the nuclear fuel supply
chain capacity, including milling, conversion, enrichment, deconversion,
fabrication, recycling, or reprocessing, is available to enable the
continued reliable operation of the Nation’s existing, and future,
nuclear reactors.  The Secretary of Energy, consistent with applicable
law, is authorized to provide procurement support, forward contracts, or
guarantees to such consortia as a means to ensure offtake for newly
established domestic fuel supply, including conversion, enrichment,
reprocessing, or fabrication capacity.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Funding
for Restart, Completion, Uprate, or Construction of Nuclear
Plants</span>.  (a)  To maximize the speed and scale of new nuclear
capacity, the Department of Energy shall prioritize work with the
nuclear energy industry to facilitate 5 gigawatt of power uprates to
existing nuclear reactors and have 10 new large reactors with complete
designs under construction by 2030.  To help achieve these objectives,
the Secretary of Energy, through the Department of Energy Loan Programs
Office, shall, subject to the requirements of the Federal Credit Reform
Act and other applicable law and OMB Circular A-11, prioritize
activities that support nuclear energy, including actions to make
available resources for restarting closed nuclear power plants,
increasing power output of operating nuclear power plants, completing
construction of nuclear reactors that was prematurely suspended,
constructing new advanced nuclear reactors, and improving all associated
aspects of the nuclear fuel supply chain.    
(b) The Secretary of Energy shall also coordinate with the Secretary of
Defense to assess the feasibility of restarting or repurposing closed
nuclear power plants as energy hubs for military microgrid support,
consistent with applicable law, focusing initially on installations with
insufficient power resilience or grid fragility.  
(c) Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy,
in coordination with the Administrator of the Small Business
Administration, shall, subject to the availability of appropriations,
prioritize funding for qualified advanced nuclear technologies through
grants, loans, investment capital, funding opportunities, and other
Federal support. Priority shall be given to those companies
demonstrating the largest degrees of design and technological maturity,
financial backing, and potential for near-term deployment of their
technologies.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">Expanding
the Nuclear Energy Workforce</span>. (a Nuclear engineering and other
careers and education pathways that support the nuclear energy industry
shall be considered areas of focus and priority pursuant to Executive
Order 14278 of April 23, 2025 (Preparing Americans for High-Paying
Skilled Trade Jobs of the Future).      
(b)  Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Labor
and the Secretary of Education shall seek to increase participation in
nuclear energy-related Registered Apprenticeships and Career and
Technical Education programs by:  
(i)    using apprenticeship intermediary contracts and allocating
existing discretionary funds, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, to engage industry organizations and employers to
perform a gap analysis of apprenticeship programs, and facilitate the
development of Registered Apprenticeship programs, in nuclear
energy-related occupations that are underrepresented;  
(ii)   encouraging States and grantees to use funding provided under the
Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (Public Law 113-128), as
amended, to develop nuclear engineering and other nuclear energy-related
skills and to support work-based learning opportunities, including
issuing related guidance to State and local workforce development boards
and others regarding use of such funds for such purposes; and  
(iii)  consistent with applicable law, establishing nuclear engineering
and other nuclear energy-related skills training and work-based learning
as a grant priority in Employment and Training Administration and Office
of Career, Technical, and Adult Education discretionary grant
programs.  
(c)  Within 120 days of the date of this order, all executive
departments and agencies that provide educational grants shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, consider nuclear
engineering and other nuclear energy-related careers as a priority area
for investment.  
(d)  Within 120 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Energy
shall take steps to increase access to research and development
infrastructure, workforce, and expertise at Department of Energy
National Laboratories for college and university students studying
nuclear engineering and other nuclear energy-related fields, and
Department of Defense personnel affiliated with nuclear energy programs.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Other Provisions</span>.
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect
OMB functions related to procurement actions and related policy.  This
order shall be carried out subject to the budgetary, legislative, and
procurement processes and requirements established by the Director of
OMB, and coordinated with OMB, as appropriate, prior to the initiation
of any new program, obligation, or commitment of Federal funds, or
submission of any legislative or procurement proposal arising from this
order.  This order shall be carried out in a manner which adheres to
applicable legal requirements, conforms with nonproliferation
obligations, and meets the highest safeguards, safety, and security
standards.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.
 <span style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>*.* 
(a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.  
(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
(d)  The Department of Energy shall provide funding for publication of
this order in the *Federal Register*.  
  
  
                               DONALD J. TRUMP  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    May 23, 2025.
