---
date: '2022-10-17'
published_time: 2022-10-17 17:12:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/17/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-student-debt-relief-portal-beta-test/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Student Debt Relief Portal Beta\_Test"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

3:12 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Sorry I’m late, folks.  Thank you very much for being
here.  
  
Good afternoon to everyone else.  Less than eight weeks ago, I announced
my administration’s plan to forgive up to $10,000 in federal student
debt and up to $20,000 if you received a Pell Grant for folks earning
less than $125,000 a year.   
  
Today, I’m announcing how millions — millions of people, working- and
middle-class folks, can apply for — to get this relief.  And it’s
simple, and it’s now.  It’s easy.  It’s fast.   
  
At the end of my remarks, I’m going to officially launch this new ap- —
new application site at StudentAid.gov.  StudentAid.gov.   
  
You’ll be able to fill out your name, Social Security number, date of
birth, and contact information.  No forms to upload.  No special log-in
to remember.  It’s available in English and in Spanish, on desktop and
mobile.   
  
It takes less than five minutes.  And if you have any questions, you
follow up — we will be able to follow up with you.   
  
This is a gamechanger for millions of Americans.  We’re getting moving. 
And it took an incredible amount of effort to get this website done in
such a short time.   
  
I want to thank the Secretary of Education — there he is — Secretary of
Education Cardona, who is here with me today.  He and his team led a
talented group of data scientists and engineers across the federal
government and built and tested and launched this new application in
just weeks.   
  
And the Secretary insisted that it be test- — that it had to be tested
over the weekend.  It landed and handled more than 8 million
applications without a glitch or any difficulty.    
  
We had over 10,000 people contact the White House and be — either send
us letters or calls thanking us.  
  
It means more than 8 million Americans are starting this week on their
way to receiving a lifechanging relief that they’re looking for.   
  
It started today, with millions more who are going to have the
opportunity to do it as well.   
  
As millions of people fill out the application, we’re going to make sure
the system continues to work as smoothly as possible so that we can
deliver student loan relief for millions of Americans as quickly and as
efficiently as possible.   
  
My commitment was: If elected President, I was going to make government
work to deliver for the people.  This — this rollout keeps that
commitment, just as I’m keeping my commitment to relieve student debt as
borrowers recover from this economic crisis caused by the
once-in-a-lifetime pandemic.  
  
And I hope, God forbid — I say “once-in-a-lifetime,” and that gets me to
another issue.  We need more funding for this.  But at any rate — for
dealing with future pandemics.  
  
But I want to be clear who’s going to benefit the most: working people,
the middle class.  If you earn less than $125,000 a year, you’ll get up
to $10,000 knocked off your student debt.  If you earn less than
$125,000 a year and you received a Pell Grant, you’ll get up to an
additional $10,000 knocked off that debt — so $20,000 in relief.   
  
In total, more than 40 million Americans can stand to benefit from this
relief, and about 90 percent — 90 percent of that relief is going to go
people making less than $75,000 a year.   
  
Let me be clear: Not a dime will go to those in the top 5 percent of the
income bracket.  Period.    
  
Now, let’s talk about who is against helping millions of hardworking
middle-class Americans.  Republican members of Congress and Republican
governors are trying to do everything they can to deny this relief, even
to their own constituents.   
  
As soon as I announced my administration’s student debt plan, they
started attacking it, saying all kinds of things.  Their outrage is
wrong and it’s hypocritical.   
  
I will never apologize for helping working Americans and middle-class
people as they recover from the pandemic, especially not the same
Republicans who voted for a $2 trillion tax cut in the last
administration — mainly benefitting the wealthiest Americans and the
largest corporations — and didn’t pay for a penny of it and racked up a
deficit.  
  
I don’t want to hear from Republican officials again who heard — who had
hundreds of thousands of dollars — even millions of dollars — in
pandemic relief loans — the PPP loans — but who now attack the working-
and middle-class Americans who are getting relief.  And these are
members of Congress who received those loans.  They didn’t do anything
wrong, but they qualified.  They qualified for up to, in one case, $2
million.  
  
And despite what the Republican officials say, we can afford — we’re
able to afford this student loan relief.  It’s because of our historic
deficit reduction that Republicans voted against.   
  
On my watch, the deficit fell by $350 billion last year, and we’re on
track to reduce it by $1 trillion this fiscal year.   
  
We’re also set to reduce it another $300 billion over the next 10 years
because of the <s>Medicaid</s> \[Medicare\] being able to negotiate drug
prices.  
  
But that’s not all.  In relieving student debt, we’re also resuming
student loan programs — a student loan program that we paused during the
pandemic.   
  
Come January, folks have to start to repay their student loans if they
qualify — I mean, if they don’t qualify for this relief.  That means
billions of dollars a year will start coming into the U.S. Treasury.  My
administration’s plan is economically responsible — an economically
responsible course to ensure a smooth transition to repaying and
preventing unnecessary defaults.   
  
And it also is focused on going after fraudsters who call borrowers —
you’re going to receive these calls; I tell anybody who has — who’s
qualifying for these loans, or trying to qualify for these loans.  If
you get a call pretending they’re from the government trying to help you
with your loans, let’s be clear: Hang up.  You never have to pay for any
federal help from the Student Loan Program.   
  
You’re going to get calls, “If you do this, it’ll pay that.  You can get
relief.”  That’s fraud.   
  
If you get any questionable calls, please tell us by going to
ReportFraud — ReportFraud — d-o-t — FTC.gov. \[ReportFraud.FTC.gov\]  
  
My message to fraudsters looking to cheat the American people is: Don’t
do it.  We’re going to hold you accountable.  
  
Let me close with this: Today marks a big step, among others, that my
administration is taking to make education a ticket to the middle class
that folks can actually afford.  But don’t take my word for it.   
  
As I said, we’ve received nearly 10,000 letters from across the
country.  A woman in Colorado wrote.  She grew up, she said, on school
lunch and food stamp programs, started working at age 13, and on her way
to college, to a good job, until she was injured in an accident and
couldn’t find full-time work.  She said her student loan debt was
weighing her down, but now she can, quote, “breathe again.”   
  
A mom in California wrote how she received a Pell Grant to become a
nurse.  She just had her fourth child.  And the stress of the pandemic
pulls the weight of the student loans on her even more heavily, making
everyday life really hard.  But now she says that weight is lifted,
making life easier for her.  
  
And something we don’t talk about very much: A lot of seniors still
carry the burden of student debt, whether for themselves or for their
children and grandchildren.  A retiree in Oregon wrote how she never
missed a payment, and says this relief, quote, “means the world” to
her.  That’s what today’s announcement is about.   
  
So, let’s get started.  The new student loan application is now open.   
  
If you have federal student debt, please visit StudentAid.gov.  It’s
easy, simple, and fast.   
  
And it’s a new day for millions of Americans all across our nation.   
  
May God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, a question about inflation.  
  
Q    Mr. President —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  If it’s on this — if it’s on this, I’m happy to answer
the question.  
  
Q    Are you concerned that litigation could get in the way of this
program?  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, it — well, that’s what’s going on right now. 
Litigation is underway.  And I don’t think our — our legi- — our legal
judgment is that it won’t.  But they’re trying to stop it. 
(Inaudible.)  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    How many people have already applied through this beta testing
website, do you know?  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  Over 8 million people.  
  
Q    And will people who have privately held loans — will they at some
point become eligible for this forgiveness?  Because they no longer
are.  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  We are working on pathways there to support those,
but we’re moving as quickly as possible to provide relief to as many
people as possible.   
  
Thank you.  
  
3:21 P.M. EDT  
