---
date: '2022-10-13'
modified_time: 2022-10-13 12:00:53-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-13 13:20:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/13/remarks-on-executing-a-modern-american-industrial-strategy-by-nec-director-brian-deese/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks on Executing a Modern American Industrial Strategy by NEC Director\
  \ Brian\_Deese"
---
 
*City Club of Cleveland*

*As Prepared for Delivery*

**I. Introduction**

Thank you, Robyn, and thanks to the City Club of Cleveland for hosting
me.  I’m happy to be here today to talk about an American industrial
strategy.

About six months ago, I posited that it was long past time for America
to embrace a modern industrial strategy.

At its core, the idea is a simple one: strategic public investments are
essential to achieving the full potential of our nation’s economy.

It’s also an idea as old as America itself.  Alexander Hamilton, our
first Treasury Secretary, insisted that “the public purse must supply
the deficiency of private resource” to “prompt\[\] and improv\[e\] the
efforts of industry.”

Today, I’m thrilled to be in Cleveland to renew that vision.
 Cleveland’s economic story exemplifies a basic truth: government,
industry, and labor, working together in partnership, can unlock
extraordinary economic potential—and by doing so, unlock economic
opportunity for families and communities.

Two centuries ago, when America built the Erie Canal—America’s first
superhighway—Cleveland was suddenly connected to global commerce.
 President Lincoln then empowered states to invest directly in their
people and their local industries, by using federal lands to establish
land-grant colleges—which brought us the Ohio State University and
Central State University.

Cleveland soon became a vital railroad transportation hub, with booming
industries from oil to steel.  That industrial strength fueled further
innovation.

Cleveland was home to the first public square illuminated by
electricity, the first electric streetcar, and the first electric
traffic light—which is fitting, since Thomas Edison was born nearby.  A
Cleveland automaker made the first car to cross the country coast to
coast.  Another Cleveland automaker pioneered some of the earliest
electric vehicles a century ago.

America invested in Cleveland, and across Ohio.  In return, Ohioans
innovated, expanded, and generated benefits for all of America.

And when American policy turned away from that proud tradition, places
like Cleveland bore the brunt.  Starting in the early 1980s, the embrace
of trickle-down economics led to decades of neglect of these engines of
innovation.  What followed was decline in our nation’s industrial and
technological-innovation capacity.  And as we disinvested, other
countries—most notably, China—raced ahead, investing in infrastructure,
manufacturing, and emerging technologies.

These trends pose a clear threat to America’s economic and national
security.

But the good news is that, today, a fundamental change is happening in
Ohio and across America. I’m here to talk about how that is no
accident.  Thanks to President Biden’s leadership, we’re embarking on a
new chapter—and making the most significant public investments in
decades in America’s industrial capacity.  We are reviving a uniquely
powerful tradition that Cleveland embodies, rebuilt for a new era.

**II. President Biden’s Modern American Industrial Strategy**

Over the last year and a half, President Biden worked with Congress to
enact four foundational laws: the American Rescue Plan, which brought
our economy back from the brink, and more recently the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act.

There’s a strong animating vision that unifies these laws: *a modern
American industrial strategy*. 

Here’s what a modern American industrial strategy does.  It identifies
areas where relying on private industry, on its own, will not mobilize
the investment necessary to achieve our core economic and national
security interests.  It then uses public investment to spur private
investment and innovation. 

It means that—rather than accepting as fate that the individualized
decisions of those looking only at their private bottom lines will put
us behind in key sectors—we engage in strategic investment in those
areas that will form the backbone of our economy’s growth over the
coming decades, areas where we need to expand the nation’s productive
capacity.  

A modern American industrial strategy does not react to the potential
for underinvestment by seeking to replace or push aside the private
sector: it uses public investment to *crowd in* more private investment,
and make sure that the cumulative benefits of this investment strengthen
our national bottom line.  It encourages that investment to reach all
regions and communities.  And it invests in workers—the people who will
generate all this productivity and innovation.

This is *not* about having government pick winners and losers.  Our
approach is different.  Our modern American industrial strategy reflects
a commitment to make bold investments in key areas that everyone, from
academics to business leaders alike, agrees are foundational to economic
growth.  These investments help accelerate and shape breakneck
innovation, and they encourage private investment and market competition
in a way that picks only one winner: the productivity, opportunity, and
standard of living of the American people.  

The *first* area is transportation infrastructure.

Infrastructure literally lays the groundwork for private investment. 
Businesses can move goods to market more efficiently.  Supply chains can
operate more reliably.  Workers can connect with more places and
higher-productivity jobs.

And today, we’re laying that groundwork at a historic scale. 

Our industrial strategy is making a larger investment in our
infrastructure than President Eisenhower’s interstate highway system.

The *second* area of broad agreement is technological innovation.

Public investments in research and innovation power the private engine
of the American economy.  They keep America on the cutting
edge—especially when connected to manufacturing, because of the strong
feedback loops between the research lab and the factory floor.  A nation
that cedes its manufacturing capabilities risks ceding its technological
leadership as well.

For decades, we have been ceding that ground.

But now, with our industrial strategy, we’re making a larger investment
in innovation than even President Kennedy and the Apollo program that
took us to the Moon.

We’re committing to the largest five-year investment in research and
development in history.

We’re connecting all of America to the digital economy by expanding
high-speed internet access. 

And we’re opening doors of opportunity by investing in STEM education
and training at schools and universities nationwide, as well as
on-the-job training like registered apprenticeships, which build a
skilled, diverse workforce. 

And the *third* area is clean energy.

Globally, the transition to a zero-carbon economy may be the greatest
economic transformation since the Industrial Revolution.  It will affect
not only how we produce and consume energy, but how we move and live.

We know the climate crisis cannot be addressed by market forces alone.
 We know public leadership and investment is key to the solution.  And
yet for decades, our country stood by.

But now, with our industrial strategy, we’re making the largest
investment in clean energy ever in our nation’s history.

By providing long-term incentives, we’ll encourage the private sector to
invest at massive scale.  Coupled with regulations that give investors
certainty, this plan will spur mature technologies to deploy more
quickly, pull emerging innovations to market faster, and reduce
greenhouse-gas emissions faster than at any time in our history.  As
industries develop, it will reduce energy prices for families and create
high-quality jobs for workers.

Far from supplanting markets or crowding out private investment,
foundational investments in these three areas—infrastructure,
innovation, and clean energy—will *crowd in* private investment at
historic scale.

Indeed, we estimate that the aggregate investment from President Biden’s
legislative strategy, including both public capital *and* private
investment, will total some $3.5 trillion over the next decade.

That number may sound diffuse or distant.  So let me make it more
concrete.  In just the last few months:

-   Intel broke ground on a $20 billion semiconductor complex outside
    Columbus.

<!-- -->

-   General Motors committed nearly $1 billion to make electric-vehicle
    components, with UAW workers, at its factory in Toledo—and has
    committed to scale a lithium-ion battery factory in Youngstown.

<!-- -->

-   First Solar committed almost $200 million to upgrade and expand its
    three solar-panel factories around Toledo.

<!-- -->

-   Ford committed $1.5 billion for its Avon Lake assembly plant, just
    outside Cleveland, adding nearly 2,000 new union jobs.

<!-- -->

-   And just this week, Honda and LG announced plans to invest up to
    $4.4 billion in an electric-vehicle battery plant in Fayette County,
    and a further $700 million retooling Honda’s existing Ohio
    facilities to manufacture electric vehicles.

This is *just in Ohio.*  I could go on, and on.  Companies across the
nation are investing in manufacturing in the industries of the future.

This is the dynamism our industrial strategy is helping unlock: the
crowding-in of private capital, the resurgence of American
manufacturing, the re-shoring of supply chains, and the strengthening of
our industrial base.  This is not the future tense.  It’s happening
right here and now. 

**III. The Imperative for an Industrial Strategy**

And it’s happening at a crucial economic moment.

We face a complex set of global economic challenges.  The serial shocks
from the pandemic, supply-chain disruptions, and Putin’s war.  Global
inflationary pressures, inequality, competition with China and other
countries, a widespread reassessment of globalization, and uncertainty
about America’s productive potential.

Even as we grapple with the immediacy of these challenges—including our
urgent work to bring prices down for American families—behind them is a
central question:  Can the United States come through this post-pandemic
transition stronger, more dynamic, and with a higher-growth potential
and broadly shared prosperity?  Or do we risk slipping back into a
pre-pandemic equilibrium of low investment, low growth, broadening
inequality, and ceding our competitive edge?

Suppose you wanted to design the best antidote to this scenario—the best
answer to those who believe that we risk lower productivity and lower
economic capacity in the years ahead.

You’d look to strategic, long-term investments in areas with the highest
returns for our economy’s productive potential.  You’d look to places
where public capital could help expand supply capacity and reduce price
pressures.  You’d look to areas of growing global demand, where America
could gain a competitive edge and increase exports.

In other words, you’d look for a modern American industrial strategy.

In this context, Secretary Yellen’s emphasis on the “modern supply-side”
in describing our economic strategy is apt.  And here, we’re seeing an
emerging bipartisan consensus around a more explicit government role in
America’s industrial development.

As Senator Todd Young of Indiana recently put it: “It’s really important
not only to our national security but to our economic security and our
very way of life that we have effective and at times energetic
government.”

At a moment when some claim that America is too divided, and that
democracy can no longer deliver effective results, our industrial
strategy is showing we can come together and invest in ourselves and our
future.

**IV. Executing an Industrial Strategy**

As we look forward, our focus will turn to the hard work of executing
this modern industrial strategy.  I want to focus on three key elements
of our execution plan:

**A. Deploying New Tools and Fresh Approaches**

*First*, we will use public investment in new ways.

The path from research and development to production to
commercialization—from lab to fab to market—is often long and twisting. 
Our modern industrial strategy will use an array of tools to accelerate
that process in new ways.

Let me offer an example: clean hydrogen.  

A scalable hydrogen economy poses a series of collective-action
challenges that make traditional, siloed approaches to energy
infrastructure incomplete.  It requires cutting-edge innovations,
industrial uses, large-scale production, massive infrastructure
investments, and available consumers simultaneously.

Traditionally, public investment has focused on subsidizing
production—like building a hydroelectric dam—or distribution—like
building transmission lines.  We’ve now done that for hydrogen, with
long-term tax credits that make it more attractive for companies to
invest in production.

But that alone may not be enough to capture the full opportunity at
sufficient scale and speed.  So we’re launching a novel national
collaborative effort: hydrogen “hubs.”  These hubs will build regional
networks of producers, distributors, end users, and others—*to do
demonstration projects at scale*. 

This scaled collaboration across the hydrogen supply chain will be
critical to building capacity and solving this collective-action
problem.  It could position the U.S. to lead the world in providing
clean, low-cost fuel to Europe and other allies.  It could even reshape
other industries, like steel, making them cleaner and globally
cost-competitive.

Yes, we’re incentivizing business investment through deployment-oriented
tax credits.  But through these hydrogen hubs, we’re also helping
industries work through their deployment hurdles.

Here’s another example: semiconductors—the chips that power everything
from phones to household appliances to cars and defense systems. 
Reclaiming our leadership is an economic and national security
necessity.

So we’re investing in the full microelectronics supply chain to enable
leading-edge technologies to be both invented and made in America.
 We’re using grants and tax incentives for manufacturing.  Our R&D
investments include support for prototyping and equipment, to drive
collaboration across industry and researchers to design and manufacture
next-generation chips.  And as we’ve already shown, we will use export
controls when necessary to protect our national security and foreign
policy interests.

These examples underscore how our industrial strategy could scramble old
divisions.  Advancing our industrial strategy must now involve
advocating for rapidly and responsibly building out next-generation
capabilities.  Which leads to the next part of the gameplan.

**B. A National Commitment to Building Fairly at Scale and Speed**

*Second*, we will build.  And we’ll build at scale and speed.

Our industrial strategy is at its core a multiyear national mobilization
effort.  This combined endeavor—infrastructure, innovation, clean
energy—is no less ambitious than the Erie Canal, the transcontinental
railroad, rural electrification, or the interstate highway system were
in their time.

We’re talking about 950 million solar panels and 120,000 wind turbines
by the end of this decade, billions of semiconductor-powered devices,
millions of electric vehicles, and thousands of miles of fiber-optic
cable and transmission lines.

The scale of this task is enormous.  It will test our country and our
institutions.  And it will require reforming how we build in America.

It’s a hard fact that America has lagged other major countries—even
those with strong labor, environmental, and historical protections—in
building on budget and on time.

We’ll need to do things differently.  We’ll need to build a renewed
capability to move fast, not only at the federal level, but with state,
local, and tribal partners.  Before much of this legislation passed, I
noted this could be the single hardest element of our entire effort.
 And so, over the last six months, we’ve been developing a gameplan with
building faster *and smarter* at the center.

As with any project, it starts with planning.  A better permitting
process benefits everyone.  Advocates and community members want
certainty just as much as developers and investors.  Our new plan will
surge resources for agencies to provide that certainty by streamlining
their environmental reviews and permitting processes.

We need serious accountability to measure and monitor progress in
building.  Our plan is overhauling systems to track and manage projects.

We’re expanding an infrastructure program called “Every Day Counts” that
helps accelerate projects, by bundling the contracting and execution of
related highways or railways, not going one-by-one.  We’re using an
approach called “Dig Once” to coordinate projects—so if we’re widening a
road, we make broadband and electricity upgrades at the same time.  And
we’re expanding the use of project labor agreements, which reduce the
risk of costly delays and disruptions on complex projects by making sure
they’re handled by highly skilled workers.  

In fact, today at the White House, we’re convening a first-of-its-kind
summit on better project delivery with state and local partners, so we
can build faster and smarter across all levels of government.

Consider critical minerals, the building blocks for many modern
technologies, including electric-vehicle batteries.  There are those who
doubt America is up to the challenge of developing its own upstream and
midstream critical-minerals industry, an area dominated by China.  But
just last week, America’s first cobalt mine opened, working with local
environmental groups.  Businesses are racing to build new factories to
recover lithium from California’s brines near the Salton Sea, nicknamed
“Lithium Valley” for its vast resources.

As part of our plan, this month we will launch a dedicated effort around
critical minerals, which will bring together new approaches to community
engagement; grants and loans supporting critical-minerals extraction,
processing, and recycling; and diplomatic efforts to build reliable
global supply chains.

And our plan to build will focus on place and equity—on *where* and
*how* we build—because this helps us unlock more of our nation’s
economic potential.

Cleveland again embodies a clear-eyed view of this task.  For those
escaping the Jim Crow South, industrial jobs available in Cleveland
offered a beacon of hope and economic opportunity, even as they
continued to face discrimination.

Among them was the great inventor Garrett Morgan.  Born in the wake of
the Civil War to parents who’d been enslaved—and with only a sixth-grade
education—he moved to Cleveland and started repairing sewing machines. 
Eventually, he developed “safety hoods” for firefighters and traffic
lights with a third signal.  We know these today as gas masks and yellow
lights.

Indeed, each time our nation has embarked on a new effort to build,
we’ve taken a step toward perfecting our imperfect union.  Now, this
opportunity to rebuild can be an opportunity to repair.

Because building fast and building fairly don’t have to be in tension. 

Building infrastructure in every part of our country—including
communities that haven’t reaped the benefits of past investments, and
communities that were harmed by projects built long ago—is precisely
what unlocks the productive potential of our economy.  That’s why one of
the most powerful and important elements of our plan is that—for the
first time—businesses get a 10 percent boost to their clean-energy tax
credits if they establish projects in communities that have relied on
traditional energy-industry jobs. 

We should have no illusions this will be easy.  Nor is this the job of
government alone.  It will require a national mobilization and building
capacity across the board.  But we’re up to the task.

**C. Closer Cooperation with Allies and Partners**

And *third*, we will meet the global moment, even as we build American
strength.

Enhanced engagement with our partners abroad is a matter of economic and
geographic necessity.  It’s neither feasible nor advisable for us to
produce everything domestically.  We need international coalitions of
reliable partners that reinforce secure supply chains and amplify our
own sources of strength.

This is also a matter of geopolitical necessity.  America’s national and
economic security is bolstered through strong alliances.  This is what
we’ve been advancing around the world.  We’re developing a new economic
framework for the Indo-Pacific region.  We’re strengthening our economic
relationship with Europe.  We’re partnering with our G7 allies on global
infrastructure.  We’re leading a global corporate tax agreement.

We’re also fully engaged in “supply-chain diplomacy.”  This summer, we
agreed with 18 close trading partners to make our collective supply
chains more secure, diverse, resilient, and sustainable against
disruptions.  We’ll continue these efforts, exploring new ideas like
supply-chain stress-testing to identify vulnerabilities before they
become crises.

Let me be clear: this is about strategic engagement, not isolationism.

Some have raised a valid concern that countries may keep one-upping each
other on ever-larger industrial subsidies, reducing their efficiency. 
But the investments we’re making will pay enormous global dividends in
expanding supply, speeding adoption, and driving down costs.  And for
industries like semiconductors and clean energy, we’re nowhere near the
global saturation point of needed investments.  We should welcome
actions by most countries if they’re structured fairly and scaled
appropriately.

All this building will require time and vigilance.  As Secretary Blinken
has explained, to compete with China, we’ll need to make “far-reaching
investments in our core sources of national strength—starting with a
modern industrial strategy.”

**V. Conclusion**

I spoke earlier about how public investments have fueled growth and
innovation in places like Cleveland, going back two centuries.

And when it comes to innovation, history can move fast.  It was here in
Ohio that the Wright Brothers opened a bicycle shop that changed the
world.  They made their first flight at Kitty Hawk, but they honed their
craft in Dayton.  And just 66 years later, led by Ohio’s own Neil
Armstrong, American astronauts launched into space on Apollo 11.

We went from a bicycle shop to the Moon in the span of a single
lifetime.

America invested in Ohio, and Ohioans invested in America.

Today, history is again moving fast.  We as a nation need to keep pace. 
With this modern American industrial strategy, we’re embarking on a
mission America has not seriously attempted in decades.  We must meet
this moment.

Participating in this endeavor should be a source of national,
community, and individual pride.

For the corporate leaders here today: now that America is making these
investments, I hope you will do everything you can to invest in
America’s industries, workers, and communities.

America has always been a nation of builders.  Cleveland knows this as
well as anywhere in America.  This city has shown the world before how
an industrial strategy can work—and now we can do it again in our time. 
Let’s go forward and build together.
