---
date: '2022-10-26'
published_time: 2022-10-26 17:13:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/26/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-rhode-island-college/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at Rhode Island\_\
  College"
---
 
Providence, RI

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, Grace. I can tell that your future students are going to love
the light and laughter you bring to your classroom. And I can’t wait to
be able to call you my colleague.

Governor and First Lady McKee, thank you for giving us such a warm
welcome.

Susan, you make this school—and your fellow educators—so proud. Isn’t
that right, President Warner?

And thank you to Congressmen Cicilline and Langevin, and Senators Reed
and Whitehouse for joining us on this visit.

Hearing Grace’s story—and being here with so many bright young
students—takes me back to the moment when I decided to become a teacher
all those years ago.

When I first started college, I wanted to go into what I thought would
be the glamourous world of fashion marketing. But it just didn’t give me
what I was looking for.

Instead, I found that spark when I volunteered with adults who couldn’t
read. I realized then just how much books had shaped me—how I loved
falling into them and escaping, or learning something new.

It broke my heart that there were people who didn’t know that joy. And
it dawned on me that reading was a gift I could give to someone else.

Teaching isn’t just a job to me. It’s a calling—a way to live out the
belief that we can shape our corner of the world, one student at a time.

And I think many of you may hear that voice calling you, too.

Right now, schools across the country need more teachers.

And since I’ve always felt that educators are the best spokespeople for
our profession, I thought I’d come here to do just that. So, on behalf
of the President, myself, and students and educators everywhere: I’m
here to recruit you!

You know, I always knew that Joe would be a great education President.
Because this means so much to him.

And he’s working every day to support what we call the three R’s of
teaching: recruiting, respecting, and retaining our educators.

Our president created historic investments to safely re-open schools.
He’s addressing the mental health and academic needs of our students and
delivering on loan forgiveness for public servants. He’s strengthening
programs like the ones here at RIC that give high school students a head
start on their teaching degree.

And this is just the beginning. Joe will never stop working to give us
the resources we need to keep doing this incredible job for years and
years to come.

America’s students need bright, passionate, creative, and curious
leaders who will bring their whole hearts to their work. We need you.

And to those who hear this calling but aren’t quite sure yet—I want to
ask you to imagine yourself as a teacher.

Picture yourself sitting with a young person who struggled in the same
way you have—and seeing that spark in her eyes when an idea suddenly
falls into place. Or imagine yourself in a career where you’re never
bored: where you laugh and learn something new every single day.

It’s all of that—and so much more.

Answer this call. Become a teacher. And when you do, you’ll find a
profession that brings you joy and meaning.

You’ll know that someone out there is a better thinker because of you.

That someone is sitting a little taller because you gave him confidence.

Someone is working a little harder because you pushed her to try.

Someone is braver because you helped him find his courage.

And you’ll know this too: that your President and his administration are
working every day to make sure you have the support, respect, and pay
you deserve.

Join us. And we will change the world together, one student at a time.

Thank you.

\###
