---
date: '2022-10-28'
published_time: 2022-10-28 19:47:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/28/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press\_Gaggle"
---
 
*Reserve Lounge  
*Philadelphia, Pennsylvania**

Q    Madam Vice President, what’s the significance of you and President
Biden being in PA today?  Do you think Mr. Fetterman can win this
election?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I absolutely do believe that John Fetterman will
win this election.  But it’s going to require everybody to understand
what’s at stake, and so much is at stake.  
  
When we look at the fact that — for example, just by way of contrast
between he and his opponent, we’re looking at Social Security and
Medicare being on the line, in terms of threats.  We’re looking at the
threat of a national abortion.  
  
And I think the people of Pennsylvania believe — I mean, this is the
birthplace of — of the concept of freedom and liberty.  It is — it is
the place that has always fought — it was the first place to really
fight for understanding what it means for individuals to have freedom
and liberty.  
  
And so when we look at what’s happening, which is over the next 11 days,
people are voting — Election Day is in 11 days — I urge everyone to
really exercise the power of their voice through their vote.  
  
And the reality of it is that John Fetterman is a fighter.  We know that
about him.  He has the character, he has the desire to represent the
people and to do it in a way that — he understands what struggle means. 
He understands what it means to overcome and to support people who are
trying to get through the day, get through the week, and get through the
month.  
  
And that’s the kind of fighter he is.  He is a fighter for working
people.  And we see that about him.  We know that about his character. 
So that’s why I’m here.  
  
Q      And can I ask you briefly about Speaker Pelosi and —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — her husband?  What was your message to her, and have you spoken
to her today?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I did talk with Speaker Pelosi this morning.  And,
I mean, this was an act of extreme violence.  And I think we’re looking
at a — at a time in our country where there is so much discourse that is
fueled by hate and division.  And anyone who professes to be a leader, I
think, has to really understand the meaning and the — and the impact of
their words and their posture on these things.  
  
I pray for Paul’s recovery.  I know the Pelosis, and it — this is
tragic.  Somebody literally broke into their home, saying, “Where’s
Nancy?”  And — and I — I strongly believe that we all, each one of us,
have to speak out against hate, we have to speak out against violence,
obviously, and speak to our better selves.  
  
There is absolutely room, and it is important to have public discourse
when there are disagreements about policy.  But what we’ve been seeing
recently is so base, in terms of the — reducing it down to something
that I think is beneath the dignity and the intelligence of the American
people.  
  
                              END    
  
