---
date: '2022-10-04'
modified_time: 2022-10-04 18:48:46-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-04 18:48:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/04/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-at-the-second-meeting-of-the-task-force-on-reproductive-healthcare-access/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris at the Second Meeting\
  \ of the Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare\_Access"
---
 
State Dining Room

3:39 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Madam Klein.  Good afternoon.  
  
So, the Dobbs decision created a healthcare crisis in America.  And this
taskforce was convened by the President of the United States to address
this crisis in a way that we would approach it from an
all-of-government, hands-on approach to address what we have the ability
to do to ensure that the women of America receive all the protections
they are due under law and that our administration, through our
agencies, can provide to assist them to have access to the care they
need and deserve. 

We believe, and I certainly believe, that a woman should have the
freedom to make decisions about her own body and that her government
should not be making those decisions for her.  We believe that if she
chooses, she, of course, will and can consult with her physician, with
her loved ones, with her faith leader. 

One does not have to abandon their faith or beliefs to agree that the
government should not be making these decisions for the women of
America. 

Today, extremist so-called leaders are attacking the freedom and liberty
of millions of women.  At a state level, in Arizona, for example, a
judge recently upheld an 1864 — that’s not a statute, that’s the year —
1864 abortion ban with no exceptions for rape or incest.  
  
In Wisconsin, as another example, that state activated an abortion ban
that was passed in 1849.  That’s 173 years ago.  And make note that, at
that time, women also did not have the right to vote. 

What we are seeing in laws around our country is the criminalization of
doctors and healthcare providers.  In some situations, up to five to six
years in prison would be the penalty.  
  
These laws have been written and passed, many of them, when women were
deprived, like I said, of their full rights as citizens and the right to
vote, when we’re thinking about those laws from 1864 and 1849. 

We have convened this taskforce at the earliest days after the Dobbs
decision.  And this is our — our next convening, our second meeting of
the taskforce.  In August, when we convened, there was a lot of work to
address and determine what we could do as an administration.  Since
then, I’m proud to report a lot of work has taken place. 

For example, in our Department of Veterans Affairs, the Veterans Affairs
agency will provide abortion care to veterans and family members to
protect the health or life of the woman in cases of rape or incest.

An example of the work that is happening includes the Department of
Education, which is making clear that it is against the law under Title
IX to discriminate on the basis of pregnancy. 

At the Department of Justice, we know that the Department of Justice
filed a lawsuit in Idaho to protect emergency medical care.  And the
Idaho federal court issued a preliminary injunction against the ban
there.   
  
It is important to know that if there were a national law that was
passed in the United States Congress to protect reproductive care,
so-called leaders then could not ban abortion, even in the cases of rape
and incest.  They could not criminalize providers.  They could not limit
access to contraception if Congress passed a law that protected these
rights.  
  
So it is important for everyone to know what is at stake.  To stop and
reverse these attacks on women, we need to pass such a national law. 
And so we need the American people to make their voices heard and take a
stand on the right of all women to exercise their choice, to have access
to reproductive healthcare.

And I’ll close by mentioning that, as we know, Justice Clarence Thomas
said the quiet part out loud in terms of the other rights that are also
now at stake, such as access to contraception and same-sex marriage,
marriage equality.  
  
And we already see, by the way, our early warnings of that taking
place.  Take, for example, what’s happening at the University of Idaho,
which is refusing to provide contraception to their students.  It’s
already starting.

So, again, this presents — this issue — a crisis, as it relates to
healthcare in America.  And in response, we will continue to do the work
as an administration, including working with folks in our country to
build a coalition around all folks who understand what is at stake for
them and the people they love.

And with that, I will again thank Jen Klein for her work and — and
co-chair Secretary Becerra, and pass it back to you, Jen, to moderate
the discussion.

MS. KLEIN:  Thank you, Vice President Harris, for your leadership, of
course, and for your continued commitment to these issues.

It’s now my honor to turn to you, Mr. President, President Biden.

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s on?  It’s — okay.  Got it. 

Well, first of all, I created this taskforce in the aftermath of the
Supreme Court’s — what most people would acknowledge is a fairly extreme
decision on Dodd \[sic\] — Dobbs — to launch a whole-of-government
approach to address the damages of that decision.  (Clears throat.) 
Excuse me. 

And I’ve said before, the Court got Roe right nearly 50 years ago and
that Congress should codify the protections of Roe and do it once and
for all. 

But right now, we have — we’re short a handful of votes.  So the only
way it’s going to happen is if the American people make it happen.  And
meanwhile, congressional Republicans are doubling down on the extreme
position with the proposal for a national ban. 

Let me be clear what that means: It means that even if you live in a
state where extremist Republican officials aren’t running the show, your
right to choose will still be at risk, because Republicans in Congress
want to pass a law to take away the right to choose for every woman in
every state, in every county.  And there’s no — and there’s no pushing
back from that.  It’s — it’s also pushing laws to not allow for
exceptions of rape and incest and — or the life of the mother, in some
cases. 

And, you know, it’s really scary part that, in some states, they’re
already succeeding.  When the Dobbs decision came down, I said — and
Justice Thomas warned us very plainly — that this wouldn’t stop with a
woman’s right to choose and it would extend to the right to privacy
itself in things like contraception. 

And so it was no surprise that we’re seeing extremist laws pop up around
the country that are having a ripple effect far beyond the health rights
of a pregnant woman.

We have doctors here with us today who are on the frontlines of this
crisis, and many of these laws would make doctors criminals just for
treating a patient.

In Arizona, they had a law — which is mentioned by the Vice President —
on the books in 1864.  That 1864, that’s — 1864, before — during the
Civil War.  And it went into effect again a week and a half ago.

And just two days after it went into effect, a young 14-year-old girl
who’s been suffering from rheumatoid arthritis and osteo- — oste- —
osteoporosis initially couldn’t get a refill for her prescription, the
drug she’d been taking for years to deal with her two diseases, because
concerns that that very prescription could be used to terminate a
pregnancy in violation of a law in that state.

And that’s exactly what we’re afraid would happen.  This 14-year-old
girl couldn’t get the medicine she needed for arthritis because of the
extreme backward and misguided law. 

Now, officials at the University of Idaho said it should stop providing
contraception, as was mentioned by the Vice President.  In fact, they
told the university staff that they could get in trouble just for
talking or telling students about birth — where they can get birth
control.

Folks, what century are we in?  I mean, how — what are we doing?  I
respect everyone’s view on this — personal decisions they make, but, my
Lord, we’re talking about contraception here.  It shouldn’t be that
controversial.  And — but that’s — this is what it looks like when you
start to take away the right of privacy.

I’ve asked Education Secretary Cardona to look at — and the steps we can
take to protect college students and school employees in Idaho or other
states where their access to contraception is at risk. 

And my message to any other college considering enacting policies like
this: Don’t.  Please don’t.  We’re not going to sit by and let
Republicans throughout the country enact extreme policies to threaten
access to basic healthcare. 

And that’s why we’re all here today.  That’s why we formed this — this
commission.

I signed two executive orders — and my administration has taken a number
of actions that this taskforce has — is charged to carry out — to
protect access to reproductive healthcare, including emergency medical
care; to protect a woman’s right to travel to get healthcare — get the
healthcare she needs; to receive healthcare free of discrimination and
protect her privacy when she seeks it.

And we’re fighting this battle in the courts as well.

And I want to thank the Vice President and Secretary Becerra for their
leadership on this taskforce.  And I also want to thank Secretary
McDonough for leading an important effort at the VA.

My message to folks across the country who are worried about what we’re
seeing is, first, that we have your back.  We’re not going to — we’re
not going to step back from this.  And second, we’ve heard your voices.

Now I want to turn it over to Secretary Cardona now for his comments. 

3:50 P.M. EDT
