---
date: '2022-10-21'
published_time: 2022-10-21 14:01:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-historic-deficit-reduction/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Historic Deficit\_Reduction"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

11:34 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Good morning. I ran for President to rebuild the backbone
of the middle class — this country — that’s the backbone — to build an
economy from the bottom up and the middle out and for — make sure the
economy was stronger than it was before the pandemic.

Since I came to office, that’s what we’ve done: historic vaccination
efforts that saved lives, helped our economy recover from the lost jobs
during the pandemic; 10 million jobs created — a record for any
administration at this point in a presidency; 3.5 percent unemployment —
50-year low — a 50-year low; 700,000 — nearly 700,000 manufacturing jobs
created with companies investing billions of dollars to build industries
of the future here in America, proving — proving — that “Made in
America” is no longer just a slogan.

We’re rebuilding our roads, our bridges, our ports, our airports. We’re
delivering clean water, high-speed Internet to every American.

And the price of gas at the pump is coming down. It’s down $1.20 since
this summer, and just this week — last week, it’s fallen another 10
cents.

And today, we have further proof that we’re rebuilding the economy in a
responsible way.

Today, my administration announced that this year the deficit fell by
$1.4 trillion — the largest one-year drop in American history — $1.4
trillion decline in the deficit.

Let me repeat that: the largest-ever decline in the federal deficit.

Let me be clear: This record deficit reduction includes the cost of my
student loan plan and everything else we’re paying for. The deficit is
down $1.4 trillion this year, even after accounting for 30 years of debt
relief paid in advance.

You know, this — this follows last year’s drop of $350 billion in the
deficit.

And because we’re making sure the largest corporations pay their ma- —
their fair share; cracking down on billionaire tax cheats; and giving
Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices in the future
beginning — just getting underway, which lowers one of the biggest costs
that government and families have to pay, we’ll reduce, because of that,
the deficit another $250 billion over the next 10 years.

You know, we’re going from a historically strong economic recovery to a
steady and stable growth while reducing the deficit, building an economy
where everyone does well, where the poor have a ladder up, the middle
class does well, and the wealthy do very well. They’re not hurt by it.

And this is the economic vision I’ve had for America and the reason I
ran — one of the reasons.

Republicans in Congress have a very different vision.

Now, listen to me closely: Congressional Republicans love to call
Democrats “big spenders,” and they always claim to be for less federal
spending. But let’s look at the facts.

The federal deficit went up every single year in the Trump
administration, every single year he was President. It went up before
the pandemic. It went up during the pandemic. It went up every single
year on his watch, the Republican watch.

In fact, in three years before COVID hit, the deficit ballooned by
another $400 billion.

They’re the facts.

And one big reason for that is Republicans voted for $2 trillion tax cut
— a Trump tax cut — which overwhelmingly benefitted the wealthy and the
biggest corporations. And that racked up the deficit sig- —
significantly.

On my watch, things have been different. The deficit has come down both
years that I’ve been in office. And I just signed legislation that’s
going to relu- — going to reduce it even more in the decades to come.

Now Republicans in Congress are doubling down on their commitment to
explode the deficit again.

Just this week — it’s hard to make this stuff up. Just this week,
Republican leaders said if they get their way, they’re going to extend
the tax — the Trump tax cuts, which are due to expire in a couple years
— extend them.

They said they’ll repeal the corporate minimum tax of just 15 percent
that I just signed into law — 15 percent.

They’d allow the largest and most prosperous corporations in America to
go back to paying zero in federal income tax, which 55 of them did in
2020.

They said they’ll repeal the lower prescription drug costs and it will
take effect next year, which that’s — and they don’t — these major
reductions in drug costs don’t really kick in until next year.

If the Republicans repeal it, it’s going to raise costs onto millions of
seniors, and the cost of federal government — to the federal government
will be billions of dollars.

Put it all together and the Republican plan would add about $3 trillion
to the deficit — $3 trillion. That’s their plan. That’s what they did
under my predecessor, and that’s what they intend to do again. Adding
another $3 trillion to the deficit is reckless, it’s irresponsible, and
it would make inflation worse.

For Americans, the deficit could not be clearer. We don’t have to take
their — my word for it, what they’re for. They’ve laid out a plan that —
out — and they laid it out very clearly. Congressional Republicans say —
and you all know this — their number-one priority is to repeal the
Inflation Reduction Act.

Now, here’s what that means:

If they get their way, the power we just gave Medicare to begin to
negotiate lower prescriptions drugs goes away. Gone.

If they get their way, the $2,000 cap on prescription drug costs, which
takes effect next year — maximum any senior would have to pay, no matter
what their drug costs are, would be $2,000. It goes away. Gone.

The $35-a-month cap on insulin, which takes effect next year for folks
on Medicare — gone.

The savings on healthcare premiums of $800 a year for millions of
Americans under the Affordable Care Act — gone.

And of — and, of course, they’re still determined to refea- — repeal the
Affordable Care Act, which means an end to the protections for tens of
millions of people who cannot afford health insurance because they have
a preexisting condition. Let’s remember that we’re talking about
millions of people who will lose their health insurance because they do
not have a way to get it because they have a preexisting condition.
That’s gone as well.

And they’re doing everything they can to get gas pri- — we’re doing
everything we can to keep gas prices down, and the Republicans are
against it all. And it’s all part of the trickle-down mentality that
says, “It doesn’t matter what’s happening on Main Street as long as Wall
Street is feeling good.”

One more thing. If you’re worried about the economy, you need to know
this: The Republican leadership in Congress has made it clear they will
crash the economy next year by threatening the full faith and credit of
the United States for the first time in our history, putting the United
States in default unless — unless we yield to their demand to cut Social
Security and Medicare. You heard that one, right? You all heard them say
that. That’s what they’re saying.

Let me be really clear: I will not yield. I will not cut Social
Security. I will not cut Medicare, no matter how hard they work at it.

Folks, we know what the Republicans in Congress will do if they regain
power. They’re telling us. They’re being straight up about it. They’re
going to repeal lower prescription drug prices I just signed into law
and raise drug prices.

They’re going to cut Social Security and Medicare.

They’ll pass massive tax cuts for the wealthy, make them permanent —
which they’re not now — the individual tax cuts.

They’ll threaten the very foundations of the American economy if we
don’t meet their demands.

And they talk about inflation. Everything they proposed — are proposing
will make inflation worse. Everything they’re proposing would make
inflation worse.

Let me close with this: Over the last few years, we’ve faced some of the
most difficult challenges in our history both at home and abroad, but
we’re making real progress. We just have to keep going. I know we can.

For everything we’ve been through, I’ve never been more optimistic about
our — America’s future. We just have to remember who we are. We’re the
United States of America, and there’s nothing beyond our capacity.

And we’re better positioned than any other country in the world to get
through this difficult period. Inflation is worse all around the world.

So keep the faith. Keep the faith.

And God bless you. And may God protect our troops.

And I want to say one more thing actually. You know, I know — and I
don’t blame you — you want to ask me about the midterms. (Laughs.)

And here’s what I think: It’s been back and forth with them ahead, us
ahead, them ahead. Back and forth. And the polls have been all over the
place. I think that we’re going to see one more shift back to our side
in the closing days.

And let me tell you why I think that. We’re starting to see some of the
good news on the economy. Gas prices are down sharply in 46 of the 50
states because of what I’ve been doing. We’re moving in the right
direction, and there’s more to come.

State unemployment today — state unemployment was all-time lows in 11
states, and 17 states have unemployment rates under 3 percent. The new
deficit numbers: There’s a — it’s a record — a record decrease. It’s
never happened before.

The election is not a referendum, it’s a choice. It’s a choice. And the
Republicans criticized my economic record, but look at what I’ve
inherited and what I’ve done.

And look at what they’re offering. They want to double down on the Trump
tax cuts for the wealthy, make them permanent because they’re going to
expire in 2025. They want to send jobs overseas where big corporations
can, in fact, pay lower wages, increase their profits. And these are tax
cuts that give most benefits to billionaires and wealthy corporations.

And let’s get specific. They want to abolish the 15 percent — 15
percent; what a terrible thing to ask a corporation to pay — 15 percent
tax that I insisted that those 55 corporations who made $40 billion and
didn’t pay a red cent. They now — my God, they got to pay 15 percent.

If Republicans get their way, the deficit is going to soar, the tax
burden is going to fall on the middle class. And Republicans are working
really hard.

This is — this one comes — I have to admit: Every once in a while, they
surprise me. They have three — not one, not two — three plans to cut
Social Security benefits. Three plans. And they’re not going to stop
there.  
They’re going to do Big Pharma’s bidding to repeal my plan to allow
Medicare to negotiate prescription drugs prices. And we pay the highest
in the world. And doing so, it’s going to raise drug prices, and they’re
going to raise Big Pharma’s profits. They’re doing fine, Big Pharma.
They’re not hurting at all. And they’re going to raise your health
insurance premiums.

Its mega MAGA trickle-down. Mega MAGA trickle-down — the kind of
policies that have failed the country before and will fail it again.
It’ll mean more wealth to the very wealthy, higher inflation for the
middle class. That’s the choice we’re facing. That’s why I think that
we’re going to do just fine.

Thank you.

Q Mr. President, on the debt — on the debt ceiling.

Q Mr. President, speaking of midterms —

Q On the debt ceiling, do you support the permanent repeal of the debt
ceiling, sir?

THE PRESIDENT: The permanent repeal of the debt ceiling? What do you
mean?

Q Of the debt limit. Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT: You mean, just say we don’t have a debt limit?

Q No debt limit.

THE PRESIDENT: No.

Q Okay.

THE PRESIDENT: That would be irresponsible.

Q On Ukraine, sir. We — we have the — you have the —

Q Speaking of midterms, last night you said —

Q — means and the will to continue supporting Ukraine?

THE PRESIDENT: Wait, wait, he — let’s get one at a time. Okay?

Q Thank you, sir. So, you heard the Republicans. You have the means and
the will to continue supporting Ukraine?

THE PRESIDENT: Yes, because if we support Ukraine, we’re supporting all
of Europe, we’re supporting NATO. Do you think that Mr. Putin decides
he’s just going to deal with Ukraine and that’s the end of it? This —
no. I — I don’t understand the threat that they’re saying they may have
to stop funding the Ukrainians in their — in their war against this
brutal dictator.

Yes. Last one.

Q On the midterms, sir. Last night, you said you need 53, not 51, votes
to pass your agenda.

THE PRESIDENT: I’m just getting greedy.

Q What did you mean by that? Were you referring to Manchin and Sinema?

THE PRESIDENT: No, I just think the more we have, the more certain.
Fifty-one just gives me one more. I’d like to have three more. It’d make
it a lot easier.

Thank you very much.

11:47 A.M. EDT
