---
date: '2022-10-25'
published_time: 2022-10-25 20:27:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-conversation-on-reproductive-rights-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Conversation on Reproductive\_Rights"
---
 
*University of New Mexico  
*Albuquerque, New Mexico**

3:20 P.M. MDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is so good to be here, and hello to everyone. 
Hello.  It’s good to be with you.  You got a packed house. 
(Applause.)  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  All right, we’re going to get right started,
because this is the best part of this conversation.  Not lost on anyone
here, Madam Vice President.  This is a critical moment in our nation’s
history —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM: — and in the lives of women and their families. 
And you’ve been such an incredible champion.  Would you talk to us a
little bit about how, frankly, that comes so naturally to you, and the
important impact you’re having across the country?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  And I just want to first thank you,
Governor.  
  
I have known your governor for years.  I have seen her when the cameras
are on and when the cameras are off.  And she is always fighting for the
people of New Mexico — always.  (Applause.)  Always.  An extraordinary
leader.  So it is my honor and joy to be on the stage with you.  
Dr. Espey, thank you for your work and all that you have been doing
throughout your career.  Again, it is an honor to be with you.  
  
So I have been thinking about these issues probably since I could walk
and talk, and I’ll tell you why.  I was raised by a mother who had two
goals in her life: to raise her two daughters — me and my sister Maya —
and to end breast cancer.  
  
My mother was a breast cancer researcher.  She was one of the very few
women of color — I mean women, period, and women of color.  
  
And so, at the youngest stage of my life, I remember my mother sometimes
in battle and becoming so upset about the need to fight for the dignity
of women in the healthcare system, to fight for women’s access to
information and to respect.  
  
She was always attuned to the disparities based on a woman’s status,
based on her income, or her race or ethnicity.  And so, at the earliest
stages of my life, it was an issue that I knew was a big issue and one
that required a lot of work still.  
  
Not to mention, you know, I grew up in a household where the term
“mammary gland” was used all the time.  (Laughter.)  To any of the
scientists here, you’ll know what that means.  You know, “hormones,
hormones,” it was always — that was part of the conversation at the
dinner table.  
  
And, you know, and then when we look at where we are, where the highest
court in our land — think about this — the highest court in our land,
the United States Supreme Court, just took a constitutional right, that
had been recognized, from the people of America, from the women of
America.  
  
And, you know, on this subject, here’s the thing: One does not have to
give up their faith or deeply held beliefs — one does not have to
abandon one’s faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government
should not be making this decision for her.  (Applause.)  
  
But what we are seeing around the country are these laws that are being
proposed and passed that would criminalize — criminalize — healthcare
providers, doctors, nurses, healthcare for- — providers literally with
provisions for jail sentences.  Think about that.  
  
Laws that are being proposed that would punish women who dare to
exercise self-determination and make decisions about what they know to
be in their best self-interest.  Because apparently there are some — I
call them extremist so-called leaders — who have decided they’re in a
better position than she has to make decisions about what’s in her best
interest.  How dare they.  (Applause.)  How dare they.  
So this is where we are.  But, fundamentally, I do think that this issue
has so much to do with very important principles that include the
importance of dignity and respecting the dignity that each person has
and is entitled to be respected.  
  
I think that we need to take back the flag on this issue.  This is about
freedom and liberty — (applause) — fundamental principles upon which our
country was founded that are being attacked right now.  
  
So there’s a lot at stake on this issue.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  There is.  And I know that this is happening. 
I’d just love for you to share with us some of those stories.  But I’m
hearing about women who are having been denied access.  I know that Dr.
Espey might talk about that a bit.  
  
As you’ve been traveling all across the country — and of course,
including all of us — talk to us a little bit about women and their
families and what they’re saying to you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, people are really fearful about where we
are.  You know, I’ve been — and I know you mentioned this — I’ve been
traveling the country, convening — among many others — state legislators
in so-called red states and blue states and talking with them about what
they may or may not be able to do.  
  
And, again, I want to recognize your leadership and the leadership here
in New Mexico.  You are — this is a safe haven for the surrounding
states — you know, Texas, Arizona, Oklahoma — what you’re doing, as a
sanctuary or a safe place for them.  
  
But people are scared.  And, I mean, think about this: Among the laws
that are being proposed and passed include laws that make no exception
for rape or incest.  Now, again, you asked earlier why and how I come at
this.  I spent a majority of my career as a prosecutor and the majority
of that time focused on crimes against women and children.  I
specialized in child sexual assault cases.  
  
The idea, again, that a so-called leader would pass a law that would
prohibit someone who has survived such an extreme act of violence and
violation, and a violation of the — the autonomy of her body, and then
to pass a law saying, in addition, you cannot make choices about your
body — it’s immoral.  It’s immoral.  And so — or they’re passing laws
that say, “Well, there will be an exception if you report it to the
police.”  That’s her decision whether she reports it to the police, not
their decision.  (Applause.)  
It really is outrageous.  And so people are scared.  There’s a huge
amount of confusion.  In fact, I brought props, so — (laughter) — I only
have two.  
  
Okay.  Here’s a map of the United States.  And each color represents a
different state with a different set of laws.  And so — I don’t have the
list in front of me, but what you’ll know is that some of these are
state- — some of the colors are the states where there is no exception
for rape or incest.  Some there is an exception only if you report it to
the police.  Some is I think there’s a, like, the various week bans and
up to 22.  Some bans start at fertilization, right?  
  
This is a map of the United States right now in terms of the different
laws that are at play.  Confusion.  And the thing we know about an
environment where there’s confusion is that it is ripe, then, for
misinformation and disinformation and predatory behaviors.  Right? 
(Applause.)  
  
And so part of the challenge here is not only to focus on how we can
change this through the various ways that will be about litigation, but,
frankly, have to be about legislation, which means elections.  But
there’s also the work that we have to do right now, and I know this is
an auditorium full of leaders, to use your social networks, to use your
bully pulpit, to use the standing that you have among your friends and
your community to keep and constantly focusing and iterating and
reiterating the facts, because there’s so much misinformation out there
and confusion.  
  
And the other issue that is present here is the judgment that is coming
along with this.  Like that — that’s thick on this issue.  Let’s be
clear about that.  And it’s an age-old issue, which is judgment that is
attached to the issue of women’s sexuality.  Like, let’s be clear about
that.  
  
And so, on top of everything else, the confusion, what is the state of
the law, the panic and the concern, “I can’t, in my own state, have
access.  And I’m working two jobs.  And I don’t have paid sick leave. 
And I have two children.  And how am I going to afford plane, train, or
bus to get where I need to go and childcare for the kids and losing
those days of work, which means, can I pay rent?”  And all of those
layers and on top of it also judgment that is very much a part of the —
this — this environment.  
  
So these are all the things that we’re dealing with.  And, again, this
is why it is so important that we all speak out and let folks know they
are not alone and remind people they’re not alone.  Because that is the
thing that can really most harm someone, is if they feel they’re alone
and there is no one there who sees them, hears them, and cares about
them and is willing to help them.  
  
But therein lies the power of the people to use our collective voices
and our individual voices to remind people they are not alone. 
(Applause.)  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  We know you’ve heard from healthcare providers
who’ve been protested, harassed, intimidated.  And we certainly have
experienced that here in New Mexico for those of us who provide
comprehensive reproductive care.   
  
We are really fortunate to be in a state that’s supportive and a
university that’s supportive, and a great coalition led by our
reproductive justice organizations.  We want to continue to provide that
care, but everybody is concerned about the chilling effects of Dobbs. 
So, what are you hearing from providers?  And what can be done to
protect us?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  First of all, thank you.  You know, I think about
our healthcare providers as a general matter and what you all have been
through in just the last two years and the toll it has taken.   
  
I think there’s a very particular kind of person that answers a calling
to care for others in such an important way — perfect strangers.   
  
And so, on top of that, now this has happened.  And so, not only are we
dealing with providers already feeling exhausted and underpaid, but now
we have this situation.  And so, what I’m hearing is a number of
things.  I’m hearing, again, fear because of the threats and the acts of
harassment.  I’m hearing stories about, you know, the number of
protesters outside of a healthcare provider — a reproductive healthcare
provider.  It might be double the number of people who are trying to get
in and what that means in terms of intimidation of everyone.   
  
And I’m also hearing, I must tell you, an extraordinary amount of
strength.  I think moments like this — moments of struggle reveal the
heroes among us.  And what I’m hearing are people like you who are just
determined to dig in your heels and stand up for people who need your
help, in spite of the toll it is taking on you personally.  
  
And in terms of what we can do, one of the things that we’ve been doing
through our administration is, for example, through the Department of
Health and Human Services, sending out information and informing, for
example, pharmacies, that they cannot discriminate against people who
are going to get their medication because of their own idea about what —
what and who should get what kind of medication; sending edicts out to
hospitals about what they have a legal requirement to do in terms of
providing emergency medical care — EMTALA.  
  
The Department of Justice is — has created a task force and it is doing
extraordinary work to work with local communities and to receive
information from local communities about where there have been threats,
for example, and a violation of the law.  So, where there is a — room
and appropriate for litigation, they will do that.  
  
There’s also a hotline, which I’ll get to you and any of the healthcare
providers that are here, around reporting threats, so that we can track
those.  So, this is the kind of work that is happening.  
  
And then, there are states — for example, I know this governor — your
governor and a few other states have been looking at what can be done to
lend resources to providers.  Because in a state like New Mexico, you’re
now taking on the responsibility of loving thy neighbor and looking out
for folks who are fleeing their own state because they need help and you
are providing it.  So, again, I say thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  I moved us a little quickly — just making sure
that we have as much time with you as possible. So what I’m going to do
is highlight something about Dr. Espey, and then have Dr. Espey ask the
fifth question.   
  
And that is: Because of her faculty work, the opportunity for rural
states like New Mexico to get providers into rural areas has everything
to do with your support of these academic institutions and their ability
to do residency programs.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  And what I’m just going to do is — it’s a
total, you know, personal privilege.  That is incredible work by this
administration.  I can tell you unequivocally it would not happen in any
other administration, and I just want to thank you directly for that. 
(Applause.)   
  
And also, Dr. Espey, who’s going to be traveling more all across the
state with your medical residents, so thank you very much.  
  
DR. ESPEY:  Thank you, Governor.  All right.  Switching gear just a
little bit.  Maternal health is a critical part of the overall spectrum
of reproductive health.  And we know we have a maternal mortality crisis
in the U.S. that disproportionately affects Black women, Native women,
rural women.  (Applause.)   
  
I do want to salute Governor Lujan Grisham for extending Medicaid to 12
months postpartum.  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  You answered the call.  
  
DR. ESPEY:  And also, thank you, Madam Vice President, for the federal
grants that come from — from the federal government to fund the state
level efforts that really try to combat the maternal harm and death.  
  
So what other strategies is the administration using to address this
issue?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, this is an issue I’ve long worked on.  In the
Senate, I actually proposed a bill to deal with part of the issue, which
is, as you have stated, in America today, Black women are three times
more likely to die in connection with childbirth.  Native women, twice
as likely. Rural women, one and a half times likely.  
  
On the issue of Black women and Native women, it often has nothing to do
with her socioeconomic or educational level.  It literally has to do
with the fact that when she walks into that doctor’s office or that
clinic or emergency room, she’s not taken as seriously.  (Applause.)   
  
And so, when I was in the Senate dealing with this, one of the proposals
— and that is still part of our agenda now in the White House — is to
address one piece of this, which is the racial bias piece of it, by
requiring training of healthcare providers on the issue of racial bias. 
And one of the pieces that I, in particular, put in was that some of the
best trainers on this are doulas — (applause) — and to have doulas
because they know — they’re the best.  And they’re —  
  
Actually, it’s interesting.  On this issue, I’ve also been working with
our Secretary of Labor, Marty Walsh, because — on the subject of doulas,
so let’s pay them their value and give them their benefits — (applause)
— and recognize what still we have to do around the hierarchy of
perception about who does what within the healthcare delivery system. 
Right?  So there’s that piece.  
  
There is the piece of what we have been able to do that I’m particularly
proud of, which is to bring this issue, literally to the stage of the
White House.  I convened a group of leaders on this issue at the White
House to elevate it.  Because sadly, it is not a new issue in our
country, but we are giving it more attention — giving it more attention
and recognizing that part of the issue here is the unique stressors that
certain women experience.   
  
For example, let’s deal with the fact that poverty is trauma inducing. 
(Applause.)  So, if we are thinking about the unique stressors that can
have an impact on the wellbeing during pregnancy, before birth, and
after birth, that is one of the issues.  
  
One of the issues is access to transportation, access to housing —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — consistent and permanent housing. Right? 
Nutrition.  All of these things.   
  
And so, if we are to really commit as a community and a society to this
issue, which we must, then we have to address all these issues,
including — and I’m so —  
  
Again, this is why who your governor is matters.  Because one of the
areas where we focused on was — in studying it — looking at the fact
that Medicaid is only covering two months postpartum.  She literally
just gave birth to a human being.  (Laughter.)  And so, we’re now saying
to the states — but it’s a matter of who the governor is — you can
extend it to 12 months.  And this is what you’ve done.  (Applause.)   
  
Yeah.  It matters.  It matters.  But this is a real issue, and I know
it’s an issue here in New Mexico.  It’s an issue around the country.  
  
I have someone very close to me who, just last month, lost a family
member who died during childbirth, and the baby died.  We’re in the year
of our Lord, 2022.  So, it’s a very real issue, and I would challenge
the hypocrisy of some — (applause) — who say they care about life but
then ignore issues like this.  (Applause.)   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Kamala!  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, baby.  Awww.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  And our future generation, which goes right to
your next question.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  This question comes from an audience member,
Erin Armstrong, who I’d like to just give a quick shoutout to. 
(Applause.)  She’s —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Where is Erin?  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  She’s an amazing lawyer who’s been instrumental
in our state in keeping us, providers and advocates, focused on
preservation and expansion of reproductive rights.  And her — and
reproductive justice.  
  
And her question has to do with training — with providers and training. 
How do we — how do we support current providers and how do we ensure
that there is a pipeline?  That’s a super important mission for us at
the University of New Mexico, but we’re really worried about that.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  It’s a — it’s a very big issue.  I am —
among the groups that I’ve been convening, and it has ranged from
leaders and disability advocacy and what we need to do for our community
around that — which, by the way, in terms of that community, in
particular, the impact of this issue of Dobbs is profound and must be
addressed as a very specific subset of the various populations that are
impacted.  
  
But in addition to that, I’ve convened faith leaders and students and,
among them, university presidents.  And — because I was curious about
how are they thinking about it, what is the plan.  Because among the
many sectors that will have 18-through-24-year-olds, which are the age
range that is most affected by this issue, it is universities and
colleges and community colleges.   
  
And this is one of the issues that they raised, which is that those that
have a medical school or teach premed, they’re very concerned that if
they are in a state that is outlawing and banning abortion, what that
will mean in terms of their ability to teach their students how to
provide care, and what that will mean in the short — much less long term
— in terms of the care that is then available, as needed.  
  
And so, this is an issue where, again, we’re looking at what
universities can do to — you know, especially those that that have the
endowment and have the ability to put resources into perhaps taking
exchange students.  There are so many who are who are just volunteering
professors to go to different states and do what is necessary.  
  
You know, I didn’t mention one of the things that the Department of
Justice has been doing — the U.S. Department of Justice and their task
force — is convening pro bono legal services, free legal services. 
Because in the midst of the confusion, in the midst of all these laws,
we want to make sure that those who decide to take that kind of bold
action — like healthcare providers — to leave a state in which it is
legal and go to a state in which it has been banned, but to help — to
make sure that they have legal protections or at least a legal advocate
for what might be their liability.  (Applause.)  Yeah, because it’s not
without risk.   
  
But, again, guys, think about this.  So here we are in 2022 talking
about, “Let’s have a bunch of lawyers available for doctors and nurses
and healthcare providers who leave one state and go to another state to
provide healthcare.”  Think about this.  
  
You know, as Vice President, I have now met with — my team has told me —
I’ve now met with 100 world leaders, in person or by phone — presidents,
prime ministers, chancellors, kings. Here’s the thing: When we walk into
those rooms representing the United States of America, we can —
historically and traditionally — walk in those rooms, chin up, shoulders
back, talking about the importance of democracies, the importance of
rule of law, human rights, civil rights.  And in that way, we have held
ourselves out to be and have been treated as a role model, representing
the greatest democracy, flawed though it may be, in the world.  
  
But the thing — because I know who’s in this audience — about being a
role model that we all know is: When you’re a role model, people watch
what you do to see if it matches what you say.  And people around the
world are watching what is happening to our country right now.  
  
In fact, as Vice President, I’ve been also receiving people at the place
where I now live.  And one of the first people — you’ll appreciate this
— early on in the first — in the first year was then-Chancellor Angela
Merkel of Germany, who, by the way, you know, the press just — you know,
if they’re strong and smart, and a woman, they just — you know, this
woman is funny and she’s warm and she’s lovely, right?  (Applause.)   
  
And so, I am having this great conversation with her.  And we’re talking
about Russia, we’re talking about China, we’re talking about all these
things.  And then she leans over to me and she says, “What’s going on in
your country with voting?”  
  
Because, you see, when you hold yourself out, as we do, people around
the world watch what we’re doing and they watch the details of it.  And
my fear on this issue and others — my fear on this issue is that
dictators, autocrats around the world will then say to their people who
are fighting for rights, “You want to hold out America as the example? 
Well, look at what they just did.  You be quiet.”  
  
And so, I highlight the significance of this moment and the impact,
which is not only how it directly affects the people of our nation but
very likely is impacting people around the world.  
  
That’s what’s at stake.  That’s what’s at stake.  
  
But — but I do want to add one more thing before we end — (laughter) —
okay, but I —  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  You are in charge.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT: Because I — (laughter) — I told you I brought props,
and I — I want to show you my second one, okay?  Because I know you were
following along; I told you I had two.  
  
Okay.  So, let me tell you, I love Venn diagrams.  (Laughter.)  I love
Venn diagrams — you know, the three circles.  
  
DR. ESPEY:  (Laughs.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love Venn di- — you’re just cracking up, right?  
  
So I asked my team: Tell me from which states are we seeing attacks on
reproductive healthcare, attacks on voting rights, and attacks on LGBTQ+
rights.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Georgia.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Texas, Georgia, Flor- —  
  
(The Vice President holds up a Venn diagram.)  
  
Okay, so there you go.  Okay?  
  
So, you are not surprised to know that there is an overlap.  But here’s
what that Venn diagram also tells us: great, great, great reminder of
the power of coalition building.  Bringing together, under one roof, all
the folks who’ve been fighting forever for reproductive health and
maternal health, fighting forever on voting rights, fighting forever on
LGBTQ rights.   Bringing everyone together.  
  
Because this is a movement.  And on the issue of choice, this is about a
movement that started generations before and culminated in Roe v. Wade
that we are now, because we’re sitting here at this moment together,
charged with picking up.  We are charged with picking up that
movement.  
  
And, you know, my parents met when they were students fighting for civil
rights back in the day.  And one of the things that we all remember
about all the greatest movements that have been about the expansion of
rights in our country, one of the greatest ingredients of those
movements has been the coalition building.  So, let’s rededicate
ourselves to that and see the strength that we have in community and
community building and organizing.  (Applause.)  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  On that note, as we close up — we’re out of
time — I’d like to do a shoutout — she’s here in the audience — Krystah
Pacheco — (applause) — who’s the Vice President of the Associated
Students of the University — asked that question, right?  “What’s the
call to action here?”  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  Build a coalition.  Be clear about our purpose
here.  Be clear about this moment in time.  
  
And my pitch to you is take those words of the Vice President directly
to heart.  Don’t let a second go by without fighting to protect women
and their families, and do exactly as she said — build coalitions
everywhere and make them matter.  (Applause.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  That’s right.  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  All right, are we going to do what the Vice
President says?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  Awesome.  And I don’t know if you had any
closing remarks.  I’m under very strict orders.  And I see —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  They’ll be fine.  (Laughs.)  
  
GOVERNOR LUJAN GRISHAM:  — two big zeros staring at me.  So I’m going to
ask you to close us up and to thank you for giving us more time.  And
we’re grateful to you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s my joy and pleasure and honor.  
  
I guess my last point would be this: It is two points.  One, elections
matter.  This is not a political event, but elections matter.  That’s a
fact.  (Applause.)  
Second point I’ll make is this: Democracy — right?  And so, we’ve talked
about the importance of rule of law, human rights, which very much this
is at the center of — freedom, liberty.  
  
The nature of democracies, from my perspective, is there’s a duality to
it.  On the one hand, when a democracy is intact, it’s extremely strong
in terms of what it does to protect and defend individual rights and
freedoms and — and to perpetuate and strive for equality and justice —
right? — when a democracy is intact.  Strength — what it does to empower
the people.  
  
It is also extremely fragile.  It will only be as strong as our
willingness to fight for it.  (Applause.)  It’s the nature of it.  It
will only be as strong as our willingness to fight for it.  And so
that’s where we are right now.  
  
Coretta Scott King — I’ll paraphrase her; I say it all the time.  If you
— any of you’ve heard me speak, you’ll say, “There she goes again.”
 (Laughter.)  
  
Coretta Scott King famously said the fight for civil rights — which is
the fight for justice, which is the fight for equality, which is the
fight for freedom — the fight for civil rights must be fought and won
with each generation.  (Applause.)  
  
Two points there.  One, it is the nature of it all that whatever gains
we make, they will not be permanent.  It’s the nature of it.  So, the
second point then is, do not despair.  Do not throw up your hands when
it’s time to roll up our sleeves.  It’s the nature of it.  And we are up
for it.  And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)  
So, there you go.  That’s it.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
                               END                 3:57 P.M. EDT
