---
date: '2022-10-27'
published_time: 2022-10-27 22:14:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/27/remarks-by-president-biden-on-microns-plan-to-invest-in-chips-manufacturing/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Micron\u2019s Plan to Invest in Chips\_Manufacturing"
---
 
Onondaga Community College  
Syracuse, New York

4:23 P.M. EDT    
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you very much.  Hello, Syracuse! 
(Applause.)  If you have a seat, take it.  If you don’t, I’d probably
leave.  (Laughter.)  
  
Shawni, thank you for that introduction and for representing your
sisters and brothers of the IBEW.   
  
One of the reasons I’m standing here is because of the IBEW, not a
joke.  They endorsed me early on and — along with, quite frankly, every
other union in America — and we came along.  
  
I made a promise and I’m keeping it: I’d be the most pro-union President
in American history, and I’m going to make sure that happens. 
(Applause.)  Simple reason for that.  You know, the middle class built
this country, and unions built the middle class.   
  
We used to say in the Senate, “Excuse the point of personal privilege.” 
I’d like to introduce some of my family and friends.  And I don’t know
where they are right now, but my — you know, I — I married a beautiful
woman from Skaneateles Lake, who was at Syracuse.  I met her on Spring
Break and fell head over heels in love with her and gave up a starting
job on the football team at Delaware to come up every weekend because I
couldn’t stay away from her.  (Laughter.)  
  
And her — her brother, Michael, is here.  Where — where’s the family? 
There they are, back there.  (Applause.)  The Hunter family — the Hunter
family is here.  Marren and Greg; and the children, Gillian and Gregory;
and Nancy Hunter and her daughter Jess; my brother-in-law, Johnny’s wife
and daughter; and — as well as one of Beau’s best buddies, Andy Groat —
an old friend who’s here.   
  
Excuse this — again, as we used to say in the Senate — “a point of
personal privilege.”  (Laughter.)  But it’s like coming home, man —
coming home.  (Applause.)  Molly, and her brother Jimmy Crehan.  
  
And the president of Syracuse University and the dean of the law school,
who — probably I wouldn’t get in these days, although I went there on a
scholarship.  (Laughter.)  
  
And Mayor Walsh — Ben, thank you.   
  
County Executive McMahon.  It’s good — you know, it’s good to be in a
place that means so — so much to me and that means so much to our
country with the project we’re here to celebrate today.  
  
Governor Hochul, thank you for the passport into the state.  Appreciate
it very, very much.  (Applause.)  You’ve been a great partner to me and
a great leader for this state.  
  
You saw an opportunity to attract more semiconductor supply chain
businesses, and you — you signed a law to make New York even more
welcoming.  
  
We were down in Poughkeepsie not long ago.  A little outfit called IBM
is spending $20 billion investing in — in incredible jobs — attracting
companies and creating jobs.  
  
A century ago, this region was the heartland of manufacturing.  And when
I was up here as a law student, you had Kodak, Corning, General
Electric.  
  
The governor has always believed it could be that way again.  She
thought that would be the case, and the region is poised to lead the
world in advanced manufacturing — not a joke — poised to lead the
world.  (Applause.)  
  
And I also want to thank my buddy, Chuck Schumer, the Senate Majority
Leader.  This guy gets things done.  (Applause.)  
  
And a close-to-hometown girl, a senator from Upstate New York, Kirsten
Gillibrand.  She gets things done.  (Applause.)  
  
I learned a long time ago: When Kirsten calls and asks something, just
get — just say yes.  (Laughter.)  Just do it right away, because you’re
going to do that anyway.  (Laughter.)  So, good being with you, kid.  
  
And, look, it’s a hell of a delegation.  I think it’s one of the best
delegations in the country.  And Chuck is a great Majority Leader. 
(Applause.)  Getting big things done.  We wouldn’t be here today — it’s
not hyperbole — we would be here today without him.  And Kirsten’s, as I
said — hometown here in Upstate New York.  She’s a fighter for the
families in this area.  And you’ll be hearing from all these folks in a
minute.  
  
But Congressman John Katko — where’s John?  Johnny?  (Applause.)  Stand
up.  John is a Republican, and I like him a lot.  (Laughter.)  I like
him a lot.   
  
John, when I — I’ve been in the Congress for a long time.  And we used
to have — this is how we used to be.  We used to work together like
you’ve worked together with me and with the delegation.  Thank you very
much.  I’m, quite frankly, a little sorry you’re leaving.  And thanks
for what you’ve done.  (Applause.)    And thanks for the passport into
your district.  I appreciate it.  
  
And thanks for reaching across the aisle to support the CHIPS and
Science Act, which this guy wrote, right here.  We’ll talk about that in
a minute.  (Applause.)   
  
You know, and we also have one of the leading members of the United
States Congress, Chair of the House Intelligence Committee, Adam
Schiff.  He came all the way from California just to see Chuck. 
(Applause.)  Where — where is he?  There he is.  Good to see you,
Adam.   
  
Adam and I talk together a lot.  We can’t share any secrets with the
rest of you, but you know, we can — we can talk.  He’s the only guy I
can talk to.  (Laughter.)  I’m only kidding.   
  
Folks, we’re here to celebrate one of the most significant investments
in American history.  Again, not hyperbole: one of the most significant
investments in American history.   
  
And it’s going to ensure that the future is Made in America. 
(Applause.)  It’s one of the bright spots around the country that should
give us a sense of optimism and hope about who we are as a nation.   
  
And it’s part of a broader story about an economy we’re building — one
that works for everyone — that positions America — put — America to win
— a position to win the economic competition of the 21st century.  And,
again, that’s not an exaggeration.  It’s literally an accurate
statement.    
  
We’re joined today by the CEO of Micron to celebrate their commitment to
invest $100 billion over the next 20 years — (applause) — here in
America to build American factories and make semiconductors — those
small, little computer chips that power everything in our everyday lives
from our smartphones, to our automobiles, to washing machines, hospital
equipment, you name it.  It’s the largest American investment of its
kind ever, ever, ever in our history.  Thank you very much, Boss. 
(Applause.)

They’re going to build factories the size of — this is not hyperbole —
the size of 40 football fields.  Big enough to fit the Carrier Dome four
times inside it and still have space left over.  And we’re going to —
this is amazing what’s — what’s going to happen here.  You guys have no
idea yet.  It’s going to run — (laughter) — and it’s going to run
entirely on renewable energy.  
  
Nine thousand jobs — (applause) — from PhDs and engineers, HVAC
technicians, machine operators with an average salary of $100,000 a year
and tens of thousands more jobs across the supply <s>train</s>
\[chain\].

Twenty unions working together to fill jobs for technicians,
construction workers, electricians, operating engineers.  
  
And, by the way, it’s the largest investment in American history that is
also governed by a project labor agreement.  (Applause.)  That’s a fancy
way of saying “union.”  Union.  Not labor, union.  (Applause.)  
  
They ensure that the major projects are handled by well-trained,
well-prepared contractors, sub-contractors, and highly skilled workers. 
These agreements make the construction a top-notch project because
they’re the best folks to do it.  Their projects are on time, on task,
and on budget.  
  
Back in February, I signed an executive order to make sure large federal
construction projects use project labor agreements, and it means that
Micron is using one here as well.  
  
Micron is also playing — paying a prevailing wage for funding
apprenticeship programs so folks can get trained at places like this
community college for one of the thousands of good-paying jobs in this
new site.  And it really matters.  It matters a lot.

America invested in these chips.  The federal in- — the federal
investment helped reduce their cost, creating a market and an entire
industry that’s American led.     
  
You know, that’s how it all started.  Over — as a result, over 30 years
ago, America had more than 30 percent of the global chip production. 
Thirty percent.   
  
Then something happened, American manufacturing — the backbone of our
economy — got hollowed out.  Companies moved jobs overseas from the
industrial Midwest as well as from the Northeast and manufacturing towns
like here in central New York and upstate New York.   
  
And as a result, today we’re down to producing only around 10 percent of
the world’s chips.  We invented them, but only we’re — we’re producing
only 10 percent despite leading the world in research and design of new
chip — new chip technology as well.  It’s here in the United States.  
  
But because of the new law I signed and Chuck designed and delivered,
we’re turning things way around — around in a very big way.  
  
When a — with Micron’s $100 billion investment alone, we’re going to
increase America’s share of global memory chips and production by 500
percent.  (Applause.)    
  
The company Intel in Ohio and other companies, including foreign
companies that are investing billions of dollars — billions of dollars
across America to make these chips here.  And it matters to you all.  No
matter where you live, it matters a great deal.   
  
Making these chips in America is going to help lower the costs for
families looking to buy a car, to replace your washing machine, get a
new cell phone.  It also helps companies outcompete the rest of the
world.  
  
And I’ve got — I heard from Xi Jinping that he’s a little concerned
about that.  (Laughter.)  No, I — I’m not joking.  It’s not – as I told
him, it’s not about conflict, it’s about competition.  And we’re back in
the game.  We’re competing again in a big way.  (Applause.)   
  
Think about it this way: IBM needs these chips to build the fastest
quantum computers ever built in the world in Poughkeepsie, New York.  
  
Instead of relying on chips made overseas that could be delayed because
of a pandemic or some other global supply chain issue, they can get
their chips in a few hours — in a few hours.  It’s a gamechanger.  
  
You know, where is it written — where is it written that the United
States of America can’t be the manufacturing capital of the world? 
Think about this.  (Applause.)   No, I — I mean it sincerely.  Where in
the hell is it written that says we cannot be — as we’ve been hearing
for the last 25 years — the manufacturing capital of the world?   
  
This country lost over 180,000 manufacturing jobs under the last guy
that had this job.  We’ve created 700,000 manufacturing jobs on my
watch, adding manufacturing jobs at a faster rate than in 40 years. 
(Applause.)   
  
The previous President made a string of broken promises in places like
Wisconsin, Indiana, Ohio, where promised investments and jobs in
manufacturing never materialized but layoffs and shuttered factories did
materialize.  On my watch, we’ve kept our commitments.  On my watch,
“Made in America” is just a — it isn’t just a slogan, it’s a reality. 
Made in America.  (Applause.)    
  
Today’s announcement is the latest example of my economic plan at
work.   
  
I’ve said from the beginning that my objective is to build an economy
from the bottom — bottom up and the middle out.   
  
An economy that rewards work, not just wealth.  
  
An economy that works for everyone so the poor have a ladder up, the
middle class can do better.  And when that happens, the wealthy do very
well.  They don’t get hurt at all.  They do very well.   
  
It’s a fundamental shift, and it’s working compared to what the very
conservative Republicans are offering these days.  
  
Let’s just take a look at the facts.  When I took office, the economy
was in ruins.  My predecessor was the first President since Hebert
Hoover — not a joke — to lose jobs in the entirety of his
administration.  The first.  Unemployment, when I was sworn in, was at
6.4 percent.

Hundreds of thousands of small businesses closed.  The irony is that,
during the pandemic, the record number of Americans became, at the same
time we lost all of these small companies, the — a record number of
Americans became billionaires in the middle of this crisis while more
than 9 million people were still out of work from the pandemic when I
took office.  
  
Today, with the help of the people behind me, we’re in a much better
place.  Ten million jobs created since we took office — a record for any
administration in American history.  (Applause.)   
  
Unemployment is at 3.5 percent — the lowest it’s been in 50 years. 
(Applause.)  5.4 million Americans applied to start new businesses — the
highest level ever in American history.  And because of the actions
we’ve taken, gas prices are declining. We’re down $1.25 since the peak
this summer, and they’ve been falling for the last three weeks at well —
as well.  That’s adding up to real savings for families.  
  
Today, the most common price of gas in America is $3.39 — down from over
$5 when I took office.  (Applause.)  
  
We need to keep making that progress by having energy companies bring
down the cost of a gallon of gas that reflects the cost they’re paying
for a barrel of oil.  There used to be a direct correlation: A barrel of
oil goes down, the price at the pump goes down at the same time.   
  
If we’re taking average profits they’ve been making over the last 20
years instead of the historic profits they’re making today, the price of
gas would be down an additional 40 percent — 40 cents today to $3 a
gallon.  
  
And by the way, last quarter, the five largest oil companies made — in
the last quarter — $70 billion in profit in 90 days.  
  
And Shell announced just this morning that it made $9.5 billion in
profits in the third quarter: $9.5 billion.  That’s more than twice of
what they made in third quarter of last year.  And they raised their
dividends as well, so the profits are going back to their shareholders
instead of going to the pump and lowering the prices.   
  
Because if they charge the same amount as they were — as they’re acting
as they did a year and two years ago when the price of gas goes down,
the price of oil — I mean, the price of oil goes down, the price of gas
goes down.  
  
And even though my Republican friends in Congress seem to be hoping for
a recession — many of them — present company excluded — (laughter) —
today, the GDP results came out and the economy in fact is growing.  
  
In fact, the economy grew at 2.6 percent rate last quarter.  And
although it may not feel like it for everyone, people’s incomes went up
last quarter more than inflation went up.   
  
And enough growth — (applause) — so economic growth is up; the price of
inflation is down; real incomes are on — are up; and the price of gas is
down.  
  
Folks continue to spend, but now at a more stable pace than during our
rapid recovery last year.  
  
Businesses continue to invest in America.  
  
Exports are up, which means we’re making things here in America and
shipping the products overseas instead of shipping jobs overseas and
sending them back here.  (Applause.)  
  
The supply chains are running more smoothly, helping companies build up
inventories.  
  
Here’s another thing.  My predecessor promised — and you heard it for
four years — “Infrastructure Week” seemingly every week for four years,
but it never got it done.  It became a punchline when he’d talk about
Infrastructure Week.  
  
Well, on my watch, we turned “Infrastructure Week” into the “Decade of
Infrastructure” and a headline — (applause) — a once-in-a-generation
investment in our nation’s roads, highways, bridges, railroads, ports,
airports, water systems, high-speed Internet.  
  
And the American people are seeing the benefits of this economy that
works for them.  
  
Families have more net worth today than they did before the pandemic. 
Fewer families are behind on their mortgages, their credit card bills
than they were before the pandemic.  
  
More Americans’ health insurance — more Americans have health insurance
than before the pandemic.  
  
And we’re doing everything we can to give folks just a bit — as my dad
would say, just a little bit of breathing room.  
  
We’re giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices. 
(Applause.)  Folks, we’ve been trying this for as long as I was in the
Congress.  
  
We pay the highest price for prescription drugs of anywhere in the
world.  And I’m talking the exact same prescription made by the exact
same drug company sold in the United States and sold in France — you can
buy it probably 30 percent cheaper in France or Canada or around the
world.  
  
Where is it written that that’s okay?  Where does it say that’s okay to
do?  
  
We’re capping seniors’ out-of-pocket prescriptions starting next year —
prescription drugs — and it’s the law now — will not have to pay, if
they’re on Medicare, more than $2,000 a year for their prescriptions —
(applause) — no matter how much they cost, even if their drug costs are
$10-, $12-, $14,000 a year, like some cancer drugs do cost.  
  
And now, if Big Pharma tries to raise drug prices faster than inflation,
they’re going to have to write a check to Medicare to cover the
difference, because there’s no rationale for it, unless they can prove
they engaged in additional research to improve the product.  If it’s the
same exact product, they cannot raise the price beyond the cost of
inflation for that particular drug.  (Applause.)  
  
And by the way, put this in perspective: Last year, the price of 1,200
specific prescription drugs went up faster than inflation.  We’re going
to put a stop to that.  
  
From now on, if drug companies raise the price faster than inflation,
they’re going to have to rebate the money back to Medicare.  
  
We’re also capping the cost of insulin for seniors on Medicare at $35
\[a month\] per prescription instead of the average $400 a month —
(applause) — like some are paying now.  
  
We passed tax credits to help families buy energy-efficient appliances,
put solar panels on their homes, help them buy an electric vehicle,
weatherize their home — things that are going to save, it’s estimated by
the utility companies, an average of $500 a year for the families — and
much more if they were to purchase a vehicle.  
  
Yesterday, we announced steps my administration is taking to get rid of
unfair hidden fees, known as “junk fees,” that are — that are
proliferating, like surprise banking overdraft fees — an average of $35
for every overdraft; or credit card late fees — an average of $50; or if
you get on a plane and you want your two-year-old child to sit next to
you, you’re going to find out you paid a hell of a lot more for your
ticket when you land — before you land if you find yourself in a
position —  
  
And it goes on and on and on, all these hidden fees.  Well, guess what? 
These can add up and make — taking the real money out of the pockets of
ordinary Americans.  
  
That’s on top of actions we took earlier this month to lower the cost of
hearing aids, to make them available over the counter at places like
Walgreens and Walmart.  
  
This is going to save, on average, $3,000 for a pair of hearing aids for
millions of Americans with hearing loss.  Three thousand dollars. 
(Applause.)  
  
I took action to ease the burden of student debt for millions of
working- and middle-class families — the average sa- — the average
income $70,000 a family — recovering from the pandemic.  
  
My friends on the right, Republic- — they crit- — they criticized the
move.  But I’m never going to apologize for helping working- and
middle-class families as they recover from the pandemic — (applause) —
especially not to those same folks who voted for a $2 trillion tax cut
before I got in office to give away — that mainly benefitted wealthy
Americans and the biggest corporations.  Not a penny of it paid for.  
  
And we’re doing all this while reducing the deficit at the same time.  I
don’t want to hear about “big-spending Democrats” creating the deficit. 

Let me give you the facts: The very deficit reduction the Republicans
voted against when they opposed the Inflation Reduction Act, this year —
this year the deficit, under our leadership, is falling by $1.4
trillion. (Applause.)  Let me say it again: This year alone, the deficit
is down $1.4 trillion.  
  
And my first year in office, the deficit fell — one year — one year by
$350 billion.  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, the largest ever one-year cut in American history
on the deficit — cut the deficit in half.  As I said, this follows a
historic drop of $350 billion last year.   
  
And we’re going to reduce the deficit by another $250 billion over the
next — the next decade.  Why?  A big part of that is because
corporations are finally going to have to pay something: a 15 percent
minimum tax.  
  
You know, in 2000 — (applause) — in the year 2000, 55 corporations made
$40 billion.  “God love them,” as my mother would say.  But they paid
zero in federal tax.  Zero in federal tax.  
  
So, guess what?  The Inflation Reduction Act — we made sure they have to
pay a minimum of 15 percent.  That’s less than you guys pay as union
members in your tax — that’s less than school teachers, firefighters,
cops pay.  But that 15 percent increase in the — a minimum tax is going
to make sure we’re in good shape for a long time here.  
  
That’s all in stark contrast to Kevin McCarthy, the Republican Leader of
the House of Representatives, and his fellow MAGA Republicans, who say
their number-one priority is to do the following — and they’ve said it
publicly.  
  
By the way, if I had asked you — and we’re just walking down the streets
— and said, “Can you tell what the Republican platform is — what they’re
for?”  I’m — I’m not joking.  I’m being deadly earnest.  Like I said,
I’ve been around a long time in public life.  Republicans used to always
have platforms to say, “This is what we’re for.”  
  
Well, they can’t tell you what they’re for, but they’ll make sure —
they’ll tell you what they’re against.  They’re going to give the power
we just gave to Medicare to lower drug prices back to Big Pharma to
raise prices instead.   
  
The cap on — the $2,000 cap on prescription drugs for seniors, gone if
they — Kevin has his way — McCarthy.  
  
The $35-a-month cap on insulin for diabetes for seniors — gone.  
  
Savings on healthcare premiums — the $800 a year for literally millions
of Americans under the Affordable Care Act — gone.  
  
And, of course, they’re still determined to repeal the Affordable Care
Act overall, which would mean that tens of millions of American with
pre-existing conditions who can’t otherwise get insurance will lose the
— even that insurance because they have a pre-existing condition.  
  
Those protections are gone as well if the Republicans get their way — if
Kevin gets his way and the Republican se- –Congress:   
  
Tax credits to lower energy bills — gone.   
  
The corporate minimum tax — gone.   
  
Under the Republican plan, some big corporations are going to go back to
paying zero again.   
  
That’s the plan.  I would argue it’s reckless and irresponsible, and it
will make inflation worse if they succeed.  
  
And then they’re coming after Social Security.  Now it sounds like, you
know, “What’s — there’s Biden.  That’s a typical Democrat saying
Republicans are after Social Security.”  This is the one thing they’ve
said out loud.  (Laughter.)  They’ve written it down on pieces of
paper.    
  
Senator Rick Scott, the Republican from Florida who’s in charge of
getting Republicans elected to the Senate, has a plan that’s laid out,
and you can look it up.  You can — as my — they used to say, “You can
Google it.”  
  
The plan that Congress will give — give Congress a chance to cut Social
Security and Medicare every five years.  Every five years, it’s going to
be up on the ballot.  It either gets voted on or it gets lost — every
five years.  It’s no longer — there’s no such thing as a permanent
plan.  Every five years.  You’ve been paying your Social Security since
you were 16 years old, in your first paycheck. 

Senator Ron Johnson, the senator from Wisconsin, he thinks that’s taking
too long.  He wants it done every year.  Every year, Social Security and
Medicare on the chopping block.  Every single year.  And now they put
forward a real ticking timebomb for the country, and you’re going to
hear a lot more about it.  
  
Republican leadership in the Congress has said — they’ve made it clear
that if they don’t get their way — if I don’t vote to shut down — excuse
me, if I don’t vote to reduce Social Security and Medicare — if I don’t
support that, they’re going to shut down the government, refuse to pay
America’s bills for the first time in American history to put America in
default.  
  
Again, read this.  That’s what they’re saying.  Unless we yield to their
demands to cut Social Security and Medicare, they’re determined to cut
Social Security and Medicare, and they’re willing to take down the
economy over it.  
  
There is nothing, nothing that will create more chaos or do more damage
to the American economy than that happening, if it were to happen.   
  
Let me close with this: It’s been a rough few years for a lot of people
I grew up with — hardworking Americans.  For a lot of families, things
are still tough.  But there’s some bright spots out there where America
is reasserting itself.  
  
I’ve asked CEOs, including Micron and CEOs in many other countries, the
following question — when I spoke to the Business Roundtable, spoke to
the Chamber of Commerce — National Chamber of Commerce: When the United
States government decides to invest considerable resources in a new
industry that we need to build up for our national security and economic
wellbeing, does that encourage or discourage companies from getting in
the game?  
  
The overwhelming answer is it encourages them to get in the game. 
Federal investment attracts private sector investment, particularly in
those things we need badly.   
  
Our national security depends — depends on us having access to the most
modern computer chips in the world.  It depends on it.  One of the
things I’ve been able to do, and I make no bones about it, because of —
with Russia’s activities, we have curtailed their ability to access some
of this stuff.  And guess what?  They’re not able to rebuild those
devastating weapon systems to take out those civilians in Ukraine as
well.  Not a joke.  It makes a big difference.  These things matter. 
They matter a great deal.  
  
And it creates jobs, and it creates industries.  It demonstrates we’re
all in this together.  And that’s what today is all about.  I’ve never —
and I mean it sincerely — I’ve never been more optimistic in my life
about America’s future.  I mean it sincerely.  (Applause.)   
  
Not because I’m President, but because we have entrepreneurs and people
who know what they’re doing to lead us through through an — in a
completely different era in terms of the kinds of technologies we need,
like this man right here.   
  
Because I look out at that the younger generation.  It’s the
best-educated generation, the least prejudiced, the most engaged, and
the most least self-serving generation in American history.  
  
Look, I hope you feel — (applause) — I hope you feel what I feel
standing here today: pride — pride in what we can do when we do it
together to build a better America, providing our — proving that — to
everyone — proving to the world that our best days are ahead of us.   
  
I know every major world leader because of the nature of my job.  And
before that, when I was Vice President, that was my job.  And before
that, I was chairman of the Foreign Relations Committee.  And guess
what?  There’s not a single nation in the world — a major nation — that
wouldn’t trade places with the President of the United States in a
heartbeat.  Not a si- — no, not a joke.  Think about it.  Not a single,
solitary one.  Not a single one.   
  
And I talk to these folks all the time and meet with them all the time,
and they want to know are we going to be okay.  Because if we’re doing
well, they think they got a shot to do well too.  And I — that’s not
hyperbole.  That’s a fact.  But we just have to keep it going.  And I
know we can.   
  
We just have to remember, for God’s sake, who we are.  We are the United
States of America.  (Applause.)  There is nothing — there is nothing,
nothing beyond our capacity.  And we’re the only nation in the world
that has come out of every crisis better than when we went into the
crisis.  And, folks, we’re going to do it again.  
  
God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.   
  
And now I want to invite my good friend, the great partner Majority
Leader Chuck Schumer, to the podium — author of the CHIPS and Science
Act and one of the major reasons we’re standing here.  
  
Chuck, the podium is yours.  (Applause.)  
  
4:54 P.M. EDT
