---
date: '2022-10-26'
published_time: 2022-10-26 18:09:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/26/remarks-by-president-biden-in-meeting-with-department-of-defense-leaders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Meeting with Department of Defense\_Leaders"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

3:17 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Secretary Austin, Secretary Hicks, General Milley, all
the other selfless military leaders, welcome back to the White House.  
  
And with all the challenges we’re facing around the world, I want to
thank you all for your — and I mean this sincerely — for your steady
leadership and — and your commitment to keeping our nation strong and
the American people safe.  That’s exactly what you have been doing.  
  
I also want to take a moment to honor the memory of our 25th Secretary
of Defense, Ash Carter, who suddenly passed away on Monday night.  I got
a chance to speak to his wife, and it — it was very sudden and
shocking.   
  
And I know many of you around this table had the privilege of working
with him throughout his decades of service to the United States.  He was
a leader of enormous integrity.  When I think of him, that’s the first
word that comes to mind is his integrity, in my dealing with him.  
  
He always put the women and men of the force first.  And he drove
innovation to sharpen the military edge and to protect our
warfighters.  
  
And I’ll never forget working with him to make sure that our troops in
Iraq and Afghanistan — and you’ll remember this — in Iraq had those
lifesaving, limb-saving MRAPs they needed.  Because that wasn’t
initially what we were going to do; they were going to postpone that. 
But I tell you what: It saved a hell of a lot of lives.  And I deeply
valued Ash’s courage and counsel during that point.  
  
And he dedicated his life to public purpose, and he will be greatly
missed, for real.  
  
And in April, we recognized the historic number of highly qualified
women serving in senior leadership at the Department of Defense.  And
since then, we’ve added Admiral Linda Fagan — a Coastie.  There she is. 
Good to see you, Admiral.  And the first woman to head the Armed
Services and to serve as a four-star in the Coast Guard.   
  
I keep telling everybody — and she’s heard me say this — most people
don’t know they’re deployed around the world as much or more than
anybody in a single branch.  And I thank you for your service.  I really
do.  
  
I also welcome General Langley, Commander of U.S. AFRICOM — Africa
Command — who is now the first Black four-star in the 246-year history
of the Marine Corps.  
  
And we have a long way to go, but it’s important to continue
highlighting the growing diversity among our leaders.  
  
I — I indicated when I got elected President that my administration and
the military is going to look like America.  And I meant that sincerely,
because I think that is part of the strength of America, that everyone
knows that everything is possible.  
  
And that’s exactly what we’re doing.  As a matter of fact, it’s the same
way not just in the uniformed military but throughout the high commands
of — of my office, from the Cabinet to major leaders in — within the
White House.  
  
But we have a long way to go.  It’s important to continue to highlight
the growing diversity among our defense leaders.  
  
We’re approaching the 50th anniversary of the all-volunteer force.  And
this is a group — this group is an inspiration to new generations that
show every person within — with the heart to serve and the talents, the
contributions that will be very much valued.  And we’re working on that
hard.  
  
I look forward to hearing your perspective where we’re all — where we’re
doing well and where we can do better as we navigate a strategic
environment marked by an increasingly complicated world.  I think we all
agree with that.  
  
And as we made clear in the National Security Strategy, this is a
decisive decade, not because of any one of us — because the world is
changing.  
  
There’s that famous Irish poet who said, “All has changed, changed
utterly.  A terrible beauty has been born.”  The world is changing, and
it’s changing rapidly.  And we have to gain control of our own destiny
within that change.  
  
We’ve made clear that, this decade, we’re going to be engaged.  We have
to both address the growing competition between major powers while
simultaneously taking on the — the shared challenges that impact the
lives of billions of people around the world, like tackling climate
change and strengthening health security.   
  
There are no walls high enough to keep out a pandemic.  It’s — and it’s
had impacts all around the world.

And there are no easy solutions, but I know you and your teams are up to
the task.  We made clear in the National Security Strategy that
modernizing and strengthening our military is a core source of our
national strength and is a priority for me and my administration.   
  
We’re going to continue to lead with our diplomacy and build coalitions
and — to tackle global challenges backed by the unquestionable strength
of — and this is not hyperbole — the finest fighting force in the
history of the world.  You represent the finest fighting force in the
history of the world.  That’s not hyperbole; it’s an actual fact.   
  
And we’re going to continue to support Ukraine, together with our Allies
and partners around the world, as it defends itself against Russia’s
brutal aggression.  
  
We have to keep NATO strong and united as we meet the threats of today
and the threats of tomorrow.   
  
We’re going to continue to deepen our core alliances in the Indo-Pacific
and build new coalitions committed to a world that is free, open,
prosperous, and secure.  We’re having some diplomatic success on that
and welcoming the presence of all of you in that part of the world. 

And we can — we also have to be — to responsibly manage the increasingly
intense competition with China.    
  
You know, we have to maintain our military advantage by making clear
that — that we do not seek conflict.  In my many conversations — and I’m
told I’ve spent more time with Xi Jinping than other world leader has —
78 hours’ worth, just he and I.  Eight of them — ten of those on the
telephone, but the rest in person over the last — since I was Vice
President.  And he is — he knows what he’s about.  And, you know, I — we
have a responsibility to — to manage increasingly intense competition
with China.

And we must maintain, as I said, our military advantage, but we’re
making it clear that we don’t seek conflict.  I told him that we’re
looking for competition.  There’ll be stiff — stiff competition, but not
— there doesn’t need to be conflict.  But we are going to compete.

And as we navigate each of these situations and more, I’m going to
continue to rely on you to be professional and candid with me in your
advice.  And you’ve all, that I’ve dealt with, have been that, given me
candid and honest advice.

Being your Commander-in-Chief is truly the greatest honor in my life. 
It’s an incredible thing that I never thought would happen.  But I — I —
it even impressed my son Beau Biden — Major Biden.  He — he’s passed,
but it impressed him.  He used to kid me about it.  He’d come home and
pretend to salute me.

But at any rate, I — all kidding aside, as we meet the thousands of
patriotic troops that are serving around in harm’s way, with families
that are anxious about their safety and anxious about their security and
anxious about their — their circumstances.  
  
These troops and their families are the backbone of our national
security, as you know better than I, and caring for their needs for all
those who serve is critical to maintaining the force we need to protect
us now but also our future.   
  
I know each of you continue to prioritize our people and their families
as we meet the challenges ahead.  We have a lot to talk about today, and
I look forward to our conversations.

And with that, I say to the press, thank you for being here and goodbye.

3:25 P.M. EDT
