---
date: '2022-10-15'
modified_time: 2022-10-17 00:20:00-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-15 00:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-5/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press\_Gaggle"
---
 
*Focus: HOPE  
*Detroit, Michigan**

2:02 P.M. EDT  
   
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Governor Whitmer.  I — we really have a
— a champion in Governor Whitmer, in terms of making real the promise of
all that we have achieved so far when I think about it in the context of
the work that we have done through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Act,
the work that we are doing because of the CHIPS and Science Act, and, as
the governor mentioned, also the Inflation Reduction Act.  
      
This work, which will culminate in over $10 billion coming to the state
of Michigan, will only be real, it will only hit the streets and — and
directly uplift and impact the people when we have partners like
Governor Whitmer who are so committed to the people of Michigan and to
seeing it through, to working through the details of what is necessary
to promote and support the kind of work like what is happening here.  
   
And so, Governor, I want to thank you on behalf of the President and
myself because, truly, we intend these — these initiatives to help the
people of Michigan, but it because of your leadership that it actually
will.

  
When I think about what’s happening here, I’m very excited.  And I want
to thank you all for the work you are doing, because this truly is a
model.  It’s a partnership between union work and — and apprenticeship
training.  It is a partnership that is about understanding the
extraordinary potential of an investment in technology and innovation. 
And in particular, it is a perfect model of the success we will achieve
as an entire nation when we invest in the God-given capacity of the
American people to develop their skills, to meet the challenges of the
moment.  
      
And I’m so inspired by the stories of the folks that we’ve talked with
this afternoon who have been a part of this initiative to build skills
that require training and an appreciation and grasp of — of math and
science and engineering, people who are engaged in the jobs of the 21st
century and doing this work in a way that will benefit all of us.  
  
When we think about the CHIPS and Science Act, part of the impetus for
that was what all Americans experienced during the height of the
pandemic, which is what we call the supply chain issues, but essentially
what that meant was that we were relying, as the American people, on
products that were manufactured outside of the United States.  And when
the transportation of those products, the manufacturing of those
products slowed down, the consumers, the families, the people of our
country — Americans — experienced an incredible amount of pain.  
  
And so, what we are doing as an administration and what is happening
here on the ground is saying, “Hey, let’s invest in American
manufacturing.  Let’s reinvest in what Michigan is a model of, which is
home-based, homegrown manufacturing in a way that is not only about the
creation of very important jobs that benefit families but benefit the
entire economy.”   
   
And so I want to thank everyone here.  Under the governor’s leadership,
Michigan has created 25,000 new automotive jobs already.  Under the
governor’s leadership, Michigan has provided 170,000 people with
training to develop the kinds of skills that are being developed right
here.  
  
And so the work that we have done through the CHIPS and Science Act has
been an investment nationally of $53 billion — and, again, with a
purpose of creating jobs, such as in semiconductor manufacturing.  It is
about lowering the cost for consumers, because, remember, those
semiconductors are part of the internal mechanisms that make cars run,
that help appliances do their work, and even when we think about
cellphones.  So much of the technology that we use every day requires
semiconductors to actually help make those work.  
  
And, ultimately, the CHIPS and Science Act is about making manufacturing
in the United States more competitive and stronger.  
  
So, with all of that, I will say that Michigan is a very special place,
Governor.  Michigan has always been a model for our country of what —
what we do when we recognize the value and importance of workers, when
we understand how workers have built our economy, our middle class, and
that we must continue to invest in them if we want to invest in the
strength of our nation.  
  
So, with that, I thank all of you who are here for this important
work.  
  
And I do believe that, as we think about an investment in the future, it
is about investing in the talent and the young people of our nation. 
And I do believe we have a student reporter here, Dakota — is that you? 
What do you got?  
  
Q    (Inaudible), I was wondering what message you have for young people
to (inaudible)?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, your vote is so important.  When I think about
our young leaders and young voters, you have so much at stake in these
elections.  
  
I think about the climate crisis that we are experiencing — extreme
weather around the country as a result of this crisis, what we need to
do to build up our nation’s resilience, which is going to be about,
again, an investment in American jobs, being trained for so many of them
by union apprentice programs.  
  
And our young leaders, young Americans have everything at stake on that
issue, both in terms of what is happening that is damaging this Earth
upon which we live, but also so much at stake in terms of taking on the
jobs that are about what we can do to invest in manufacturing and the
jobs of the 21st century.  
  
I think about it in the context of — of what you have at stake when we
did the work that we did to say that we were going to deal with student
loan debt.  And our administration heard young voters in 2020 who said
that they are burdened by debt — student loan debt — to the point that
they’re delaying starting families, buying a home, even paying rent,
because of the weight of that debt.  
  
And as a result of what young voters demanded in the last election, we
were able to say that we’re going to relieve student loan debt of up to
$20,000, which is going to have a huge impact.  
  
I think about where young leaders have been and what you have at stake
in terms of spurring what we were able to do that was the first time in
decades to get bipartisan legislation around smart gun safety laws.  
  
You know, we see every day the stories about what this means for the
young people of America and the fear that they experience, whether
they’re in the classroom or — or walking through their neighborhood, and
what we need to do to address that.  
  
Young voters have so much at stake and such a powerful voice.  And so I
encourage that, as you use that voice in so many ways, you use it
through your vote.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
  
END                 2:08 P.M. EDT   
  
