---
date: '2022-10-12'
modified_time: 2022-10-12 19:12:29-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-12 19:12:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/12/remarks-by-president-biden-on-protecting-and-conserving-americas-iconic-outdoor-spaces/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks By President\_Biden On\_Protecting And Conserving America\u2019s Iconic\
  \ Outdoor\_Spaces"
---
 
Camp Hale Vail, Colorado 

1:43 P.M. MDT 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (The President picks
up a handheld microphone.)  Is this one working?  Hello, hello, hello. 
Not working, is it?  Is this — can you hear me?

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Well, by the way, I — I wanted to come out
here because I love being in Colorado.  I love being in the West.  I
love even being in Alaska.

One of the things I was saying earlier to some of the folks that we came
over with is that one of the great treasures we have are our national
forests and our national parks.  And from the time my kids were old
enough to travel with me, I’ve taken them to most — almost every
national park in the country — down to Colorado, down to Snake River,
just everywhere — because I wanted them to see — I wanted them to see
what so many people don’t get to see.

But, folks, I want to thank Scott for the introduction and mostly for
his service.  You’re right, this is the story of “America the
Beautiful.”  The way you talk about being a forest ranger is just — you
just can just feel the power in this place when you talk about it.

  
And as you just heard, you have, the same way, these incredible leaders
around you thanking you.

Governor Polis, he — Joe — Joe, I tell you what: I didn’t know that the
former governor had worked for you.  But Joe from the House, and John
and Michael — all of you have been determined, over the years, to
protect these sacred and historic lands.

And Michael came over here — I want — I want Michael to come back up
here a second.  (Laughter.)  Come on, Michael.  (Applause.)

And the reason why I do — I want to tell you what happened here.  This
guy, he made this finally happen — at least me signing this, certainly. 
And I — he came to the White House, and he said, “I told you what I
need.”  (Laughter.) 

And I said, “I’ll do it.”  You know why?  I was worried he’d never leave
the damn White House if he didn’t go.  (Laughter.)

And I’m also honored to be joined by several Tribal leaders here,
because this is your progeny, this magnificent land.  You’ve been great
stewards of these sacred lands.

But I just want you to know, the reason why he’s an environmentalist: He
married one.  Otherwise, he’d sleep alone.  (Laughter.)  So, I just want
you to know that.

Look, it’s great to be with Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture;
Brenda <s>Malloy</s> \[Mallory\], a Chair of our Council on
Environmental Quality. 

And while she couldn’t be here today, I especially thank our first
Native American who is a Cabinet member, Deb Haaland, who is the
Interior — Secretary of the Interior.  (Applause.)

Folks, as I said, when I served as senator and Vice President, Jill and
I made sure to take our children and grandchildren to national parks all
around the country.  They’re treasures and wonders that define the
identity of us as a nation.  They’re a birthright that we pass down from
generation to generation.  And they unite us. 

And that’s what today is all about.  We’re doing it not just for today,
but for all the ages.  And it’s for the people of Colorado, but it also
goes well beyond the people of Colorado.  It’s for all the people across
America and the world.  It’s a permanent, permanent decision — an action
that no future President can overturn. 

In 1906 — (applause) — President Theodore Roosevelt first used the
Antiquities Act to designate a national monument.  He essentially
invented the national parks.  Since then, Presidents of both parties
have used the Antiquities Act to preserve America’s natural treasures,
from the Grand Canyon, to the Statue of Liberty, to Colorado’s Canyons
of the Ancients. 

Today, we’re auth- — the authorities under the Antiquities Act, I’m
establishing Camp Hale-Continental Divide National Monument today. 
(Applause.)  This is the first new national monument of my presidency
under this authority.

When you think about the natural beauty of Colorado and the history of
our nation, you find it here: more than 50,000 acres, including the
Tenmile Range; soaring peaks and steep canyons; black bears, bald
eagles, moose, mountain lions; waterfalls, pristine rivers, alpine
lakes; a scant \[sic\] — the scent of wildflowers at the right time of
the year; and a stunning backdrop of ski slopes and iconic trails. 

These treasured lands tell the story of America.  For thousands of
years, Tribal Nations have been stewards of this sacred land, hunting
game, foraging for medicinal plants, and maintaining a deep, spiritual
bond with the land itself. 

But by the 1800s, mining activity and federal government drove out
Indigenous Tribes from their homes.  But those Tribes continued to use
these sacred lands. 

Last year, I issued a historic proclamation officially designating
Indigenous People’s Day to honor the contributions of Native Americans —
(applause) — to our society and acknowledge — acknowledge the history of
violence committed against them. 

Two days ago, we observed that day in this nation.

Today, I’ll be signing the proclamation to preserve these sacred Tribal
grounds as a national monument.

It was also where the U.S. Army, as you’ve already heard, first and only
mountain infantry division trained to take on the Nazis in World War
Two. 

The 10th Mountain Division was stationed on the valley floor, surrounded
by rugged boulders, forests, and mountains stretching 14 feet high —
14,000 feet high, among the tallest mountains in America.  Facing high
altitudes and harsh terrain, deep snow, bitter cold, soldiers at Camp
Hale learned to scale rock, ski, and survive, preparing for the war they
were about to fight.

That pivotal moment came, as the senator pointed out, in February of
1945: a surprise Allied attack in the mountains of Italy.  Imagine, it’s
pitch black, punishing cold.  The mission, high in the mountains, that
hinged on the skill, strength, stamina that could have only been gained
in a place like this.

They were more than ready.  They were more than ready that day and since
then.  American soldiers of the 10th Mountain Division scaled that
1,800-foot cliff at night, caught the Germans by surprise, capted
\[sic\] — captured key positions, and broke through the German defense
line at a pivotal point in the war.

Just imagine — and I mean this sincerely.  I say this as a father of a
man who won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous Service Medal, and lost his
life in Iraq.  Imagine the courage, the daring, and the genuine
sacrifice — genuine sacrifice they all made.

After the war ended, Camp Hale became the hub for innovation in winter
warfare. 

And even when it closed in 1965, many veterans returned to the area. 
Some became scientists who studied rock glaciers, endangered animals,
and wetland forests.  Many returned to heal their wounds, both visible
and invisible, seeking the solace and sovereign \[sic\] — and serenity
in ways that only nature can do.

Other veterans returned to build world-famous ski resorts, as you all
know, and outdoor recreational industries that define Colorado today —
industries that support millions of American jobs, generate hundreds of
billions of dollars for our economy, and provide countless, countless
memories for families.

I taught my boys to ski here.  I taught my family to ski here.  I — it’s
— and, by the way, as you all know, especially for us Easterners, we
talk about that at dinner.  We talk — no, I’m serious.  All those
memories — all those memories that you all understandably take for
granted, they’re a big deal where I come from. 

Today, as Commander-in-Chief, it’s a true honor to be joined by two of
the few surviving veterans of the original 10th Mountain Division.

Francis Lovett.  Francis — where is Francis?  He’s going to come up
later.  (Applause.)  Francis — as my mother would say, “God love you,
man.”  God love you.  (Applause.)  A hundred years young.  Enlisted in
the Army at age 20, stationed at Camp Hale.  Fought overseas.  Earned
two Bronze Stars and — among many other medals.  A war hero who came
home to become a teacher and a principal.

Thank you, Francis, for your service to our country and all you’ve done
to get this monument designated.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

He’s also joined by another 10th Mountain Division man, a guy named
Robert Shoyer — 99 years young.  Trained at this camp.  Served his
country before joining his dad’s business.  Just a few years ago, he
came back here to Colorado to be with his family.

Robert, thank you for your service.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
(Applause.)

And I am honored — I’m honored to sign this proclamation to preserve
this special part of our military history.

In addition, as Secretary Vilsack just explain — explained: Today, my
administration is announcing steps to conserve the Thompson Divide,
another 225,000 acres 60 miles from here.  (Applause.)

This is another congressional priority for Michael, John, and Joe.

We’re standing with Colorado’s farmers, ranchers, hunters, and anglers,
who for have forged generations to protect — protect the beautiful
streams, aspen groves in the Thompson Divide area.

Let me be clear: There is no current or planned oil exploration,
production in the area.  We’re just keeping things as they’ve been for a
long time — for the next 20 years — while we study — for the next years,
while we study whether we can get this done. 

In my first year in office, I protected more lands and waters than any
American President since John Kennedy.  After the previous
administration — (applause) — after the previous administration rolled
back protections, I restored full protection to three national monuments
in Utah and New England.  (Applause.)

And I signed and designated the Amache Japanese Incarceration Camp of
World War Two as a National Historic Site in Southeastern Colorado. 
(Applause.)

We purchased additional land at Sand — at Sand Creek Massacre Site,
outside of — outside of Denver.

And we did — and, by the way, I’m not sure I would’ve understood how
important this was had I not gotten to seen — see these parts, until I
understood the breathtaking nature of it.  To stand there on the edge of
the cliff in the Rio Grande, to — you know, looking at one thing, and
it’s just — there’s not many cliffs.  But then head up to the Grand
Canyon; it’s a cathedral.  I mean, it takes your breath away.  I’ve
climbed it from the river up and I’ve looked at it from the — from the
top down.  It’s breathtaking. 

And I don’t think, until you see some of these things, do you understand
why it was so important to continue to preserve. 

And with the help of a member of Congress here today, I signed the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act that
constitute the largest investment in climate ever in history — the
history of the world.  (Applause.) 

We’re investing billions of dollars to protect our iconic outdoors,
preserve our historic sites, and address the devastating <s>inflacts</s>
\[impacts\] of climate change. 

It includes historic funding for farmers and communities in the Upper
and Lower Colorado River Basin so they can conserve water during the
droughts.  It includes historic investments in communities across
Colorado to recover and rebuild from devastating wildfires. 

And, by the way, to all the Forest Service and the firefighters, we owe
you big.  I’ve traveled, just in the last two years, over every major
wildfire in America in a helicopter.  You realize more land has burned
to the ground than occupies the entire state of New Jersey — the entire
state of New Jersey — from New Mexico to Washington State to Idaho,
across the entire West.  It’s devastating.  And there’s so much more we
have to do.  There’s more that we have to do that really
matters.                       

Let me close with this: Edward Abbey, a writer who once worked as a
ranger in the Arches National Park in Utah, wrote — and I quote:
*“*There are many such places.  Every man, every woman carries in
\[his\] heart and mind the image of the ideal place, the right place,
the one true home, known or unknown, actual or visionary.”

We’re just at such a place here today.

And thanks to Michael Bennet, I now ask everyone who has worked so hard
to help make this happen to be — join me as we sign this official
proclamation declaring Camp Hale-Continental Divide National Monument.

God bless you all.  And thank you for what you’ve done.  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  No, thank you.  Thank you all for fighting for this.  I
really mean it.

All right.  (Applause.)  Gentlemen, I sign this in your honor, the honor
of all the warriors you fought with.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you. 

It says, the title, “The establishment of Camp Hale-Continental Divide
National Monument by the President of the United States of America
proclamation.”  
  
(The proclamation is signed.)  (Applause.)  
2:00 P.M. MDT
