---
date: '2022-10-20'
published_time: 2022-10-20 17:10:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-rebuilding-our-nations-infrastructure/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Rebuilding Our Nation\u2019s\_Infrastructure"
---
 
Fern Hollow Bridge  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

1:40 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Pittsburgh!  (Applause.)  Please, sit down, if
you have a seat.  
  
And, Gov, since you don’t have a coat on, this is going to be painfully
short.  (Laughter.)  I’m not going to keep you too long.  
  
It’s great — thanks for that introduction.  I really appreciate it,
Greg. 

And, you know — and thanks to the elected officials here today: Governor
Wolf, one of the best governors I’ve ever served with in my life. 
(Applause.)  And one of my best buddies from Scranton, as we say: Bobby
Casey.  (Applause.)  I know his dad and his mom is still around.  And
Representative Doyle, which —  
  
(The President’s microphone stops working.)  
  
How about this one?  Is this working?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yeah, that’s working.  
  
Well, I tell you what — I knew he’d come here and do this.  (Laughter.) 
No, I’m joking.  
  
Can we get — there you go.  All right.  (Applause.)  
  
And Lieutenant Governor —  
  
REPRESENTATIVE DOYLE:  Just as you were saying something nice about
me.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I was saying something nice about you j- — that’s why it
went out.  (Laughter.)  But I’m saying we’re going to try like the devil
to keep you from having to — well, not having to — deciding to leave.  I
wish you didn’t.  
  
And — and, John, thank you very much for — for running.  I really do
appreciate it.  And, Jill, you’re going to — you’re going to be a great
— (applause) — a great lady in the Senate.  
  
As I’ve said before, that America is the only country in the world that
comes out of crises stronger than we went into the crisis.  And that’s
the story I want to tell here today, briefly.  
  
Just nine months ago — January 28th in 2022 — I was about to leave the
White House on my way to Mill 19 here in Pittsburgh to talk about the
resurgence of American manufacturing.  
  
And, by the way, we’ve created 700,000 manufacturing jobs since then. 
(Applause.)

Before I left Washington, I got word about what happened earlier in that
day.

At 6:45 on a snowy day, the bridge behind me collapsed, 100 feet
straight down to Fern Hollow.  And five cars and a bus were crossing the
bridge at the time.  Several people were injured.

But by the grace of God, the school was delayed that day because of
snow, and it was just before rush hour, so there was less traffic than
usual.  It had been a normal — had it been a normal day, it would’ve
been much, much worse.

I decided still to come to Pittsburgh.  I came straight here from the
airport.  
  
When I arrived, Mayor Gainey — who is not here right now but was here —
and Bobby and Conor and John Fetterman were all here, along with the
responders.  You all told me about the emergency workers who had pulled
the survivors to safety.  
  
They were heroes that day, and a complete catastrophe was avoided.  But
it never should’ve come to this.

For too long, we talked about building the best economy in the world and
the best infrastructure in the world.

We talked about asserting America’s leadership.  We (inaudible) about
the best and the safest roads, railroads, ports, airports, and so much
more.

But now — now — we didn’t do it, but we’re finally getting to it.  We’re
getting it done.

We’re finally deciding that instead of being ranked number 13 in the
world — 13 in the world in infra- — the United States, 13 in the world
in infrastructure — we should be ranked number 1.  (Applause.)

So, instead — instead of Infrastructure Week — which was a punchline for
four years under my predecessor — it’s Infrastructure Decade — a
headline on my watch.  (Applause.)

And with the help of your members of Congress here today, I signed into
law a once-in-a-generation investment in roads, highways, bridges,
railroads, ports, airports, and so much more — over a billion two
hundred- — a trillion 200 billion dollars.  It’s called the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, and it’s the most significant investment in American
infrastructure in roads, bridges, et cetera, than Eisenhower’s — since
Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway system.

Pennsylvania alone has already received $5.2 billion just this year for
hundreds of projects across the commonwealth.

And that’s just announced another $2.5 billion to fix and upgrade
Pennsylvania’s roads and bridges, and there’ll be billions more for
other projects.  (Applause.) 

Let me tell you why this matters.

When I was here in January, I told the governor that we’d help and we’d
be — help rebuild this bridge behind us as fast as we possibly could.

That day, the governor moved and signed an emergency order that let us
move separate federal funding as quickly as possible to the project. 

The reason we could do that is because I had just signed the
Infrastructure Law a few months earlier.  But had we waited for that
money, it would have taken longer.

The governor knew he could count on the new law to fund other projects
to ensure the projects he already had started for infrastructure in the
state would not be slowed down in the process. 

The result: Pennsylvania has been able to repair Fern Hollow Bridge in
less than a year.  And by Christmas, God willing, we’ll be walking —
(applause) — I’m coming back to walk over this sucker.  (Applause.) 
Although my — my staff said to me, “Do you realize how many times you’ve
been to Pittsburgh?”  I said, “No.”  Said, “Nineteen.”  Bobby, don’t
tell them in Scranton.  (Applause.)  Don’t tell them in Scranton.  I —
anyway.

But we — it’s being done in record time.  Normally you’d be looking at
two to five years to build a bridge like this, literally. 

And the total project costs $25 million — fully paid for by the federal
government.  (Applause.)

And, by the way — and, by the way, in the process of that, not a single
penny of that money was — has cost anybody making under 400 grand in the
nation to pay a penny more in taxes.  And, by the way, in the process,
we also cut the deficit in this process nationally by a trillion four
hundred billion dollars just this year.  (Applause.) 

So, Gov, the fact is it wouldn’t have happened without you, Gov.  It
wouldn’t have — no, it wouldn’t have happened in this town.  That’s —
that’s not hyperbole.  That’s a fact.  And you’re working so hard to get
it done.  I want to thank you.  This really matters.

Folks, folks in the neighborhood relied on this bridge and the walking
path underneath to commute to work, to take their kids to school, to run
errands, to stay connected to other neighborhoods like Squirrel Hill and
the — and Waterfront and Oakland.

And below the bridge, Frick Park is going to be fixed up, when this is
done, to better than it was — hiking paths, new seating areas.

The bridge was built initially in 1901.  It was rebuilt in 1970.  These
guys behind me know that.  None of them were here then, I don’t think. 
But the fact of the matter is now it’s a modern bridge of the 21st
century with four lanes for vehicle traffic, a path for cyclists and
pedestrians.

This project — this project has supported over a hundred jobs —
good-paying construction, union jobs.  (Applause.)  Laborers,
carpenters, cement mason.  So many more.  The contractor delivering this
project, by the way, has been a company that’s been owned by the same
family for four generations — a union company since 1930s that built our
roads and our bridges, building during the New Deal, during Eisenhower’s
Interstate Highway System, and now the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

But, you know, this is — one bridge also tells a broader story.

There are nearly 45,000 — say it again — 45,000 bridges across this
country in poor condition.  In Pennsylvania alone, there are 3,100
bridges and 7,500 miles of highway in poor condition. 

And as I was talking to your person, Gov — also, we’re going to get the
railroad going too.  I’m a rail guy.  Anyway.

Pittsburgh is the city of bridges, but too many of them are in poor
condition, like this bridge behind me before it collapsed.

But with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re doing something about
it.  This is just one of 2,400 bridges across the country that are being
repaired just this year because of this law.

For example, the Allegheny County work is underway to repair the bridges
of the Boulevard of the Allies.   
  
Not just bridges though.  Just outside of Pittsburgh, we’re investing
over $850 million to replace and expand a 100-year-old Montgomery Locks
and Dam that’s critical to the nation’s economy.

And I’m — we’re investing — that investment is going to increase the
capacity of this system — the Locks — over 50 percent at a critical
choke point in the river. 

That means we’re going to be able to move an additional 14,000 barges
every year, saving the equivalent of having to have one million hauls on
tractor trailers to get the same material to where it has to go.

  
These savings are going to allow the locks to be more efficient and move
10 billion tons of goods like coal, petroleum, and steel.

And as a consequence, we’re lowering the cost of transporting these
materials, but just as important — just as important, we’re going to
reduce emissions that can come from the trucks and trains hauling it
over through — by reducing it by 3.5 million tons of CO2 a year. 
(Applause.)  Three point — cutting pollution in the air we breathe. 
This is good for the economy and the environment and public health. 

And, Bobby, I promised you — he been on my back to get this done for —
since I got elected President.  “Don’t forget the locks, Joey.” 

So I just think — (laughter) — I’m not sure how we’re going to do this,
but so long as I — I couldn’t say no.  So if we get the money for the
locks projects done, and I think we should call it “Casey’s Lock.”  I
don’t know.  (Laughter.) 

But, Bobby, you — you have been — for a Scranton guy to worry about the
locks in this side — anyway. 

In the Hill District of Pittsburgh, we’re providing funding to
revitalize the area by making sidewalks and streets safer for
pedestrians and drivers, and connecting communities that suffered for
decades for lack of investment.

And thanks to the Infrastructure Law, Pennsylvanians can get $170
million over five years to build out the electric charging stations that
are going to be available to all the electric vehicles that are going to
be on the road.  And that’s just what we need, because half of the new
car sales in America are going to be electric by the end of this decade.

My administration has recently approved Pennsylvania’s plan so the funds
are available now, so the <s>IEBW</s> \[IBEW\] can start constructing
these facilities.

We’re putting $20 million into a new 700,000-square-foot terminal at the
Pittsburgh Airport to include upgrades to the screening — security
screening, baggage check system so it’s easier and more efficient to
catch your flight.

No one knows better than the people of Pittsburgh that there are
thousands of uncapped orphan wells — oil and gas wells — spewing methane
into the air — these abandoned mines scattered throughout this area.

It’s a legacy left behind by the mining, oil and gas companies.  When
the wells and fields went dry, the companies left, and people — and left
it to the people of Pennsylvania to clean it up.  Well, guess what? 
We’re going to clean it up.

Now, my Department of Interior — (applause) — is sending Pennsylvania
close to — and, Conor, I know you’ve worked on this — close to $350
million this year to cap the wells and reclaim the abandoned man — mine
lands and polluted waterways, creating good-paying jobs in the process
for the folks in the same communities that dug the wells in the first
place.

In addition, we’re investing at least $100 million in Pennsylvania to
get high-speed Internet across the state in every part of the state —
urban, suburban, and rural.  And no one is going to be left behind.

Twenty-one percent of Pennsylvania families don’t have home Internet
connections.  But never again should a parent have to drive their kid to
a McDonald’s parking lot and sit there to connect to a McDonald’s
Internet so they could do their homework.  Not a joke.  You saw it
happening. 

In addition, there are over 150,000 lead service lines carrying water to
homes and schools in Pennsylvania and over 7,000 in Pittsburgh.  This
impacts children’s brain development.  I mean, for real.  It’s a hazard
to their health.  You can’t have this in Pennsylvania.  We can’t have
this anywhere in America.

Now Pennsylvania is going to get $87 million to replace these lead
pipes, because every person, every child in this country should have
access to clean, safe drinking water.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, these projects are going to create good-paying, mostly
union jobs.  That’s because I made sure the overwhelming majority of the
funds of this Infrastructure Law are subject to Davis-Bacon prevailing
wage requirements.  (Applause.) 

I said when I ran: We’re going to build the country from the bottom up
and the middle out, not the top down.  When the middle does well, the
wealthy do very well. 

So, this law is about more than rebuilding our infrastructure.  It’s
about rebuilding the middle class — something John knows a lot about and
talks a lot about. 

And let me tell you: I’m a proud Delawarean, but Pennsylvania is my
native state.  It’s in my heart.  I can’t tell you how much it means to
me to be part of rebuilding this beautiful state.  My grandfather
Finnegan from Scranton would really be proud of me right now.  No, I’m
not joking.  He would.  By the way, he was an All-American football
player, John, in Santa Clara.

You know, I started my campaign for President here in Pittsburgh because
there’s no better place to talk about rebuilding the backbone of
America, the middle class.

After I accepted my party’s nomination, Pittsburgh was my first major
stop.  It’s here that I laid out my vision for building a better America
with better pay and dignity — dignity for working people, people who
built this country.  My dad used to say everybody — everybody should be
treated with dignity no matter what they’re — where they’re from. 

Because here’s what I know: For most of the last century, we led the
world by a significant margin because we invested in our people, we
invested in ourselves, we invested in our land.  But along the way, we
stopped doing that.  But not anymore.  We’re back on track.

When you see these projects in your neighborhoods — cranes going up,
shovels in the ground — I want you to feel the way I feel: Pride.  Pride
in what we can do when we work together.  And that’s what I mean when I
say we’re building a better America.

And, folks, let’s get something straight.  We managed to get some
Republicans to vote for this — 13 in the House and 19 in the Senate. 
And I’m truly grateful for them.  I mean it sincerely.

But a whole lot more voted against it but are taking credit for it now. 
(Laughter.)  You know, you may have seen the news reported on CNN
describing Republicans who voted \[against\] the Infrastructure Law
after attacking me and Democrats for passing what they called
“socialism.”  Socialism.  Well, now they’re quietly and privately
sending me letters — (laughs) — not a joke — my administration, asking
for money — asking for that money, talking about how important the
projects in their district are and for America.

I’ve got to say, I was surprised to see there are so many socialists in
the Republican caucus.  (Laughter.)  

But look — and I mean this sincerely — even I — even if they voted
against it, I promised when I ran, I’d be President for all the American
people.  Everyone. 

We’re building a better America together, even in districts where
congressmen voted against this.  They’re going to get the money.

And one last thing.  This is all being done without raising anyone’s
taxes a penny if you make less than 400 grand.  And we did it while
cutting the deficit in half this year — in half.

Let me close with this: It’s been a rough four or five years in the
country.  For a lot of families, it’s still kind of tough.  But there
are bright spots where America is reasserting itself, like here, where
the best workers in the world are hard at work building a future — a
better future for everybody. 

We’re proving our best days are ahead of us, not behind us.  We just
have to keep it going, and we know we can.  I have never been more
optimistic about America’s future than I am today.  And I really mean
that. 

Just remember — we’ve got to remember who we are.  We are the United
States of America.  There is nothing beyond our capacity if we work
together, as this is example of.  (Applause.) 

So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  And thank you
for what you’ve done, particularly all the workers here.  (Applause.) 

1:58 P.M. EDT
