---
date: '2022-10-05'
published_time: 2022-10-05 22:02:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/05/remarks-by-president-biden-on-hurricane-ian-response-and-recovery-efforts/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Hurricane Ian Response and Recovery\_Efforts"
---
 
Fisherman’s Wharf  
Fort Myers, Florida

3:00 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Gov and the First Lady, thank you very much for
the hospitality.  And, you know, I want to thank the Mayor and the
County Chair.  Cecil took me on a little helicopter ride, and we went
out on Sanibel Island and all across.  And it — I mean, I’m sure it’s
much worse on the ground, but you can see a whole hell of a lot of the
damage from the air. 

And you can imagine, because unfortunately, I’ve been to a lot of
disaster areas in the last couple months — last six months.  You know,
more fires have burned in the West, in the Southwest, burned everything
right to the ground than the entire state of New Jersey, the — as much
room as that takes up.

And the reservoirs out west are down to almost zero.  We’re in a
situation where the Colorado River looks more like a stream.  And
there’s a lot going on.

And I think the one thing this has finally ended is a discussion about
whether or not there’s climate change and we should do something about
it.

But, folks, I also want to — Jill and I have had you all in our prayers,
and I mean that sincerely.  And we’re here today because we wanted to
tell you in person that we’re thinking of you and we’re not leaving. 
We’re not leaving until this gets done.  I promise you that.

You know, you walk around here, what’s left of Fisherman’s Wharf, and
you don’t have to have much of an imagination to understand that
everything — everything is — this historic, titanic, and unimaginable
storm just ripped it to pieces.  You got to start from scratch.  You got
to move again.  And it’s going to take a lot — a lot of time — not weeks
or months; it’s going to take years for everything to get squared away
in the state of Florida to fully recover and rebuild.

And we’re here today with Governor DeSantis and Senator Rubio and
Senator Scott and Congressman Donalds.  You know, today we have one job
and only one job, and that’s to make sure the people of Florida get
everything that they need to fully, thoroughly recover. 

We’re one of the few nations in the world that — on a basis of the
crisis we face, we’re the only nation that comes out of it better than
we went into it.  And that’s what we’re going to do this time around:
come out of it better.  Because we’re — this is the United States of
America, and I emphasize “united.”

We’ve seen extraordinary cooperation at every level of government, as
the governor has said.  And the cooperation began before the storm hit. 
The number one priority was saving lives.

At the request of the governor, I signed an emergency declaration. 

Let’s see if this thing works.  Is this one working?  (The President
switches microphones.)

I signed an emergency declaration that pre-positioned federal assets,
including food and water and generators, not only in Florida but in
other states, so it’d be ready if the worst happened.  And it happened.

And we also pre-positioned the largest number of search and rescue teams
ever assembled in the United States — ever assembled in the United
States — and FEMA, the Pentagon, the Coast Guard, other agencies so we’d
be ready to respond immediately — immediately — working with state and
local officials.

And the search and rescue teams have knocked on nearly 70,000 doors and
rescued over 3,800 people.

Yesterday, in Lee County alone, the search and rescue teams examined
24,000 structures just in this county, making sure we’re accounting for
everyone who still may be trapped.

We have over 4,000 federal porson- — personnel on the ground as I speak.

The Army Corps of Engineers is providing emergency power to hospitals
across the state, nursing homes, water treatment plants to make sure
these facilities are able to continue to operate.

Tens of thousands of utility workers all across America — not just in
Florida, all across America — responded to the call from Florida that
needed help.  Thousands — thousands from all across America, working
around the clock to get power restored.  
  
This is about America coming together.  And I really mean it: America
coming together.

FEMA has also delivered, as has been mentioned, 4,000 \[sic\] — 4
million meals, more — millions of bottles of water, and making sure that
they have the immediate necessities.  
  
But we know from experience, I know from experience how much — how much
anxiety and fear and concern there are in the people.  We didn’t lose
our whole home, but lightning struck and we lost an awful lot of it
about 15 years ago, and we had a lot to go to.  We had relatives
nearby.  It wasn’t like everything was wiped out.  
  
But we know the feeling, that feeling about: Where am I going to put my
head down on a pillow tonight?  How is that going to work?  Is my kid
going to be okay?  Is he going to be able to go back to school?  Am I
going to be able to build my home?  Will I — will the insurance cover
it?  If I don’t have insurance, God knows, what am I going to do?

And, you know, we’re working to speak to all those issues, because they
all warrant immediate responses.

I’ve instructed my administration to bring — bring every element — I
mean every element — of the federal government together to help with the
immediate needs and long-term rebuilding.  
  
Yesterday, we opened a disaster recovery center right here in Lee
County.  Three more will be open in this part of the state by tomorrow
and — with more to come.

And the state is co-la- — co-locating insurance villages at the same
centers so if you’re not sure what your insurance circumstance is,
you’re not sure what you’re going to get, you can show up and determine
in one place — one place; meet with your insurance company; and also
apply for federal assistance at the same time.

From FEMA to Small Business Administration to the Department of Housing
and Urban Development, there are — there are many ways we can help, and
we’ve already started.

Already, 200,000 Floridians — 200,000 families, I should say — have
registered for urgent assistance, like buying food, getting their
prescriptions, clothing — the basics. 

And how many of you lost your businesses?  Well, the insurances may not
cover — insurance may not cover everything, may not cover the full
costs.  So we’re in a position — some of the folks — you’re going to —
have lost their homes as well.  And the question is if you have
insurance and will it cover the costs. 

Well, I’ve directed the Small Business Administration to speed up the
processing of low-interest disaster loans that can provide up to $2
million for small businesses and non-profits and additional money for
lost income and $200,000 — excuse me, $200,000 for homeowners who — to
close the gap between what insurance won’t cover and what their needs
are.  And that’s around a 1.5 percent interest rate. 

And folks, look, yesterday the state asked me and we immediately agreed
to activate our hotel program so individuals who need hotel rooms won’t
have to pay for anything.  I know there’s not many around here, but they
can go to the nearest hotel and not have to worry about paying anything
and just have the coverage. 

If you don’t have insurance or if you’re underinsured and you’ve found a
place to rent, or your car has been destroyed, you’re entitl- — may be
entitled up to $37,900 in federal funds.

If you need to make repairs to your home, you may be eligible for
another $39- — excuse me — $37,900.  Not $39,700; $37,900.  So you’re
possibly — can be able to get close to $80,000 for your needs.  It’s
available.

And folks, look, the most important thing you can do is register so we
can help figure out who is eligible for these things. 

Hundreds of FEMA personnel are going door to door and to help with that
— or you can call 800-621-3362. 

And I’m told you’re waiting for hours and hours to get through and
you’re not getting anybody answering the phone.  We’ve talked about that
on the way down on Air Force One, and we’re going to try to speed that
up by having additional personnel.  We’re trying to expand it.  So you
have to have a little patience for us to get it all done.  So many
people are contacting. 

Or you can go online to DisasterAssistance.gov and find out what you’re
eligible to receive. 

Or you can sign up at one of the multiple disaster recovery centers —
the one that’s opened here and many more that are going to be opening. 

Meanwhile, in the counties hardest hit, the federal government, at the
request of the governor at the very beginning, said we’ll cover 100
percent of the cleanup costs — the debris costs, which is billions of
dollars when it’s all over if you think about it.  We’re going to pay
100 percent for 30 days.  I just extended it for another 30 days. 

And the governor and I talked.  I think he’s going to have come back and
ask for some more beyond those 60 days, because it is consequential. 
Unless you clear the area, there’s not much else you can do. 

And so, folks, look, we have a long road ahead of us, rebuilding entire
communities from the ground up.

I want the people of fori- — Florida to know: You have my commitment and
America’s commitment that we’re not going to leave.  We’re going to see
you through this entire process and it’s going to take a hell of long
time, hopefully without any snags in the way. 

Later, after the television cameras have moved on, we’re still going to
be with you.  We’re still going to be moving.  We’re still going to be
doing everything we can to try to put your lives back together again.  

So many families in this community — their home is destroyed.  And where
we’re standing now used to be a busy strip of restaurants and shops. 
They’re now wiped out.

The Sanibel Causeway is ripped in two, standing hundreds — stranding
hundreds of people on the other side — many who don’t want to leave, but
some who wanted to leave. 

We’re in a situation where in Lee County alone, initial reports say 11
schools were significantly damaged and 3 are going to have to be
rebuilt.

And today is Yom Kippur.  Many members of Florida’s Jewish community
can’t gather at their holiest day today because they’re displaced and
their homes are gone and their synagogues are not available. 

Long term, the major disaster declaration I approved on September 29th
is going to help rebuild schools, libraries, parks, and public community
centers.  We have the money to do that.  You’re qualified to get that
done. 

We’re going to help rebuild roads and bridges and public water systems. 
We’ve already allocated funding from the Infrastructure Law that I
signed to continue making Florida’s power grid more resilient that it is
now to ensure that power comes back on faster and reduce the costs of
repairs and rebuilding, because there will be more storms.  There will
be more storms.   

When I was Vice President, I provided Florida — or we provided Florida
with $200 million to install a smart grid technology.  And as a result,
the power is being restored quicker in Florida today than it’s ever been
restored when it’s gone out.

Florida is already set to receive $13 billion over the next five years
in federal funding for highways and for bridges.  And the key here is
building back better and stronger to withstand the next storm.  We can’t
build back to what it was before.  You got to build back better, because
we know more is coming. 

I was talking to someone who was on Sanibel Island, saying that as he
walked around, he noticed that those — those homes that were built later
and had a different roof and different foundations, they did very well. 
They — they survived. 

We can build to withstand the kind of things that you’re — we see — that
you’ve faced of late. 

And, folks, it’s going to take the federal, the state, and local
partners and the private sector working together. 

And here’s the deal: I promise you we’re going to be with you every step
of the way.

The people of Florida, to all of you, we’re in this together.  This is
the United States of America.  The United States of America. 
(Applause.)  It’s not something else. 

So, thank you all, because a lot of people around the country are going
through similar disasters.

As I said to a couple of the folks I was talking to — and I’ll end with
this: You know, I’ve — I’ve been out, I guess now, 9, 10, maybe —
depending on how you count them — 12 major disasters around the
country.  You know, more timber, more homes, more buildings, more police
stations, fire stations, et cetera have burned to the ground in
California, Oregon, Wisconsin — well, excuse me — Oregon, Washington
State, Idaho, down in New Mexico and Arizona than makes up the entire —
the entirety of the state of New Jersey.  To the ground.  Gone.  Gone. 

And so, the thing I plead with you to do — and I’m sure you will — we’re
going to get you all through this.  You’re going to get — because of the
grit of all of you. 

But when you get it done, when you hear it happened to somewhere else,
remember, this is the United States of America.  We’re all in this
together.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Q    Mr. President, what do state, local, and federal officials need to
do differently to prevent future loss of life?

THE PRESIDENT:  What the governor has done is pretty remarkable, so
far.  I mean, this is — what he’s done.

In terms of — you know, it’s — you know, first of all, the biggest thing
the governor has done and so many others have done — they’ve recognized
there’s a thing called global warming.  The world is changing.  It’s
changing.  And we have to change the way, with the zoning codes — for
example, my — the woman who heads up all this area for me, Liz, showed
me a picture of the telephone poles we put up.  Liz, where — where were
they?  Where is she?

Anyway, Liz showed me a picture of the telephone poles we put up in
Florida.  I’m not sure what — where was that telephone pole you were
showing me?

MS. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  Oh, it was right here.  Fort Myers Beach.

THE PRESIDENT:  In Fort Myers Beach.  Instead of doing cement poles or
wooden poles, they put up steel poles.  And guess what?  They all were
sustained.  They all survived.  The wires survived.  The poles
survived.  It cost more money to put them up, but they survived.

And we also know, when we put a lot of this on — like, in California, if
we put a lot of this — if we do underground, it costs more money.  Put
it — tunnel it; it survives. 

So we got to change the way we build and where we build.  The question
every community is going to have to ask is, “Should we rebuild in this
spot or that spot?  Will it be able to withstand what’s likely to come
again?”  That’s a local decision.

Q    How has Governor DeSantis handled this recovery effort?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think he’s done a good job.  He’s — look, I called
him, I think, even before he called me, when I heard this storm was on
its way.  We’ve worked hand-in-glove.  We have very different political
philosophies.  And — but he — we’ve worked hand-in-glove.  And he’s been
on — things relating to dealing with this crisis, we’ve been completely
in lockstep.  There’s been no differences.

Q    Do you think he’s done enough on insurance reform?  (Inaudible) in
the state of Florida, and we know you have a National Flood Insurance
Program.  Are you considering anything like that for homebuyers who are
struggling?

THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is: That’s something that’ll be discussed.

But, look, the fact of the matter is, states like Florida, where they’ve
had a lot of natural disasters because of flooding and hurricanes and
the like — the insurance industry is being very stretched.  We’re going
to have to have a hard look at whether or not the insurance industry can
be sustained.

Thank you.

3:16 P.M. EDT
