---
date: '2022-10-13'
published_time: 2022-10-13 16:52:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/13/remarks-by-president-biden-on-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-investments/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law\_Investments"
---
 
L.A. Metro, D Line (Purple) Extension Transit Project  
Los Angeles, California

11:21 A.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Before you leave — before she walks off the stage, I
want her to understand why, for certain, she has this job.  
  
First of all, I know I get criticized by the other team for being the
most pro-union President in history.  There’s a simple reason for that. 
(Applause.)  People don’t understand how many year- — how many months
and years of apprenticeship?  
  
MS. HERNANDEZ:  Four.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Four.  Four years.  So they think anybody just shows up
for a union job and gets a job.  It’s like going back to school.  It is
going to school.  And they’re the best in the world.  They’re the best
in the world, all of you.  I’m not just saying that.   
  
The middle class built this country, and unions built the middle class. 
And you’re on this job because that woman said, “Hire local.” 
(Applause.)  
  
Anyway, thank you.  
  
MS. HERNANDEZ:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Mr. Mayor and soon-to-be Ms. Mayor — (laughter and
applause) — I — Mayor Garcetti has been a good friend for a long, long
time.  
  
If I’m being really honest about it, I probably wouldn’t be standing
here addressing you had he not helped me a lot.  And thank you for
welcoming me into your city.  
  
And I want to thank Hilda Solis.  I resent the fact she left Washington,
because I miss her personally, but her — she — love of her job and what
she’s doing for Los Angeles is so consequential.  
  
And a special thank you to California Democrats in Congress, many of
whom are here today.  
  
Senator Padilla, I — you — you’re the same way.  You jumped in to help
me out.  You’re doing one hell of a job as a freshman senator.  I mean —
I mean that sincerely.  And it’s noticed by everyone.  It’s great to see
you.  
  
Representative Maxine Waters — whatever Maxine says, I agree with.  
  
And <s>Natalie</s> \[Nanette\] Barragán.  Natalie, where — where’s Nat-
— Nanette.  Where’s Nanette?  There you are.  Sorry, Nanette.  I didn’t
see you back there.  
  
And Ted Lieu.  And Nanette Barragán.  Ted, there you are.  And Linda
Sánchez.  And Brad Sherman.  And — I just don’t want to leave anybody
out.   
  
And — what’s her name again?  Karen Bass?  (Laughter.)    
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Karen Bass!  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Karen, you’re the best.  You’re the best.  
  
Look, folks, you know, one of the things about a real leader is: The
place they’re trying to lead matters a lot of how much they love the
place they (inaudible).  She loves this city, and she’s always working
with the people of her district.  
  
And I know this is — you and Ted are about a block — you know, separated
by a street.  But you’re always working to expand opportunity and a
better future for all our children and our families for this city and
all around the country.  And you never leave anybody behind.  You never
leave anybody behind.  
  
And that’s exactly what this project will do that you all are building. 
It’s going to be a better life for everybody.  And I’m not — that’s not
hyperbole.  
  
Before I begin, let me say a few words quickly about today’s report on
inflation.  Americans are squeezed by the cost of living.  It’s been
true for years, and folks don’t need a report to tell them they’re being
squeezed.  
  
Fighting this battle every day is a key reason why I ran for President
of the United States.   
  
The way I think about it is the way my dad used to talk about it.  And
he’d say, “You know, after the end of the month, when you get your
paycheck — at the end of the month, do you have enough to pay for
everything you owe, all your bills, and would you have a little left for
some breathing room, just a little bit of breathing room.”  
  
And that’s my view of what it important and critical.  And a lot of
people are hurting these days.   
  
Today’s report shows, though, some progress.  Overall, inflation was 2
percent over the last three months.  That’s down from 11 percent over
the prior three months.  And that’s progress.  
  
But a lot of it is the result of getting the cost of living at the gas
pump down by more — now even in California now — by more than a dollar
nationally and — since the start of summer.  And there’s a big
difference for working folks.

But the price of gas is still too high, and we need to keep working to
bring it down.  I’ll have more to say about that next week.  
  
We also need to make more progress bringing down the prices across the
board.  
  
That’s why I just couldn’t disagree more with my Republican friends who
say that the biggest problem in our economy right now is that working
folks are making too much money.  No, that’s the argument: Workers are
making too much money, and too many people are working, too many jobs
are being filled.  I think that’s a bunch — as we Irish say, a bunch of
malarkey.  
  
The biggest problem — the biggest problem is the world’s challenge:
global inflation and the pandemic and Putin’s unconscionable invasion of
Ukraine.  
  
Here’s the deal: Because of my economic plan, we are better positioned
than any other major economy in the world to weather the challenges and
come through this as a stronger country.  
  
We’ve created nearly 700,000 manufacturing jobs just in the last 19
months.  (Applause.)    
  
Businesses are investing here in America at record rates.  They see what
I see: the resilience of the American people and the potential of
building an economy from the bottom up and middle out.  
  
Look, when the middle does well and the bottom has a chance, the wealthy
do very well.  They never get hurt.  I’m so tired of trickle-down; I’m
finished with it.  (Applause.)   
  
So we’re going to keep at it by taking on Big Pharma and the insurance
companies, especially the health insurance companies.   
  
With the help of Democrats in Congress here today, I signed the
Inflation Reduction Act, which gave Medicare the power that we’ve been
trying to get for the last 30 years: the power to negotiate lower
prescription drug prices.  (Applause.)  We pay the highest drug prices
of any nations in the world.  
  
For seniors on Medicare, we’re capping the cost of prescription drugs at
$2,000 a year even if they’re doing — using the most expensive cancer
drug in the world.  
  
We’re capping the cost of insulin, which is 30, 40 times higher than the
number I’m going to give you, at $35 — $35 a month.  You can’t go higher
than that.   
  
Folks, we’re locking in savings on healthcare premiums for millions of
people on the Affordable Care Act.  
  
And today, I’m announcing that Social Security benefits are going to go
up by an average of $140 a month, even as Medicare premiums go down. 
(Applause.)   
  
So, folks, seniors are going to get ahead of inflation next year.  For
the first time in 10 years, their Social Security checks will go up
while their Medicare premiums go down.  
  
Here’s my final point.  We’ve got an election in a month.  Voters have
to decide.  
  
Democrats are working to bring down the cost of things and — that are
talked about around the kitchen table, from prescription drugs, to
health insurance, to energy bills, and so much more.  We’re standing up
for working people and their right to get a raise and get a better
job.  
  
Republicans are campaigning every day on an agenda to raise your
costs.  
  
You know, I should point out before I go on a little: The Republican
platform so far for this off-year election is led by a senator from —
Senator Scott from down in Florida, as well as the — Senator Johnson
from up in Wisconsin.  And you know what they argue?  I — this is on
paper.  That, in fact, we should be in a situation where Social
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid should have to be voted on every single
year.  Every year.  The guy from Florida says, “Every five.”  The guy
from Wisconsin says, “No, every year, including veterans’ benefits.”  So
the idea is: You either vote for them or they go out of existence or you
cut them, but you got to affirmatively vote every year.   
  
You’ve been paying into a Social Security account from the time you were
16 years old at your first summer job.  It’s not fair.  
  
And the biggest thing they say they want to do, they want to get rid of
— get rid of — the number-one priority, and they’ve spoken to it: They
want to repeal the Inflation Reduction Act.  That means they’re going to
repeal the $2,000 cap on prescription drug costs.  Gone.  
  
The cap on insulin — gone — at 35 bucks.   
  
Savings on healthcare premiums, average of $400 a person.  Gone.  
  
Savings on your utility bills.  Gone.  
  
Corporate minimum tax of 15 percent — by the way, they got very upset
with me.  They got very upset with me.  You know what I did?  Well,
there were 55 American corporations who made $40 billion in 2020 — did
not pay a single penny — not a penny — in federal tax.   
  
So, I was so harsh.  I suggested they pay 15 percent.  Less than you
pay.  Fifteen percent to pay for all this, and it’s paying for it.  
  
But guess what?  My Republican colleagues think that’s unfair.  They
want to repeal that tax.  
  
Folks, you know, Republicans are going to make you — working,
middle-class folks — pay higher taxes.  And the biggest corporations —
and, by the way, in every single piece of legislation I’ve gotten passed
with the help of the people here, we have not raised the tax on anybody
making less than 400,000 bucks a year one penny.  (Applause.)  I wish I
was making 400- — you were making 400 grand.  But not a single penny. 
No, I mean it: not a single penny.   
  
If Republicans win, inflation is going to get worse.  It’s that
simple.  
  
Now, to today’s event.  For too long, we’ve talked about building the
best economy in the world.  We’ve talked about asserting America’s
leadership, with the best and safest roads, railroads, ports, airports,
et cetera.  Now we’re finally getting it done.   
  
We’re finally deciding that instead of being ranked — catch this: The
last eight years or so, America infrastructure — your bridges, the
rails, everything — you know what we were rated in the world — the most
powerful nation in the world?  Number 13.  Thirteen in the world — the
United States of America.   
  
Where do businesses come to invest?  Where they can get their products
out of the port and they get their products out of the yard, and they
can have access — bridges, roads, highways.  
  
Look, we should be ranked number one.  (Applause.)  Instead of
Infrastructure Week being a punchline under my predecessor,
Infrastructure Decade is a headline on my watch for the next 10 years. 
(Applause.)  
  
Last year, with the leadership of your members here in Congress, the
ones that are here today, I signed into law once-in-a-generation
investments on our nation’s roads, highways, bridges, railroads, ports,
airports.  A law that’s going to deliver clean air; safer water systems,
eliminating lead pipes; electric grid to deliver clean energy;
high-speed Internet; electric charging stations all across America; the
power to fleet — to take care of the fleets of new electric vehicles. 
It’s called the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
  
And, by the way, we got — we got some Republicans to vote for it.  About
a third of them voted for it and got it passed.  And I thank them for
that.  
  
And it’s the most significant investment America has made in our
infrastructure — literally, not figuratively — since the Interstate
Highway System built by Dwight D. Eisenhower.  (Applause.)  
  
And, folks, it includes the largest investment in public transit in the
history of America.  There’s no better example of what’s happening than
right here in Los Angeles.  Nearly 10 million people live in L.A. County
— I don’t have to tell you that — more than any county in the United
States.  And every year, people take more than 22 million rides on your
subways, your light rail, and your buses.  It’s how so many folks get to
work, school, and how tourists and locals explore this world-class
city.  
  
But the transit system needs an upgrade, badly.  You know that.  You
need to connect more neighborhoods, ease traffic congestion, air
pollution, and make it easier for people to get around and where they
need to go.  That’s exactly what you’re doing.  That’s exactly what
you’re doing.  But it’s being funded in part through this Infrastructure
Law — your local taxes and Infrastructure Law.  
  
This project, the extension of Metro’s Purple Line, it’s going to cover
one of L.A.’s busiest areas and job centers from UCLA, the future home
of — to many sites of the 2028 Olympics.  (Applause.)  And, by the way,
congratulations.  I did not use any undue influence.  (Laughter.)  I
just said I like L.A.  Anyway.  (Laughs.)  You’ll get in trouble.  
  
The first Metro rail line opened in 1990 with seventy- — 17 stations. 
Since then, more lines have been built to meet the needs of this vast
city.  
  
Under Mayor Garcetti’s leadership, you finally got going on extending
the Purple Line.  You got a big boost in funding from the Infrastructure
Law to finish the job.   
  
The extension of the Purple Line is going to add seven new stations,
build a reliable high-speed connection between Downtown and the
Westside.  A trip from Koreatown to the VA campus, which now takes over
an hour on a bus — sometimes longer than that — it’s going to shrink to
25 minutes on rail.   
  
We expect to see nearly 80,000 more riders on Metro every day, thanks to
the Purple Line extension.  (Applause.)  Roughly 27,000 fewer car rides
every day.  It’s going to affect pollution in a significant, positive
way: 124,000 fewer tons of carbon dioxide pumped into the air whi- — by
Los Angeles every year — 124,000.   That’s what it takes out of the
air.  Nearly 14 million gallons of gasoline saved.   
  
And it’s an easier commute for half a million people who come to work
every day in Centur- — in Century City or elsewhere on the Westside.  
  
Plus, this project is a job creator.  More than 100,000 workers — union
workers — more than 100,000 workers — (applause) — hard at work on the
entire Purple Line extension, all three sections.  
  
And here’s something else: Typically, companies that bid for projects
like this one aren’t required to hire locals.  I mentioned this before,
but it’s important to mention.   
  
When Karen pushed for a provision in the Infrastructure Bill — I hadn’t
even thought about it, to be honest with you — to give agencies like
L.A. Metro — and thank you, by the way, for what you’re doing, man — the
L.A. Metro the power to require contractors to hire local and make sure
the projects that transform communities like yours also create jobs for
local people from the communities.  Local workers can be first in line
for these jobs thanks to Karen.  I really mean it, Karen.  Thank you
very much.  (Applause.)   
  
Look, this is just one project — one project the Infrastructure Law is
making possible in California.  
  
For example, we’re moving forward with the East — East San Bernardi- —
<s>Bernardino</s> \[Fernando\] Valley Light Rail Project, a project that
is close to Senator Padilla’s heart.  And he has not let me forget about
it ever.  And I haven’t.  Haven’t, haven’t.  And you’re going to bring
fast and convenient public transportation options to one of the busiest
travel corridors in America.  
  
We’re going to help electrify L.A.’s entire bus fleet by 2030. 
(Applause.)  Entire bus — electrify.  That means every single bus in
L.A. across nearly 200 bus lines will be electric, which will
significantly reduce pollution, especially for folks getting on and off
diesel buses who have asthma.  Folks, diesel exhaust can really affect
people’s health.  That’s why we’ve been helping school districts all
across the country, I might add, electrify their school buses to keep
kids and — avoid childhood asthma.  
  
Los Angeles set a goal of zero emissions for their bus fleets by the end
of this decade.  We’re going to help make sure you get that done. 
(Applause.)   
  
And there’s more.  America invented modern aviation.  We’ve allowed our
airports to lag behind our competitors.  Not anyone.  Not anyone.  We’re
investing in LAX, including renovations to the central terminal to make
it easier to park, to pick up and drop off; to make it to your gate as
quickly as possible; and I hope, eventually, to get light rail there
too.  
  
Then that’s what we’re doing with our ports.  Earlier this year, I
visited the Port of Los Angeles, dealing with the whole issue of on-time
access to products that we need to make products here in America.  We’ve
done a lot of work there to ease back-ups and delays, bringing together
port operators, shipping companies, labor to move more goods more
rapidly.  
  
Last Christmas, we were against the — everyone’s expectation.  We
managed to get nearly 97 percent of all gifts delivered on time because
of those changes, despite the delays caused by the pandemic.  
  
And now we’re going further.  We’re building a new four-lane road to the
Port of L.A. to make it easier for trucks to drive up to the container
terminal, load up their goods for transport.  And the Port of Long
Beach, one of the busiest container ports in the nation, we’re going to
deepen the channels so ships can move in and out of that harbor faster. 
(Applause.)   
  
And, folks, this is going to make our supply chains more efficient, make
trade quicker and easier, and reduce air pollution.  
  
Then — then we’re going to rebuild bridges and highways all across this
state like we’re doing across the country.  
  
We’re working every single day to make sure California has access to
high — high-speed, affordable Internet.  Aren’t you — I don’t ever want
to see again where a family has to park in front of McDonald’s to do
online schooling because they don’t have access.  Already, nearly 2
million homes across California are getting low-cost or free Internet
because of the Infrastructure Law.  
  
And we’re going to provide clean water across California, replacing lead
pipes, worn-out service lines, replenishing Big Bear and other critical
water sources, and expanding water recycling as we deal with this
historic drought.  And it’s real. They’re just a few examples of the
more than 350 projects across California, with more to come.  
  
And when you see these projects in your neighborhood — cranes going up,
shovels in the ground, lives being changed — I want you to feel the way
I do: pride.  Pride in what we can do when we do it together.  
  
This is what I mean when I say we’re building a better America.  
  
For most of the last century, we led the world by a significant margin
because we invested in our people and we invested in ourselves.  
  
We used to invest 2 percent of our entire gross domestic product in
research and development.  It’s down to 0.7 percent.  This is the United
States of America.  But along the way, we stopped.  Not everyone
though.  But I have to say one thing:  Even Republicans can get behind
this law, although some of them have a funny way of showing it.  
  
Last week, I saw — you saw it too — an interesting report on CNN.  You
all may have seen.  I don’t know if CNN is here, but they put out a
report.  The headline was, quote, “Republicans called Biden’s
infrastructure program ‘socialism.’ And then they asked for \[more\]
money.”  End of quote.  (Laughter.)  
  
In my church, they say, “Bless me father for I have sinned…” 
(Laughter.)   
  
But look, the report describes Republicans in detail — I’m not going to
mention their names — who voted against the Infrastructure Bill, called
me and it “socialist,” and then attacked the — all Democrats who were
passing it — “socialism,” “radical spending,” “rushed,” and
“irresponsible.”  
  
Well, now they’re quietly and privately sending letters to my
administration asking for money.  They’re talking about how important
projects are in their districts and for all Americans.  Well, guess
what?  I’m going to give them the money because it’s not about them,
it’s about the people they represent.  (Applause.)   
  
And Speaker Pelosi says, “They vote no and then they take the dough.” 
(Laughter.)  Can’t make this stuff up.  I got to say, I’m surprised to
see there are so many socialists in the Republican Caucus.  (Laughter.) 
Well, even if they voted against it, I said, I promised during my
campaign I’d be President for all of America, every American.  Whether
you voted for me or not, I’m not leaving anyone behind.  (Applause.)  
  
And we’re building a better America together for everyone, even in the
districts of the congressmen who voted against it.  
  
Let me close with this: It’s been a rough four or five years for the
country.  For a lot — for a lot of your families, things are still
pretty tough.  Even though you got good-paying jobs and health
insurance, it’s still pretty tough.  But there’s — there are bright
spots where America is reasserting itself — like here, where the best
workers in the world are hard at work building a better future for all
of us.  They’re providing our best days to be available to us.  And
they’re ahead of us, they’re not behind us.   
  
We just have to keep it going, and I know we can.  I mean it sincerely. 
I know we can.  I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future,
particularly relative to the rest of the world.  We’re better positioned
than any nation in the world.  And every other nation that I’m aware of
is aware of it.  When I meet with the heads of state in Europe, in Asia,
they know it.  
  
We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America, and there’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity — nothing —
when we decide we’re going to do it together.   
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  Thanks.  
  
11:44 A.M. PDT
