---
date: '2022-10-20'
published_time: 2022-10-20 23:15:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/20/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications\
  \ John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

1:41 P.M. EDT

MS. SHARMA: Hey, everyone. Thanks for joining us. Sorry we’re running a
little bit behind. I’m going to turn it over to Kirby, who has some
thoughts at the top, and then we’ll try to take as many questions as we
can.

So, Kirby, over to you.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Saloni. I think as you guys have all been aware,
we’ve been warning since July that Iran would be planning to sell UAVs —
unmanned aerial — unmanned aerial vehicles — to Russia for use against
Ukraine.

In September, as we said, Russia transferred UAVs that it had purchased
from Iran into Crimea to use in its war against Ukraine.

So today we can confirm that Russian military personnel that are based
in Crimea have been piloting Iranian UAVs, using them to conduct strikes
across Ukraine, including strikes against Kyiv in just recent days.

We assess that Iranian military personnel were on the ground in Crimea
and assisted Russia in these operations. Russia has received dozens of
UAVs so far and will likely continue to receive additional shipments in
the future.

Furthermore, in light of Russia’s ongoing supply shortages, we are
concerned that Russia may also seek to acquire advanced conventional
weapons from Iran, such as surface-to-surface missiles that will almost
certainly be used to support the war against Ukraine.

There’s extensive proof of their use by Russia against both military and
civilian targets there. Yet both Iran and Russia continue to lie about
it, denying that Iran is providing weapons to Russia for use in Ukraine.
Iran and Russia, (inaudible), they can lie to the world, but they
certainly can’t hide the facts.

And the fact is this: Tehran is now directly engaged on the ground and
through the provision of weapons that are impacting civilians and
civilian infrastructure in Ukraine — in fact, that are killing civilians
and destroying civilian infrastructure in Ukraine.

So, let’s be very clear: The United States is going to pursue all means
to expose, deter, and confront Iran’s provision of these munitions
against the Ukrainian people. We’re going to continue to vigorously
enforce all U.S. sanctions on both the Russian and Iranian arms trade.
We’re going to make it harder for Iran to sell these weapons to Russia.
We’re going to help the Ukrainians have what they need to defend
themselves against these threats. And we’re going to continue to stand
with our partners throughout the Middle East region against the Iranian
threat.

We’re also working with allies and partners, including at the United
Nations, to address Iran’s dangerous proliferation of weapons to Russia.
Yesterday, in New York, we began that process with Ukraine, the UK, and
France to hold Iran accountable for its provision of UAVs to Russia.
This closed meeting in the U.N. Security Council kicked off a process
under U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231 — I know you’re all familiar
with that with respect to Iran — and it was led by a panel of experts.

Today, the EU and the UK also slapped new sanctions on Iranian
individuals and entities that are supporting Iran’s support for Russia’s
war. As you know, we have done that already. We will continue to impose
and vigorously enforce sanctions on those who aid Iran’s support for
Russia’s war against Ukraine.

Let me just end with this: We’ve said this for months, that Russia had
plans to turn to Iran for support. And this is another sign of just how
brutal Mr. Putin is willing to be and just how isolated both he and Iran
are from the rest of the world.

But bottom line is: We don’t believe it’s going to change the course of
the war. The Iranian people have shown in the midst of the air attacks
that they’ve suffered over the last few days that they are standing firm
and resilient, that they’re not going to allow it to change their
determination to push back on Russian aggression.

The Ukrainian armed forces have proven that it’s not going to change
their calculus in terms of the territory that they are trying to claw
back.

And the other thing that’s not going to change is our determination to
continue to provide Ukraine with the security assistance and financial
assistance that they’re going to need to defend themselves.

And with that, I’ll take questions.

MS. SHARMA: Great. Let’s go to Aamer Madhani from AP. You should be able
to unmute yourself and ask your question.

Q Hi. Thanks, Saloni. Hi, John. On these details that you just unveiled
on Iran’s involvement, can you say,  
even ballpark, how many personnel and type of personnel from Iran are in
Crimea? And why does Russia need actual Iranian on-the-ground help with
the UAVs? And, I guess, finally, how does this action impact the
administration’s look at — feeling on returning to the JCPOA? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Okay. I don’t have a number of — yeah, I don’t have a number
of how many Iranians are in Crimea, but we do know it’s a — there’s a
relatively small number that are. And the answer for why there is — it’s
a — it’s a good question.

First of all, these are systems that the Russian armed forces are not
familiar using. And these are organically manufactured Iranian UAVs, and
the Russians just don’t have anything in their inventory. So, it follows
that they would need a little training on how to pilot these things.

Number two, there were operator — well, I’d say operator and system
failures early on where either they weren’t being piloted appropriately
and properly and were failing to reach targets, or the systems
themselves were suffering failures and not performing to the standards
that apparently the customers expected. So the Iranians decided to move
in some trainers and some technical support to help the Russians use
them with better lethality.

And was your question is this relat- — how is this going to be related
to the JCPOA? Or was it just a general JCPOA question?

Q How is this directly — does this impact the administration’s decisions
continue to keep the possibility of returning to the JCPOA open?

MR. KIRBY: Okay, I gotcha. Our focus right now, quite frankly, Aamer, is
not on the JCPOA. We are way far apart with the Iranians in terms of a
return to the deal, so we’re just simply not focused on that right now.
They had demands that were well in excess of what the JCPOA was supposed
to cover.  
And again, so we’re just — we are not focused on the diplomacy at this
point.

What we are focused on is making sure that we’re holding the regime
accountable for the way they’re treating peaceful protesters in their
country, and supporting those protesters. And we are focused, as I said
in my opening statement, on making sure we’re holding Iran and Russia
accountable for this — for these arm sales.

And there are existing UNSCR resolutions, like 2231, that give us the
authority to continue to sanction Iranian defense industry and that kind
of thing. As a matter of fact, I mean — just to level set, I mean, we’ve
sanctioned companies — defense companies in Iran and one individual that
is involved in the research, development, production, and procurement of
UAVs and UAV components. And that would include the Shahed series of
drones, which we know are being used inside Ukraine right now. Those are
the ones that I’m sure you’ve seen — the tri-wings.

And we’re going to continue to impose those sanctions, as well as
explore new sanctions, as we did yesterday in the U.N. So there’s going
to be more to come on that.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Josh Wingrove from Bloomberg. You
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hey there. Thank you so much for doing this. John, forgive me, it
might be my line crackling a little bit. Can you just — you’re saying
that the Iranians and the Russians are both jointly piloting these
remotely from Crimea. I want to be sure I heard you right on that. And
if you could elaborate a little bit more on what you think the next
steps will be, that would be great.

And just to pile on totally, I wondered if you folks had a comment on an
indictment last night of two Russian nationals who were charged with
evading sanctions on smuggling U.S. military technology and Venezuelan
oil, and the link to the company RUSAL and whether there’ll be a further
U.S. response to that. Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Okay. I’m sorry, I was writing your questions down. What we —
the information we have is that the Iranians have put trainers and tech
support in Crimea, but it’s the Russians who are doing the piloting.
That’s our assessment at this time. So I think I’ll leave it at that.

On next steps, I think I covered that in my opening statement. We’re
going to continue to — to hold both Russia and Iran accountable.
Certainly, we’re exploring new sanctions. We’ve already imposed
sanctions. You saw the EU and the UK today also slap some sanctions on
Iran and individuals and companies. So there’s growing international
support here to  
to impose accountability on Iran for this provision.

But the other thing — next steps, I mean — the other thing — and I said
it in my opening statement, and I guess it’s easy because we say it all
the time; it’s considered a throwaway line, and it’s not: We’re going to
continue to make sure that Ukraine has the capabilities they need to
defend themselves.

And so, the Defense Department is looking actively right now at
potential air defense solutions for the Ukrainians. I can’t tell you
today what that’s going to look like, when that — you know, we’re going
to be able to move additional air defense capabilities to Ukraine. But I
can assure you that DOD is well aware of the threat and is working hard
to see what they can do to help the Ukrainians deal with the threat.

In addition to us looking inside the lifelines — pardon the old Navy
term — we’re — we’re looking outside the lifelines, and that means we’re
working with allies and partners who also have air defense capabilities
at their disposal that might be willing to provide them to Ukraine.

And just last week, you saw Germany and Spain agree to pony up some
short- to medium-range air defense capability that the Ukrainians can
use.

So, we understand the threat they’re under and how these drones adjust
that threat. And we’re going to keep working to make sure that they get
what they need.

And on your last question, it’s going to sound like I’m dodging you, but
I promise I’m not. I really need to defer you to the — refer you to the
Justice Department on something that — that is not something that we,
here at the NSC, would speak to. That’s really better in their purview.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Patsy from Voice of America. You
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thank you, and thanks for taking my call. So, on the Iranian drones,
John, can you speak about whether there’s any indication that Belarus is
somehow also involved either in the transfer or operation or training or
what have you of these Iranian drones by Russia?

And is this part of — you know, like, can you also speak a little bit in
terms of the renewed Russian offensive operations threat on the northern
front? I mean, do you see the indication that the threat of Russian
offensive from Belarus is indeed growing?

And if I may, just one question on Taiwan. Can you confirm on reporting
that U.S. and Taiwan are in talks for a joint production of weapons? I
know that Vedant spoke briefly on this yesterday at State, but if you
can add anything else that’d be great. Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: On the last question, I can’t add to that. I have nothing
more to say on that. What I can tell you is that  
we remain committed to helping Taiwan defend itself, and we’re  
we’re always going to be open to — to considering new ways to do that in
concert with Taiwan. But I don’t have anything specific on that — on
that particular report.

On your — on your other stuff: On Belarus, no indication that Belarus is
involved in either the transfer, training, or operation of these — of
these drones.

In terms of the — pardon me — the military footprint in Belarus, Belarus
has served throughout the entire eight months of this war as the staging
base or bases for Russian forces, pre-invasion and even during the war
when they would use Belarus as a logistical and sustainment support, not
only to support troops that were in Ukraine, but to allow those troops
when they were retreating and repositioning after the lost battle of
Kyiv to refit themselves in Belarus. So, Belarus has certainly provided
material, moral, and tangible support to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.

That said, we have not seen Belarusian troops actually in Ukraine
fighting. And while we’re mindful of this new arrangement between Russia
and Belarus to host more forces from both nations and to create sort of
a territorial defense  
apparatus as they — as they’ve talked about it, and to conduct
exercises, it remains to be seen whether this constitutes some sort of
major strategic shift by Belarus to get involved in Ukraine.

Frankly, Patsy, we just haven’t seen them take that next step. That
doesn’t mean we’re diminishing the support that they’re giving and
decrying it. Of course, we are. But we haven’t seen any indication that
Belarus is willing to come in tangibly inside Ukraine and fight.

Now, one of the things that could be — could be the tactic here by this
new association and territorial defense that they’re talking about is to
try to see if they could  
force the Ukrainians to apply manpower on that border as a defense
mechanisms of their own. So, it could be an effort to just see if they
could divert Ukrainian armed forces to that part of their border so that
they can’t be used elsewhere in the Donbas or in the south, and that
could be a tactic here.

But it remains to be seen. We’re going to watch this as closely as we
can.

Your other question about the Russian offensives in the east: I think we
need to keep this in perspective. Yes, both the east and the south
remain kinetic battle fronts. The lines have not moved much in the last
72 to 96 hours. But that doesn’t mean they’re static. You know, there’s
some shifts here there. Certainly there’s continued artillery fire and
combat between units.

And I think you’re talking about that Bakhmut, which is in the — in the
Donbas, specifically. And there is very active fighting going on in
Bakhmut today, as the last couple of days. It’s largely being done
through the Wagner group. This isn’t conventional Russian military
forces. It’s these private military contractors. They’re the ones sort
of spearheading these efforts. And the fighting is — has been real. It’s
been — and it’s been close in some areas.

And if you had to point to one area in the Donbas where it looks like
the Russians might be making a little bit of headway, it’s in that
Bakhmut offensive. But it’s not clear what the ultimate goal here is,
and it is certainly not — it’s not finished, and the Ukrainians are
fighting very, very hard. And there’s no indication that this is somehow
lost all of a sudden or that the Russians have some sort of
breakthrough. I would I would be very careful going that far, in terms
of speculation.

MS. SHARMA: Great. Thank you. Let’s go to Andrew Feinberg from The
Independent. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hello, can you hear me?

MS. SHARMA: Yep. Yep.

Q Excellent. Thanks for doing this, John. The other day, Ben Wallace was
in town. He met with Jake Sullivan. And the readout that your all put
out was a bit anodyne. I’m wondering if you can share any more about
what they talked about. Did he offer any assurances to the U.S. about
the stability of the UK government, considering what had and has been
happening in London? And is there any concern that continuing
instability in London could affect any joint U.S.-UK or NATO efforts
going forward on Ukraine or any other matters?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, I — I take the — I take the literary criticism of the
readout. But I don’t want to go much beyond that.

I will just tell you this: that the focus of the conversation — at least
here at the NSC, when he met with Mr. Sullivan; I can’t speak for the
other discussions he had in town — was very much focused on Ukraine and
what they’re seeing, what we’re seeing, and the support that each of us
are giving to Ukraine. And that’s why that was so prominent in our
“anodyne” readout.

It — boring as it might have been, it was accurate. So, I think I just
leave it at that. There wasn’t — there wasn’t discussion about internal
British politics; it was about — it was about Ukraine. And we were — we
were happy to have the visit, happy to have the conversation.

And as for what goes forward, the — it’s up to the British people to
determine, you know, what their next government looks like, and we
respect that. We also respect the fact that Great Britain is a terrific
allied partner, and we have no expectation that there’s going to be any
change in that partnership or any change in the strength of our resolve
to continue to help the Ukrainian people.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Vivian Salama. Sorry, one second. I’m
just having — okay, you should be able to unmute yourself now.

Q Thanks so much, Saloni. Hey, Kirby. How are you? Thanks for doing
this.

I wanted to ask you just a follow-up to your answer on air defense
systems and things like that. Just specifically, the Ukrainians have
been pressing for some Iron Dome-like technology for several months now,
and those conversations have kind of ebbed and flowed. Obviously, Israel
has been involved in that just because it has, sort of, exclusive rights
to that technology so far.

And so, I wanted to see if you could update us on where those
discussions stand. You know, how likely is it, given especially what
we’ve seen just in the last week with the drone strikes, that we would
see something like an Iron Dome-like technology, you know, given to
Ukraine anytime soon? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: As I said, I don’t have any updates on specific capabilities
that the United States might be willing to provide. DOD is working on
this, and I don’t want to get ahead of that process. But I do know that
they are, in fact, looking hard at what — what’s in the realm of the
possible, including, as I said earlier, what could be possible from
allies and partners, because they sometimes have organic air defense
capabilities that they — you know, that they might be willing to
provide.

On Israel — and actually, I’ll back up. On any of these decisions,
they’re sovereign decisions. These are decisions that these nations have
to make and should be allowed to make in their own time and in their own
way. And we a hundred percent respect that. That’s why Secretary Austin
stood up this Ukraine Contact Group. The whole idea of the group, which
I think has met six or seven times now, is that nations come together
and do what — do what they can. And they make these decisions on their
own.

And part of the calculus with which they make these decisions is
preserving their own national security. So, we respect that. And Israel
should have the right to speak to what they’re willing to do or not
willing to do without judgment, because it’s got to be a decision that
they make. And — and we want to respect that process.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Ryo Nakamura from Nikkei. You should
be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hi, thank you very much for taking my question. Yesterday, the Chief
of Naval Operations, Admiral Gilday, indicated that China could invade
Taiwan before 2024. Does the White House agree with the Admiral’s
assessment? Is there any change in the past assessments that China might
be capable of seizing Taiwan by 2027? Thank you very much.

MR. KIRBY: Hey, Ryo. I would just say, look, we monitor this — monitor
this as best we can. And I’m not going to get into intelligence
assessments one way or the other.

I would just tell you what we’ve said time and time again: There is no
reason for this to erupt into conflict. We — nothing has changed about
our approach to Taiwan, our adherence to the One China policy. Nothing
has changed about the fact that we’re going to continue to, as I said in
the previous question, look for ways to help Taiwan with its
self-defense capabilities. That work will continue.

And we don’t want to see the use — the status quo across the Strait
changed unilaterally. And we certainly don’t want to see it changed by
force. And there’s absolutely no reason for that to happen since there’s
been no change in the way we’re approaching Taiwan and Taiwan’s
self-defense.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Nadia from Al Arabiya. You should be
able to unmute yourself now.

Q Hi, guys. Thank you so much for doing this. President Obama said
recently that he regretted not supporting the Green Movement in Iran
enough in 2009. In retrospect, he said it was a mistake.

John, how can this administration avoid making this mistake twice?

MR. KIRBY: I certainly won’t speak to the Obama administration. I can’t
do that. I can only speak for President Biden and for this
administration. And you heard in the well of the U.N., shortly — like
right after those protests began and Ms. Amini was killed — that
President Biden made clear where we stand on human rights and the right
of free and peaceful expression.

We have been crystal clear since the beginning that the movement now —
it started with young women, but it’s grown beyond that — but that these
— that these Iranian citizens should have the right to peacefully
protest policies and dictates that they find objectionable or repressive
without the fear of reprisal and without the fear of violence.

And we backed up that support by sanctioning the morality police as well
as other Iranian intelligence officials involved in cracking down on
these protesters. And we are exploring additional accountability
measures for the regime.

We have been nothing but candid about where we stand on the (inaudible)
peaceful protests and particularly in Iran. And we’re going to continue
to do that.

You’re going to — you’re going to see us unapologetically come out in
favor of this peaceful protest and continue, as I said, to explore ways
to hold the regime accountable.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Keth from France 24. You should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q Yes. Thanks for taking my question. I had a question about the — about
Finland and Sweden joining NATO and the two holdouts still — Hungary and
Turkey. Is there any effort from the administration to sort of engage
with these two countries to sort of speed up the process or get them to
sign off on this?

MR. KIRBY: We are — we — I don’t have any specific conversations to
speak to. We’re obviously in touch with all our NATO Allies, as you
would think we would be throughout this process. But these are, again,
sovereign decisions that these — that these allies have to make. And we
appreciate that.

That’s the way the system works. You have to have unanimous consent by
all — all 30 Allies. And — and so that process is ongoing.

Look, we’ve made clear where we stand on this. We believe both nations
would be terrific additions to the Alliance. They’re modern militaries.
They’re militaries that are very capable. We, in the United States, are
very comfortable working with them, as we have in the past. And they
would bring a tremendous set of additional defensive capabilities to the
Alliance.

So we’ve spoken to this, and most of the rest of the Alliance has as
well. These nations, though, they have their own processes to follow.
They have their own deliberations to make.

Sovereignty matters. Even inside NATO Alliance, sovereignty matters. And
so we want to respect that.

But we’ll continue to engage all our NATO Allies on this going forward,
again, with the strong hope and expectation that Finland and Sweden will
soon be able to join.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you. Let’s go to Steve from Reuters. You should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q Hey, thank you. Hey, John, what’s the status of the review of Saudi
Arabia and the consequences for their oil output cut? What — I haven’t
heard anything about this all week. What’s — what’s happening there?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, it’s ongoing, Steve, and it has been since the
President made the decision that we’re going to do it.

Thus far, most of the process of reviewing the relationship and looking
at options going forward is internal here to the national security team
and inside the interagency. But we expect to be able to broaden that out
to include members of Congress, you know, when they come back to town.

So we’re not going to rush this. I don’t have a timeline for you. I’m
certainly not going to speak to ongoing deliberations. But I can assure
you that that process of review has begun and we’re working it
internally.

But again, we look forward to being able to have conversations with
members of Congress from both sides of the aisle, quite frankly, at the
earliest opportunity.

Q Thank you.

MS. SHARMA: Thank you.

Sorry, guys, I’m — I’m not as good with the technical stuff as I should
be.

Okay, let’s go to Laura Kelly from The Hill. You should be able to
unmute yourself.

Q Hi, thank you so much for taking my question. I just wanted to go back
on sanctions on Iran for the drone sales to Russia. Has the U.S. imposed
sanctions on Iran related to these drone sales? Or is it mostly being
focused on the U.N. and snapping back U.N. sanctions on Iran? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: No, I mean, we have imposed new sanctions, including on an
air transportation service provider for its involvement in the shipment
of Iranian UAVs to Russia. So, specifically on this issue, we’ve already
done that.

We’ve also sanctioned, as I said earlier, companies and even one
individual that was involved in the research, development, production,
and procurement of Iranian UAVs and components, as I said earlier,
including specifically the Shahed family of drones that we know are
being used — some of which, anyway — we know are being used in Ukraine.

So, no, I mean, the sanctions we put in place are — have been
specifically on this — on this issue. And we’re going to continue to
look for additional opportunities going forward.

MS. SHARMA: Okay. Thank you. I think we just have time for one more.

MR. KIRBY: And I would just add that I think the Treasury — correct me
if I’m wrong, Saloni — but they can go to the Treasury website and see
these sanctions and see for themselves, you know, the names of the
companies and the individuals. It’s all on the website.

MS. SHARMA: That’s right.

All right, so let’s do our last question. Felicia Schwartz from the FT.
You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thanks so much. Hi, John. Just following up on the question about the
Saudis, this Saudi-sponsored business conference next week that people
call “Davos in the Desert,” I’m wondering if you’re asking or
encouraging American companies not to attend as part of your
reevaluation of the Saudi relationship.

And then just one more, if I may. Ben Wallace announced that, on
September 29th, there was an incident over the Black Sea when a Russian
jet released a missile near a UK spy plane. The Russians said this was a
technical malfunction. Do you believe that explanation? Is this
something you talked about or that Jake and Ben Wallace talked about
when he was here?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not going to get into more detail on the conversation
with the Minister of Defense. I’ve already kind of addressed that issue.
I’ll let the British talk about their aircraft and the — and what — and
the incident.

I would tend to believe the British version over whatever the Russian
version is on anything. So I’d leave it there.

And then on the first question: No, we are not talking to U.S. companies
in advising or discouraging them to not attend the “Davos in the
Desert.” We are not — we are not doing that. These are decisions that,
as private companies, they can make for themselves.

MS. SHARMA: Great. All right. Well, thanks, everyone, for joining. Talk
to you soon.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, everybody.

2:14 P.M. EDT
