---
date: '2022-10-15'
modified_time: 2022-10-17 00:32:18-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-15 00:28:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-mi-first-vote-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at MI First Vote\_Event"
---
 
*   
*Southfield High School for the Arts and Technology*  
*Southfield, Michigan**

3:16 P.M. EDT

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon!  (Applause.)  Good afternoon,
everyone!  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Hello.  Oh, good afternoon,
everyone.  Good afternoon.  It is — how’s the band doing?  (Applause and
laughter.)  Good afternoon.  
  
     Let me — Joshua, it — look — I — I was backstage talking with
Joshua.  And I have to tell you, when I look at our young leaders like
Joshua, I know our future is so bright.  It’s so bright.  
  
     And so, Joshua, thank you for that introduction and you being such
a role model around who we are and who we can be as a nation.  
  
     So it is good to be back in Michigan.  It is good to be back in
Detroit.  (Applause.)  And I just want to — we are in the district — the
congressional district of an extraordinary American leader who is also a
dear friend to me and has been someone that I have looked to for advice
and for thoughts about how we can do better and be better in
representing the needs of all Americans.  And her name is Brenda
Lawrence.  (Applause.)  
  
     Where — there she is, over there.  And I have to tell you, just
personally, I was — I was really sad when she decided not to run for
reelection.  But I — I cannot thank you enough, Congresswoman Lawrence,
Brenda, for all you have done in friendship and in service of our
nation.  
  
     She truly is such a fighter for this district, and I know you’re
not going to stop fighting for the folks who need to hear your voice for
inspiration.  (Applause.)  So, thank you.  
  
     And we have another fierce advocate for Michiganders here —
Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  There she is. 
Thank you for your leadership. 

     And, of course, the lieutenant governor of this great state, Garlin
Gilchrist, where — (applause) — who is truly — I’ve seen him in all
kinds of situations where he is always fighting for the people of this
state, and a tireless fighter that — with an incredible partner in
Governor Gretchen Whitmer.  (Applause.)

     So, send them back to the statehouse, because we’re counting on
their partnership.  
  
     But most of all, today, I am here to meet with you, the young
leaders of Southfield — all of you who are here — because I’ve been
hearing about you, and I know about the work that you all are doing and
your role of leadership and how you are inspiring so many of us.  
  
     And so, when I think about you, I think about — so much about what
our future will be and what it will require of each of us.  
  
     You know, I just left — I was at <s>project HOPE</s> \[Focus:
HOPE\] and talking with a bunch of folks there about an incredible
training program that is happening to build up the skills of — of folks
in the community, run — and the training by UAW and IBEW.  And — and
it’s extraordinary what is happening and what can happen when we invest
in our God-given capacity, which means investing in the young leaders in
our communities.  
  
     And so, to the young leaders here, I will say: I know you guys have
been through a lot these last two years — a global pandemic which
interrupted your education and many unfortunate and sad situations took
loved ones from you and the community in which you live.  It impacted
your ability to form bonds and relationships when you so desperately and
rightly wanted to know and believe you were not alone. 

     And in this whole period of time, so many of you were preparing to
go to college or to start your career.  It’s a lot.  It’s a lot. 

     But here’s what I have learned in my life: People who have had to
go through the most, who have struggled the hardest, are usually some of
the most generous people you’ve ever met — the most generous people
you’ve ever met — empathetic — and believe and know that the measure of
their strength is based on who they lift up.  And that is true of you,
the young leaders who are here.

     I know about what you’ve been doing.  During the pandemic, you
sewed masks and delivered groceries to your neighbors.  You took to the
streets to march and to rally and to bring attention to the issues of
our time.  You are leaders in the classroom, on athletic fields, in
places of worship, and in so many other places in the community.   
  
     And now, for the first time, many of you can access the single most
powerful tool you can have to lead and care for your community, and that
is you can register to vote.  (Applause.)  
  
     So I just met a young leader here today — Dayton Paige.  Dayton,
where are you?  There you are.  And Dayton is a senior at University
High School Academy.  And he is the captain of the tennis team.  And he
is a volunteer nursing aide at Beaumont Hospital.  (Applause.)  And now,
a registered voter.  (Applause.)  Because as he put it, in his words, he
said, basically, in this moment, quote, “People need to listen to our
voice and our opinions.”  And you are right.  He is right.  
  
     And, you know, that is what happened in 2020, when young voters
registered in record numbers.  Here in Michigan, we saw a double-digit
increase in youth turnout.  (Applause.)  Young voters made their voices
heard, and it made a difference.  
  
     And so, I’m here to thank you and to recognize that, and to share
with you that we need you to do the same thing again.  I’ll tell you
why.  
  
     As your Vice President, I have met with so many young leaders
around our nation.  So many of you faced challenges during the
pandemic.  And, in particular, one of the issues you are rightly
demanding we address are the challenges related to mental health. 
(Applause.)  
  
     Because what you are telling us is, look, this is something we need
to address, understanding that one of the failures of our healthcare
system that we need to fix is: In the healthcare system, we seem to have
decided that the body just starts from the neck down, but what about
healthcare from the neck up?  (Applause.)

     You have said to us: There should not be disparities based on the
wealth or the tax base of a community that determines which schools have
a counselor and which students have access to mental healthcare.  You
have said that to us.  (Applause.)  And that every school and every
student should have access to the care they need, which is why we heard
you and we invested $300 million to help schools hire more psychologists
and counselors and other mental health professionals — (applause) — to
ensure that you get the support that you deserve and need.  
  
     After you graduate, you and your peers should be able to go to
college without going broke.  (Applause.)  So our administration has
increased Pell Grants by $400 per student per year, which is the largest
increase in more than a decade.  And we are still on the path to do
better.  It is our full intention to double Pell Grants by the end of
this decade.  (Applause.)

     We also need to support the institutions and the educational
institutions that train you to lead by investing in you and those
schools.  
  
     I know that some of you will attend an HBCU next fall. 
(Applause.)  As a proud graduate of Howard University, I am proud to
tell you: We have invested an historic $5.8 billion — that’s with a “B”
— in our HBCUs — (applause) — to ensure they will remain centers of
academic excellence.  
  
     You, the young leaders of America, are also counting on us — and
not only counting on us, demanding of us — rightly — that our country
treat the climate crisis as the crisis it is.  (Applause.)

  
     So we made the largest investment in protecting our planet in
history. 

     And because we know that, for generations, low-income communities,
communities of color have borne the brunt of toxic air and water
pollution, our approach is grounded in environmental justice and equity
in places like Flint, Michigan — (applause) — as we intend to remove
every lead pipe in our nation.  (Applause.)  
  
     Because your leadership on this issue is what is going to
accelerate us to meet the moment.  It is your voices, as young leaders,
that have been part of the conscience for this planet on what we need to
do with a sense of urgency.  It is you who are reminding the folks who
can vote, the folks who are in charge that it is you who will pay the
consequence if we don’t act.  
  
     And I encourage you to keep — keep it up and make those demands. 
And don’t hear, “No, it can’t be done,” because we can address this
issue and be smart, but we must be swift.  (Applause.)

  
     And we are also dealing with the fact that when we deal with
extreme cri- — crises, in terms of the climate crisis, when we are
dealing with this issue, it should not just be the government coming in
and telling communities what they need.  
  
     We must lead with an understanding that the communities must be the
ones telling us what they need.  And I will tell you, for the young
leaders who are here, I’m counting on you to be part of that leadership
around what your specific community will require in terms of mitigation,
adaptation, what we need to do to invest in clean economies, what we
need to do to reduce greenhouse gas emissions — because it has to be the
community that leads it, not government leaders.  (Applause.)

  
     So we have made real progress.  We have made real progress as a
nation, but there is so much more work to be done.  And I have seen that
as I have traveled across our nation and across the world as your Vice
President.  
  
     Basic rights and freedoms hang in the balance right now.  And one
of those is the right of every student and every citizen in our country
to live free from the fear and terror of gun violence.  (Applause.)

     And while this violence touches all communities, it does not do so
equally.  We have to speak truth about that.  Black Americans are 13
percent of our nation’s population and 62 percent of homicide victims of
gun violence.  On average, 11 Latino people in our nation die from gun
violence every day.  
  
     You and students across our nation know the trauma and the toll
that gun violence takes for you all to have to worry about any of that
while you’re sitting in a classroom or just walking home from school.  
  
     But here’s the thing: You, again, as young leaders, have been
leading this issue, demanding that we act.  And I have met young leaders
across our country who, on this topic, are organizing and activating,
who have demanded bold action to save lives.  And that is why we’ve done
the work of expanding background checks for gun purchases for people
under 21 years old.  (Applause.)  
  
     But we need to do more.  We need to do more, including renewing the
assault weapons ban.  (Applause.)  They are weapons of war and have no
place on the streets of a civilized society.  (Applause.) 

     And there is more urgent work we must do.  
  
     So you all, as young leaders, have just witnessed the first time
the highest court in our land just took a constitutional right, that had
been recognized, from the people of America, from the women of
America.  
  
     But you all are clear: Women should be able to make decisions about
their own bodies — (applause) — and not have their government tell them
what they’re supposed to do.  (Applause.)

  
     You all are reminding us of the principles upon which our country
was founded, including the importance of freedom and liberty.  Because
here’s the thing on that issue: One does not have to abandon their faith
or their deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)

     And I’ve talked with so many of our young leaders who have now been
saying to me that they’re now even contemplating what state they may go
to for college based on what’s happening around our country, and I know
you don’t appreciate having to factor this into that very important
decision.  
  
     So we will continue to fight to pass a federal law to protect
reproductive care and guarantee the protections of Roe v. Wade. 
(Applause.)

     So I’ll conclude with this point: The most successful movements in
our nation, if you track them — those movements that have been about
progress, that have been about expanding rights — not restricting them,
but expanding rights — those movements that have been about believing in
the ideals upon which we were founded, but fighting for us to realize
those ideals — look at what those movements have been and who has been a
part of it, and you will see they have been led by students.  
  
     Students have always been an integral part of the leadership of
each one of those movements.  Because you, as students, you know how to
build coalitions.  You don’t accept false choices.  You understand that
the vast majority of us have so much more in common than what separates
us.  You know how to bring folks together on that basis to help us see
what we have in common.  
  
     And so, as we move forward, we understand that our nation’s history
of progress includes the young leaders — let’s remember this — who sat
at lunch counters and who marched for voting rights, including here at
the Walk to Freedom.  
  
     Let’s remember young leaders who joined the labor movement to fight
for fair wages and hours, including at the Battle of the Overpass in
Dearborn.  (Applause.)  
  
     Let’s remember our history to motivate the leadership that our
country needs and relies on, which is all of you.  
  
     Today, it is you who are organizing and advocating to address the
climate crisis, to end gun violence, to protect reproductive rights.  
  
     And I am here to say: Our nation needs you.  We need you.  We need
your voices of clarity, of purpose.  If anybody is invested in the
future of our nation, it is you.  If anyone is entitled to speak to what
that future should look like, it is you.  (Applause.)  And so we are
counting on you to use your voices, to know that your voice is critical
to everything we will ever be.  
  
     And so, on this day, in this season, I will ask that you use that
voice in all the ways you know how, including: Please do register to
vote.  (Applause.)  Please do register to vote.  
  
     I came with a website address.  (Laughter.)  Vote.gov.  
  
     Please do register to vote, and then text your friends and make
sure they do, too.  Do what you do on Instagram and all that other
stuff.  (Applause.)  Do what you do.  And carry your voices, carry your
commitment, carry your ambitions and your aspirations through your voice
in every one of these ways.  
  
     And finally, just keep your head up and your shoulders back,
knowing that we are counting on you, that we applaud you.  And I will
tell you, based on personal experiences, that it is important for you to
always remember anything is possible.  And therefore, don’t you ever
hear, “No, it can’t be done.”  (Applause.)  Don’t you ever hear that.  
  
     I was saying earlier, “You know, I eat ‘no’ for breakfast.” 
(Laughter.)  I don’t hear “no,” except maybe if you all hear from your
parents.  (Laughter.)  But don’t ever hear it can’t be done. 

     You be motivated by your ambition, your aspirations, and continue
to be invested in our nation, because it is you that will allow us to
achieve our potential.  (Applause.)  
  
     May God bless you, and may God bless America.  (Applause.)

                               END                 3:40 P.M. EDT
