---
date: '2022-10-06'
modified_time: 2022-10-07 12:42:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-06 12:37:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-democratic-senatorial-campaign-committee-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee\_\
  Reception"
---
 
Private Residence

New York, New York

7:32 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you all very much.  If you have a seat,
please take it.  I got in trouble, as the press will tell you, a couple
of years ago.  I said, “Why don’t you all sit down.”  No one had
chairs.  (Laughter.)  And so, I got to be very careful this time
around.  Anyway.   
  
You’re still hanging out with him, huh?  (Laughter.)  Good.  
  
Well, look, there’s a lot to talk about, and I’m not going to take a
long, long time doing it, but this election is of some real
consequence.   
  
And we say that all the time, but the truth of the matter is — is this a
— this is not your father’s Republican Party.  There’s a lot of really
fine Republicans in the Senate and House that I disagree with, but they
are mainstream, conservative Republicans, and you can deal with them.  
  
But there’s also a group that is — just decided that they don’t like the
system the way it is.  Now, if you think about it, there’s — I would
argue there is a pretty — how can I say it? — assault on all the
institutions, whether it’s the Supreme Court, whether it’s the Congress,
or whether it’s the White House.  
  
And — and so, there’s a lot at stake this time around.  We — you know,
the Senate is evenly split 50/50, which means that we have the Vice
President making decisions.  I kid her — I said, “I guarantee you, if
you come and be Vice President, every time you vote, you’ll win.” 
(Laughter.)  
  
And — but all kidding aside, it means we got 50 presidents, and
everything is razor’s edge.  And there’s only a majority of how many in
the House now?  We have — I think it’s — I think it’s like 9, 10 —
something like that.   
  
But I feel pretty good about where we are relative to the Senate,
although I think it’s premature to make any judgments about how this
election is going to turn out for sure.  And the House is a different
story because of gerrymandering that has occurred.   
  
And — but there’s a couple of things that are different than any time
that I’ve been engaged in an off-year election.  And that is that we’re
now in a situation where much is at stake: the whole issue of not just
choice but the issue of privacy.  The Supreme Court — is there a right
to privacy that exists in the Constitution.   
  
It’s not merely whether or not, you know, you have a circumstance where
the — Alito said, you know, in the change on Roe v. Wade to <s>Dodd</s>
\[Dobbs\], the — Dobbs — that said, you know, but women have a right to
vote; they can determine outcomes if they want — meaning that every
state, a judgment is being made individually as to what kind of freedom
a woman has to choose, as well as other freedoms that exist that
Clarence Thomas indicated that he thought should be up for — up for
grabs.  
  
The ability of people to use contraception.  I know that sounds bizarre,
but there used to be a law in Connecticut and — that said you couldn’t —
married couples couldn’t use contraception, until it was overruled by
the Court.   
  
And — and whether or not you can marry the person you love.  A lot of
things are — are in play.   
  
Also in play is the issue of whether or not you’re going — we’re in a
position to deal with issues relating to the environment.   
  
The biggest thing that the — right now, we’re talking about it — that we
were able to pass the legislation adding 600 — or actually $368 billion
for climate abatement, climate change.   
  
And but it really is — Credit Suisse just did a report, we were talking
to one of you about, that said that the — a lot of that is tax
incentives.  And it means that — with those investments by the federal
government, it’s going to take off the sidelines a total of — a total
amount of — private and public — of $1.7 trillion.  And it’s a big
deal.  I know you’re doing a lot in that area.  And we have a chance to
really make some significant changes and literally save the planet.   
  
I know that sounds like hyperbole.  But if we pass the 1.5 degrees
Celsius and we don’t keep under that now, we’re in a different world — a
literally different world.  
  
The one thing that’s changed is — I’ve had an opportunity to be at every
major climate disaster, unfortunately, in the last year and a half.  And
for example, out west, more territory has been burned to the ground and
homes lost and buildings lost, et cetera, than the entire square miles
of the state of New Jersey.  A lot.  A whole hell of a lot.  The
Colorado River has a bit of a canal now; it’s not a raging river.  We’re
in a situation where you have reservoirs out west dropping over 150
feet.   
  
There’s a whole range of things that are changing.  I just got back from
Sanibel Island and — down in Florida.  It’s — it’s a pure disaster.   
  
In Kentucky, tornadoes ripping apart entire communities, et cetera.   
  
So the one thing has happened is I think that there’s not many —
publicly, at least — many climate deniers any longer.  It’s real. 
People are figuring it out.  And if we don’t move, we’re going to be in
a real problem.   
  
And the first thing that the admin- — the Minority Leader of the House
of Representatives said — the first thing he wants to do is to get rid
of the legislation that provided that money.  They want to eliminate
it.  They want to eliminate the ability to deal with lowering
prescription drug costs.   
  
For the elderly, we have a provision we passed in the Inflation
Reduction Act that says no senior on Medicare will have to pay more than
$2,000 a year for their prescriptions.  A lot of them, as you well know
— I’ve been very involved in cancer research issues — are paying $15-,
$16,000 a year for their prescriptions.  And they’re — to reduce it — I
mean, that’s just one disease.  So it’s a — it’s a life-changer for
millions of Americans.  
  
We’re in a situation where we were able to pass, in that same
legislation, the ability that anyone who has — needs insulin for Type I
or Type II diabetes is not going to have to pay more than $35 for their
prescription.  Right now, it costs 30 to 60 times, depending on where
you are, that cost for that prescription.  If you don’t have insurance,
you’re in real, real trouble.   
  
Well, you know, we’ve — we passed it for not just those on Medicare, but
for everybody.  And the Republicans are able to knock out the provision
relating to anyone other than the elderly.   
  
And so, you have a lot of parents — I was down in Virginia doing an
event and — with a family.  A woman stood up and said, “My kids have
Type II diabetes and we have to share the prescription.  I can’t afford
it.”  Because their prescriptions for the insulin was $570 a month, and
they had no insurance.  They couldn’t do it.   
  
So my generic — and for example, the Republican leadership now in the
Senate — our colleague from Wisconsin and our colleague from South
Carolina — excuse me, from Florida — Scott and Johnson — have said that
they think that Medicare should be up for grabs.   
  
In the case of the senator heading up their Senate Campaign Committee
like my colleague here is, he says that it should be every five years. 
But the senator from Wisconsin says, “No, every year.”  
  
So every single year, you’d have to re-vote on whether or not Social
Security, Medicare, Medicaid, Pell Grants — all those issues — would, in
fact, continue — continue.  If you don’t vote for them, they’re gone.   
  
Now, it’s going to come as a real shock to a lot of middle-class people
who paid their whole life since they’ve been 16 years old with their job
into Social Security that they could — it will be cut.  It may not be
eliminated, but this is — that’s the agenda.   
  
It’s a different agenda.  There’s an old expression, “This ain’t your
father’s Republican Party.”  You know, this is a different deal.  And
so, there’s a lot of stake.   
  
There’s a lot at stake in American foreign policy as well, where I spend
most of my time and my — my career, I should say.   
  
And we have some real difficult decisions to make, relative to what’s
going on in Ukraine, and we’re going to continue to support them.  But
first time since the Cuban Missile Crisis, we have a direct threat of
the use of the nuclear weapon if, in fact, things continue down the path
they’ve been going.  That’s — that’s a different deal.  That’s a
different deal.   
  
And, you know, we’re trying to figure out: What — what is Putin’s
off-ramp?  Where — where does he get off?  Where does he find a way
out?  Where does he find himself in a position that he does not not only
lose face, but lose significant power within Russia?  
  
So I guess what I’m saying is that we have to keep the Senate because
two years of — of chaos is going to create a lot of changes around the
world as well.  I’ve spent the bulk of my time — not a joke; and I don’t
think any of you would think it’s an exaggeration — I’ve spent a couple
hundred hours so far just trying to hold NATO together so we’re all in
the same spot.  
  
Everybody is united in Europe, relative to what we do in Ukraine and
relative to Russia.  We find ourselves in positions that we’ve been able
to get significant support from the Quad — from Australia, India, and
Japan — relative to China and the South China Sea.   
  
There’s a lot of changes going on — a whole lot that I’d like to talk
about with you if you want to talk about them in the question-and-answer
period.   
  
But the bottom line is this: If you take a look at what’s happened, we
have over — I know no one thought we could get any of this done.  But
from the very beginning, I introduced legislation relating to the — the
infrastructure of this country.  We used to be, in the United States —
have the best infrastructure in the world.  Now we rank in the low 20s
in terms of the quality of our infrastructure.  
  
We’re in a situation where — you know, you all are successful, most of
you, business people.  If you’re going to invest where you can get your
product to market, where you have ports that you can function out of,
where you have highways and bridges that function.   
  
And so, you know, we used to be — for example, in terms of investment of
research and development, we used to be number two in the world.  Now
we’re number nine.  China used to be number eight.  Now they’re number
two.  
  
We’re finally investing in research and development, which is generating
an awful lot of ingenuity.  Things are happening in a big way.  For
example, I was just upstate.  We — you all know what’s going on in terms
of semiconductors.  And, you know, we’re in a position now where there’s
investments that are occurring that are going to exceed probably $3- to
$400 billion over the next five years, employing an awful lot of people,
putting us in position, once again, to lead the world.  
  
We invented the computer chip.  We invented it here in the United
States.  We used to have — just 30 years ago, we had 40 percent of the
market.  Now we have virtually no percent of the market, and we’re in a
situation where we, in fact, don’t have the ability, up to now, to deal
with so- — very sophisticated computer chips.   
  
We did all that technology.  Well, it’s about time we take it back, and
we’re doing that now.  As I said, we’re talking about investments that
are consequential but generating an awful lot of investment off the
sidelines from all of you people around the wo- — the United States.   
  
And the thing is we- — in Upstate New York, in Poughkeepsie and — and up
in Syracuse.  And you’re — you know, there going to be billions of
dollars invested.   
  
And here’s the deal: It’s all made in America.  It’s made in America. 
It’s about time we control the — the idea of access, instead of we have
pandemic and you find out you can’t — there — they stopped production in
Lat- — excuse me, in the Far East or in the Pacific.  And guess what? 
We don’t have —  
  
One of the reasons why inflation was so high last year was the lack of
semiconductors to build automobiles.  That was one of — 30 percent of
all the inflation that occurred.   
  
And so, there’s a whole lot that we have an opportunity to deal with. 
And I know — I’m got to short-circuit this in the interest of time for
all of you.  But the deal is that I’m more optimistic about America’s
prospects.  We’re better positioned than any na- — any major nation in
the world to own the second quarter of the 21st century.  And we re- —
we really are.   
  
Since I’ve become President, with the help a lot of you, we’ve created
10 million new jobs — 10 million new jobs.  We’ve created 685,000
manufacturing jobs.   
  
Where is it written to say we can’t be the manufacturing capital of the
world again?  Where does it say that?  I don’t know — I didn’t read that
anywhere.   
  
And I’m also encouraged because we talked about — see this handsome
young man here, who’s going to be going to college next year?  I’m
encouraged because of his generation and those people between 30 years
of age and his year.  And I’m — I’m not joking.  Because they’re the
best-educated, the best-informed, the least prejudiced, and the most
engaged <s>administration</s> \[generation\] in American history — I
mean, generation.   
  
So, we got a lot to look forward to — a whole hell of a lot to look
forward to, but we got to focus on it.  We’ve got to focus.  We can’t
walk away from the opportunity that exists.   
  
And I will say very respectfully, we’re the only nation in the world, in
my view, that has come out of cri- — every crisis we’ve faced, we’ve
come out of it stronger than we went in — stronger than we went in.  I
know I get kidded about saying “build back better,” but I mean what I’m
saying, that we have to build back better.  We’re at a real inflection
point in American history, in world history.  
  
I mean, you know, so much has changed and not just because of any
particular leader.  It happens every four to six generations.   
  
If you’re Putin, you got eight time zones and the tundra is melting and
methane is leaking and it’s four times as consequential.  It’s not going
to — the permafrost is not going to again freeze.   
  
I mean, you know, you look around the world at all the things that are
changing.  And so, we have an opportunity not only to help ourselves but
once again lead the world in a way that makes sense for the rest of the
world.   
  
You have most of Africa, over a billion people — you have people all
over the world that need help and can generate economic growth.  And we
can be an engine to allow all that — all of that.   
  
So I guess — I said I was not going to talk very long; I’ve already
talked too long.  But — but there’s a lot going on in terms — both
domestically and in terms of foreign policy.  And it’s a very —  
  
Let me put it this way.  Think about it: We have not faced the prospect
of Armageddon since Kennedy and the Cuban Missile Crisis.  We’ve got a
guy I know fairly well; his name is Vladimir Putin.  I spent a fair
amount of time with him.  He is not joking when he talks about the
potential use of tactical and nuclear weapons, or biological or chemical
weapons, because his military is, you might say, significantly
underperforming.   
  
It’s part of Russian doctrine that they will not — they will not — if
the motherland is threatened, they’ll use whatever force they need,
including nuclear weapons.   
  
I don’t think there’s any such thing as an ability to easily lose a
tactical nuclear weapon and not end up with Armageddon.   
  
So there’s a lot at stake — a lot at stake.  And we — I guess I’ll
conclude by saying this.  I knew — I spent most of my career dealing
with criminal justice issues in the Supreme Court and foreign policy.  I
was chairman of those committees as a senator for 360 years. 
(Laughter.)  36 years.  I was Vice President for eight years, where the
President asked me to be Vice President because he wanted me to deal
with a lot of foreign policy pieces.   
  
And now — and I — I didn’t realize how much — and you all travel the
world and know the world.  I didn’t realize how much serious damage the
last administration did to our relationships around the world.  The
America First policies put us basically last.   
  
I’ll end with a quote.  I showed up at the first G7 meeting in England,
in February after I was elected.  And I’m sitting there with the NATO
heads of state, sitting between Macron and the new Chancellor of
Germany, Scholz.  And I said, “America is back.”  You know what the
response was?  “For how long?”  Not a joke.  “For how long?”   
  
And then one said — and I will not say who it was — but one of those
heads of state looked at me and said, “What would you say, Mr.
President, if you went back to your hotel room and on the television
here in Britain, there was showing — there was a showing that you had a
group of armed people going down the halls of Parliament breaking down
the doors to stop the succession of the parliamentary process and who
would be the prime minister?  What would you say about Great Britain? 
What would you say if the same thing happened in the Bundestag?”  
  
Folks, don’t underestimate what the rest of the world is looking at and
wondering about: Are we still the United States of America?  Are we
still that democracy that they look to?  
  
And one of the things I realize — and I’ve been — as I said, I’ve known
every major head of state in the last 30 years and dealt with them face
to face.  What I didn’t realize — and I knew America was critical, but I
didn’t realize when you walk into a foreign leaders’ conference, and
you’re the President of the United States — it’s not me; you’re
President of the United States — they all look to you.  Look to you.
“How stable is your country?  What are you going to do?  What’s going to
happen?”  And there’s a great deal of doubt around the world right now,
and there need not be.   
  
We can turn this into an enormous asset, enormous prospects for the
United States if we do the right thing.  But we can’t do it if we lose
control of the House and the Senate.   
  
And so what you’re doing here, particularly we’re talking about the
Senate, is a big, big deal.   
  
So I’m going to hand the microphone to — back over to the senator.  And
then I’ll — and then I’ll do whatever I’m told.  (Laughter and
applause.)  
  
7:50 P.M. EDT 
