---
date: '2022-10-18'
published_time: 2022-10-18 16:41:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/18/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-political-event-at-the-howard-theatre/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Political Event at the Howard\_Theatre"
---
 
Howard Theatre  
Washington, D.C.

12:45 P.M. EDT  
  
AUDIENCE:  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Thank you.  
  
Well, folks, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to you. 
Look, Doc, thanks for that introduction. 

And, you know, we’re only 22 days away from the most consequential
election in our history, in my view — in recent history at least —
elections where the choice and the stakes are crystal clear, especially
when it comes to the right to choose.  
  
And on January 22nd, 1973 — I hate to admit this, but I was a freshman —
a 30-year-old freshman United States senator, and the Supreme Court
issued its opinion on Roe v. Wade, establishing a fundamental
constitutional right to choose.  
  
Nearly 50 years later, on June 24th of this year, the Court issued the
Dobbs decision.  A woman — and all — all across the country, starting in
my house, lost the fundamental right.  
  
I want to remind us all how we felt that day when 50 years of
constitutional precedent was overturned —  
  
I’m going to use this mic if it’s okay.

The anger, the worry, the disbelief, the unbelievable fact that for the
first time in our history, the Supreme Court didn’t just fail to
preserve a constitutional freedom, it actually took away the right that
was so fundamental to Americans.  It took away a right.  And the fear
that now that most personal decisions may not only be made by the woman
and her doctor, but by politicians to make that decision.  
  
The Dobbs decision — the Court practically dares women to go ahead and
lead and be heard.  
  
One of the most extraordinary parts of that decision, in my view, was
when the majority wrote, quote, “Women are not without electoral…”  “Are
not…” — excuse me — “…are not without electoral or political power.”  
  
Let me tell you something — (laughs) — the Court and the extreme
Republicans who have spent decades trying to overturn Roe are about to
find out.  (Applause.)  
  
As they say in one of the towns I grew up, “They ain’t seen nothin’
yet.”  
  
Just take a look at what happened in Kansas.  (Applause.)  And come this
November, we’re going to see what happens all over America, God
willing.  
  
You know, it’s only been four months since the Dobbs decision, but we’re
no longer have to imagine the chaos and the heartache it’s causing.  
  
In just four months, abortion bans have gone into effect in 16 states;
26.5 million women of reproductive age already live in states subject to
these bans.  
  
Today in America, there are women who have been turned away from
emergency rooms while having miscarriages, losing wanted pregnancies,
and told they need to wait until they’re sicker before they get the care
they need.  And there are survivors of rape and incest who’ve been
denied access to health services in their home states and been forced to
travel to states that do provide that care.  
  
And there’s so much confusion and uncertainty that doctors and nurses
fear they could face criminal charges for just doing their job
responsibly.  
  
Patients are being denied prescriptions that they’ve been taking for
years for conditions like rheumatoid arthritis and oste- — osteoporosis,
you know, because pharmacies are concerned that those drugs could also
be used to terminate a pregnancy, so they’re not giving them their
prescriptions.  
  
That’s not all.  I’ve warned about how this decision risks the broader
right to privacy for everyone.  There’s a thing called the Ninth
Amendment.  It says there’s a right to privacy.  That’s how it was
interpreted back then.  
  
Well, guess what, folks?  That’s because Roe recognized the fundamental
right to privacy that has served as a basis for many more rights that
are — were — were to come and to take — we’ve taken for granted of
late.  And they’re ingrained in the fabric of this country: the right to
make a decision — the best decision for your health; the right to birth
control — the right that I pushed hard and it finally got changed — the
married couples in the privacy of their bedroom.  Excuse me.  The mar- —
I’m thinking about the Dobbs — the Dobbs decision.

Imagine — well, I’ll get to that in a second with Clarence Thomas. 
(Laughter.)  But the right to marry who you love.  (Applause.)

Look, folks, Justice Thomas said as much in his concurring opinion in
Dobbs, writing, quote, “In future cases, we should reconsider all of
this Court’s substantive due process precedents, including Griswold…” —
we’re getting to the whole idea of contraception — “…Lawrence and
Obergefell.”

Look, folks, meanwhile — and I just want to make clear — I know you all
know, but I’ll make sure — they’re talking about the right to use
contraception and the right to marry who you love.  I mean —

Anyway, I don’t want to get started.  (Laughter.)

Meanwhile, congressional Republicans are doubling down on their extreme
positions.

Kevin McCarthy, the Republican Leader of the House, has said that if
they take control of the House, our work is, quote, “far from done.”  He
wants the United States Congress to pass a law that would ban abortion
nationwide.

Senator —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well —

Senator Lindsey Graham called for an abortion ban that criminalizes
doctors and nurses who provide medical care for their patients in need.

If Republicans get their way with a national ban, it won’t matter where
you live in America.  So let me be very clear: If such a bill were to
pass in the next several years, I’ll veto it.  (Applause.)  But we can’t
let it pass in the first instance. 

Immediately after the Dobbs decision came down, I signed an order and my
administration took a number of actions to protect the access to
reproductive healthcare, including emergency medical care; to protect a
woman’s right to travel from a state that prohibits abortion to a state
that allows it; and to protect the privacy of sensitive health
information preserving — preventing states from tracking women who are
seeking help, because that’s what some will do. 

But as I said when the Dobbs decision — we’re fighting a battle in the
courts as well.  But as I’ve said in the Dobbs decision, when it was
released, I want to repeat it again: The only sure way to stop these
extremist laws that are — put in jeopardy women’s health and rights is
for Congress to pass a law.  (Applause.)

And I’ve said before: The Court got Roe right nearly 50 years ago, and I
believe Congress should codify Roe once and for all.  (Applause.)

Right now, we’re short a handful of votes.  If you care about the right
to choose, then you got to vote.  That’s why, in these midterm
elections, it’s so critical to elect more Democratic senators to the
United States Senate and more Democrats to keep control of the House of
Representatives.  (Applause.)

And, folks, if we do that, here is the promise I make to you and the
American people: The first bill that I will send to the Congress will be
to codify Roe v. Wade.  (Applause.)  And when Congress passes it, I’ll
sign it in January, 50 years after Roe was first decided the law of the
land.  (Applause.)

And together, we’ll restore the right to choose for every woman in every
state in America.  So, vote.  You got to get out the vote.  We can do
this if we vote.  (Applause.)

And, folks, I also have a message for the young people of this nation. 
I’ve always believed that this generation is — the young generation
represents the best educated, most talented, least prejudiced generation
in American history —  (applause) — and that today we face an inflection
point, one of those moments that only come around every several
generations where there’s so much change happening — technologically,
politically, and socially — that the decisions we make now are going to
determine the future of our nation and the future of your generation for
the next 30 or more years, and it only happens once every five, six
generations. 

I know that you may feel like it’s an added burden on top of all you’ve
already been through and this young generation, my grandchildren and
children, have been through.

I’m not saying you have to shoulder the burden alone.  The task at hand
and the task ahead is the work of all of us.  What I am saying is you
represent the best of us.  Your generation will not be ignored, will not
be shunned, and will not be silent.  Just look at what happens when you
speak out. 

Two years ago, perhaps many of you voted for your first time in an
election or volunteered for your — work in your first election.  You
understood the choices and the stakes.  And because of your experience
and power to vote, you elected me President and Kamala Vice President —
the highest-ranking woman ever to be elected in American history. 
(Applause.)

And since then, with your help, we’ve delivered enormous progress for
the nation — the most significant gun safety law in 30 years. 
(Applause.)  And, by the way, if you give me a Democratic Congress,
we’re going to ban assault weapons again.   I did it once, I’ll do it
again.  (Applause.)

And the most significant Infrastructure Law in seven years.  Have us —
you know, we ranked up, like, in the 20s, in terms of infrastructure —
the United States of America, for God’s sake.

We made the most significant commitment ever in all of history to
protect our environment — ever, ever, ever — $360 billion.  (Applause.)

And with your help, we’re forgiving student debt.  (Applause.)  By the
way, we really worked hard to get the system right as to how you apply. 
Just since yesterday, 4 million more people applied.  (Applause.)

I’m keeping my promise that no one should be in jail merely for using or
possessing marijuana.  You should not be in jail.  (Applause.)

Together, making sure our democracy delivers for people, but we know
there’s much more progress that needs to be made.  And we know that
there remains real options. 

In 2020, you voted and delivered the change you wanted to see in the
world.  In 2022, you need to exercise your power to vote again for the
future of our nation and the future of your generation. 

So let me close with this.  I’m asking the American people to remember
how you felt — how you felt the day the extreme Dobbs decision came down
and Roe was overturned after 50 years.  And I’m asking you — and, by the
way, it’s not just affecting your gener- — young generation.  It’s
affecting children, moms, grandmoms, grandpops, all — the entire
generations all the way across the board. 

And I remember asking — I want you to remember that the final say does
not rest in the court now; it does not rest with extremist Republicans
in Congress — and finally say — finally say, about your right to choose,
that it rests with you.  And if you do your part and vote for Democratic
leaders in Congress, I promise you we’ll do our part.  I’ll do my part.

And with your support, I’ll sign a law codifying Roe in January. 
(Applause.)  

Together, let’s remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America, and there’s nothing beyond our capacity.  (Applause.)  So vote,
vote, vote! 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 

I’m sorry — (music plays) —

I was apologizing for my back.  (Music stops playing.)  My mother would
be very angry.  I was talking with people with my back to them.  I
apologize.  (Laughter.) 

So, thank you all so very, very much.  (Applause.)

12:58 P.M. EDT 
