---
date: '2022-10-15'
published_time: 2022-10-15 13:11:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/15/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-university-of-miami-sylvester-comprehensive-cancer-center/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the University\
  \ of Miami Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer\_Center"
---
 
Broward County, FL

Thank you, Debbie for that very kind welcome.  
  
Just last week, the President and I visited Fort Myers to survey the
damage of Hurricane Ian and meet with families. The road to recovery
will be long, but the spirit and resilience of this state will
persevere. And we will be by your side, every step of the way.  
  
It is really special to be back in Florida today.  
  
Congresswoman, your courage through your own cancer journey is an
inspiration to so many women. And now, you are helping other survivors
live fuller, healthier lives.  
  
And thank you to Dr. Bertagnolli, the new Director of the National
Cancer Institute for joining us today, and to the Sylvester Cancer
Center for your very kind welcome.  
  
The author bell hooks once wrote: “Rarely, if ever, are any of us healed
in isolation. Healing is an act of communion.”  
  
None of us can beat cancer alone. We survive with the love of our
families, the dedication of our doctors and nurses, and the support of
communities, like this one, that are coming together to fight this
disease.  
  
Yes, cancer has the power to destroy. But it can connect us as well. It
forces us to reach out – for answers, for help, for healing.  It tears
away the things that divide us.  It inspires us to come together and
find the love and support on which our future can be built.  
  
For Joe and me—for Debbie—this is the mission of our lives. And we are
ready and proud to work beside you as you fight cancer and as you
survive it. Because healing is an act of communion—and none of us are
alone.  
  
Together, we can give patients and their families the care and the
future they deserve. That idea of community and collaboration is at the
heart of the Cancer Moonshot. We are bringing together scientists,
business leaders, and advocates from across the country and around the
world.  
  
Our goal is to transform cancer care and save lives. We’re doing that by
making cutting edge treatments available to patients faster. We’re
investing in telehealth so you can receive world-class care from your
own home.   
  
And at the end of the month, the White House will partner with the
American Cancer Society to convene some of the most influential cancer
experts and leaders from across industries. Together, we will speed up
this next phase in ending breast cancer as we know it.  
  
Most of all, this work is about putting patients and their loved ones at
the center of their own cancer journey. Because from personalized
outreach reminding people to get screened, to clinic staff who help
families navigate complex and confusing schedules and treatments, to
programs that help people live fuller lives after they’re cancer free,
we are finding new ways to prevent, treat, and survive cancer.   
  
No, we can’t beat cancer alone—in fact, we all have a part to play in
this fight.  
  
As we approach National Mammography Day next week, I want to remind you
that “doing our part” starts with getting the screenings we need and
talking to our loved ones about getting theirs as well.  
  
I know you’re busy. Especially the moms and nanas out there. When you
are busy taking care of everyone else, it can be hard to take care of
you. But mammograms can save your life—and nothing on your to-do list is
more important than that!  
  
So, talk to your doctor. Make a calendar appointment right now to remind
yourself! Don’t wait! We owe it to ourselves and the people who love us
to take care of our health.  
  
Thank you.   
 

**\###**
