---
date: '2022-10-27'
published_time: 2022-10-27 17:24:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/27/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-virtual-fundraiser-with-congressman-cartwright/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Virtual Fundraiser with Congressman\_Cartwright"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(October 26, 2022)

7:41 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Well, you know, first of all, I want to thank Marion and
— you say your “lovely wife”; some things are just self-evident, man. I
told you before, you married up. And, Matt, thanks for representing the
district. It’s really, genuinely close to my heart. And — and I’m Joe
Biden from 2446 North Washington Avenue, now referred to as “Biden Way.”
I really am — appreciate the mayor when she did that. And so, I miss
being home.

And, look, thanks for supporting Matt. There’s a couple of things you
got to — you do know about Matt. One of them is: He’s a man of an
incredible integrity. What he says, he does. He’s tough. He’s strong.
He’s independent. And he’s willing to work across the aisle to get
things done for the people he represents.

You know, and he’s going to stand up for everyone and anyone to fight
for the people he represents. He’ll join them: working people, middle
class.

And, by the way, the middle class built this country. Wall Street didn’t
build it. The middle class built it. And labor built the middle class.
Unions built the middle class.

And I’ve been proud to work with him. And we signed the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law in the — you know, to provide an enormous number of
jobs. I’ll speak to that in a minute.

But I also was proud to sign into law — he was with me when I did it —
because a lot of employers force women to sign on to saying, “If, in
fact, there’s any charge against me, it has to be arbi- — it has to go
to arbitration. You can’t go to court.” No longer, because of Matt’s
help.

Matt knows vic- — Matt knows that some victims want their cases resolved
in private, but other survivors want their day in court. And that should
be their choice, no one else’s — and Matt gets that.

And look, in — just 13 days until one of the most important election is
in our lifetime. And that’s not hyperbole, because what happens in the
next — when this Congress — this off-year is going to decide the — the
direction of our country for a long time.

Let’s be clear: This election isn’t a referendum. It’s a choice — a
choice between two vastly different visions of America. Because of Matt,
Democrats are building a better America for everybody with an economy
that grows from the bottom up and the middle out.

Where I come from in Scranton and then in Claymont, Delaware, it’s about
how — giving working-class folks a chance. You know, I’m so sick and
tired of trickle-down economics — the theory that if the wealthy do
well, everybody’s going to get — I’ve never seen that work.

But conversely, if we work for the middle class and working folks that —
everybody does well, including the wealthy. They still do well.

Republicans like his opponent are doubling down on what I call the “Mega
MAGA trickle-down economics” that benefits the wealthy, that failed the
country before and will fail it again.

And look — look at the facts: Twenty months ago, COVID ruled our lives.
Today, COVID no longer controls our lives.

Twenty months ago, our economy was in ruins. Today, jobs are up,
employment is down, and manufacturing is back. We created 700,000
manufacturing jobs in America — more than ever — more than ever.

And we also are in a position where we are — we’ve cut the deficit in
half in the meantime. We cut the deficit this year by $1 trillion, four
hundred billion. Hear me now: Democrats — they used to talk about
“big-spending Democrats.” Give me a break. It’s the Republicans who are
the big spenders. We cut the deficit last year, with Matt’s help, by
$350 billion, and this year by $1 trillion 400 billion. We cut the
federal deficit in half.

But even with all this progress, we know people are still struggling
with inflation. It’s a global issue driven by a pandemic that’s worse by
— and made much worse by Putin’s war in Ukraine.

And, by the way, inflation is lower here in America than almost every
other advanced country. I know that isn’t much solace when you’re just
trying to put food on the table. But the truth of the matter is, that’s
why we’ve been determined to reduce everyday costs for people.

You know, my dad used to say, when we lived in Scranton and in — all the
time I live with him when I was a kid. He — what — at the end of the
month, is there enough money to pay all your bills with just a little
bit of breathing room left? Well, thanks to Matt, we passed the history
— historic legislation to lower the costs for prescription drugs.

And, by the way, now if — next year — beginning — pass this year but
beginning next year, all seniors on Medicare cannot have any drug costs
for the year beyond $2,000 total. So if they have cancer, God forbid,
and they’re using drugs that are 14 grand a year, they only have to pay
$2,000 a year.

We lowered the cost for healthcare premiums for those who are on the
Affordable health Care Act by $800, because this is actually taking —

Gas prices continue to fall. Look, all this stuff about “where we are” —
I have gotten — we’ve gotten gas prices down — gasoline prices down
almost to where they were before the pandemic. Because of actions we’ve
taken, gas prices continue to fall. Continue to fall. They fall over
$1.20 — going to be down in $1.35 since this summer. And they’re going
to go down further when the gas companies agree to my demand and our
demand that they pass the savings on the price of a barrel of oil. When
that goes down, it should be reflected at the pump. But it’s not these
days. We’re going to insist that they have a direct correlation.

Now, what are Re- — what’s the Republican plan? Well, we don’t have to
wonder; they’re actually telling us. They’re being honest about it.

Kevin McCarthy, the Republican Leader in the House, and his fellow MAGA
Republicans say their number-one priority — check it out; go online —
their number one priority if they win control of the Congress, will be
to repeal what we have done.

We — the power we just gave Medicare to negotiate for drug prices —
gone.

The $2,000 cap on prescription drugs for seniors — gone.

The $35-a-month cap on insulin for seniors with — with diabetes and
other diseases — gone. Gone. They’re back to paying 30 times that
amount, which they pay now.

The savings and healthcare premiums of $800 a year for millions of
Americans under the Affordable Care Act — gone.

As a matter of fact, they’re still determined to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act, which is the only reason why people who can’t
afford insurance and have a pre-existing condition are able to get
insurance — millions of them. And so, look, it means an end to
protection for tens of millions of people who can’t afford health
insurance because they have a pre-existing condition.

The most aggressive action to deal with global warming and lowering your
energy bills by thousands of dollars, because that’s what we do in the
bill we passed — in the Inflation Reduction Act — it’ll be gone.

The corporate minimum tax. You know, there were 55 Fortune 500 companies
in 2000 that made $40 billion — didn’t pay a single, solitary penny in
taxes. Now we’ve made at least a minimum tax of 15 percent, which pays
for most of this.

Now, look, Republicans love to call, again, Democrats, “big spenders.”
They claim they’re always for less federal spending. Give me a break.
Democrats are fiscally responsible, and Republicans are fiscally
reckless. As I said, the deficits fell by $1.4 trillion this year, the
largest one-year drop in American history. Follow — that follows $350
billion reduction last year.

And we’re going to reduce the deficit another $250 billion over the next
10 years by the Medicare legislation — they’re able to lower prices.

Under Trump, the federal deficit went up before the pandemic, during the
pandemic, and every single year. One of the big reasons was Trump’s tax
cuts, which they all voted for, overwhelmingly benefit the top 1 percent
of the people. It cost $2 trillion, and it wasn’t paid for. Now,
Republicans are — and it’s supposed to expire in 2024.

Now, Republicans are saying if they win, they’re going to extend and
make permanent Trump’s tax cut. Not on my watch. As long as I’m
President, that’s going to be vetoed because middle-class people need
the breaks.

If you put the entire Republican plan together — and this is done by the
budget office (inaudible) — it’s going to add 3 — hear me now, $3
trillion to the deficit.

You know, and you’re coming — and they’re coming after your Social
Security and Medicare. I know that — that sounds strange. It sounds
like, “Ah, we’re…” — exaggeration. Rick Scott, who was up campaigning
for — for Matt’s colleague — and Senator Ron Johnson had — they had
plans to cut Social Security and Medicare.

And now — now they have a ticking timebomb. They’re saying Republicans
have made it clear — and they’ve said it publicly — that if they win
control of the Congress, they’re going to shut down the government and
refuse to pay America’s bills for the first time in history unless I cut
Social Security and Medicare. Not a shot. Not a shot.

They’re so determined to cut Social Security and Medicare, they’re
willing to take down the American economy over it, because that’d be the
one thing to put us in a deep (inaudible) recession. Look, there’s
nothing — nothing (inaudible).

Folks, the choice is really pretty clear. I know I’m going quickly here
but I know you (inaudible) a lot of time. Everything is at stake from
our personal freedoms, to the economy, to our very democracy. But I know
we can meet this moment.

I truly believe we’re just getting started. I’ve never been more
optimistic about America’s future. Never. I need you. We need you. Matt
needs you. You got to reelect him.

We just have to remember who we are. We are the United States of
America. There’s literally nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we
work together.

And look, folks — I say it again: This is not a referendum; this is a
choice. And the Republicans are being straightforward. And this is not
your father’s Republican Party. This is not traditional conservative
Republicans. These are a group of folks — over 270 people running for
state and local office on the Republican ticket say that they’re — what
I call the “MAGA Republicans.” They’re the guys who don’t acknowledge
that we won the election last time still. Lying like the devil.

And they’re also the ones who were out there making the case that not
only that, but the insurrection that took place on January 6th — the
people engaged in it were patriots. You know, you can’t call yourself a
democrat with a “small d” –democracy — if the only time you win — you
say you win is if you actually win because either the election was — you
either win it or it was stolen.

Or you can’t be calling yourself much of a — a patriot if you call the
people who were breaking down the doors — literally, the doors and the
windows of the Congress and two cops ended up dying — you can’t all
yourself a patriot if, in fact, you’re arguing that the folks who broke
in were the true patriots. “They were patriotic Americans.” Give me a
break. Not in the neighborhood I grew up in.

There’s nothing — remember — beyond our capacity. We are the United
States of America. We’re the only country in the world that’s come
through every crisis we’ve faced stronger than we entered it.

So this isn’t just about building back. It’s about building a better
America. We have a shot to do this. We really do, but you got to vote.

And, by the way, you know, Matt’s opponent poured in a couple million
bucks at the very end of this campaign. He needs help. He needs help.

And I say to all my friends from labor who are on this call, you’re the
ones that — as they say in Claymont, Delaware, where I moved to from
Scranton — you’re the ones that “brung me to the dance.” You’re the ones
who — making this country what it is. And we need your help — as much
help as you can give.

This is a truly, truly fine man. We need his integrity, we need his
judgment, and we need his voice in the Congress.

So thank you all. God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.
Thank you, thank you, thank you.

7:54 P.M. EDT
