---
date: '2022-10-21'
published_time: 2022-10-21 18:14:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-student-loan-forgiveness/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Student Loan\_Forgiveness"
---
 
Delaware State University  
Dover, Delaware

3:37 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, everybody.  (Applause.)  It’s good to be home. 
(Applause.)  Please, if you have a seat, please take it.  (Laughs.)  
  
     Folks, as my mother would say, “Excuse my back.”  It’s impolite to
be talking when I have my back to you.  But I apologize.  I can’t do
them both.  (Laughs.)  
  
     Zach, you and I got through school the same way.  I was an RA, a
resident advisor.  And it helped me get through law school.  And I’m
glad you were able to benefit from what we’re doing.  And I want to
thank you for that introduction.  
  
     You’re an example of why I’m so optimistic — all of you are — so
optimistic about the future.  You are the most involved, you are the
most educated, you are the most engaged, you are the least prejudiced
generation in American history.  
  
     So, for who everybody who says why am I so optimistic — not a joke
— I’m optimistic because of all of you.  I really mean it.  So thank you
for what you’re doing.  And please, get involved.  No matter what
position you take, get involved.  We need you badly.

  
     And I didn’t even see all of — I didn’t see the bleachers up
there.  Hey, everybody.  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE PRESIDENT:  Don’t jump.  Don’t jump.  (Laughter.)

Now, look —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Mr. President!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, as Tom Carper can tell you, I sort of got my
political start at Del State.  This is a place we organized for Kent and
Sussex County.  This is how we got going.  That was back in 1871, I
think.  But — (laughter) — a long time ago.

Look, but before I begin, there’s a lot of people that might be
wondering why I’m here at Del State.  It’s because you’re an HBCU and
you play an important role in creating opportunity and possibilities all
across the country.  
  
     We’re here at Del State because it holds such a special place in my
heart.  There is no better example of a university that has changed so
many lives, as Jack just explained about his.  
  
     Like I’ve said many times, Delaware State “brung me to the dance,”
as they say up in Claymont.  And — and I can’t tell you how much I
appreciate it.  
  
    I understand you got a big game tomorrow — Howard University. 
(Applause.)  Well, I tell you what, man — in case you haven’t noticed,
my VP is a Howard graduate.  (Applause.)  And she is a very vociferous
Howard — Howard graduate.  
  
    And I’m always bragging — as Tony — as your president can tell you,
I’m always bragging about Del State, and we got a little thing going. 
And — and besides that, we have a lot more folks — you know, the Divine
Nine kind of runs my operation.  (Applause.)  
  
     Oh, you all think I’m kidding?  (Laughs.)  You think I’m kidding. 
(Laughs.)  I’m not kidding.  
  
     But I tell you what — to guarantee you win, we tr- — I tried to
figure out how we could do this, how to get Mike Purzycki to play for
you.  (Laughter.)  Mike Purzycki scored more receptions than — I think
than any receiver in Delaware — University of Delaware history.  And
hell of a good mayor, but he was even a better ballplayer.  (Laughter.)

But, folks, look, what you got to do — I want you to win, but take it a
little easy, okay?  Because I got to go back to Washington. 
(Laughter.)  And, you know, my Vice President is an extraordinary
partner.  I didn’t go to Del State, but my heart is with you man, so
don’t let me down.  Win one for Coach Bo.  Win one for Coach Bo. 
(Applause.) 

It’s great to be here with friends.  Delaware has great leadership and
one of the most effective congressional delegations in America, and
that’s not hyperbole.  
  
     One of the things I love about this team is we have each other’s
back.  
  
     Governor John Carney — he used to actually work with me — work for
me.  And look, he’s now the governor.  He’s more important than anybody,
including me, because he has a wife who is an incredible writer.  
  
     At any rate — and Tommy Carper, one of my best friends for all
politics.  We’ve been go- — doing this a long time, Tommy.  
  
     And Chris Coons, who has the seat I used to hold.  Only difference
is that he not only has a law degree, he has a divinity degree.  The boy
can preach.  (Laughter.)

But he can’t preach as well as the next woman — Lisa Blunt Rochester. 
(Applause.)  (Laughs.)  You all think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  You ever
hear her?  Whoa.  Whoa, whoa, whoa.  
  
     They have my back, and they — I have theirs.  And we have a great
attorney general in Kathy Jennings, who worked with my son Beau. 
(Applause.)  And Lieutenant Governor Bethany Hall is here as well. 
(Applause.)  And the mayor, Robin Christiansen.  Thanks for welcoming us
to Dover, Mr. Mayor.  (Applause.)

And as I said, you know, Purzycki knows a lot about being mayor, but
he’s even a better receiver.  Mr. Mayor, thank you for what you’re doing
for the city of Wilmington.  You’re making a big difference, pal.  You
really are making a big difference.  
  
     You know, we’ve got another mayor here today.  She’s no longer the
mayor; she happens to be the head of the — director of the Office of
Public Engagement, Keisha Lance Bottoms, the mayor of Atlanta. 
(Applause.)  Madam Mayor, where are you?  (Applause.)  There she is.

Two things I learned you got to know about Keisha.  One, she’s smarter
than you.  And two, she’s smarter than me politically as well.  That’s
why I hired her.  It’s great to have you.  And welcome to Del State I’ve
been bragging about.  
  
     You know, the fact of the matter is that she’s also the mayor of
Atlanta, but she’s a FAMU grad.  (Applause.) 

And, Tony, you know where the real power is — as I said, the Divine
Nine.  And speaking of the president of this great university, this guy
used to work for me.  Tony worked for me when I was a senator.  But then
he left because he wanted to become a doctor, a PhD in public policy. 
But that wasn’t good enough.  Then he decided he wanted to be president,
and I got scared as hell he was going to run.  (Laughter.)  But it
turned out he wanted to be president of a university.

By the way, Tony, I don’t know if I told you — a true story: When I —
when I left the vice presidency after my — after Beau died, I wasn’t
going to get involved in politics anymore, so I became a full professor
at the University of Pennsylvania.  But before that occurred, three
universities came to me and said they wanted to interview me to consider
my being a president of the university.

And my wife, who’s a professor at a community college — she has two
masters and a PhD, and she’s smarter than me — and she looked me and she
said, “If you do that, I’m leaving you.”  (Laughter.)  She said it’s one
of the toughest jobs in America, especially if you start arguing about
parking spaces and office windows.  (Laughter.)

But, Tony, thanks, buddy.  You’re a good friend, and I can’t say enough
good things about you.

And a year ago, I signed an executive order establishing a presidential
initiative to strengthen HBCUs all across America.  And I appointed Tony
to lead that initiative because he’s the best. 

Tony, Keisha, Kamala, and I understand the critical role HBCUs provide
for all folks in this country, particularly in building a middle cla- —
basically a ticket to the middle class. 

HB- — HBCUs are a great value for all Americans.  That’s why, during the
pandemic, my administration did something that’s never been done
before.  We invested $5.8 billion in HBCUs.  (Applause.)  Some suggested
we couldn’t get it done, but we got it done.  And that money already is
out the door being used very well. 

Tony and his team used a lot of that money, combined with the money from
the university raised, to help students at Del State with their debt,
reducing the debt burden for 225 graduating seniors.  That’s 225
Delaware State University graduates who can start getting on with their
lives without the burden of student debt holding them back. 

And that’s what I want to talk about today.  Eight weeks ago, I
announced that my administration is going to provide $10,000 in debt
relief to everyone and then — who has that much debt, or up to that much
debt — and 20 grand if you received a Pell Grant and your income was
under $125,000.  It’s a plan for people who took out federal student
loans before July of this year. 

And a few days ago, I launched an online application process where you
can apply for that debt relief.  So, folks, one of the things I wanted
to make sure is we didn’t end up where we were in a position that Barack
and I were in, in terms of the Affordable Care Act.  It was — made it a
little bit more difficult, but we made sure we tested it.  We tested it
for a weekend to see how it worked, John.  And guess what?  It worked.
 Almost 9 million people signed on.  (Applause.)

Folks, if you have student debt — you got a time limit.  Now, if you
have student debt, you can go to StudentAid.gov.  StudentAid.gov.  Fill
out — it’s very easy.  Fill out your name, your Social Security number,
your date of birth and contact information.  No forms to upload.  No
special log-in to remember.  Available in English and Spanish, desktop
and mobile.  And, folks, it takes less than five minutes.  If you need
additional information, we’ll follow up with you. 

This is a game changer.  We’re hearing from people all over the
country.  Over 10,000 students have written me letters so far. 
Literally, 10,000 so far.  And it’s about as easy to apply as signing up
while hanging out with your friends or at home and watching a movie. 
The vast majority are applying on their phones, and it’s easy — it’s
just simply — it’s easy.

Now, in less than a week, just close to 22 million people have already
given us the information to consider this life-changing relief. 

My commitment when I ran for President of the United States: that if I
was elected, I’d make the government work and deliver for the people.  A
simple application process keeps that commitment, just as I’m keeping my
commitment to relieve student debt as borrowers recover from the
economic crisis caused by the once-in-a-lifetime pandemic. 

And the way I think about it and the way my dad used to talk about this,
the way so many at home talk about it around a kitchen table: How much
are the monthly bills, and how do you have to pay for those
necessities?  How much do you have?  Is there enough just for a little
breathing room, as my dad would say, left over after the end of the
month?

Our student loan plan lowers costs for Americans as they recover from
the pandemic to give everybody a little more breathing room.  I want to
be clear who’s going to benefit most: working people, middle-class folks
that earn under 125 grand — you get up to $10,000 knocked off the debt. 
And if you earn under 125 grand and you receive a Pell Grant, you get
20,000 bucks knocked off.

And in total, more than 40 million Americans stand to benefit from this
relief.  For borrowers out of school, nearly 90 percent — nearly 90
percent of the relief are going to go to people making under $75,000 a
year. 

Let me be clear: Not a dime — not a dime will go to the top 5 percent of
incomes, period.  It goes to people who really need it.    

And across America — (applause) — across America, nearly every Pell
Grant recipient comes from a family making under $60,000.  Two thirds
come from families making under $30,000 a year. 

Here at Del State, over 75 percent of the students are Pell Grant
recipients.  That matters for millions of working- and middle-class
people. 

Now let’s talk about who is against helping the millions of you who need
the help and who want make sure you have a shot.

Republican members of Congress and Republican governors are doing
everything they can to deny this relief even in their — to their own
constituents.

As soon as I announced my administration’s plan on student debt, they
started attacking it, saying all kinds of things.  Their outrage is
wrong and it’s hypocritical.  But they’re — but, you know, we’re not
letting them get away with it. 

They’re — you know, they’ve been fighting us in the courts.  But just
yesterday, a state court and the Supreme Court said, “No, we’re on
Biden’s side.”  (Applause.)

I will never apologize for helping working- and middle-class Americans
as they recover from the pandemic, especially not to the same
Republicans officials who voted for a $2 trillion tax cut that mainly
benefitted the wealthy Americans and the biggest corporations that
wasn’t paid for and racked up our deficit.

I don’t want to hear it from MAGA Republicans — officials

who had hundreds of thousands of dollars of debts, even millions of
dollars in pandemic relief loans forgiven who now are attacking — attack
me for helping working-class and middle-class Americans. 

My team at the White House posted a vizio \[sic\] — a video of those
folks online.  You should check it out. 

Marjorie Taylor Greene: She got over — she and her husband had $180,000
in business loans forgiven from the PPP program.  She said it’s
“completely unfair” for us to forgive student loans for working- and
middle-class Americans.

Representative Vern Buchanan of Florida said our plan is “reckless.” 
Guess how much he got in that program forgiven?  Two million three
hundred thousand dollars.  This is not a joke. 

You can’t make this stuff up.  Republican governors wrote me earl- —
wrote me a letter saying this relief only helps the “elite few.”  You
all know you’re the “elite few”?  (Laughter.)  I knew you were really
special, but I didn’t know you were the “elite few.”  (Laughter.)  I’m
serious. 

Ted Cruz, the great senator from Texas —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  — he said it’s for “slackers” — quote, “slackers” who
don’t deserve relief.

Who in the hell do they think they are?  (Applause.)  I mean it. 

But despite what Republican officials say, we can afford student
relief.  That’s because the first two years of my administration —
that’s because of the historic deficit reduction, the very deficit
reduction the Republicans voted against.

This morning, my administration announced that this year the deficit
fell — the federal deficit fell by one trillion four hundred billion
dollars just this year.  (Applause.)  The largest one-year drop in all
of American history: one trillion four hundred billion.

And it follows last year’s historic drop on the deficit of $350 billion.

And we’re going to reduce the deficit by another $250 billion over the
next decade.  And the reason for that is because of what — Medicare is
going to be able to negotiate drug prices and lower the costs. 

We pay the highest drug prices of any nation in the world for the same
drug.  You can buy the same exact drug in a drugstore here in Dover or
Wilmington, and if you go over to Paris, France, or anywhere in Europe,
it can be as much as 40 percent to 60 percent less.  Same exact drug.

So, folks, I don’t want to hear any weeping and gnashing of teeth from
pharma — the big companies.

Folks, in just 20 months since I’ve been in office, we cut the deficit
in half.

And that’s not all.  In relieving student debt, we’re also resuming
student loan repayments that you’re going to have to start to pay
because we had a — they had this long period no one had to pay because
of the pandemic.

So, come January, folks whose debt isn’t fully canceled, you’re going to
have to start paying the student loans off.  That means billions of
dollars a year are going to start coming back into the Treasury as well.

My administration’s plan is economically responsible — the economically
responsible course to ensure a smooth transition to repayment and
prevent unnecessary defaults.

And it’s also focused on going after fraudsters who call borrowers to
pretend they’re the government and want to help you with your loans.  If
you get a call, hang up.  (Laughter.)  Not a joke.

Let’s be clear.  No — pay no attention to them because you never have to
pay for help with your federal student loans. Don’t listen to anyone who
calls. 

I told you, just go online and it’s four questions. 

And if you get any questions, please report to the following website:
ReportFraud.FTC.gov.  Report fraud.

My message to the fraudsters looking to cheat the American people is:
Don’t do it, man, because we’re going to hold you accountable.  We’re
going to come for you. 

My administration is also taking additional steps to make education a
ticket to the middle class that folks can actually afford.

For example, we’re fixing what used to be called the Public Service Loan
Forgiveness program.  This program forgives student loans to encourage
those students to go into public service — public school teachers, local
police officers, workers at local charities, members of the military and
the National Guard.

So if you serve in one of these jobs and you make your loan payments for
10 years, even if it’s not consecutive years, the remainder of your
balance will be completely forgiven — the remainder completely
forgiven.  (Applause.)

The changes we’ve made expire, though, on October 31.  So, folks, move. 
Move quickly. 

So my message to all public servants out there with student debt is:
Apply today.  Go to PSLF.gov — PSLF.gov — to get that loan forgiven.

And let me close with this message to the young people of this nation.

I’ve always believed your generation, as I said, represents the best
educated, most talented, and least prejudiced generation in our history
and that today we face an inflection point — one of those moments that
only come every several generations, where there is so much change
happening technologically, politically, socially, environmentally that
the decisions we make now are going to determine the future of our
nation and the future of your generation for the next 30 years.

More change is going to occur in the next 10 years than the last 40
years that we’ve been around.  Not a joke.

And guess what?  I know that you feel like it’s an added burden on top
of all you’ve already been through.  I’m not saying you have to shoulder
the burden on your own.  The task at hand and the task ahead is the work
of all of us. 

What I am saying is you represent the best of us.  A generation — your
generation will not be ignored.  You’ll not be shunned.  You’ll not be
silenced. 

Just look at what happens when you speak out.  Two years ago, perhaps
many of you voted in your first election or volunteered in your first
election.

You understood the choice and the stakes.  And because you exercised
your right to vote, you elected me President and Kamala as Vice
President, the highest-ranking woman ever to be elected in American
history. 

And since then — (applause) — and since then, with your help, we’ve
delivered enormous progress for the nation.  More people voted in that
last election than any time in American history.  The most significant
gun safety law we passed in 30 years. 

And, by the way, I’m coming back and I’m going to eliminate assault
weapons again.  (Applause.)  No, I promise.  I did it once.

The most significant infrastructure law in American history, employing
tens of thousands of people with good-paying jobs and modernizing our
nation in a way it hadn’t happened since the — Eisenhower’s highway
bill.

The first Black woman on the Supreme Court, and she is smart as hell. 
(Applause.)  I made that promise.  No, by the way, watch her.  Just
watch her.  Whoa.

I’ve appointed more Black women to the appellate courts of the United
States than every other President combined in American history. 
(Applause.)  The most significant commitment we’ve ever made to climate
change.  It’s the ultimate threat to your generation.  The ultimate
threat.  Well, guess what?  We have over — close to a half a trillion
dollars to deal with climate change. 

And I’m keeping my promise that no one — no one should be in jail for
merely using or possessing marijuana.  (Applause.)  None.  None.  And
the records, which hold up people from being able to get jobs and the
like, should be totally expunged.  Totally expunged.  (Applause.)  You
can’t sell it.  But if it’s just use, you’re completely free.

And we know there’s more work to be done on voting rights, on restoring
a woman’s right to choose.  (Applause.) 

And today — (applause) — and today — look, my hope is, with the help of
our delegation, if we maintain the Senate and pick up a couple senators,
we’re going to see to it — we’re going to see to it that we completely
codify Roe v. Wade in every state.  Codify it.  (Applause.)  A national
codification. 

And today, we’re following through on a promise I gave to millions of
Americans with student loans: just a little more breathing room. 
Together, we’re making our democracy deliver for the American people,
and it strengthens all America.  When those who are struggling economic
— those with backgrounds like a lot of us — when we do well, the whole
country does well.  The wealthy do well.  Everyone does well.

I am so sick and tired of trickle — trickle-down economics.  I had it up
to here.  Guess what?  When poor folks and middle-class folks make it,
the wealthy do very, very well.  They’re not at all hurt.  It’s about
time.  I really mean it.  I’m so sick and tired of telling me, you know,
“Trickle-down.  Give the wealthy more tax breaks and everything is going
to be fine.”  Yeah, right.  (Laughter.)

Well, look, folks, let me just say this: God bless you all for all
you’re doing.  I wish you all the very best of luck. 

And, you know, the bottom line is that we still have — I want you to not
forget we still have a number of folks around the country in harm’s way
in the military.  So we always end every one of — every time we say
grace, we end, in my house, “God protect our troops.”  Thank you very,
very much.  (Applause.)

                        END                 4:01 P.M. EDT
