---
date: '2022-10-19'
published_time: 2022-10-19 12:26:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/19/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-communities-in-schools-cis-leadership-town-hall-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Communities\
  \ in Schools (CIS) Leadership Town Hall\_Conference"
---
 
Washington, D.C.

Thank you, Juliana. I always feel so inspired when you talk about this
profession that we both love so much. You are an incredible teacher—and
you make me proud to be an educator.  
  
I first learned about this great organization back in 2019 when I met
with Elaine Wynn, and I was so moved by her passion and dedication to
community schools. There is no better advocate than her.  
  
It is an honor to be with all of you today.  
  
Last week, I sat next to a mom named Koa at a homework diner, hosted by
a community school in Milwaukee. And as we got to know each other, she
shared how difficult her path had been. Her mother died when she was
young, and as a single mom of four kids, she relied on her dad for
support—but he passed away from COVID last year.   
  
Like so many working parents, she just does her best. She tries to take
it one day at a time. But when Koa brings her family to the homework
diner, she doesn’t have to worry about making dinner or cleaning up.   
  
Instead, she laughs with her head back when her kids tell her stories.
She’s able to check in with their teachers—asking questions about the
math that is so different from what she learned growing up. Homework
gets done without bargains or pleas.    
  
And when they leave, Koa knows that, though she’s a single mom, she’s
not in this alone.   
  
Schools have always been the heart of our communities—where students
learn to be good citizens, where families come together for a common
cause, where towns find pride.    
  
And there is no better place to support families.   
    
Because kids can’t learn when their stomachs are empty; they can’t
master reading when they need glasses, or concentrate when there’s
trouble at home.  
  
Students perform their best—and are happiest—when their parents and
educators work together, when their families get the support they
need—as soon as they need it.   
  
Communities in Schools was founded on that idea—and for decades you’ve
brought resources to students—tailored to the unique needs of every
community in an environment that children and families already trust:
their schools.  
  
And after the disruptions of the pandemic, your work has only become
more important.   
  
Whether it’s organizing a school food pantry, or setting up after-school
tutoring, or working with the community to bring in doctors, counselors,
and health specialists, you’re giving students and families the support
they need to thrive.  
  
Our administration is here to help in your efforts.   
  
We safely reopened schools and are addressing the academic and mental
health needs of students.   
  
We’ve provided funding to hire more mental health professionals and
create wraparound support.   
  
And with key partners like CIS, the Biden-Harris Administration launched
the National Partnership for Student Success to help increase the number
of tutors and mentors in our schools.  
  
This work doesn’t just help families, it’s crucial for supporting
educators as well.   
  
When we lighten the burden on teachers, they can focus on what they do
best: teach, counsel, create, and inspire.    
  
In fact, educators tell us that when CIS services are in their schools,
they are better able to improve student achievement and they get more
satisfaction from the work they do.   
  
To some people, schools may seem common—the fluorescent lights, the felt
walls, the same simple classroom, again and again.    
  
Those people don’t know that what happens in schools is anything but
ordinary. But we do.   
  
Because we know how an idea can light up a pair of young eyes.  
  
That teaching is an art where black and white words can open a rainbow
bridge to uncharted worlds.  
  
That our classrooms are a place where students find pieces of
themselves, hidden and waiting to be discovered, transforming them into
something new.  
  
That every day, because of this work, a student somewhere is standing a
little taller, working a little harder, being a little braver because
their school helped them find the kindness, confidence, and courage that
they need.   
  
That is what it’s all about—the connections we build, the communities we
create.   
  
So, thank you for your work and dedication. Thank you for lifting up
students and their families. I can’t wait to see the magic you make.    
  
Thank you! 

\###
