---
date: '2022-10-24'
published_time: 2022-10-24 18:54:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/24/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-democratic-national-committee-event-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Democratic National Committee\_Event"
---
 
   
Democratic National Committee Headquarters  
Washington, D.C.

1:32 P.M. EDT   
  
AUDIENCE:  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa, whoa, whoa.

AUDIENCE:  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!  Let’s go, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Please have a — take a seat, if you have one.

I came today for two reasons.  The first, and maybe most important, to
say thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

If we get people out to vote, we win.  If we get people out to vote, we
win.  And you’re getting them out to vote.  (Applause.)

There’s a little babe over there who’s not so sure about all this. 
(Laughs.)  But she seems okay, so far.  (Laughs.)

Any rate — and what I want to talk about — I want to make what I think
is the most important closing argument to make: I’ve been in to about
30, 31 districts — or 31 places, going to a bunch between now and — now
and the election day.  And, you know, I can’t think of a more
consequential election that I’ve been involved in and we’ve been
involved in.

You know, whether we maintain control of the Senate and the House is a
big deal.  And so far, we’re running against the tide, and we’re beating
the tide.  But we just have 15 days until one of the most important
elections in our lifetime.  And it’s going to shape the way this country
look like for the coming decade, for real.

Now the polls have been all over the place.  First of all, if you speak
to most pollsters, they’re not sure anymore — not about the outcome, but
about polling.

No, I’m not being facetious.  It’s awful hard to do it these days.  It’s
awful hard to do it these days.

“Republicans ahead.”  “Democrats ahead.”  “Republicans ahead.”  But it’s
going to close, I think, with seeing one more shift: “Democrats ahead”
in the closing days.  (Applause.)

So, look, the last couple weeks — I don’t pay attention to anything
having to do with the polls, I just pay attention to what’s happening on
the phone, and we’re knocking on doors.  
  
I’m here to deliver what I believe is a closing argument about what we
need to do in the next 15 days to make a victory assured and make it
clear that this election is a referendum — it’s not a referendum, I
should say; it’s a choice.  Everybody wants to make it a referendum, but
it’s a choice between two vastly different visions for America —
significantly different.  
  
Democrats are building a better America for everyone with an economy
that grows from the bottom up and the middle out, where everyone does
well.  Republicans are doubling down on their mega MAGA trickle-down
economics that benefits the very wealthy.  It failed their country
before and will fail it again if they win.    
  
Democrats are lowering your everyday costs like prescription drugs,
healthcare premiums, energy bills, and gas prices.  (Applause.)  Folks,
Republicans have made it clear — at least they’re being honest around
this time; they’re telling exactly what they want to do if they win —
they’re going to increase everyday cost.

Democrats are making sure the biggest corporations begin to pay not
their fair share, but at least a bigger share than they’ve been paying. 
Fifteen percent is not a fair share, but it’s a bigger share. 
(Applause.)  And Republicans will allow some of the biggest corporations
to go back to paying zero — zero — in federal taxes, after having made
$40 billion, leaving the burden to teachers, nurses, firefighters,
working folks to pay more of their fair share to keep things going.   
  
We, the Democrats, are the ones that are fiscally responsible.  Let’s
get that straight now, okay?  We’re investing in all of America,
reducing everyday costs while also lowering the deficit at the same
time.  Republicans are fiscally reckless, pushing tax cuts for the very
wealthy that aren’t paid for, and <s>exploiting</s> \[exploding\] the
deficit that is making inflation worse.   
  
Look, folks, Democrats are going to protect Social Security and
Medicare.  Republicans have been very clear: They’ve stated boldly that
they want to cut Social Security and Medicare and — to the point that
they’ll shut down the government, they say, and send the nation into
default, which raises prices for everyone, if we do not cut Social
Security and Medicare.  I ain’t gonna do it.  (Applause.)

We’re going to protect — Democrats are going to protect the fundamental
rights and freedoms like the right to choose, the right to privacy, the
right to vote — our very democracy.  Republicans have already introduced
legislation that will ban abortion with no exceptions to rape or incest
or the life of the mother, in many places.   
  
At the same time, Republicans are threatening to take away the
constitutional right to marry the person you love.  Just look at the
facts.  You don’t need to imagine anything this time around.  Look at
what they’re saying.  They’re saying it out loud, for everybody to
hear.  
  
Let’s go back and see what we inherited from Trump and the MAGA
Republicans when we won the election that — when we came to office.  We
inherited a nation in crisis, the pandemic with no end, an economy on
the brink, a national debt that increased — they increased in their
short time by <s>$8 trillion</s> \[$2 trillion\], and because of the
inaction of incompetence of — the COVID was running and — ruining
American lives.

Look at how far we’ve come.  Twenty months ago, COVID ruled our lives. 
Today, infections are down 80 percent from when we took office; deaths
are down 90 percent.  And we did it together — one of the biggest public
health efforts ever undertaken in the United States of America.  We went
from 2 million to 633 million shots administered in people’s arms. 
(Applause.)

And something that’s going unnoticed but I’m going to keep reminding
people: Republicans in Congress are still preventing funding we need to
stay vigilant and ahead of the next virus.  They’ve refused the
funding.  But we no- — we’re not going to relent.  We’re not going to
relent.  We haven’t relented.  We won’t do it.

Together, we carried out one of the biggest public health efforts in the
history of this country.   
  
Twenty months ago, the economy — the economy was in ruins.  Trump is the
first President since Herbert Hoover — it’s a fact — since Herbert
Hoover to lose jobs over the course of his presidency.  Fewer jobs when
he left than when he came to office.   
  
We created, with your help, 10 million new jobs so far.  (Applause.)   
  
When Trump and the Republicans left office, unemployment was 6.4
percent.  We got it down to 3.5 percent, a 50-year low.  (Applause.)  
  
On his watch, literally hundreds of thousands of small businesses were
closing.  They make up 50 percent of the economy — these small
businesses.  Today, we have the highest number of people applying to
start small businesses than ever during an economic recovery — ever,
ever, ever.  (Applause.)   
  
And you all know I was determined, with your help, to bring back
manufacturing, back to the United States, instead of companies going
overseas for cheaper labor.  On Trump’s watch, American manufacturing
was hollowed out.   
  
On my watch, “Made in America” isn’t just a slogan, it’s a reality. 
(Applause.)  A reality.  Seven hundred thousand manufacturing jobs —
(applause) — in advanced technologies with companies like IBM and Intel
investing billions of dollars to build industries of the future here in
America.  (Applause.)  
  
Later this week, I’m going up to Syracuse, New York, where I went to
graduate school — my deceased wife was from.  You know, where the little
company called Micron is investing $100 billion to build semiconductors
— (applause) — the biggest investment of its kind in our history.   
  
We passed the most consequential infrastructure bill since Eisenhower
Interstate Highway system.  We’re building our roads, bridges, ports,
airports; delivering clean water, high-speed Internet to every
American.  And we’re just getting started.  
  
You know, we had — we had Infrastructure Week, and it kept — kept having
it and having it, and nothing happened.  (Laughter.)  Now we got
Infrastructure Decade.  We got enough money to do this for a decade. 
(Applause.)    
  
We’re going to create tens of thousands of jobs and making our companies
more competitive worldwide.   
  
At the same time, we know — we know a lot of folks are struggling with
inflation driven by Putin’s war in Ukraine and the global pandemic. 
It’s a little solace, but we have a lower inflation rate than most any
nation in the — any other nation in the world.  That’s why I’m
determined to reduce the burden on working- and middle-class folks by
bringing down the costs of everyday things they have to work their
families through.   
  
It’s not just food and energy, which is critical — we brought down the
cost of energy — but prescription drugs, healthcare costs, and so much
more.   
  
We finally did something with these things, even without receiving a
single, solitary Republican vote.  Not one.  Not one.   
  
After decades of trying, we finally gave Medicare the power to negotiate
for lower drug prices.  (Applause.)  
  
In the United States, we pay more — we pay more for prescription drugs
than any advanced nation in the world for the exact same prescription
made by the same company.  For years, many of us have been trying to get
this done, but Big Pharma had scores of lobbyists and spent hundreds of
millions of dollars to block us.  We tried and tried, but finally we
beat Big Pharma.  We beat them.  (Applause.)  And that’s a big deal. 
I’ve been trying to do that since your age.  (Laughter.)  Finally.   
  
And the results are consequential.  We’re putting — for example, some of
you have grandpops and grandmoms and moms and dads who have serious
healthcare problems and need prescriptions that cost a lot of money. 
Well, guess what?  We’re placing a $2,000 cap — this is for Medica- —
anybody on Medicare.  You’re not going to ever have to pay — even if
your bills are $20,000 for prescription drugs — you don’t have to pay
more than $2,000 a year.  And some of the — some of the cancer drugs —
(applause) — as much as $14,000.   
  
And, you know, no one — no one on Medicare — no one on Medicare is going
to have to pay more than $2,000, no matter what their expense is, no
matter how much their prescriptions cost.  Look, $2,000 is a limit
you’re going to have to pay.  Imagine what burden that takes off of
people.  Imagine the people who are rationing what they have to do
because they have family obligations.  
  
And our — for our seniors on Medicare with diabetes, we’ve capped the
cost of insulin — get this — at $35 a month instead of 30 times that
amount.  There are tens of thousands of Americans with diabetes
struggling to pay for the insulin and badly need it to stay alive and to
stay healthy, including hundreds of thousands of young children with
Type 2 diabetes.   
  
But you know how much it costs to make that insulin?  Ten — T-E-N —
dollars.  Ten.  It’s outrageous.  So we wanted to cap it for everyone,
including — not just for those on Medicare, for everyone.  
  
I’ll hold up a second here.  I was — I was in Virginia not long ago,
talking about the — capping the costs.  And a lady stood up and said she
had two children; both had Type 2 diabetes.  They had to share their
insulin.  They couldn’t afford it because it was costing — I forget the
number they had; I think it was 600 bucks a month.  She had no
insurance.   
  
How do you look at your child — not a joke.  My dad used to say,
“Everybody is entitled to have dignity.”  How do you look at your child
knowing you can’t afford — can’t afford something that’s basic to their
health because it costs so much money?  
  
We wanted to cap that cost for everyone, including the hundreds of
thousands of children with Type <s>1</s> \[2\] diabetes, but Republicans
blocked it.  We got the Medicare piece through, but they blocked it for
everybody else.  But guess what?  We’re going to get it next time out. 
(Applause.)  No, we are. 

We also locked in savings on health insurance premiums for the
Affordable Care Act.  Because of what we did earlier, in the first piece
of legislation we passed, a family of four — it would reduce their costs
to $2,400 a year if they were on Medicare — excuse me, on the —
Obamacare.  Well, guess what?  We were able to only do it for 800 bucks
a family now, but it’s still a lot of money.  That’s the limit.  That’s
gone as well if Republicans get their way.   
  
As a matter of fact, they wanted to get rid of the entire Affordable
Care Act.  They’re making it again.  And, by the way, anyone with a
preexisting condition who can’t afford expensive insurance, the only
reason you have coverage is because of the Affordable Care Act.  Only
reason.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, I know it doesn’t matter to an audience — a young audience
like you all, but we passed the biggest investment in climate ever to
save the environment.  (Applause.)  And by the way — (applause) —
because of your talking.  I really mean it.  Not only are we going to
save homeowners thousands of dollars a year because they’re going to get
these tax credits for what they’re doing — and weatherizing their homes
and a whole range of other things, but more efficient appliances, more
efficient vehicles, working with utility companies to produce more
low-cost, home-grown energy, like solar, wind, and clean hydrogen, which
will mean lower utility bills for tens of millions of Americans.  
  
Look, folks, let me say it again: We’re doing all of this in a fiscally
responsible way.  Every time I talk about the cost of these things —
“There goes that big spendin’ Democrat Biden again.”  (Laughter.)  Well,
guess what the big spendin’ Democrat Biden did?  The deficit fell by
$1.4 trillion this year.  (Applause.)  Cut the deficit in half. 
(Applause.)  And that follows a drop last year of $350 billion. 
(Applause.)   
  
And by the way — and because we’re finally ensuring corporations begin
to pay their fair share, we’re giving Medicare the power to negotiate
drug prices, we’re going to reduce the deficit over the next 10 years by
another $250 billion.  (Applause.)   
  
Look, folks, a big part of that is because we’re finally making the
biggest corporations begin to pay their fair share.   
  
In 2020, 55 of the wealthiest corporations in the Fortune 500 paid zero
in federal taxes, and they made $40 billion.  Well, thanks to Democrats
in the Congress, I signed into law a 15 percent corporate minimum tax. 
Just 15 percent.  And, by the way, I’m keeping my campaign commitment I
made when I ran.  No one earning less than $400,000 a year will pay a
single additional penny in federal taxes.  And they haven’t. 
(Applause.)   
  
Because of the number of actions I’ve taken, we’ve taken — and it’s
going to take too long to go into detail — but guess what?  Gas prices
are coming down despite — (applause) — despite Putin’s invasion of
Ukraine.  They’re down $1.20 since this summer, and just this week they
fell another 10 cents.  And we’re going to continue to insist the oil
companies pass on the savings from lower price of a barrel of oil to a
lower price for consumers at the pump.  (Applause.)    
  
Folks, I’ve said from the beginning that my objective is to build an
economy from the bottom up, giving everyone a fair chance.  When we do
that, everybody does well.  The poor have a ladder up, the middle class
gets ahead, and the wealthy still do very, very well.  
  
Now, ask what’s the Republican plan.  Not a joke.  When you’re on — if
you’re with a friend who has a different point of view, say, “Okay, you
don’t like what we’re for.  Tell me what the Republicans are for. 
What’s their platform?”  Not a joke.  What are they running on?  If they
win, what do they say they’ll do?   
  
Well, I have to hand it to it.  As I said, they’re saying it out loud. 
They’re so confident they’re going to win they’re saying it without an
ounce of shame.  Just listen to — and let’s name names.   
  
Kevin McCarthy, Republican leader of the House, and fel- — and his
fellow MAGA Republicans say their number-one priority if they win
control of the Congress will do the following: give the power we just
gave to Medicare for lower drug packs \[sic\] — lower drug prices back
to Big Pharma and raise drug prices.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No — by — by the way, I know this sounds like it — it’s
almost like they’re making it up.  But this is what they’re saying. 
This is what will happen:  
  
The $2,000 cap on prescription drugs for seniors — gone.  Gone.   
  
The $35-a-month cap on insulin for seniors that we passed in the
Inflation Reduction Act — gone.   
  
Savings on healthcare premiums of $800 a year for millions of Americans
under the Affordable Care Act — gone.   
  
And, of course, they’re still determined to repeal the entire Affordable
Care Act.  That means an end to the protections for tens of millions of
people who can’t afford health insurance because they have a
pre-existing condition.  That’s gone as well if the Republicans get
their way.  
  
The most aggressive action to deal with global warming — gone.   
  
The corporate minimum tax I just signed into law — gone.  
  
Look, you know Republicans love to call Democrats “big spenders” and
claim that we are — we are for — and they claim they’re for less
government spending.  Well, give me a little break here.  Just look at
the facts.  The federal deficit went up every single, solitary year in
the Trump administration.  Went up every year.  It went up before the
pandemic.  It went up during the pandemic.  It went up every single year
on his watch.   
  
And one big reason for that is he — they voted for a $2 trillion Trump
tax cut, which overwhelmingly benefited the biggest corporations and the
wealthiest Americans.  And it racked up significant deficit.  Not a
penny was paid for.   
  
Now Republicans in Congress are doubling down on their mega MAGA
commitment to implode the deficit again.  Just last week, Republicans
leaders said if they get their way, they’re going to extend the tra- —
extend the Trump tax cuts, which go out of existence in two years.  
  
Folks, put the entire Republican plan all together and they would add $3
trillion to the deficit.  Three trillion.  That’s their plan.  Massive
deficits are reckless and irresponsible.   
  
The Republican plan is to make inflation — will make inflation worse,
not reduce it.   
  
Let’s talk about Senator Rick Scott, the senator from Florida —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
(Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — who’s in charge of electing Republicans to take
control of the United States Senate.  His plan is to put — and he put it
out in writing — Social Security and Medicare on the chopping block
every five years.  That means every five years, Congress will have to
vote to cut, reduce, completely eliminate, or make no changes in Social
Security and Medicare.  But they’re going to have to vote every five
years.   
  
Then along came — there used to be a song.  Anyway.  Then along came
Senator Ron Johnson of Wisconsin.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He thinks five years is too long to wait.  Not a joke. 
He wants to put Social Security and Medicare on the chopping block every
single year.  If Congress doesn’t vote to keep the program, it goes
away.  It goes away.  Not just Social Security and Medicare; he wants to
put veterans’ benefits and everything else on the same budget at
risk.   
  
Hear this closely: The Republicans have made it clear that if they win
control of the Congress, they will shut down the government, refuse to
pay our bills, and it’ll be the first time in our history America will
default unless I yield and cut Social Security and Medicare.  Flat-out
saying that.   
  
In order to cut Social Security and Medicare, they’re threatening to
default on the federal debt.  There’s nothing — nothing that will create
more chaos, more inflation, and more damage to the American economy than
this.   
  
Think about it: Republicans are determined to hold the economy hostage. 
Either give in to their demands on Social Security and Medicare, which
millions of Americans rely on and earned and paid for, or Republicans
are going to crash the economy.   
  
Let me be clear: I will not cut Social Security.  I will not cut
Medicare.  (Applause.)  No matter how hard they — I’m never going to
give in.  It’s outrageous.   
  
And, by the way, I know from experience, in our last administration,
even when they threatened — even though I was asked to settle on New
Year’s Eve Day — settle this — a similar deal with the last Republican
leader, we were able to succeed and not default.  But guess what?  Our
credit rating went down anyway because we were risking and playing with
the debt.  It’s irresponsible.  
  
Here’s one more thing: I kept my commitment to help ease the burden on
student debt for working- and middle-class families — (applause) —
exactly one year ago.  And one week ago, we launched applications where
folks could apply.  (Applause.)  Twenty-two million of you applied for
this lifesaving — 22 million in one week.  (Applause.)  In one week. 
(Applause.)   
  
And the Republican response?  “Sue the federal government and block —
block that relief.”   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, that’s what they’ve done.  I mean, think about
this.  That’s mega MAGA trickle-down politics in the extreme.   
  
I’ll never apologize for helping working- and middle-class folks and
Americans as they recover from the pandemic, especially not the same
Republicans officials who voted for a $2 trillion tax cut that mainly
benefitted the wealthy that wasn’t paid for.  I don’t want to hear it. 
I don’t want to hear it from these guys.   
  
Look, folks — and, by the way, if I can divert for another second, the
same people in the Congress who are really hollering at me, saying I’m
wasting money allowing you, if you had a stu- — if you had a Pell Grant,
to get another, you know, debt relief from your — debt up to — and, by
the way, the average person getting this debt relief makes less than 75
grand a year, okay?  They say that’s — that’s “outrageous.”   
  
But, you know the — the program where you allowed people — the PPP
program — to get money back if their business were in trouble?  Well,
you have — I think it’s four or five Republicans who are published in
the print, in the paper, who ranged — got from $2.1 million of relief to
$187 million — I forget the exact number — for — and they made no
apologies for that.  They thought it’s okay for them to get that relief
for their business, but you breaking your neck and getting caught in the
middle of crisis, you can’t get any relief for the debt.  And guess
who’s going to grow the economy more?  An educated public or those
guys?  (Laughter.)  
  
Folks, look, I don’t know who they think they are.  You know, that’s the
whole mega MAGA trickle-down policies: Give Big Pharma the power to
increase drug prices.  Cut taxes for the wealthy, but cut Social
Security — I mean, and cut Social Security and Medicare for seniors. 
That’s (inaudible) trade on cuts.  Threaten the very foundation of the
American economy — that if we don’t meet their demands, they’re going to
shut the place down.  And then, they talk about inflation.  Everything
they’ll do is going to make inflation worse.   
  
Folks, 15 days.  Fifteen days.  The choice couldn’t be clearer.  The
stakes couldn’t be higher.  I know we can meet the moment.  
  
And on — the young people of this nation, all of you in this room, let
me say: I’ve always believed your generation — and I’ve said this from
the beginning, and the reason I ran — represent the best educated, most
talented, least prejudiced generation in American history; and that we
face an inflection point, one of those moments that comes along
everywhere from two to six generations, where there is so much change
happening technologically, politically, socially, environmentally that
the decisions we make today are going to determine the future of our
nation and the future of your generation for the next 30 years.  Not a
joke.   
  
But your generation is not going to be ignored.  You’re not going to be
shunned.  You’re not going to be silent.    
  
Just look at what happens when you speak out.  Two years ago, perhaps
many of you voted for the first election ever in your life.  You
understand the choice and the stakes.  And because you exercised your
vote, Donald Trump was the defeated former President of the United
States.  (Applause.)  And you elected the highest-ranking Black, Indian
— with Indian background — woman in American history to be Vice
President.  (Applause.)  
  
And since then, with your help, you’ve delivered enormous progress to
the nation:   
  
The most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years.  (Applause.) 
And, by the way, I’m coming back — I’m going to ban assault weapons
again.  (Applause.)  I mean it.   
  
Because of you all, we confirmed the first Black woman to ever serve on
the Supreme Court of the United States of America.  (Applause.)

We’ve confirmed more appellate federal judges who are Black women than
all other presidents combined.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me be clear: Republicans are going to pass a national ban on
abortion if they control the Congress.  I’ll veto it right away, but —
(applause) — but if we elect more Senate Democrats and keep control of
the House, we’re going to codify Roe v. Wade in January for all the
nation.  (Applause.)  You have that power with your vote.  
  
Let me close with this.  Over the last few years, we’ve faced some of
the most difficult challenge in our history, and we’re making real
progress, despite opposition from powerful special interests and extreme
Republicans.

And, by the way, I served a long time in the Senate with a lot of
conservative, decent, honorable Republicans who played by the rules. 
Sometimes they won, sometimes they lost.  But they’re decent, honorable
people.  And there’s still some of them there.  But this is a different
breed of cat, this mega MAGA Republican group.  I really mean it.  
  
Fifteen days — 15 days, we’re going to make a choice about whether we go
forward or backwards.  It’s that practical.  The power is in your
hands.  I mean, you — it really is.  You can do this.  We just need to
vote.  Get out the vote.  And if we do, I truly believe we’re just
getting started.  
  
And that’s because I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s
future than I am today, and that’s not hyperbole.  I give you my word, I
believe that.  
  
We have to remember who we are, for God’s sake.  We are the United
States of America.  There is nothing — nothing, nothing beyond our
capacity when we set out mind to it.  Not a joke.

You know, I was with Xi Jinping in the Tibetan Plateau — I spent more
time with Xi Jinping than any other leader in the world — over 78 hours’
worth on the — 8 or 10 of those on the phone and the rest in person over
the last 12 years.  And he looked at me and just had a — a simultaneous
interpreter; he had one and I had one.   
  
By the way, I turned in all my notes, by the way.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, he looked at me and he said — and I give you my
word to this — he said, “Can you explain America to me?”  I said, “Yes,
I can.”  And I meant it — what I said.  I said, “Yes, one word:
possibilities.”  It’s the reason why we’re sort of the — viewed as the
“ugly Americans.”  We believe anything is possible when we do it
together.  Not a joke.  Think about it.

Anything is possible for us.  There’s nothing we’ve ever said “No, no,
no, no, no, no, we can’t do that.”  
  
We’re the only nation in the last 400 years that’s come out of crises
stronger than we went into the crisis.  And our diversity is one of
those reasons.  
  
Folks, look, I really mean it: There’s nothing beyond our capacity.  And
one of the things that I’m — worry about — and that’s why I’m so
counting on your generation, and I mean it from the bottom my heart; I
give you my word as a Biden, I believe it — is that a lot of Americans
began to wonder whether we can still do anything, whether we’re still
who we’ve always been.   
  
We are.  And everybody thought I was nuts when I — when I had asked the
question, if I could do one thing, what would you do?  I’d do something
that didn’t answer any of the real questions we just had, but just
demonstrate we can still do anything.  If I could wave a wand, I’d cure
cancer.  Why?  Because no one believes it can be done.  But we’re
starting to do it.  
  
There’s nothing beyond our capacity.  I mean it.  Not a joke.  Not a
joke.  
  
So, folks, look, you are the key, not just in what you’re doing here on
the phones, but your whole generation.  You’re the key whether we’re
going to get through all this.  
  
And if we get through it, we’re going to be owing you for a long, long
time.  You will be able to tell your grandkids you did it.  (Laughs.) 
Y’all think I’m kidding; I’m not.  (Laughter.)  
  
More is going to change in the next 10 years than changed in the last 50
years because of technology, because of a whole range of things.  Things
are moving so rapidly.  
  
So every time I’d walk out of my Grandpop Finnegan’s house up in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.”  And another
voice would come out of the house — my grandma — who said, “No, Joey,
spread it.”

Go spread the faith.  Let’s get this done.  (Applause.)  Vote.  Vote. 
Vote.  Vote.  Vote.  Vote.  (Applause.)  
  
2:05 P.M. EDT
