---
date: '2025-03-18'
modified_time: 2025-03-18 18:19:56-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-18 18:18:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/national-poison-prevention-week-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: National Poison Prevention Week, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

During National Poison Prevention Week, my Administration is addressing
the threat of overdose deaths in our Nation from accidental poisoning. 
By increasing community awareness, strengthening safety measures, and
taking decisive action, we are building a new era of American strength,
safety, security, and wellness.

Among the most serious threats facing our Nation is the rise of
fentanyl, which is being trafficked illegally across our borders — a
crisis of unimaginable proportions that escalated under the previous
administration.  Fentanyl and other deadly drugs flooded into our towns
and cities, falling into the hands of our children, siblings, parents,
friends, and neighbors.  Fentanyl is the leading cause of death for
Americans ages 18 to 45, with overdoses quickly becoming a leading cause
of death for American teens — robbing countless innocent victims of
their lives, futures, and dreams.

We cannot allow this devastation and vicious assault on the American
people to continue.  That is why, on my first day back in office, I
directed the designation of cartels as foreign terrorist organizations,
ensuring they are treated as a national security threat.  I have imposed
tariffs on China, Mexico, and Canada — sending a clear message that
those fueling this crisis will be held accountable.  United States
Customs and Border Protection, along with United States Immigration and
Customs Enforcement, are on the frontlines of this fight, having seized
more than 1,600 pounds of fentanyl in my first 30 days in office.  I
will continue to do everything in my power to protect children and
families, end drug addiction, and keep lethal substances out of our
communities.

Every day, American families endure the devastating impact of
preventable poisoning, whether from household chemicals, improper
medication use, or the perilous danger of opioids like fentanyl.  This
week, my Administration urges all Americans to stay informed about the
dangers of poisoning and take steps to protect their families.  The
Poison Help Line, 800-222-1222, is available around the clock, providing
free, confidential guidance from medical experts.  We will never stop
fighting to achieve a future that protects its citizens, defends its
communities, and ensures that the American people are happy, healthy,
and free.

To encourage Americans to learn more about the dangers of unintentional
poisonings and to take appropriate preventative measures, on September
26, 1961, the Congress, by joint resolution (75 Stat. 681), authorized
and requested the President to issue a proclamation designating the
third week of March each year as “National Poison Prevention Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, do hereby proclaim March 16, 2025, through March 22, 2025, to
be National Poison Prevention Week.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this week by taking actions to safeguard their families from
poisonous products, chemicals, medicines, and drugs found in their
homes, and to raise awareness about these dangers in order to prevent
accidental injuries and deaths.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

DONALD J. TRUMP
