---
date: '2025-03-19'
published_time: 2025-03-19 14:42:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/statement-from-secretary-rubio-and-nsc-waltz-on-call-with-zelenskyy/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Statement from Secretary Rubio and NSC Waltz on Call with Zelenskyy
---
 
“Today, President Donald J. Trump and Ukraine’s President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy had a fantastic phone conversation.  President Zelenskyy
thanked President Trump for a productive start for the work of the
Ukrainian and American teams in Jeddah on March 11th. The meeting of the
senior officials from both nations significantly helped in moving toward
ending the war.   
 

President Zelenskyy thanked President Trump for the support of the
United States, especially the Javelin missiles that President Trump was
first to provide, and his efforts towards peace. The leaders agreed
Ukraine and America will continue working together to bring about a real
end to the war, and that lasting peace under President Trump’s
leadership can be achieved.  
 

President Trump fully briefed President Zelenskyy on his conversation
with Russian President Vladimir Putin and the key issues discussed. They
reviewed the situation in Kursk and agreed to share information closely
between their defense staffs as the battlefield situation evolved. 
President Zelenskyy asked for additional air defense systems to protect
his civilians, particularly Patriot missile systems, President Trump
agreed to work with him to find what was available particularly in
Europe.

The two leaders also agreed on a partial ceasefire against energy.
Technical teams will meet in Saudi Arabia in the coming days to discuss
broadening the ceasefire to the Black Sea on the way to a full
ceasefire. They agreed this could be the first step toward the full end
of the war and ensuring security. President Zelenskyy was grateful for
the President’s leadership in this effort and reiterated his willingness
to adopt a full ceasefire.

President Trump also discussed Ukraine’s electrical supply and nuclear
power plants.  He said that the United States could be very helpful in
running those plants with its electricity and utility expertise. 
American ownership of those plants would be the best protection for that
infrastructure and support for Ukrainian energy infrastructure.

President Zelenskyy also thanked President Trump for continuing to push
humanitarian concerns, including the exchange of POWs.  He noted they
had just had a successful exchange and thanked the President for his
leadership.  President Trump also asked President Zelenskyy about the
children who had gone missing from Ukraine during the war, including the
ones that had been abducted.  President Trump promised to work closely
with both parties to help make sure those children were returned home.  

They agreed all parties must continue the effort to make a ceasefire
work. The Presidents noted the positive work of their advisors and
representatives, especially Secretary Rubio, National Security Advisor
Waltz, Special Envoy Kellogg, and others.  The Presidents instructed
their teams to move ahead with the technical issues related to
implementing and broadening the partial ceasefire. The Presidents
instructed their advisors and representatives to carry out this work as
quickly as possible. The Presidents emphasized that in further meetings,
the teams can agree on all necessary aspects of advancing toward lasting
peace and security.”
