---
date: '2025-03-03'
modified_time: 2025-03-04 13:14:10-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-03 17:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/readout-from-first-lady-melania-trumps-roundtable-discussion-on-online-protection-and-the-take-it-down-act/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "Readout from First Lady Melania Trump\u2019s Roundtable Discussion on Online\
  \ Protection and the Take It Down Act"
---
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, First Lady Melania Trump, U.S. Senator Ted
Cruz, and U.S. Representative Maria Salazar hosted a roundtable on
Capitol Hill with Members of Congress, Survivors of Non-Consensual
Intimate Imagery (NCII), and online safety advocates for a discussion
focused on promoting online protection of children and passing
[S.146](https://whitehouse.us10.list-manage.com/track/click?u=dace49741569f7585670378b3&id=8a44a9779f&e=8b071a776a)/[H.R.633](https://whitehouse.us10.list-manage.com/track/click?u=dace49741569f7585670378b3&id=8fa38fb0f0&e=8b071a776a),
the *Take It Down Act.*

The First Lady delivered opening remarks thanking the U.S. Senate for
passing the *Take It Down Act,* calling on the U.S. House of
Representatives to also pass the bill, and expressing her commitment to
making the internet a safer platform for young Americans in the digital
era.

“It’s heartbreaking to witness young teens, especially girls, grappling
with the overwhelming challenges posed by malicious online content, like
deepfakes. This toxic environment can be severely damaging. We must
prioritize their well-being by equipping them with the support and tools
necessary to navigate this hostile digital landscape. Every young person
deserves a safe online space to express themself freely, without the
looming threat of exploitation or harm,” said First Lady Melania Trump.

Following Mrs. Trump’s remarks, Members of Congress spoke and multiple
survivors of NCII and advocates for online safety shared their personal
stories. They joined in calling for the passage of the *Take It Down
Act.* The Discussion addressed online protection, child well-being, and
how artificial intelligence is changing the social media landscape.

Senator Ted Cruz, commented: “For victims of revenge or AI-generated
explicit imagery, life can change instantly and permanently. Everyone
has the right to have these disturbing images removed from the internet
immediately. The bipartisan *Take It Down Act* empowers victims across
the United States, and I am honored that First Lady Melania Trump has
lent her strong voice to this cause. Her presence and advocacy are
driving real action for teens and children, and her support will be
crucial in advancing this bill. I am encouraged by my House colleagues
who joined us today, united in their commitment to take swift action.
Following the Senate’s unanimous approval, the House must act quickly to
send this legislation to President Trump’s desk before more victims are
left without recourse.”

*Take It Down Act* Advocate, Francesca Mani, said: “A strong Federal law
is crucial – one that shifts power back to the victims, ensuring they
can remove harmful images within 48 hours. That’s not just policy –
that’s real, tangible protection. That’s *Take it Down*.”

*Take It Down Act* Advocate, Elliston Berry, said: “This bipartisan bill
is meant to protect American children. Thank you to the First Lady and
House leadership for understanding how important this issue is and
taking time to learn about this vital piece of legislation. I share my
story to give victims a voice they never had and change this horrible
situation into something good.”

\###
