---
date: '2025-03-04'
modified_time: 2025-03-04 09:43:20-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-04 09:43:19-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/presidential-message-on-colorectal-cancer-awareness-month-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, 2025
---
 
During National Colorectal Cancer Awareness Month, the First Lady and I
offer our heartfelt prayers to every American battling the horrific
disease of colorectal cancer, as well as their families, friends, and
loved ones.  In honor of those we have lost to this colorectal cancer,
my Administration is strongly committed to ending our Nation’s chronic
disease epidemic and making America healthy again.

Every year, 150,000 Americans are diagnosed with—and 50,000 die
from—colorectal cancer making it the leading cause of cancer death among
Americans aged 18 to 49.  Citizens with inflammatory bowel disease or a
personal or family history of the disease face a heightened risk and
should talk to their doctor about new advancements in cancer screening. 
Regular screening is recommended beginning at age 45 as it has been
shown that early detection of cancer may result in more effective
treatment.

Cancer is a devastating disease, but there is reason for hope.  Since
1975, medical advancements have saved an estimated 940,000 Americans
from colorectal cancer thanks to the incredible efforts of our
exceptional American doctors and researchers.  By improving prevention
and screening processes we have given our people more precious moments
with those they hold dear. 

The United States is at the forefront of medical technology—and
recently, the Food and Drug Administration approved the first blood test
for people at average risk for colon cancer.  This advancement is
another tool in the toolbox, including the colonoscopy and stool DNA
tests—giving citizens the ability to choose the option that works best
for them in consultation with their doctor.

My Administration commits to lowering cancer rates and conquering
chronic illness, which will create a Nation and a world free of cancer. 
We solemnly stand beside those who have lost their loved ones to this
dreadful disease—and we pray that God provides courage and strength to
those still fighting it, and to all those who are touched by its
effects.  As my Administration continues to push the boundaries of
medical innovation, we pledge to build a brighter, healthier future for
all Americans.

\###
