---
date: '2025-03-07'
published_time: 2025-03-07 10:44:17-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/national-consumer-protection-week-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: National Consumer Protection Week, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
  
A PROCLAMATION

Consumer rights are a cornerstone of American freedom, a building block
of the American economy, and a foundation of American success.  During
this National Consumer Protection Week, we renew our commitment to
protecting the American consumer, upholding the right to privacy and
transparency, and ensuring the American economy remains free and
prosperous.

Protecting Americans’ transactions, personal data, and other private
information is essential to their navigation of our dynamic market
economy and their ability to ward off potential fraud and cyber security
scams. 

To protect consumer rights and strengthen American leadership in global
digital advancement, I took immediate action to halt aggressive
regulatory overreach that has stifled the growth of cryptocurrency.  To
advocate for greater transparency in consumer drug prices, I also
proudly signed an Executive Order ensuring that advertisements provide
accurate information about prescription drugs and do not mislead
consumers about their products — a crucial step in making America
healthy again.  Consumers deserve honest and accurate information to
make decisions — and my Administration will never waver in its
commitment to promoting consumer rights.

During National Consumer Protection Week, local and Federal agencies,
along with various consumer organizations, come together with the shared
mission of providing resources, guides, and other materials to ensure
Americans are aware of threats to their privacy and financial
well-being.  We cannot afford to neglect the importance of an informed
and protected consumer — and I will continue to ensure that every action
the Federal Government takes is aligned with protecting our rights, our
privacy, and our Nation.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2 through March
8, 2025, as National Consumer Protection Week.  I encourage all
Americans to take advantage of the broad array of online resources
offered by the Federal Trade Commission, and to share this information
through consumer education activities in communities across the country.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
