---
date: '2025-03-18'
modified_time: 2025-03-18 18:31:48-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-18 18:16:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/national-agriculture-day-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: National Agriculture Day, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

From the earliest days of our Republic, our farmers and agricultural
communities have been the source of American success — enduring the
elements and defying hard conditions to cultivate our land and feed the
people.  Farming is indelibly engrained in our history, customs, and
culture, and stands to this day as the bedrock of our economy and way of
life.  This National Agriculture Day, we pay tribute to every farmer and
rancher who makes our country strong — and we commit to empowering our
agricultural community to forge a long, successful, and bountiful
American future.

Every day, farmers and agriculture workers ensure that families across
America and around the world have stable access to high-quality products
— including food for our tables, clothes for our backs, and fuel for our
cars.  Over 95 percent of all farms in the United States are
family-owned and are vital to rural and economic stability, comprising
83 percent of total farm production.

To make good on my promises to fortify the American farmer and make our
Nation’s agricultural products affordable again, I have worked to
rapidly reduce the spread of bird flu inherited from the previous
administration — including by strengthening biosecurity measures and
ensuring rapid outbreak containment.  As President, I will ensure that
American agriculture remains the gold standard of the world, producing
the best food, feed, fuel, and fiber on the face of the Earth.  My
Administration will strengthen our farmers’ competitiveness on the world
stage by promoting fair trade practices, streamlining export processes,
and expanding market access. 

For centuries, American farmers and ranchers have been the lifeblood of
the American economy.  Today and every day, we extend our unending
gratitude to the dedicated men and women in farming communities who
embody the timeless virtues of hard work and self-reliance.  As we
continue our new chapter of American prosperity, we commit to embolden
the heroes of our agricultural community who work tirelessly with their
unwavering American pride to nourish our Nation, feed our families, and
fuel our way of life.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 18, 2025, as
National Agriculture Day.  I encourage all Americans to observe this day
by recognizing the preeminent role that agriculture plays in our daily
lives, acknowledging agriculture’s continuing importance to rural
America and our country’s economy, and expressing our deep appreciation
of farmers, growers, ranchers, producers, national forest system
stewards, private agricultural stewards, and those who work in the
agriculture sector across the Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
