---
date: '2025-03-26'
modified_time: 2025-03-28 13:35:54-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-26 15:16:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/a-letter-to-michael-kratsios-director-of-the-white-house-office-of-science-and-technology-policy/
tags: briefings-statements
title: A Letter to Michael Kratsios, Director of the White House Office of Science
  and Technology Policy
---
 
March 26, 2025

Dear Mr. Kratsios:

Scientific progress and technological innovation were the twin engines
that powered the American century.  The Manhattan Project fueled the
atomic era.  The Apollo Program won us the space race.  The internet
connected us to a digital future.  Today, we will usher in the Golden
Age of American Innovation.  We will make America safer, healthier, and
more prosperous than ever before.  We will create a future of American
greatness for every citizen, restoring the American Dream.

The triumphs of the last century did not happen by chance.  As World War
II drew towards a close, President Franklin D. Roosevelt wrote a letter
like this one to his science and technology advisor, Vannevar Bush,
charging him to explore new frontiers of the mind for the sake of
national greatness and pioneer science in peacetime.  Dr. Bush’s
response laid the groundwork for the uniquely successful American
partnership of Government, industry, and academia that built the
greatest and most productive nation in human history.

But today, rivals abroad seek to usurp America’s position as the world’s
greatest maker of marvels and producer of knowledge.  We must recapture
the urgency which propelled us so far in the last century.  The time has
come to return to our roots and renew the American scientific enterprise
for the century ahead.  So, just as FDR tasked Vannevar Bush, I am
tasking you with meeting the challenges below to deliver for the
American people.

First:  How can the United States secure its position as the unrivaled
world leader in critical and emerging technologies — such as artificial
intelligence, quantum information science, and nuclear technology —
maintaining our advantage over potential adversaries?

We need to accelerate research and development, dismantle regulatory
barriers, strengthen domestic supply chains and manufacturing, spur
robust private sector investment, and advance American companies in
global markets.  Rival nations are pushing hard to overtake the United
States, and we must blaze a bold path to maintain our technological
supremacy.

Second:  How can we revitalize America’s science and technology
enterprise — pursuing truth, reducing administrative burdens, and
empowering researchers to achieve groundbreaking discoveries?

We need new paradigms for the research enterprise, including innovative
models for funding and sharing scientific research, redefining how
America conducts the business of discovery.  We must build an ecosystem
that attracts top talent, celebrates merit, protects our intellectual
edge, and enables scientists to focus on meaningful work rather than
administrative box checking.  

Third:  How can we ensure that scientific progress and technological
innovation fuel economic growth and better the lives of all Americans?

During my first term, we made unprecedented advances in America’s
scientific and technological leadership.  We launched the American
Artificial Intelligence Initiative, vaulting the United States to the
front of the pack in the development and deployment of artificial
intelligence.  Our National Quantum Initiative established the
foundation for national quantum supremacy.  We created the United States
Space Force and charted a new and daring course for America’s further
exploration of space.  All of this buttressed our security and bolstered
our prosperity, and it reaffirmed America’s place as the world’s
preeminent technological superpower.

Now, after 4 long years of weakness and complacency, we must set our
sights even higher.  I am calling upon you to blaze a trail to the next
frontiers of science.  We have the opportunity to cement America’s
global technological leadership and usher in the Golden Age of American
Innovation.  We are not just competing with other nations; we are
seeking, striving, fighting to make America greater than ever before.

Sincerely,

Donald J. Trump
