---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-01-22'
modified_time: 2021-01-22 18:39:38-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/01/22/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-national-economic-director-brian-deese/
published_time: 2021-01-22 14:06:00-05:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and National Economic Director
  Brian Deese
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:03 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Happy Friday.  Today, we are
joined by National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, who will
highlight some key aspects of the executive orders the President is
issuing today related to the economy and underline their impact on
American families and workers.

Brian is kind enough to take a few questions; I didn’t have to twist his
arm too much.  But he does have to go to a briefing with the President,
so I’ll be the bad cop and come up when he has to cut it off.

Go ahead, Brian.

MR. DEESE:  Thanks, Jen.  So I want to just take a couple minutes to
talk to you about the executive actions that the President will take
today.

But just to start with a little bit of context: Our economy is at a very
precarious moment.  We are 10 million jobs short still of where the
economy was when this pandemic started.  Last month, the economy lost
jobs for the first time since last spring.  Retail sales fell last
month.  And just yesterday, we saw another 900,000 Americans file for
unemployment insurance. That’s a weekly rate that is higher than any
week during the Great Recession.

It’s a moment that requires decisive action to beat this pandemic and
support the economic recovery that American families need.  That’s why,
a week ago, President Biden laid out a comprehensive American Rescue
Plan — a plan that is focused on changing the course of the pandemic,
getting students back in school, and giving families and businesses a
bridge to the economic recovery, while also addressing the stark
inequities in our economy that this crisis has exposed.

We have been engaging closely with members of Congress, with governors,
mayors, business and labor organizations in the week since, and we’ll
continue to do so and hope that Congress will move quickly to consider
this important proposal without delay.

At the same time, the American people are hurting, and they can’t afford
to wait.  They need help right now.  And that’s the motivation behind
the actions that the President will take today.

I want to be very clear these actions are not a substitute for
comprehensive legislative relief, but they will provide a critical
lifeline to millions of families.

So just to get into the specifics: The President will sign two executive
orders today.  The first directs agencies to consider a number of
actions that will provide emergency relief for working families affected
by the COVID-19 crisis, within existing authorities, and helping to
correct some of the errors or omissions of the prior administration in
providing families with relief.

I just want to touch on a couple of elements that are in that executive
order to give you a sense of what we’re talking about.

On the issue of food insecurity, which is a growing crisis in America —
of hunger — nearly 30 million Americans last week said that they didn’t
have enough food to put on the table.  So the President will ask the
Department of Agriculture to consider taking immediate steps to provide
nutrition assistance to hard-hit families, first by increasing pandemic
EBT benefits by about 15 percent.  This is the program that is aimed at
supporting families who traditionally rely on the school lunch program
to provide meals to millions of kids through their schools.

So in the pandemic — the Pandemic EBT program provides direct assistance
to families to cover those costs.  But the way it is being implemented
today doesn’t get to the full costs necessary.  So, with these changes,
an eligible family with three children would get about an additional 100
bucks over two months to help pay for food.

Second, increasing the SNAP benefits — emergency SNAP benefits for as
many as 12 million low-income Americans.  This is the core program
targeted at preventing hunger in America. And these changes — again, for
a family of four — would mean about a 15 to 20 percent benefit increase.

And third, revising the Thrifty Food Plan — which is really the basis
for determining SNAP benefits — is out of date and needs to be updated
to better reflect the cost of a healthy diet.

Another element of this executive order is to promote worker safety. 
And here, President Biden will ask the Department of Labor to consider
clarifying that workers have a federally guaranteed right to refuse
employment that would jeopardize their health.  And if they do so, they
will still qualify for unemployment insurance.

This is a common-sense step to make sure that workers have a right to
safe work environments and that we don’t put workers, in the middle of a
pandemic, in a position where they have to choose between their own
livelihoods and the health of they and their families.

The second executive order that the President will sign is focused on
the jobs of federal workers and on federal contractors.  He will direct
his administration to initiate a process, starting today, that would
allow him within 100 days to issue an executive order requiring federal
contractors to pay at least a $15.00 minimum wage and provide emergency
paid leave to workers.

This was something that the President talked about on the campaign that,
when we’re using taxpayer dollars, federal contractors should provide
the benefits and pay that workers deserve.

The order will also protect and empower federal employees, who’ve
dedicated their careers to serving the American people, many in very
difficult circumstances during this pandemic.

And the steps will include restoring collective bargaining power and
worker protections for federal workers; eliminating Schedule — so-called
Schedule F — which has threatened the protections of career employees
and also provided a potential pathway to burrow political appointees
into civil service; and also promoting a $15.00 minimum wage by
directing the OPM, the Office of Public Management, to develop
recommendations to pay more federal workers at least $15.00 an hour.

Finally, just one final note: In addition to the executive orders that
we’ll be issuing today, we will be focusing on another key priority of
the President and the Vice President, which is equitable relief to small
businesses.

In previous rounds of relief, too much of the support that has been
dedicated to small businesses has left out the smallest businesses,
mom-and-pop businesses that don’t have existing connections with a
financial institution.  And in particular, black-, Latino-, Asian-, and
Native American-owned businesses were shut out completely.  And a lot of
that is because the outreach and communication from the federal
government was either unclear or just nonexistent.  And so, too many of
those companies have been denied relief, and many of them have had to
shut their doors for good.

The President is completely focused on changing that.  And he has — he
has directed us to take immediate steps to make sure that we’re
listening to these communities, we’re taking their advice on how to
improve the distribution of relief. 

     So, just this morning, I met, along with representatives of the
Small Business Administration, with dozens of groups representing black-
and brown-owned businesses and other underserved communities, as well as
lenders, to hear their ideas on how we can improve communications and
act on them. 

We discussed the President’s idea of having navigators who are dedicated
to helping small-business owners find the right relief programs, fill
out paperwork, get the money into their bank accounts — the kind of
support that many of these businesses don’t have because of embedded
relationships that more well-connected businesses do.

There are some groups out there in the country who are doing this really
successfully.  We’re determined to learn from them and to scale those
efforts nationwide. 

And in this vein, I look forward — I will be joining Vice President
Harris later today.  She will be meeting with small-business owners to
discuss both the American Rescue Plan and the need for more effective
small-business relief delivered without delay.

So that’s — that is — that is today, and that is our focus through a set
of executive orders.  And I’m happy to take a couple of questions, of
which you all have many.  (Laughter.) 

MS. PSAKI:  Do you want me to (inaudible)?

MR. DEESE:  Sure, sure.  This is the good cop/bad cop for you. 
(Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Kristen, go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Hi, Brian. 

MR. DEESE:  Hi. 

Q    Good to see you.  Thank you for taking questions today.  I want to
ask you about the call on Sunday with a bipartisan group of lawmakers. 
What can you tell us about the call?  Will President Biden be on the
call?  And what is your message to moderate Republicans, like Mitt
Romney, who say the economy can’t have another stimulus after you just
passed a $900 billion relief package last month?

MR. DEESE:  Yeah, thanks, Kristen.  So, the President has made clear to
his team that we should be reaching out to members of Congress from both
parties to make the case for the rescue plan and to engage with them,
understand their concerns. 

So that’s what we’re doing, both myself and senior members of the team. 
We have been doing that over the course of time.  We’ll continue to do
that, including the call on Sunday that I’ll be doing with a group of
senators, and we’ll continue that engagement going forward. 

In terms of the — in terms of the message, it’s pretty clear we’re at a
precarious moment for the virus and the economy.  Without decisive
action, we risk falling into a very serious economic hole, even more
serious than the crisis we find ourselves in.  And economists across the
board — including today, President Trump’s former chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers — arguing strenuously that now is the time
for that type of decisive action for the economy; and that we can’t wait
to provide the resources to make sure that we can open up schools, we
can get vaccine shots in people’s arms, and we can provide that bridging
relief to families and small businesses. 

There’s a lot of support.  I met with a group of mayors yesterday — a
bipartisan group of mayors from across the country.  You hear from
mayors, you hear from governors just crying out that in order to take on
these crises, the public health and the pandemic and the economic crisis
at the same time, now is the moment for that kind of decisive action. 
That’s the case we’ll be making. 

Q    And just to be clear, Brian, will President Biden be on the call? 
And if not, why not, if this is so urgent?

MR. DEESE:  So, like I said, we’re doing all outreach.  The President
has directed the team to do outreach to members of Congress, to business
and labor organizations, to mayors and governors, and we’re in the
process of doing that.  I’ll be having that conversation on Sunday.  You
can expect that other members of the administration will be engaging
with members of Congress across time as well.

Q    And just very quickly, Brian, if I could: What would a February
impeachment trial — how would a February impeachment trial impact
getting the COVID relief package passed?

MR. DEESE:  Look, I think that we have faced — we are facing right now a
period of multiple crises.  And what we’re going to need is to be able
to act on multiple fronts.  And so that’s — certainly we understand, and
as Jen has spoken to, we understand that the Senate has a constitutional
obligation in this context, but we also have these pressing economic and
pandemic priorities as well. 

So we’re going to — that’s why we’re engaging.  That’s why we’re focused
on making the case.  And certainly with the expectation that Congress
will — will heed that call and move forward.

MS. PSAKI:  I promise to do a whole briefing after this, so just — we’ll
do econ questions for Brian. 

Go ahead, Mary.

     Q    Thank you very much.  If you are able to pass this nearly $2
trillion plan, do you envision this being the last round of stimulus, or
do you think you may need to do more?

     MR. DEESE:  What I can tell you is, if we don’t act now, we will be
in a much worse place, and we will find ourselves needing to do much
more to dig out of a much deeper hole. 

So what I can tell you is the single most important thing, economically,
right now is to take decisive action along the lines of what we’ve laid
out in this rescue plan. 

And you hear, again, from economists across the board — whether it’s the
Federal Reserve, the International Monetary Fund, and economic experts
across the political spectrum as well — when you’re at a moment that is
as precarious as the one we find ourselves in, the risk of doing too
little, the risk of undershooting far outweighs the risk of doing too
much.  And that’s the economic logic, the economic case behind this
package.

I think you’ve also heard the President clearly explain that his
economic approach is one where rescue and recovery need to come
together.  And he’ll be speaking more about his recovery plans in the
coming weeks that are about building back better, an urgent priority to
start creating the kinds of good jobs that we know we’re going to need
coming out of this crisis.

Q    And after the recession, it took nearly a decade to get the country
back to full employment under the Obama administration.  If you’re able
to pass this rescue package, how long do you think it will take for
every American who wants a job to be able to have one?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I would just point to, you know, just one example of
an independent analysis that was done of the American Rescue Plan by
Moody’s.  And what they said — what they found was that if we passed the
American Rescue Plan now, we could see seven and a half million jobs
created just this year, and we could see a return to full employment a
full year ahead of what is projected if we don’t.  So those are the
stakes involved. 

And without this kind of decisive action, we’re going to have a much
deeper economic hole, and that’s why we are so focused on making the
case for a decisive action now.

MS. PSAKI:  Justin.

Q    Thanks, Jen and Brian.  I wanted to follow on Welker’s question a
little bit.  The President has talked about seeking “unity” on this
bill, but also being “clear-eyed” when there’s policy differences.  So
I’m wondering if after this call, which is with sort of the bipartisan
coalition that you’d need to get this bill passed, if you expect to know
whether the White House will pursue legislation — bipartisan
legislation, or sort of head towards legislation through
reconciliation. 

And I’m also wondering if you could talk about what sort of red lines
will be — the point at which you say, “Okay, if you’re not willing to
negotiate this in the bill, we’re going to just start working with
Democrats as Speaker Pelosi and others have encouraged you to do.

MR. DEESE:  Yeah.  Well, I guess, I’d say two things to that.  The first
is, if you look at the elements of the American Rescue Plan, it was
designed with a bottom-up focus on what are experts saying is the actual
need.  What’s the actual need to get schools open?  What’s the actual
need to have a national vaccination distribution plan to underwrite the
strategy that you heard Dr. Fauci and the President talk about
yesterday?  And what’s the need to support families and businesses
during this transition?

And the second thing — the second thing is that, as a result of that, I
think we’re seeing a lot of support, as I said, of bipartisan mayors,
bipartisan governors, business organizations, Chamber of Commerce,
business roundtable, economists across the board, saying this is a —
this is a — an appropriate response to an unprecedented economic
circumstance. 

So that’s the — that’s the approach that we are taking, and that’s the —
that’s the perspective that we are bringing here. 

And I think that we are heartened to see that kind of support, and
that’s the conversation that we’re going to have with members of
Congress, be they Republicans or Democrats, including, you know, looking
at where we are, where we’ve come over the last year, and the lessons
we’ve learned that, without decisive action, we know the consequences. 
And so now is a moment not to undershoot or to wait and see; now is a
moment to act.

Q     Right.  I guess my question is: I think a lesson that a lot of —
President Obama and others have talked about from the ACA fight was
continuing to court Republican support beyond the point of it being
productive.  And so I’m wondering, for you guys, what is the decision
point going to be where you — you know, you might have Republican
mayors, but it doesn’t look like you have Republican senators right
now.  At what point do you say this is no longer worth, kind of, pushing
forward?

MR. DEESE:  We’re — we are — we’re making the case.  We are engaging,
we’re having conversations, we’re listening, and we are also focused on
the urgency and the need to act.  And so, you know, what I can tell you
is that’s where the President’s focus is, that’s where the Vice
President’s focus is.  That’ll be — continue to be our focus is we want
to — we want to engage and we want to act, and that’s going to be what
guides us here.

MS. PSAKI:  This is going to be the last one.  But Brian will come back.

Q     Thank you for doing this, Brian.  Back to the point of the
objections of some of these Republican senators who have already spoken
out — they say they just passed $900 billion or so at the end of the
year, and most of it isn’t even out yet.  How do you know, if that money
hasn’t gotten into the system yet, that you even need to release more at
this point?  Why move ahead with a trillion-dollar plan if the $900
million that’s already been approved hasn’t even gotten out the door?

MR. DEESE:  Sure.  Well, first of all, you know, we waited for six
months or more before Congress acted.  And so, really, a lot of what
that $900 billion was doing was filling a hole in the second half of
2020 that desperately needed to be filled.  And so — so, it’s — this is
not — this is not an issue of Congress acting too much; it’s an issue of
not acting enough.

And the second is, if you look at the components of that $900 billion —
again, we could go line by line, but these are resources that are either
already out the door or already — or are addressing economic challenges
or public health challenges that were in the rearview mirror. 

So as we find ourselves today looking forward, we need a very set — a
very decisive set of actions if we are actually going to get schools
open, if we’re actually going to get a vaccination program up and
running.  And I think that the case that we will make is that, today,
we’re not where we need to be.  And if we go line by line in the
American Rescue Plan, these provisions are — have been designed based on
an assessment of need, and we think they’re going to absolutely be
necessary.  So, you know, I think that, looking forward, we’re quite
confident that this is — this is the prudent assessment of needs.

Q     And I want to clarify two quick things.  How many federal
employees or federal contractors are making minimum wage right now?  Do
you guys know?

MR. DEESE:  So I don’t — I don’t have an — I don’t have an estimate of
that right now.

Q     And then, last night, you said that there are roughly 8 million
people who haven’t received their stimulus checks.

MR. DEESE:  Yes.

Q     How do you find them?

MR. DEESE:  So, it’s a great question.  This is principally an issue
associated with people who are non-filers, so they’re not filing income
taxes, in most cases because they don’t make enough money to need to
file federal income taxes.  And so as a result, the way that the IRS and
the Treasury Department in the previous administration has focused on
getting those checks out has been to work through the tax system.

But those are people who are legally entitled to those checks, and so we
have a number of strategies that we’re going to pursue.  And that,
today, we’ll start with the President’s executive order to direct the
Department of Treasury to consider a whole range of efforts, including
creating an online portal that would allow people to easily identify if
they’re eligible, to work through counterpart organizations to actually
affirmatively do outreach to communities where we know there are
significant numbers of these — of these families and these individuals
to let people know that they may be available.  Some of this is
education outreach as well. 

And I would just — you know, it’s a little connected to what I was
saying about small business as well.  What the President is directing
all of us to do is to really focus on the affirmative steps that we can
take and an affirmative strategy to say it’s not enough to just say,
“Well, if folks don’t know or if they don’t have a network, then they’re
left out in the cold.”

We’re going to — we’re going to work both directly in what the federal
government can do and with partner organizations to try to make sure
that every American who’s entitled to a benefit is actually receiving
it.

Q     But if there’s someone out there right now who hears you saying
this and realizes, “I’m eligible and I haven’t gotten it,” right now,
today, is there a way for them to raise their hand and say, “Send me my
check”?

MR. DEESE:  Well, starting today, we’re going to start a process to make
that a lot easier — a lot easier for families, including being able to
go online and do that.  But that’s — that’s work that’s going to start
today.

S. PSAKI:  I totally skipped the AP, so would you mind taking one more? 

M

Q    Just one small —

MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t mean to.

     Thank you.  I just have one small question on the mechanics of the
EO targeting the food insecure.  Does the USDA have the money to
distribute these plus-ups that you’re talking about?  Or is there going
to need to be an appropriations from Congress? 

MR. DEESE:  So these are mandatory appropriated programs, so there’s no
need for additional congressional action.  It’s a change in regulation
on the eligibility for benefits.  So these are — these are changes that
can be made under existing statute and under existing budgetary
authority without any additional action from Congress.

Q     The money is there though to —

MR. DEESE:  Yeah.  It’s a mandatory program, so it operates based on —
the benefits are paid out based on who is eligible.

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Thank you, Brian.  He’ll be back.

MR. DEESE:  Great.  Thank you all.

MS. PSAKI:  All right, everyone.  Happy Friday.  I have a couple of
things just at the top — some things you’ve been asking about, so
hopefully they address some of the questions you may have.

First, we applaud the Senate’s strong bipartisan confirmation of Lloyd
Austin, who has been breaking barriers all of his life, as the first
black Secretary of Defense in our nation’s history. 

Secretary Austin’s confirmation is a major benefit to our national
security, and he’s going to hit the ground running, leading the
Pentagon.  He will be sworn in today, but he will be — he will be sworn
in more officially by the — not “more officially,” I should say, but he
will be sworn in more ceremoniously …officially, by the — not “more
officially,” I should say — but he will be sworn in more ceremoniously
on Monday by the Vice President.

Similarly, the President is very happy to see that Janet Yellen — the
first woman who would ever lead the U.S. Treasury Department — was
unanimously voted out of committee this morning.  This should only be
the beginning.

We’re facing unprecedented challenges and threats to our national
security during these emergencies, and our country urgently needs our
Secretary of Homeland Security in place.  Alejandro Mayorkas is one of
the most knowledgeable homeland security experts in the country.  He has
earned bipartisan praise, and he’s been previously confirmed by the
Senate three times.  This is a confirmation that we are going to
continue to press on in all of our engagements and conversations with
the Senate. 

I also have some news to share on the President’s response to domestic
violent extremism.  The January 6th assault on the Capitol and the
tragic deaths and destruction that occurred underscored what we have
long known: The rise of domestic violent extremism is a serious and
growing national security threat. 

The Biden administration will confront this threat with the necessary
resources and resolve.  We are committed to developing policies and
strategies based on facts, on objective and rigorous analysis, and on a
respect for constitutionally protected free speech and political
activities. 

Our initial work on DVE will broadly fall into three areas.  The first
is a tasking from President Biden sent to the ODNI today requesting a
comprehensive threat assessment, coordinated with the FBI and DHS, on
domestic violent extremism.  This assessment will draw on the analysis
from across the government and, as appropriate, nongovernmental
organizations. 

The key point here is that we want fact-based analysis upon which we can
shape policy.  So this is really the first step in the process, and
we’ll rely on our appropriate law enforcement and intelligence officials
to provide that analysis. 

The second will be the building of an NSC capability to focus on
countering domestic violent extremism.  As a part of this, the NSC will
undertake a policy review effort to determine how the government can
share information better about this threat, support efforts to prevent
radicalization, disrupt violent extremist networks, and more. 

There’s important work already underway across the interagency in
countering DVE, and we need to understand better its current extent and
where there may be gaps to address, so we can determine the best path
forward. 

The third will be coordinating relevant parts of the federal government
to enhance and accelerate efforts to address DVE.  This considered, an
NSC-convened process will focus on addressing evolving threats,
radicalization, the role of social media, opportunities to improve
information sharing, operational responses, and more. 

Just a couple more items.  As you all know, right now, the President and
Vice President are having lunch.  This is something they look forward to
doing every week.  They’ll be discussing their agenda, particularly
getting relief to working families and containing the COVID crisis, and
I’m sure they’ll talk about the last 48 hours, as well. 

Later today, the President will speak with Prime Minister of Canada
Justin Trudeau.  We had confirmed that earlier this week.  He’ll also
speak with President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador.  We’ll have
readouts of both of those calls when they happen. 

Yesterday evening, the First Lady held a virtual event to honor and show
gratitude for the hard work of educators across the country, especially
during this difficult time of COVID-19.  She was accompanied by the
presidents of both the American Federation of Teachers and National
Education Association.  Over 11,000 educators attended the virtual
meeting.

Today, she will tour the Whitman-Walker Clinic in Washington, D.C., to
highlight and promote support services for cancer patients and
caregivers.  And while I know that was in our guidance, we want to use
this platform here to also share with you information about both the
Vice President and the First Lady moving forward.

One more item, as well.  Earlier this morning — or late this morning, I
should say — the President called General Daniel Hokanson, who is head
of the National Guard, to thank him for not just his work over the last
few weeks, but the work of the National Guard over the last several
years.  He talked about his own personal commitment and connection to
the National Guard, given his son had served previously.  And he offered
assistance — any assistance needed of both the government, but also on a
personal level, and asked him to reach out if there was anything that he
ever needed. 

I will stop there.  Just a few updates.  So, (inaudible), why don’t you
kick us off?

Q    Yeah, thank you.  I know this has been asked you several times, but
now that there is a impeachment trial imminent, does President Biden
have a opinion on whether former President Trump should be convicted? 

And then, secondly, with how this is going, you’re now getting a little
bit of momentum on confirmations.  Do you have all that you need to get
going on coronavirus, on the economy, and so forth?  Is this just going
to slow everything down?  And does it also take away from the ability to
unify?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, remarkably, at this moment in history, we have
some recent precedent of the Senate conducting an impeachment trial
while also doing the business of the American people.  And when the
trial was being conducted last January, there were also hearings that
were happening nearly on a daily basis, and we expect that type of work
to continue. 

I’ll also note, purely on an operational level, the House can also
proceed and continue to do the work on the American rescue plan, move
that forward, and we certainly expect and hope that they will do that. 

But what the President’s view is: What cannot be delayed through this
process is his proposal to get relief to the American people at this
time of crisis.  So he’s confident — he remains confident, after serving
decades in the Senate, that the Senate members of both parties can walk
and chew gum at the same time and can move forward with the business of
the American people. 

Q    Does he believe that former President Trump should be convicted?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he’s no longer in the Senate, and he believes that
it’s up to the Senate and Congress to determine how they will hold the
former President accountable, and what the mechanics and timeline of
that process will be.

Q    I’d like to ask on — just on —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    — on DVE, if you don’t mind.  Are the tools and methods available
to federal law enforcement, are they what we need right now?  Are we
still stuck in sort of a post-9/11 mindset?  And does there need to be
really broad, radical rethinking about how we, sort of, approach things
in the federal law enforcement?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the reason that the President wanted to do this review
and the national security team wanted to do this review is because it’s
a priority to ensure we are assessing what is happening in government
and how we can do it better.  So, clearly, more needs to be done. 
That’s why the President is tasking the national security team to do
exactly this review on his first — his second full day in office.  So
it’s sending an indication of that.

Let me just give you just a little bit more information.  Homeland
Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall has asked Joshua Geltzer to
pioneer a scoping effort in the first 100 days, in coordination with the
Senior Director for Counterterrorism, Clare Linkins.  Geltzer previously
served as the Senior Director for Counterterrorism on the National
Security Council from 2015 through 2017.  And Deputy Homeland Security
Advisor Russ Travers will also bring his extensive experience.  So those
are some of the people who will be involved in overseeing this review
and an assessment of what the steps are going to be following. 

Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One on impeachment, and then, if I could, on COVID. 
On impeachment, did House Speaker Nancy Pelosi consult with President
Biden before sending the article of impeachment over to the Senate?

S. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls between them to read out for you,
Kristen.  Obviously, they’re in regular touch.  I can say, from a
previous question you asked … obviously they’re in regular touch.  I can
say due to — from a previous question you asked Brian, that he’s been in
touch with members of both parties about his agenda, even since he was
inaugurated.  So obviously a range of topics come up in those
discussions, but I don’t have anything more to read out for you.

Q    And just on the timing: Leader McConnell has said that he’s going
to push for a February timeline.  I know that you don’t want to comment
specifically on the timeline of this, but how would a February trial
impact the effort to get COVID relief passed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s expectation — he believes in the
Senate and their ability to multitask and get the work and business of
the American people done at the same time while they are proceeding with
an impeachment trial, on whatever timeline it begins and ends on,
Kristen.  So he’s —

Q    Is that fast enough for him?  Is mid-February fast enough for
President -–

MS. PSAKI:  He’s going to leave the timeline up to them.  But what is
important — and again, there’s precedent for this — is that they are
continuing to move forward with getting the relief to the American
people because that certainly can’t wait and be delayed until March,
April, or May.  We can’t afford that.

Q    If I could follow up with you on what you said about COVID
yesterday, you said your goal is a million shots per day, which would
double, you said, what the Trump administration was doing.  According to
the CDC, we have reached a million shots a day last week.  So, given
that — given the urgent need for vaccinations, why not aim higher?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, we’re not packing up our bags and
leaving at 100 days.  We felt it was important.  And we set that goal
before any American had received a single shot.  So, the incoming Biden
administration felt it was important to set what was described as a
“bold and ambitious” goal at the time.  And many doubted we could even
get there.  So we want to set our own markers, and markers for the
American public, so that they know we’re meeting our goal.  If we
surpass that, that’s great.  We’re going to continue working after day
100 as well. 

But there are a number of factors here Dr. Fauci also talked about. 
It’s not just having the access to the vaccine.  Right?  It is about
addressing vaccine hesitancy.  It’s about ensuring we have the materials
needed.  It’s about — and you all have done reporting, of course, on
different issues going on in states, from New York and others, where
there are concerns about supply, where there’s confusion about the
process, and we need to address that.  So there are a number of
operational challenges that are happening at the same time.

Okay, let’s go to Ed. 

Q    Yeah.  Following up on the vaccine: Stakeholders we’ve talked to,
state leaders, medical experts, have said one of the questions that
they’re trying to figure out is how much vaccine is actually in the
National Stockpile right now.  Do you have any sense of that yet? 

MS. PSAKI:  Our team, as you know, has been on the ground for about 48
hours, but certainly what they want to determine is not just the
operational issues I referenced, but also what we’re looking at in terms
of supply.  We are, as you may know — well, we are going to be starting
briefings next week — I should say a couple times a week — with some of
our health experts.  So I expect they’ll be able to provide some update
of what they’ve reviewed and what they have access to at that point in
time.

Q    Two other quick ones on the previous occupant.  House Intelligence
Committee Chairman Adam Schiff is calling on President Biden not to
extend the courtesy to President Trump of getting access to intelligence
briefings.  Has a decision been made on that?

MS. PSAKI:  Not that I’m aware of, but I’ll follow up with our national
security team and see.  We would certainly leave the decision to them —
to the intelligence community.

Q    Can you clear up the confusion here about these — who exactly
dismissed the chief White House usher? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it happened —

Q    Is it the Biden administration or was it the previous occupant?

MS. PSAKI:  It is — it is a very important question.  I’m so happy you
asked it.  It is — it happened before we walked in the door, Ed.  So I
don’t have any more information than what we’ve provided.

Go ahead.

Q    Not to belabor this point, but you’ve said that Congress can walk
and chew gum at the same time, which is true, but there are also so many
hours in the day.  Has the President expressed any concern that a Senate
trial will slow down additional confirmations or movement on a COVID
relief bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Only that it cannot.  There are only so many hours in the
day; you’re right.  But, again, if there’s a Senate trial happening in
the Senate — of course it would happen in the Senate — the House can
move forward on a package.  And certainly there is the capacity and
ability to have discussions, have hearings, take steps to move forward
on the President’s COVID relief package.  And we don’t think it can be
delayed or it can wait, so they’re going to have to find a path forward,
and he’s confident they can do that.

Q    And President Biden has made pretty clear that he believes former
President Trump is unfit to serve.  Does he think he should be barred
from holding federal office going forward?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ll leave it to Congress.  He ran against him
because he thought he was unfit to serve, and he’s no longer here
because President Biden beat him.  But we’ll leave the steps — the
accountability steps to Congress to determine.

Q    And can I ask just two —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    — COVID questions?  Any update as to whether the President may sit
down with congressional leaders to discuss and try and hammer out this
package?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I will say, without giving you specifics
necessarily, but — which I know you’re looking for, so I shouldn’t have
just walked myself into that rabbit hole, but —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Right.  (Laughs.) 

But the President has already done a number of calls with Democrats and
Republicans; that will continue.  He’s very eager to be closely
involved, roll up his sleeves, and be making calls himself.  I don’t —
soon — but I don’t have an update on any meeting.

I will though just add, just for context, I know that the reporting —
thanks for your reporting, I suppose — about the meeting this weekend
kind of got out there, and obviously Brian confirmed it.  There are a
lot of meetings happening at one time with a lot of different
officials.  So I don’t — I wouldn’t see that as like this is the
negotiating tool.  That is one of many engagements and one of many
discussions that the President, the Vice President, senior members of
the White House team are having and are ongoing.

Q    And as outlined right now, is he confident that you have enough
Democrats on board with this plan to pass this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he announced the plan about a week ago.  Right?  And
we are — his view is that this is how democracy should work, which is
the President of the United States announces what his vision is and what
his plan — his proposed plan is to address the crises the American
people are facing.  Then there are ongoing discussions with Congress. 
They like some pieces; they don’t like other pieces.  You all have seen,
Democrats like many pieces; Republicans even like some of the pieces,
too.  And we’ve — he’s had those encouraging conversations. 

But the final package may not look exactly like the package that he
proposed.  That’s okay.  That’s how the process — the legislative
process should work.

Go ahead, Justin.

Q    Thanks.  Welcome back. 

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    I had a question on COVID, but I wanted to start with just some
housekeeping from questions you had earlier in the week that you said —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — you might circle back on. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    So I was wondering if —

MS. PSAKI:  The plane? 

Q    Sure.  We can start there.  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, I didn’t — I was — okay.  (Laughter.) 

On the plane: We are certainly aware of the White House military unit’s
proposal that has been submitted to them about reconsidering the color
scheme of Air Force One.  I can confirm for you here the President has
not spent a moment thinking about the color scheme of Air Force One or
anything in the house or any article of anything.  So — and no one is
going to submit a decision memo to him on that particular topic.  But
certainly we’re aware of the proposal, and as there are any updates,
we’re happy to provide them to you.

Q    Maybe a little more substantively, I was wondering, you had
mentioned syringes yesterday, but not if you were — or not specific
companies that might have had DPA contracts, either started or come in. 
And then also, D.C. statehood was an issue that was raised in a previous
briefing.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the first, I don’t have specific companies
for you.  I can circle back with our COVID team and see if we have more
specifics.  Obviously, those conversations are happening as we speak. 

There was a question yesterday about whether the Defense Production Act
had been invoked.  It has been invoked.  So those processes are now
rapidly ongoing.  The President has supported D.C. statehood in the
past; that certainly remains his position.  But I don’t have anything
for you on the timeline or next steps there.

Q    And then, sorry — 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead. 

Q    Just the COVID one quickly.  A, kind of, trademark of the last
administration’s efforts were that there would be a big announcement of,
like, Jared Kushner’s testing website, and then no timeline put on it,
and it never really materialized.  So I was interested when the Chief of
Staff last night said that there would be a central clearinghouse for
vaccine information.  And I was wondering if you could provide a, sort
of, expectation or a timeline on when Americans could expect if there’s
a .gov email address — or .gov website or a phone number that they could
go to to find out their specific vaccination information.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know all members of my family are also asking the
same question, as I’m sure yours are.  It is something we’re eager to do
and also provide more information to the American public about when they
can call their pharmacy and schedule an appointment, just to make it
much easier.  The lack of information and the lack — the disinformation
at times about how people can get the vaccine, when they can get the
vaccine, and who’s eligible has created a great deal of confusion, as
you all know.

I don’t have anything on the timeline, but I will remind you that the
person who saved Healthcare.gov and the person who helped him are
working on the COVID team.  So we’re in very good hands.  And they’re
certainly committed to getting more information out in a more accessible
way.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  The first is having to do with the
operations of the West Wing.  There was curiosity about this in the
early days of the Trump administration, so I’ll ask you.  Who has Oval
Office walk-in privileges in this White House?  Do you have Oval Office
walk-in privileges, as you speak for the President?  And how is that
access to the President controlled here?

S. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know that I’m going to give you a list of
everybody, but I will convey that, you know, since the first
conversation I had with then President-Elect Biden, he conveyed MS.
PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know that I’m going to give you a list of
everybody, but I will convey that, you know, since the first
conversation I had with then President-elect Biden, he conveyed to me it
was important that we have regular conversations, and we’re able to have
a discussion about how he sees things and questions that are coming up
to ensure that we are providing you all with information not just about
our policies, which is, of course, pivotal, but his — also his thinking
on issues. 

So I talked to him this morning, and certainly I expect and anticipate
I’ll have regular conversations with him, and there are a number of
other people who have those conversations with him on a daily basis as
well.  That’s part of his style and part of his style of governing, is
to make sure people who are engaging with the outside world have an
understanding of his thinking.

Q     One more question for you.  Is Dr. Deborah Birx still a member of
this President’s COVID response team?

MS. PSAKI:  I will have to circle back on that one.  That’s an excellent
question, and I don’t have any information on it in front of me.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q     Thank you, ma’am.  I’ve got a question about the Senate and then
also a foreign policy question, if you’ll let me.

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  I love foreign policy questions.

Q     (Laughs.)  Thank you.  Senator McConnell and Senator Schumer have
been going back and forth over discussions when it comes to a
power-sharing situation.  Obviously, the sticking point has been the
filibuster.  Are you concerned that those negotiations could potentially
delay the President’s legislative agenda, his nominees?  And then also,
does the President still oppose overturning the legislative filibuster,
like he did in that interview with The New York Times?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, his — the President’s position hasn’t changed,
but I will say he’s conveyed in conversations with both now Leader
Schumer and Senator McConnell that they need to have their
conversations, of course, but he is eager to move his rescue plan
forward.  He is eager to get relief to the American public.  He wants to
work with both of them to do exactly that, and he wants it to be a
bipartisan bill.  So that is his objective.

Q     So his position hasn’t changed?  He opposes overturning a
legislative filibuster?

MS. PSAKI:  He has spoken to this many times.  His position has not
changed.

Q     And then, the previous administration, on their way out the door,
declared that China’s human rights abuses against Uyghur Muslims were,
quote, “crimes against humanity” and, quote, “a genocide.”  Does the
President agree with that determination, and will he keep it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that our Secretary of State is just about to
get confirmed, or so Senator McConnell tells us.  And I’m sure he will
be reviewing — I know he will be reviewing a number of the decisions and
assessments that have made.  Obviously, the President has spoken before
to the — to the horrific treatment of Uyghurs, but I don’t have anything
more for you on it.  I can check with our national security team and see
if we have a more up-to-date statement.

Go ahead. 

Q     Hi.  Just a couple of quick follow-ups.  The USDA aid for families
that depend on schools to feed their children — that is $100 for three
children every two months.  Is that too little too late?  What more are
you thinking of doing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I will say that the executive actions — and
this is something when we were discussing this with the President
earlier today — are just part of his effort to bring relief to the
American people.  He — his priority was overturning a number of the
detrimental steps that the Trump administration had taken and to take
steps that he can through executive authority, through the review of the
legal team, to do — to bring that relief. 

But he has also proposed this large package, as many of you have pointed
out to all of us, to bring additional relief.  And he wants to work with
Congress to build on the executive actions to take a bipartisan approach
to making sure we are — that kids have food to eat, that people who
don’t have jobs have the relief they need, that we can get the vaccine
out, that schools can reopen.  Those are all priorities of his.  But the
— his big focus is on doing that in a bipartisan way with Congress.

Q     And there was this — there was this other detail mentioned about
the $15.00 minimum wage — and I know Brian spoke about federal
contractors — but the issue has obviously faced a lot of opposition in
Congress over the years.  Is President Biden planning to speak to
Senator Schumer to bring the bill — the legislation that the House
passed on $15.00 — to the Senate?  I mean, how does this broadly help
workers around the country?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, this is just one part of his step to provide
relief to the American people.  There are many federal contractors, of
course, serving the government, and he felt it was something that was
not just right to do, but something that was necessary to do.  But he
has proposed a significant relief package — or package that will provide
assistance to many, many Americans, and he will continue to advocate for
the $15.00 minimum wage moving forward. There’s no question about it.

Go ahead.

Q     Thank you very much, Jen.  And I’d like to focus on vaccinations. 
There’s arguably something that the federal government can do in this
front.  In New York, there is a looming trainwreck that’s actually
happening today.  Governor Cuomo and Mayor de Blasio say that they’re
going to be running out of their batches of first doses of the vaccine
today.  They don’t expect to get more until Tuesday, so there’s going to
be a three-day gap.  Is the federal government and is President Biden
going to do anything to prevent that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve asked the CDC to look into exactly this issue
and see what can be done.  I don’t have any update beyond that, but
certainly we don’t want any states to run out of access to vaccine.  We
are hopeful that, in the weeks ahead, as we get our sea legs here and
our team starts to operationalize engagement with governors, engagement
with local officials, to provide them a greater understanding of supply,
of what we are going to have access to, in a farther — in a timeframe
that’s further in advance, that we can avoid situations like this in the
future.  But we’ve asked the CDC to look into what’s happening.

Q     Can I just follow up on that?  There’s arguably a way that the
federal government can just basically flip a switch and help alleviate
some of this problem.  New York City says it has 65,000 doses that are
reserved for a second shot.  Is the federal government considering
allowing those to be used for the first shots so that there is not this
three-day gap of first-shot vaccinations?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, in the past, we have — we have advocated
for releasing additional access from the reserves, but we have really
deferred to health and medical experts, so that’s why we have asked the
CDC to look into what the options are.

Q     Okay.  So you’ve asked the CDC to look into this so there isn’t a
gap?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, to look into — to have the conversation with officials
in New York and to look into what is possible.  But I don’t want to get
ahead of them.  We want to lean into health and medical experts to make
the decisions.

Go ahead.

Q     Thanks, Jen.  One of the executive orders that was signed
yesterday requires that international travelers quarantine or
self-isolate.  Is the administration going to do anything to enforce
that rule, or is it mostly an honor system?

And then, on coronavirus, one more: Has the President considered
establishing any sort of national memorial to memorialize those people
who have died from coronavirus?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Both are excellent questions, and the first one I
should have information on, but I’ll have to follow up with you on both
of them.  I’m not aware of a discussion about the second piece, so
that’s an interesting idea, and I will bring it back to people and see
if there’s more to say.

Q     One more then.  On the immigration bill: Has the President got a
sense of any feedback on the immigration bill that was sent to the Hill
yesterday?  And is there an overall timeline for when he’d like to see
that move?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we already have co-sponsors of the immigration bill,
as you may have seen, which is obviously a good sign.  There are a
number of experts, as you know — because I’m guessing you have covered
this issue for some time if you’re asking with a level of detail — who
have worked on immigration reform, had bipartisan discussions in the
past. 

And we are hopeful that this proposal — that this bill that he sent
forward — we sent forward yesterday will be an opportunity for a reset
to really restart those discussions.  But we expect that will be the
first step here and that we’re hopeful that the components of this
proposed bill — which are different from what has been proposed in the
past because it includes smarter security, it includes a path to
citizenship, but it also includes funding to address the root cause —
will help be the basis of those discussions.  And we would like to see
them move forward quickly.

Okay, why don’t you go ahead, over here?

Q     You mentioned the issue of vaccine hesitancy.  Does the President
believe that all Americans should get the vaccine?  And then for those
who might be reluctant to get it, how do you convince them that it’s
safe?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he does.  The more people who are vaccinated, the
safer we are.  Health and medical experts have also conveyed that. 
That’s who I’m quoting. 

In terms of addressing vaccine hesitancy, it’s a big challenge.  You
heard Dr. Fauci talk about this yesterday, and it will be easier for the
first tranche of Americans to get the — to convince them to get the
vaccine.  They’re just looking for information on where to go and how to
sign up and how to get grandma to come with them. 

It is really the next layer of people who are concerned, as you alluded
to, about the safety and about the efficacy.  And, unfortunately, there
is a large percent — a larger-than-should- be percentage in minority
communities, communities of color, and so we’ve been quite thoughtful —
or we want to be quite thoughtful about how we do outreach and
engagement.  Obviously, it’s making it accessible, so ensuring we have
these community centers and health centers that can provide the vaccine,
but also who’s communicating on behalf of the government or on behalf of
the safety of the vaccine.

The President certainly will be doing that; the Vice President will be
doing that.  I know a lot of celebrities have offered.  That’s okay. 
But what’s been interesting in the data — or great; we welcome that. 
But what’s interesting in the data is that local doctors and local
officials — you know, people from the community — are people who are
most often most trusted, and so we’re really trying to empower and be
able to fund local communities to be able to be the spokespeople to
build that trust.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  On the — you mentioned that the COVID package —
the talks may evolve, it may change the package, and there are already
some things that you feel like there’s bipartisan support for.  Is there
any consideration that’s taken place or that may take place in
separating some of these pieces out and passing the things, first and
foremost, that may generate bipartisan support, given the urgency that
you’ve talked — talked about?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, I will say, as Brian said, that our
objective here — the way that the package was designed was to address
the core issues of the crisis.  So I think the tricky piece of that
question is: Do you delay vaccine funding to distribute the vaccine?  Do
you delay funding for unemployment insurance?  Do you delay funding to
reopen schools?  Nobody wants to be having a conversation about why
schools aren’t reopened in May or June — Democrats, Republicans, no
members of Congress.  So, there are key components in here that we —
that he — that — in the package that was designed to address the current
crises. 

So, right now, we’re having a discussion about the big package.  But, as
you noted, there are viewpoints — points of view — no surprise — about
many components of it.  We certainly understand that, and we welcome the
discussion and engagement with members of both parties.

Q    And is there any timeline on the fact-finding period for the
domestic violent extremism orders that you –- the letters that you’ve
sent?  Is there a period when that — you’re expecting to get maybe some
action (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  When we’re getting the report back?  I don’t believe we have
outlined that yet.  Let me — we can follow up with you if there’s a
specific timeline that we’re putting out publicly at this point. 

Go ahead.

Q    Chairman Yellen, in committee yesterday, said that President Biden
wouldn’t be signing any free trade deals because the focus was on the
domestic economy and infrastructure.  Where does that leave the
potential for a UK-U.S. trade deal?  Which — is it months away or next
year or year after?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I can’t give you any timeline.  I will say that what
is important to the President and also our national security adviser
Jake Sullivan is that we do — everything we do must help advance working
families and the American middle class.  And that certainly includes any
trade agreements, and that is part of their objective and how they would
approach it.

But, as you noted, at this point in time we’re working to get the
pandemic under control, provide economic relief to the American public. 
We, of course, can do multiple things at the same time, but those are
our primary priorities at this point.

Q    Can I ask a follow-up?  Can I ask what happened to the Churchill
bust and what should be read about its removal from the Oval Office?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, such an important question.  It’s the plane of today.  I
will follow up on that.  I don’t have — it is — it is something that may
certainly be existing in the complex.  Of course, I’m very familiar with
the bust.  But we will circle back with you if there’s more to update
you on on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Two follow-ups to what they were just asking you.  On
domestic unrest: First of all, does the President have any comment on
the ongoing violence in Oregon and Washington State that we’ve seen in
recent days?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, we had our team on the ground — our
national security team — even before 12:01, early in the morning, on
Inauguration Day because we wanted to be able to monitor events
happening across the country and any unrest that was resulting from —
from the last couple of weeks. 

I haven’t spoken with him specifically about those events, but it is
something our national security team — Liz Sherwood-Randall, our
Homeland Security Advisor — is closely monitoring, of course.  And —
but, if we have an additional update, I’m happy to provide it to you.

Q    Thank you.  Two more.  He’s speaking with the leaders of Canada and
Mexico.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hm. 

Q    Any word who else is next?  And has there been any discussion about
when or under what conditions he, the Vice President, the Secretary of
State would fly overseas to meet with world leaders?

MS. PSAKI:  So, despite his desire — my desire, if that matters — to do
a foreign trip, I think it will be a bit of time.  I don’t have an
update for you on when that will take place at this point. 

But I would expect he’ll have, of course, additional foreign leader
calls next week.  As has been the case with our national security team,
you can anticipate that those will start with our allies and partners,
including many of the Europeans.  But I don’t have a specific day-by-day
calendar for you at this point.

Q    And this is his first weekend in the White House.  Does he still
plan to go to mass every weekend?  And has he picked a parish here in
the Washington area or a place where he plans to go?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, his faith is certainly quite important to him, as you
know from covering him, and I would expect that he attends church —
continues to attend church very regularly.  He has not selected a church
yet.  But if and when that happens, we’ll certainly keep you updated.

Let’s see, I haven’t taken the — go ahead, all the way in the back.

Q    So, Japan is planning to host a Tokyo Summer Olympic game in six
months, but they have not made a final decision if they go (inaudible)
or be canceled because of the pandemic.  So does the White House expect
to be (inaudible), or is President Biden confident to be a safe Olympic
game in Tokyo?  And does he feel safe to (inaudible) Tokyo in this
summer?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as a big Olympics fan, I’m certainly looking forward
to it, but I have not talked to the President or our national security
team about plans for the summer or the games.  So we’ll have to take
that question, too, and circle back with you.

But did you have another one?  Maybe I can get another one.

Q    Yeah.  How about the –- President Biden’s Indo-Pacific policy?  I’m
talking about Japan and North Korea.  I understand (inaudible) does talk
with his Japanese counterpart.  But what is U.S. policy on Japan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, U.S. policy and Japan, as it relates to North Korea?

Q    Both.

MS. PSAKI:  Both.  Okay.  Well, our — the President’s view is, of
course, that it is without question that North Korea’s nuclear ballistic
missile and other proliferation-related activities constitute a serious
threat to the international peace and security of the world, and
undermine the global nonproliferation regime.  And we obviously have —
still have a vital interest in deterring North Korea — as does Japan, of
course.

We will adopt a new strategy to keep the American people and our allies
safe.  That approach will begin with a thorough policy review of the
state of play in North Korea, in close consultation with South Korea,
Japan, and other allies on ongoing pressure options and the potential
for any future diplomacy.

So I will say we will — as we have historically, the United States will
work closely with partners in the region to determine a path forward and
work together on deterrence.

Q    How about the TPP?  Is President Biden considering to rejoin the
TPP — Trans-Pacific Partnership?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think, you know, President Biden knows TPP
wasn’t perfect and believes we need to make it stronger and better. 
But, at this point, you know, our focus and his focus, as it relates to
the economy, is on doing everything we can to advance working families
and the American middle class.  And so that will be his focus in the
coming months.

Go ahead, Justin.

Q    Just a quick one on — on Inauguration Day, China sanctioned a
number of outgoing Trump administration officials.  I know the NSC has
put a statement out kind of denouncing that, saying that it was a
political act.  But there’s been a call from some Republicans on Capitol
Hill to either retaliate with sanctions against Chinese officials or to
expel the ambassador here in Washington.  I’m wondering if you’re
contemplating either of those actions?

MS. PSAKI:  For those who didn’t have the statement, well, I’ll just —
because it was a — there’s been a lot going on this week, I think we can
all agree.  The Biden-Harris administration has noted China’s
sanctioning of more than two dozen former Trump administration
officials, imposing these sanctions on Inauguration Day as they did — a
seemingly — an attempt to play partisan divides.  Americans of both
parties should criticize this unproductive and cynical move.  And
President Biden looks forward to working with leaders in both parties to
position America to outcompete China. 

I don’t have any additional update, though, on other considerations.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, ma’am.  This morning, the White House put out a
statement on the anniversary of Roe v. Wade.  As a candidate herself,
the Vice President proposed an abortion rights law akin to the Voting
Rights Act.  Is that something that she still supports?  Is that
something that the President is exploring?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update from the Vice President’s policy. 
Obviously, her policies are the policies of the Biden-Harris
administration, and the statement today speaks to those policies.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can we have a week ahead?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, we have ventured to get you a week ahead.  And I promise
that we will do it in the future, but we don’t have any really detailed
specifics to share with you at this point in time, other than the
President will not be leaving the DMV, I can assure you, next week, and
he will continue to sign additional executive actions and engage with
members of Congress.  We will have a more detailed schedule, but we’re
still ironing out all the specifics.

Thank you everyone.  Let’s do this again on Monday.

 2:05 P.M. EST
