---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-01-29'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 09:37:45-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/01/29/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-january-29-2021/
published_time: 2021-01-29 21:30:34-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, January 29,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

10:02 AM

MS. PSAKI:  Early morning briefing.  We’ll see how this goes; you guys
can give feedback on the time of day. 

Okay, I have several announcements for your today.  To begin, I know
many of you and the American people are interested in the news coming
from Johnson & Johnson’s trial data.  The President is encouraged by
positive data on a potential new vaccine.  He also knows that this is
just new data, and now is the time for the FDA to do its job of
evaluating the safety and efficacy of the vaccine.  In the meantime, he
continues to urge all Americans to mask up and follow public health
guidelines until it’s their turn to get vaccinated.

Now, I know there may be a lot of questions you have for us about the
trial data or Johnson & Johnson.  I’m here to tell you that I’m not
going to get ahead of the experts, who you will all get to hear from in
the next hour in our public health briefing from the COVID-response
team.  They will discuss this more with you and what everything means
then.

At Wednesday’s briefing, I also shared some of the engagement and
outreach the White House is doing to move forward the American Rescue
Plan, from the President and the Vice President on down.  That work has
continued and accelerated.

Yesterday, senior staff spoke again to governors about the challenges
they are facing and the importance of relief.  Today, National Economic
Council Deputy Director David Kamin will meet with the Council of State
Governments.  The Office of Public Engagement will also brief black
civic groups, anti-hunger and nutrition advocates, and key progressive
groups and invite their feedback.  These conversations are, of course,
critical to building support and moving the President’s bill forward. 

According — but we also saw evidence this week that the American people
overwhelmingly want their elected leaders to work with the President to
confront this pandemic and put people back to work.  According to a
Monmouth poll released Wednesday, 71 percent of the American people want
Republicans in Congress to work with President Biden.  That number is up
nearly 10 points from right after the election, meaning the trend of
support for working in a bipartisan manner with the President is only
growing.

Finally, the President is committed to getting relief to working
families.  Hence, he is also meeting this morning with his economic —
members of his economic team with Vice — the Vice President and Treasury
Secretary Janet Yellen for a briefing on the cost of inaction and the
impact of a delay in moving forward with a relief package.  Millions of
Americans don’t have enough food to eat, and millions more have lost
their jobs, but interest rates are at historic lows, and that means it’s
the right time to make smart investments.

Moody’s — a Wall Street firm — has said that we could end up with 4
million fewer jobs this year if we don’t act on the President’s plan. 
That’s 4 million Americans who would — who could get back to work.  And
I’m sure they will discuss all of that at their briefing later this
morning.

Last thing: We are venturing to provide a “Week Ahead” to all of you —
or return to providing a “Week Ahead” to all of you.  So, a quick
preview:

Next Monday, the President will meet with the Secretary of State at the
State Department.

On Tuesday, President Biden will deliver remarks and sign an executive
order advancing his priority to modernize our immigration system.

And Friday is, of course, Jobs Day, and the President will deliver
remarks about the economy.

We’ll have hopefully more over the next couple days, but we wanted to
provide as many details as we could.

With that, Zeke, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    Thank you, Jen.  One foreign policy, just to get going: With
violence surging in Afghanistan, is the President still committed to
wind down operations there and bringing troops home this year?

MS. PSAKI:  The President — I have not spoken with our national security
team about this in particular, but his commitment remains. 

Q    And then, at the top, you mentioned that Americans should follow
public health guidance.  One of the challenges is it has been, over the
course of last 10 months — is that public health guidance, from state to
state, varies.  Some states have mask mandates, others have indoor
dining open, and others have schools open; others don’t.  Should — what
guidance should the American people follow: their governor’s guidance or
should they follow the President’s?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, what we’re venturing to do is provide more
concrete guidance from the federal government, from the CDC, from health
and medical experts on the important steps all of the American people
can take to keep themselves safe.  That includes the importance of mask
wearing, of course, and how vital that is to keeping us safe. 

It also includes the importance of hand washing, of restricting travel. 
These are all guidelines that have come in recent days and weeks, I
should say, from the President of the United States and from our medical
and health experts. 

But in addition, as we discussed yesterday, there are guidelines,
including the safe — for the safe reopening of schools that he signed an
executive order on, directing both the Department of Education and HHS —
and the CDC, I should say — I’m sorry — to produce those guidelines to
give more specific advice and markers to states and local school
districts on what they should follow.

So it will ultimately be up to states, to governors, to local school
districts, and others to make determinations.  But we do want to provide
more clear guidance from the federal government, based on the expertise
of health and medical experts, on what people should follow and what
will help keep the American people safe. 

Q    I just want a quick follow-up on that one.  The CDC study that was
discussed here a couple of days ago — one of its recommendations, as
part of reopening schools immediately, was to close indoor dining,
restaurants, and bars.  Is that a part of the federal guidance that we
should be expecting to see from the CDC and the Department of Education
soon?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the good news is you get to hear from our Director of
the CDC — I believe, in about 45 minutes — and our medical and health
experts, and you can certainly ask them if there’s going to be any
updated guidance. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Dr. Fauci says the U.S. may not be able to meet that goal of
reopening most K-8 schools in 100 days because of the trajectory of the
pandemic.  Given that, is the President going to adjust his goal of
trying to get all these schools reopened in 100 days?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as we talked about a little bit yesterday, the
President wants to not only reopen schools, he wants the schools to stay
open.  And — but he does rely on the guidance of his health and medical
experts, and obviously he’s not going to do anything that is not safe
and doesn’t keep teachers, students, and our school districts safe.

But a key part of this is the guidelines, as we mentioned — the
executive order he signed to ensure that school districts are getting
the information they need and clarity they need on what steps that they
should take to keep their students safe and teachers safe, of course. 

But it is also funding, and we’ve talked about this quite a bit in
here.  And the American Rescue Plan is pivotal for a number of reasons,
including ensuring that Americans have food on the table; including that
we can get shots into the arms of people across the country; but also
that school districts, especially public schools, have the funding they
need to take steps on everything from ventilation, to PPE, to testing. 
And the longer that’s delayed, the harder it’s going to be to meet that
goal.

Q    Got it.  And has President Biden spoken to former President Trump
since taking office?  And if so, can you give us any update on what
President Trump said in his letter to President Biden?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update.  I don’t have any calls to report
on.  There are no calls to report on, I should say, and I don’t have any
update on the letter.  And as I said when we talked about this about a
week and a half ago — it seems longer than that, I’m going to
acknowledge — the President of course thought the letter was gracious
and generous, but he plans to keep it private. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Jen, I understand you don’t want to get too much into the Johnson &
Johnson vaccine, given the data that’s out there, but this likely won’t
be the only vaccine that is less effective than the Pfizer and the
Moderna vaccines.  And so I wonder: What is the President’s message to
those Americans who would be less — who would be more reluctant to get
one of those less effective vaccines?  And are you concerned about the
impact that that would have, given how many doses have already been
bought on the frontend? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, when the President announced his plan, earlier
this week, to ensure we have enough vaccination — vaccines to give every
American two shots by the end of the summer with the purchase of Moderna
and Pfizer vaccines, he was doing that without the need for additional
vaccines approved.  Obviously, if additional vaccines — Johnson &
Johnson or any others — go through the FDA approval process, that’s a
positive step.  Right?  No doubt about that. 

But he purchased these — the large orders for vaccines that we’ll have
by the end of the summer — to get into the arms of Americans to ensure
that we would be able to do that even without any of those steps, moving
forward. 

Q    And so he would encourage Americans to get any vaccine that is
approved by the FDA for emergency use authorization?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we’re — we’re not going to get ahead of the FDA
— I’m not suggesting you’re asking that — but we’ll rely on our health
and medical experts to advise if there are additional vaccines — “if and
when,” I’ll be optimistic — that are approved by the FDA and how that
will impact our vaccination — vaccine distribution plan.

Q    And secondly, on the coronavirus relief bill, in his first month in
office, President Obama travelled to a number of key states to drum up
support for the Recovery Act.  Does President Biden have and plans to do
something similar to drum up support for his $1.8 trillion coronavirus
relief bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Vice President Biden — then-Vice President Biden also
traveled to a number of states to drum up support for the American
Recovery Act at the time — and obviously we weren’t dealing with a
pandemic, so the circumstances were quite different.  But he fully
recognizes, as do we, the importance of speaking directly to the
American people about the components of this package, whether it’s the
importance of funding to get schools open or get vaccines in the arms of
Americans, or just ensure that people know they can put food on the
table. 

And so we’re having to take a number of creative steps to do that. 
Whether that’s direct television or local media or from the President,
the Vice President, and others, we’re doing that; whether it is engaging
with governors and local elected officials to ensure that we’re
answering all the questions they have and that they can convey to the
public.  So we’re taking a number of creative steps, a little outside of
the box.  Certainly, his preference would be to get on a plane and fly
around the country, but that’s not the step we’re planning currently.

Q    But as a candidate, President Biden did travel a fair amount,
especially in the final weeks of the campaign.  He’s now received both
doses of the vaccine, and a number of safety precautions are in place
and could be in place for his travel.  So why wouldn’t he be traveling? 
Or is that something you —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s also about keeping the public safe.  And, you
know, we’re not going to do an event — a rally with 20,000 people; that
wouldn’t be a recommendation made by our health and medical experts.

Q    Right, but there wouldn’t be any plans to travel without a crowd
and to go out into the country for this bill? 

MS. PSAKI:  We may travel, certainly, but I have nothing to preview for
you at this point in time.  What I’m conveying is that it is vital for
the President and the Vice President and every member of our team to be
speaking directly to the American people.  And so we’re looking for
creative ways to do that.

Q    And could I ask you a foreign —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — policy question?  After Alexei Navalny was poisoned last summer,
then-candidate Biden said there was “no doubt” that the Kremlin was
responsible for his poisoning and he vowed to, quote, “hold the Putin
regime accountable.”  This week you told us that the President conveyed
his concerns to President Putin, but he hasn’t yet taken any action to
hold Russia accountable. 

So, I wonder, does President Biden hold President Putin directly
responsible for the poisoning of Alexei Navalny?  And if so, why hasn’t
he yet taken sanctions action to punish Russia for its actions?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President spoke with President Putin
earlier this week, as you know, and he did not hold back in his concerns
about a number of the actions of the Kremlin and of the Russian
government. 

But there is a review underway that we have spoken about a bit in here
by our national security team, and we’ll let that review carry forward. 
That includes the SolarWinds breach, it includes the poisoning of Alexei
Navalny, it includes the — I’m kind of losing my thought here — but it
includes a number of steps — a number of concerning actions they’ve
taken.  We want that review to carry forward and to be completed.  And
the President always reserves the right to respond in the manner of his
choosing and at the time of his choosing.

Q    Does he hold President Putin responsible for the attempted
assassination of Alexei Navalny?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to let the review carry forward, and then I’m
sure we’ll have more to say about it at that point in time. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The New York Attorney General released a report
yesterday saying that the state had undercounted the number of COVID
deaths by as much as 50 percent in nursing homes.  Would President Biden
support a federal investigation into what happened in Governor Andrew
Cuomo’s role?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ve seen those reports.  I would say, any investigation, I
would point into the Department of Justice.  They’re —

Q    But does the White House think that it should be looked into
further?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, any investigation would be led by the Department of
Justice.  We’re in a new age; they’re independent, and they will
determine what paths they take moving forward.

Q    Okay.  On immigration: I know you said yesterday that it was never
100 percent that today was going to be immigration day, that it was just
a — an early draft and things change, but can you help us understand
what exactly changed and why it’s taking a little bit longer for these
executive orders and actions on immigration to execute?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  You know, one, it’s, of course, been widely reported
that the President is planning to announce his task force — or now plans
to announce his launch of a task force on reunifying families and
children, something that is — he’s personally committed to, his wife,
Dr. Biden, is personally committed to and invested in.  And he will plan
to do — to make that announcement next Tuesday. 

The task force will be led by Secretary of Homeland Security, once he’s
confirmed, Ale Mayorkas.  And we had planned to sign that executive
order today, or at the end of this week, I should say.  Early plans
sometimes do change, and that was a draft plan, which those changed many
times, I can assure you from sitting through many scheduling meetings. 

But we had planned to do it this week because we’d hoped that Ale
Mayorkas would be confirmed by the end of this week.  But because of the
filibuster of his nomination, we expect him to be confirmed on Monday
evening, and therefore the President will sign it on Tuesday, and then
Secretary Mayorkas will be overseeing that moving forward.

Q    Okay, and one more question — a foreign one.  Can you give us just
a little bit more of a timeline in terms of how much longer you think it
will take for the White House to engage with Iran on its nuclear
program?  Because you had one of Iran’s top diplomats saying yesterday
that it believes the window is closing.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to give a timeline on it.  Obviously it
requires Iran complying with the requirements of — of the nuclear deal. 
We’ve said previously, but I will reiterate here, that the President
also sees it as an opportunity to build on the plan from here — there. 
And I apologize, I just want to make sure I give you the exact
language.  He believes that through follow-on diplomacy, the U.S. should
seek to lengthen and strengthen these nuclear constraints and address
other issues of concern, including Iran’s ballistic missiles program and
its regional activity. 

But, again, Iran must resume compliance with a significant — with the
significant nuclear constraints under the deal.

Now, he’s also talked about — and, thematically, we’ve talked about —
how working with our partners and allies, including the Europeans,
members of the P5+1, is pivotal to any engagement moving forward, of
course including on what the future of the Iran nuclear deal is.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just a follow-up on Iran.  Would the President
consider meeting with his Iranian counterpart, Hassan Rouhani, and,
maybe following President Obama’s example for a starter, have a
telephone conversation with him?

MS. PSAKI:  I think we’re getting a little bit ahead of where we are in
the process.  Again, the first step here is to Iran — is for Iran to
comply with the significant nuclear constraints under the deal, but I am
certain we will continue to discuss this issue in here and at the State
Department and other parts of government.

Go ahead.

Q    In the wake of —

MS. PSAKI:  Steve Holland!

Q    Oh, hi. 

MS. PSAKI:  I couldn’t — didn’t even recognize you with your mask for a
second. 

Q    Just to follow up on Jeremy’s question —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    — did President Biden specifically call on President Putin to
release Alexei Navalny?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, as we have — as we have publicly, as our team has
repeatedly called for, through the course of the last several weeks.  In
terms of the specifics of the conversation, I don’t have any more
details for you on that.

Q    Okay, so we don’t know what Putin said, or did he make any
promises?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to read out on President Putin’s
comments, no.

Q    And in the wake of the GameStop trading incident, is there a public
role the White House can play in educating people about the dangers of
this type of trading? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Steve, I know the SEC issued a new statement earlier
this morning, or just before I came out here, and I’d certainly point
you to that, and others to that.  And we, of course, respect the role of
regulatory agencies.  They are closely monitoring the situation, but
it’s under their purview at this point in time.  And I guess part of our
education can be conveying to people that the SEC is the regulatory body
that would oversee this and can speak to it further. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two on Capitol security.  So the acting chief of
police up there on Capitol Hill has recommended permanent fencing around
the Capitol.  I was wondering if the Biden White House or President
Biden himself has any thoughts on this, if permanent fencing is the
right answer or does it project the wrong picture to the American
public.

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure we’re going to have any comment on that
specifically, but I’m happy to talk to our national security — homeland
security team if we have anything further to add.

Q    Sure.  And a quick follow-up.  Speaker Pelosi said, I believe it
was yesterday, that she feels that threats are coming from inside the
House with other members being allowed to carry guns.  Of course, you
have conspiracy theorists among the ranks of the GOP now.  Do you, and
does the White House, agree with that assessment that there is security
threats coming from inside the House?  Has Biden spoken to Pelosi?  And
is he worried about the safety — the physical safety of both members of
Congress. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he speaks with Speaker Pelosi on a regular basis and
certainly has reiterated her — his support for her and members of the
caucus.  And he has spoken publicly about his concerns about the
rhetoric, of course, around the events of January 6th, but some of the
rhetoric that has continued and the role of social media platforms. 

So, he is in close touch with her about events on the Capitol, about the
safety of members, but I don’t think I have anything more for you to
read out beyond that.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Two quick foreign and one domestic, if that’s
okay.  Can you confirm officially that Robert Malley has been appointed
Special Envoy for Iran?  Is that —

MS. PSAKI:  I can.  I believe it was announced this morning.  Yes?  Or I
guess I can confirm it here too for you.

Q    That would be great.  And then the — as you know, settlements have
been a major obstacle to getting the Palestinians back to the
negotiating table.  Would President Biden consider it — does he believes
settlements are — should be halted in the West Bank so that the
Palestinians will come back?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any new comments from President Biden on this
or the current circumstance.  He’s obviously spoken to this particular
issue in the past and conveyed that he doesn’t believe security
assistance should be tied.  But I don’t have anything more for you on
the path forward toward a two-state solution.

Q    And just following up on the Capitol Hill fence: You know there a
fence outside here, a temporary one, around the White House.  It’s been
up since last summer.  President Trump took a lot of criticism for it. 
Would President Biden consider bringing that fence down so people can
take photos in front of the White House again?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we’d all like that, including members of my
family and people in Washington.  But I will talk to our security team
and see if there’s any further — anything further to convey to all of
you. 

Go ahead. 

Q    As you guys are thinking about the task force to reunite the
parents and the separated children, what are you sort of learning about
the scope of that challenge?  It’s something that groups have tried to
do in the past and failed.  How many people do you think would need to
be tasked to that to actually make it effective?

MS. PSAKI:  Those are excellent questions, and I expect that when we
announce — when the President signs the executive order next week; when
we put the task force together; when Ali Mayorkas is confirmed as the
Secretary of Homeland Security — maybe we’ll have him come to this
briefing room, or I’m officially inviting him here today to come to this
briefing room. 

But, you know, there’s no question that we recognize this is going to be
incredibly challenging, that there will be a lot of work to be done,
that that is why this will be a priority.  It’s not only a priority for
the President, but will be a priority for Secretary Mayorkas.  But I
will leave it to him and to others at the Department of Homeland
Security to outline and preview for you the path forward.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I know that President Biden and the First Lady are
acutely aware of the sacrifices that military families make.  That being
said, we had an incident in the — with the garage with the National
Guard that was kind of embarrassing.  And now I’m hearing from spouses
of Guards members that they had a COVID outbreak and were not tested or
vaccinated before they arrived in D.C.  And I’m wondering if there’s any
concern by the President about how these Guardsmen are being treated;
whether he can do anything specifically to safeguard their health before
they arrived, while they’re here.  Can he get vaccinating — vaccinations
to — and testing to governors, specifically for the purpose of providing
some health safeguards to these soldiers?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you noted at the beginning of your question but I
would just reiterate, the role of the National Guard — and I’ve spoken
to the President about this directly — and the incredible sacrifices
they make is something that is personal to him, given his family
connection to the National Guard.  He had called the head of the
National Guard just last week when the reports came out about the
treatment of the National Guard and the fact that they had been — many
had been sleeping in garages and, of course, conveyed his dismay of the
photos he had seen and their treatment, and also offered his personal —
personally, any help that he could provide, whether — even if it was
boosting morale.  And certainly that line of communication remains open
should there be something that he can do from his end. 

In terms of specific prioritization of the vaccine, I would point you to
the Department of Defense and leaders over there to speak to that more
specifically.

Q    Okay.  One follow-up to that.  Do you — on the question of Nancy
Pelosi — Speaker Pelosi’s concern about the “enemy within,” has the
President been briefed on such a threat?  And does he agree that the
National Guard should be here until mid-March, during the impeachment
trial?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll speak to Liz Sherwood-Randall and our Department of
Homeland Security — our Homeland Security colleagues here to see if
there’s more specifics we have from our end.  But I would point you to
the Department of Defense and the National Guard team otherwise.

Q    We have one question, because I’m print pooler —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.

Q    — from another reporter from WUSA.  The reporter asks: I’ve learned
that the IRS employees nationwide are having telework suspended. 
They’re all being called back into the office, this despite an OMB
directive issued Tuesday ordering federal agencies to only allow 25
percent capacity in federal buildings.  If IRS employees have been doing
telework successfully, why is now the time to bring them all back into
the office?  Is that safe?

Q    I would point you to the Department of Treasury, where the IRS is
located, for any further comment on that.

Go ahead.  Oh, sorry, I’ll come to you next too.

Q    Just — Jen, just on the Defense Production Act: You’ve been asked a
few times in your briefings about any specific instances of the Defense
Production Act being used.  Yesterday, the Chief of Staff, Ron Klain,
suggested that it was being used as it relates to the production of N95
masks.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is there anything specific you can tell us on that or any other
companies or products where the Defense Production Act is being used
now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not going to get into specific companies. 
Obviously there are procurement processes here, but also — that take
place at federal agencies, but also, we’re still early in the process. 
It was invoked just last week, but I can give you more specific detail
in terms of how we plan to use it on vaccine supply.  I think one of the
— also, the products that Ron Klain spoke about was low dead space
syringes, which allow — are the key to getting the sixth dose out of the
Pfizer vial — pivotal on getting more vaccines out into the public;  N95
masks, isolation gowns, nitrile gloves — again, safety and keeping
people safe from infection; pipette tips and high-absorbency foam swabs
for testing; and then lipid nanoparticles, which are key to the MRNA
vaccine; and bioreactor bags, which is what the vaccine is mass produced
in.

So, as you can tell, a lot of this is materials that will help ensure
that the vaccine can be used by vaccinators and transported, in some
cases, to vaccine locations.  So, there are several components of it and
very specific materials that we’re focused on.

Q    And the — at the National Security Agency, Michael Ellis, a Trump
political appointee, was installed as the General Counsel, which is a
career position, as you know.  Is there — are you guys considering
reviewing that decision or attempting to remove Michael Ellis from his
position as General Counsel of the NSA?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything new for you on that, other than — I
don’t have any personnel announcements.  Certainly, we’re reviewing
personnel across government, including political appointees, most of
whom have left.  But I don’t have anything new on any decisions there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:   Oh, wait.  I promised — I’m sorry, I promised you.  Go
ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  FEMA has requested active-duty troops be used at
vaccination centers when they get stood up across the country.  Does the
White House support that request?

MS. PSAKI:  I did ask our team about this.  You or someone else may have
asked about this the other day, and I think I have something on it
here.  One moment.  Thanks for your patience.  Lots to say about COVID,
no doubt about it. 

So, let’s see.  Let me — let me talk to our team about it.  You know, I
know I’ve seen that request from FEMA.  Obviously, part of our objective
is ensuring that we have vaccinators on the ground — I know that’s not
what you’re asking about — but also the ability to move materials and
move vaccines.  So we are tapping into any resource we can, but it’s
more predominantly focused on, kind of, a health and medical core and
that — the ability to get those people into communities.  But I will — I
will check with our team and get you something more specific.

Q    And just one on double masking.  There’s been some increased
discussion about that publicly.  We’ve seen pictures of the President
double masking and those around him.  Is that a personal preference or
has he been advised by medical — his medical advisors to do that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you’re going to talk to the medical advisors in just
the next 15, 30 minutes — whatever the time is — and you can ask them
more specifically.  There hasn’t been specific CDC guidance.  As you
have probably seen, Dr. Fauci spoke to this, I believe, the la- — in the
last couple days and said it was common sense or made sense — I can’t
remember exactly how he phrased it.  But there hasn’t been additional
medical guidance given. 

I’ve been around the President where he’s been wearing one mask.  I
think, obviously, he abides by the health and medical advice.  Sometimes
— not to get too detailed — but it looks like two masks sometimes
because we put the N95 one on, and it’s a little bit more comfortable to
have this one on top of it.  But I would encourage you to ask the health
and medical team during the call that’s coming up.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI:   Jen, did the White House have advanced notice of the
Johnson & Johnson results?  And did that affect the White House’s
decision to go ahead and purchase 200 million doses from Pfizer and
Moderna?

MS. PSAKI:   No, the decision was made to purchase the Pfizer and
Moderna doses to ensure that we had enough doses to give two shots to
Americans by the end of the summer.  And we did our planning without the
need for an additional vaccine to go through approval. 

Now, remember: Even though we saw the news this morning, it hasn’t gone
through FDA approval yet.  We don’t have a timeline of when that will
happen; we leave that to the FDA.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  A couple questions on the economy, starting with
China.  Former President Trump signed a phase one trade deal with
Beijing.  Does President Biden consider that deal still to be in effect,
and does he expect China to meet its commitments under that deal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the national security team, the newly confirmed
Secretary of State, President Biden are all reviewing all aspects of our
national security approach, including certainly our relationship with
China.  You know, we are focused on approaching that relationship from a
position of strength, and that means coordinating and communicating with
our allies and partners about how we’re going to work with China.  It
means strengthening our ec- — economy at home.  And that me- — it means,
you know, determining the best path forward to address a range of issues
— not just economic, but strategic and also security. 

So, again, everything’s under review, but I don’t have anything for you
on the — more on the China relationship.

Q    Sorry, to clarify: So it is still in effect as the past
administration left it off?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, everything that the past administration has put
in place is under review, as it relates to our national security
approach.  So I would not assume things are moving forward.  We are just
reviewing what the path forward looks like and doing that, again, from a
position of strength, which means coordinating with our allies, members
of Congress, and making a determination before we engage further.

Go ahead.

Q    Sorry, Jen, can you confirm the Politico story about the President
warning his family members to avoid any conflict of interest with his
presidency and their business ties?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, while I’m not going to get into private conversations
between the President and his family members — we all have lots of
conversations with different family members, I’m sure — the President is
committed to ensuring we have the most ethically vigorous administration
in history, and that includes restrictions on what — how his image can
be used, and that is something that he’s conveyed publicly and privately
as well. 

So let me just reiterate the policy for all of you, which is, I think,
maybe your next question, or I’ll just reiterate it proactively: It’s
the White House’s policy that the President’s name should not be used in
connection with any commercial activities to suggest or in any way — in
any way they could reasonably be understood to imply his endorsement or
support.  He’s issued the farthest-reaching executive order with respect
to the ethical commitments required of his appointees ever and is very
proud of it.  And, you know, that’s something that he is committed to
conveying to anyone it applies to.

Let me just get to a few more in the back.  Go ahead, all the way in the
back.

Q    Okay.  Thank you very much.  Does President Biden endorse the
characterization of genocide concerning the Chinese treatment of the
Uyghur minority?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, Pres- — Secretary Blinken — I almost called him
President Blinken; I’m giving him a bit of promotion.  You never know. 
He spoke about that during his confirmation hearing, so I would
certainly point you to those comments. 

Q    I’m talking about President Biden.  Does he —

MS. PSAKI:  He was speaking on behalf of the U.S. government. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Did you have a question, right there?  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, the Governor of Puerto Rico said last week he was in touch
with the White House about releasing remaining disaster relief funds
held up by the previous administration.  Do you have an update on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t, but I will venture to talk to our team about where
the — what the status of relief funds is for Puerto Rico.

Q    And just one other question.  Is the White House tracking the
confirmed cases of the South African strain that have been found in
South Carolina?  Have you been in touch with local officials there?

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly our health and medical team have been.  And again,
they’ll speak to it at their briefing that’s coming up at 11:00 a.m.  I
encourage you to join that. 

But as we see reports, our team has been monitoring variants as there
have been developments around the world, and the potential for them to
travel here.  It reiterates — or reemphasizes, I should say, the
importance of getting vaccines into the arms of Americans, something
that our health team has said will make people safer.  And it also
reiterates the need for getting the American Rescue Plan passed so that
we can ensure we can expedite that effort. 

Go ahead

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just two quick questions.  Just one following up on
the Politico question: To that degree is the White House going to make a
commitment one way or the other that members of Biden’s family is not
going to serve in the administration?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve made that commitment, so that continues to be the
commitment.

Q    Sorry, so that nothing for Valerie Biden or anybody else?

MS. PSAKI:  Nope.  Reports that there was an office in the West Wing are
— were not accurate. 

Q    Gotcha.  And then one on Marjorie Taylor Greene.  I know you said
earlier that you would not like to be commenting on her, but it’s been a
major story.  Does the White House have any concerns about a QAnon
supporter, someone with a history of racist — now we’re seeing
anti-Semitic — comments, harassing school-shooting survivor families,
serving on House committees?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the reason I conveyed that is because we don’t
want to elevate conspiracy theories further in the briefing room.  So
I’m going to speak to — I’m going to leave it at that.  And I’ll — we’ll
leave —

Q    Sure.  But (inaudible) —

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll leave dec- — we’ll leave decisions about committees to
members of Congress.  And we’ve certainly seen Speaker Pelosi speak to
that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Twenty-four Republican members of –Republican senators
sent a letter to President Biden yesterday requesting a meeting after
some of the executive orders and actions targeting the domestic energy
sector.  Is that a meeting that President Biden will take?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Biden is committed to — and this is — you
can see this through his actions — working and engaging with Democrats
and Republicans to address the crises we’re facing, including climate,
which is one of the crises that he’s identified.  I don’t — we don’t
have no plans for a meeting of that kind that I can read out for you at
this point in time.  Sounds like a lot of people to be in a meeting
during COVID too. 

But he is certainly engaged on an individual basis with leaders in the
Senate, members of — Democratic and Republican senators, and they can
certainly raise any concerns they have through that means.

Q    And one more question.  Apologies if you answered this in response
to Steve’s question, but I just want to be clear here: Is — do you
anticipate President Biden to address the GameStop controversy when he
meets with his economic team a little bit later this morning?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  Do we — do I anticipate him addressing it publicly, you
mean?

Q    No, just talking about it with his economic team.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the focus of the meeting is about the recovery plan,
about the status of the economic recovery, about obviously the data that
we saw yesterday.  I’m sure they’ll cover a range of topics during that
meeting, but that’s not the focus.

Q    It’s just a big story.  Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  I know it’s a big story, but it doesn’t — you know,
obviously, the — our focus and our big story is getting the American
people back to work. 

Go ahead.

Q    I know a lot — hundreds of White House staffers now have been
vaccinated for —

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    — the coronavirus.  Any specific updates in terms of who
(inaudible) that — who is being covered by that?  And then also more
broadly, because of that, does that give the White House, sort of, you
know — is that a model for the rest of the country?  Schools, for
instance — should every teacher be vaccinated in the next 90 days so
that the President can meet his commitments to opening up schools?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the first, we — I think we announced a
couple of weeks ago that about three dozen members of the senior White
House staff, including members of the Cabinet, national security
officials had received their first dose, which means, right around now,
a number of people will be receiving their second dose. 

We are also — as you noted, had released a couple of days ago that the
objective and the plan of the White House medical unit was to vaccinate
hundreds of additional staffers to create a COVID-safe environment
here. 

As you know, there has been — the President has — and our team, I should
say — has spoken about the prioritization, of course, of teachers and
educators and childcare providers.  We’d certainly defer to CDC on what
that should look like.  And they may speak to that on this 11:00 a.m.
call as well, but I’m not going to get ahead of their outlines or
prioritization or specifics.

Q    And just one more on GameStop, not to be labor the point, but —

MS. PSAKI:  I love the effort.  You guys are trying so hard on this. 
(Laughter.)

Q    What is the broader message to the American public and people about
the world that, you know, in large cases, individual investors acting
collectively against large financial institutions are shut down pretty
much overnight, while the big banks and financial institutions
responsible for the 2008 housing crisis got a — got a “get out of jail
free” card?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the message is that the U.S. government is starting to
work how it should.  The SEC is a regulatory agency that oversees and
monitors developments along these lines.  It is currently in their
purview.  They’ve put out several statements this week.  We will
certainly defer to them on that.  And I point you to them for further
questions.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you.  Jen, can we expect to see the President in this
briefing room anytime soon?

MS. PSAKI:  Are you eager to see him?  Is that what you’re saying?

You know, the President took questions earlier this week when he did an
event, and we certainly are going to look for opportunities to continue
to do that.  The location of where the questions will take place, I
don’t think I have anything further.  But we’ll look for additional
opportunities to — for him to take additional questions from all of you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  What does President Biden make of reports that
Senate Democrats, including Bernie Sanders, who will chair the Budget
Committee — he’s chairing the Budget Committee — are planning to expand
the use of the budget reconciliation process for legislation that’s not
revenue, does not directly impact federal revenue, like the $15.00
minimum wage?  Is that something that President Biden is okay with?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is going to leave it to Congress to
determine their parliamentary process for moving legislation forward, as
should be the case. 

You know, I think it’s obviously been broadly reported that there is
consideration on the American Rescue Plan of what the path forward will
look like and how to expedite moving that forward.  And there’s an
urgency, and we certainly feel that. 

But our view is that this bill should be bipartisan; 74 percent of the
public support it.  And we want Republican — to work with Republicans on
fighting COVID and putting the American people back to work. 

But as we work on this bill, if, you know, we are going to — our
priority is on getting it through and not on the focus on what the
parliamentary process is.

Q    And just a follow-up: What is his message to progressives who are
arguing that the $1.9 trillion relief package should be the floor and
not the ceiling?  And would President Biden consider pushing a relief
bill that is more than $2 million?  What about the idea of reoccurring
stimulus checks that some progressives are advocating for?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve seen those reports, and obviously he’s had
conversations, as our team has, with members of the Progressive Caucus
and other progressive members of Congress. 

And as I’ve said in here many times before — I mean, part of this
process is that the President laid out his vision; he is getting
feedback.  Some — a lot of the focus in here has been members who have
said it’s too big, but some are saying it’s too small.  And as a part of
the discussion, we have those engagements and determine how to improve
the bill and what opportunities there are to do exactly that. 

So he welcomes their engagement, he welcomes their ideas, but he’s put
forward his plan.  And his main bottom line is that we’re not going to
break it apart, and the three components of it are pivotal in moving it
forward.

But the size and the scope of the package — this is the legislative
process.  This is democracy at work now.

Q    But certainly he has an opinion, and that’s very influential in the
process.  So would he think it’s realistic to go above $2 trillion?

MS. PSAKI:   Well, again, I think the best place to look for what’s
realistic is to members of Congress and their whip counts, and I’m sure
that the leadership can give you an assessment of that.

Go ahead.

Q    Is there any chance that the Summit for Democracy, which was
mentioned during the campaign, could happen before summer?

MS. PSAKI:  Before summer?

Q    Yeah. 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any — I know it was a campaign promise and
something that was mentioned during the campaign, but I don’t have any
more details on plans at this point in time.

Go ahead.

Q    Yesterday we saw Vice President Harris do local media interviews in
the states of West Virginia and Arizona.  You know, obviously there’s
been a lot of focus on your efforts to get Republicans on board.  Are
you concerned that budget reconciliation, even — you know, may not be
realistic, or that you may lose some Democrats?  Is that why Vice
President Harris was making those calls, to shore up Democratic support?

MS. PSAKI:  Vice President Harris was making those calls because we want
to make the case to the American people across the country.  And
obviously she’s not traveling to those states and holding big events or
even events with, you know, not big crowds, but some crowd.  And so this
was a way to do exactly that. 

Q    Why those states specifically?

MS. PSAKI:  I think she’ll do a number of additi- — of more regional
calls and regional interviews, as will other members of the team, and
including on national networks, of course, and that will continue in the
days ahead.

Go ahead.

Q    One more on your favorite topic: reconciliation.  I know it’s
wonky, but —

MS. PSAKI:  That’s okay.  That’s what we’re here for.  Policy is back. 
(Laughter.)

Q    The President, as you said multiple times, is reaching out to
Republicans in an effort to get a bipartisan bill.  At the same time,
Majority Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi seem to be aggressively
moving towards reconciliation.  Do you think — does the President think
that the Democratic leader’s push for reconciliation at this time is
hurting his chances to get Republicans on board?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s focus is on the end goal of delivering
relief to the American people, not the parliamentary procedures, as
we’ve said.  And we can imagine that the one in seven families who are
hungry, or the thousands who have lost a loved one to COVID care much
about the procedure either.

So, I would — I would flip it the other way to you.  I think a fair
question you might ask our GOP or Republican colleagues is why they
oppose proposals that have the support of 71 percent — 74 percent, sorry
— of the American public.  And even if this bill moves forward through
the reconciliation process — again, a parliamentary procedure — it
doesn’t mean they can’t vote for it. 

And the President’s objective and focus is to continue to have those
conversations and pursue a path forward where he can gain bipartisan
support.  But again, the public — 74 percent of the public is with him
in that endeavor — and their constituents.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    The President spoke with the NATO Secretary General the other day.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is the President satisfied with the level of defense spending by
NATO allies?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we did —

Q    Did this come up in their conversation?

MS. PSAKI:  I know we put out a readout of that and a fun video, if I
may note, of his conversation with the U.N. Secretary General.  You
know, he had spoken about the importance of NATO allies and partners,
you know, making their — playing — playing the role and contributing
their fair share when he was Vice President.  That remains his
commitment.  But I don’t have any more detail of the call than what has
already been read out. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, guys.  Have a great day.

Oh, let me do one more thing.  So it’s important to me, but also to the
President, that everybody know everybody on the press team.  So I’m just
going to embarrass TJ, who you guys all know, and Karine, who are two
deputies in the press office — Principal Deputy Karine, Deputy TJ — who
you all should know, the public should know.  They’re going to be
pivotal faces, and they play an important role. 

So, thank you, everyone.  Have a great Friday.

10:48 AM
