---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-01-26'
modified_time: 2021-01-27 08:38:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/01/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-domestic-policy-advisor-susan-rice-january-26-2021/
published_time: 2021-01-26 18:09:50-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and Domestic Policy Advisor Susan\
  \ Rice, January 26,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:39 P.M. EST  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon.  As part of our administration’s
efforts to increase transparency and introduce all of you to the policy
experts who are leading the President’s initiatives, we’re joined today
by Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice, who will be talking about the
racial equity executive order that the President will be signing this
afternoon.  
  
She’s kindly offered to stick around and take some questions.  I will,
as usual, play the role of bad cop when it’s time for her to go.  
  
So, with that, I’ll turn it over to Susan.  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  It’s good to be back.  Jen,
thanks.    
  
The President has committed the whole of our government to advancing
racial justice and equity for all Americans.  I’m leading this effort
out of the Domestic Policy Council.  I have assembled a first-rate team
to drive this agenda forward.  We will hold the federal government
accountable for advancing equity for families across America.  
  
I have the support of every White House office and every agency in this
work, because as President Biden has made clear, advancing equity is
everybody’s job.  
  
Tackling these challenges, though, is personal for me.  I’m the
descendant of immigrants from Jamaica and enslaved Americans.  My
grandparents and my parents are beneficiaries of the American Dream —
and so am I.  My family’s story is a remarkable one of the march towards
greater equality and opportunity.  
  
But for too many American families, systemic racism and inequality in
our economy, laws, and institutions still put the American Dream far out
of reach.  
  
Today, the average black family has just one tenth the wealth of the
average white family, while the gap between the white and black —
between white and black in homeownership is now larger than it was in
1960.  
  
These longstanding inequities are compounded by the converging crises we
face as a nation.  Americans of color are being infected by and dying
from COVID-19 at higher rates.  
  
One in ten black Americans and one in eleven Latino workers are
currently unemployed.  By some estimates, 40 percent of black-owned
businesses have been forced to close for good during the COVID crisis.  
  
Black and Latino families with children are twice as likely to be
experiencing food insecurity during the pandemic as white families.  And
black and Latino Americans are 2.8 times more likely to die of
COVID-19.  
  
And for Native communities across the country, the overlapping economic
and health crises have devastated tribal economies and healthcare
systems.  
  
These are desperate times for so many Americans, and all Americans need
urgent federal action to meet this moment.  
  
Today, President Biden will deliver a national address on his plans to
advance racial justice and equity, starting with an equitable and
inclusive recovery.  President Biden will renew the federal government’s
commitment to making the American Dream real for families across the
nation by taking ambitious steps to redress inequality in our economy
and expand opportunity for communities that have been left behind,
including communities of color.  
  
His economic plans make historic investments in underserved communities
and put equity at the heart of our recovery.  His ambitious agenda
builds on a legacy of Americans forging opportunity out of crisis.  
  
These aren’t feel-good policies.  The evidence is clear: Investing in
equity is good for economic growth, and it creates jobs for all
Americans.  Economists have estimated that the U.S. economy has lost a
staggering $16 trillion over the last 20 years because of discrimination
against families of color.  If we closed racial gaps in income and
opportunity, these same economists have estimated we could add $5
trillion to the U.S. economy over the next five years and add over 6
million new jobs for all Americans.  
  
So building a more equitable economy is essential if Americans are going
to compete and thrive in the 21st century.  
  
We have hit the ground running to embed equity throughout the
administration.  On day one, the President signed an executive order
directing an unprecedented whole-of-government initiative to embed
racial equity across federal policies, programs, and institutions.  That
starts with a review of policies and institutions to redress systemic
racism where it exists and to advance equity where we aren’t doing
enough.  
  
Every agency will place equity at the core of their public engagement,
their policy design, and program delivery to ensure that government
resources are reaching Americans of color and all marginalized
communities — rural, urban, disabled, LGBTQ+, religious minorities, and
so many others.  
  
The President has put equity at the center of his response to the
COVID-19 and economic crises.  His executive orders signed last week
deliver rent relief, student debt reprieve, and emergency food
assistance to families across the country, helping all Americans,
including black and brown families who we know are being hit hardest by
this crisis.  
  
And he took steps to make our broken immigration system more humane and
secure.  He restored the integrity of the census so that our
constitutionally mandated accounting of every person in the United
States is fair and inclusive.  
  
And even before taking office, President Biden released his American
Rescue Plan that will make historic investments in advancing equity. 
Independent economists estimate that his plan will cut child poverty in
half — cut child poverty in half for all Americans — and reduce overall
poverty in America by 30 percent.  
  
Black families this year will face a poverty rate of 20 percent if
Congress does not act on the American Rescue Plan.  But if enacted, the
poverty rate would fall by over one third, and it’d fall by 40 percent
for Latino families and by one fifth for American — for Asian American
and Pacific Islander families.  
  
The American Rescue Plan also provides critical relief to Native
American communities and tribes.  These investments will lift over 8
million black, Latino, and Asian Americans out of poverty and provide
relief across sectors where families of color are most
disproportionately impacted by this crisis: in food and financial
security, healthcare access, and education and childcare.   
  
Today, President Biden is continuing his commitment to embedding equity
at the center of his agenda by signing an additional package of
executive actions.  The President will sign a memorandum directing the
Department of Housing and Urban Development to mitigate racial bias in
housing and affirmatively advance our nation’s fair housing laws.    
  
He will also sign an executive order directing the Department of Justice
not to renew any contracts with private prisons.  Private prisons
profiteer off of federal prisoners and are proven to be — or found to be
by the Department of Justice Inspector General to be less safe for
correctional officers and for prisoners.  President Biden is committed
to reducing mass incarceration while making our communities safer.  That
starts with ending the federal government’s reliance on private
prisons.  
  
The President will also sign an executive order reinvigorating the
commitment of all federal agencies to engage in regular, robust, and
meaningful consultation with tribal governments.   
  
And the President will sign a memorandum directing all federal agencies
to take steps to combat xenophobia and acts of violence against Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders who have been targeted by political
leaders in our nation’s response to COVID-19.  
  
Again, these are a continuation of our initial steps to advance racial
justice and equity through early executive action.  
  
Beyond this, the President is committed to working with Congress to
advance equity in our economy, our criminal justice systems, our
healthcare systems, and in our schools.   
  
As I’ve said many times in my personal capacity, and I say again, I
believe we all rise or fall together.  Advancing equity is a critical
part of healing and of restoring unity in our nation.  The President
will have more to say about all of this later this afternoon.  
  
And I’m happy to take a few of your questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peter.  
  
Q    Ambassador Rice, thank you.  You speak about communities of color,
right now, that are disproportionately impacted by the pandemic.  Of
course, they’re also less inclined to have faith in the federal
government response to the vaccination process.  So what specifically —
and I’ll follow up with others — but what specifically is being done
right now for communities of color to convince them it’s okay to get
this vaccine?  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Well, Peter, I will leave much of this to my
colleague, Jeff Zients, who’s leading our COVID response.  But I think
two important points: One, we have established within our COVID task
force an effort on equity — and that includes, obviously, racial equity
— that will focus on health disparities but also on the reality that
there are Americans who — and particularly Americans of color — who, for
very valid historical reasons, are skeptical and reluctant.   
  
And a large part of what our colleagues on the COVID task force are
doing — this is the second part — is reaching out directly, through
targeted campaigns, to get to those very communities where the
skepticism is highest.   
  
And that’s vitally important because as we — as communities of color are
suffering disproportionately and may have less access to information
about the vaccine and the ability to easily go online, in some
instances, and get an appointment, we have to take those additional
steps to ensure that they are aware of its availability, they can get
appointments, and that they understand that the vaccine is safe.  
  
Q    Let me ask you — I have a couple things: One is news of the day,
but another one — there’s a lot of day-one promises right now.  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Jen — Jen does news of the day.  
  
Q    Okay, fine.  Let me ask you, on —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, we’ll do a whole thing after this.   
  
Q    — on February 20th of last year, President Biden said, “My first
day of office, I’m going to send a bill to the Congress repealing the
liability protection for gun manufacturers, closing the background check
loopholes and waiting period.”  So what happened to that day-one
promise?   
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Well, I think you’ve seen that we have rolled out an
unprecedented number of early executive actions.   And as you’ve heard
Jen say and many of my colleagues say: This is just the beginning.  We
have 1,454 more days left in President Biden’s first term, and so give
us a little something to do over the next few days.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Cecilia.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Thank you, Ambassador.  A housekeeping question if I
may, and then a follow-up.  Can you speak specifically to what this
does, as it relates to immigration and immigrants?  Does this cover
particularly the prisons and private prisons housing immigrants —
undocumented immigrants, tens of thousands of whom are facing
deportation in privately run prisons right now?  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  This order today applies to the Department of
Justice-run prisons.  It is not, in this instance, applicable to those
run by other agencies.  
  
Q    So not ICE, not anything like that.  Okay.   
  
And then — and then, going back to January 6th and what we saw just a
few weeks ago at the Capitol, when we saw people roaming that building,
carrying Confederate flags, wearing anti-Semitic shirts — we saw
lawmakers in that group; we saw firefighters in that group; we saw
military veterans in that group — what are you doing to address this
issue of white nationalism?  And how concerned are you about the threat
from some of these groups leading into this impeachment trial in two
weeks?  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Well, I think we have seen — and it’s been plain for
all Americans on their television sets — just how serious a problem we
face from nationalists and white supremacists who have demonstrated a
willingness to resort to violence in some instances.   
  
And that is why the President has ordered the intelligence community to
compile a comprehensive assessment of the nature of this threat and
challenge, and its origins and roots, and thus provide policymakers with
inputs that will be very important to address this challenge.   
  
The National Security Council has set up a capacity within the NSC to
focus on domestic violent extremism and to ensure that we are, within
the White House and within the interagency, coordinating efforts to
craft and implement policies that will address this.  So we’re taking it
quite seriously.  
  
Q    And why doesn’t this address the ICE private detentions?   
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  It addresses the Department of Justice prisons in the
first instance.  It’s not — it’s silent on what may or may not transpire
with ICE facilities.  There was a Department of Justice Inspector
General report in 2016 that underscored that private prisons funded by
DOJ were less safe, less secure, and arguably less humane.   
  
This was — the Obama-Biden administration took steps to end renewing of
contracts for private prisons, the Trump administration reversed that,
and we’re reestablishing it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  And I know we met this morning, but tell us your
name again.   
  
Q    Mario Parker, Bloomberg News.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Ambassador Rice.  Two questions.  The first: What will
the administration do to address the relationship between communities of
color and police, particularly as part of the mass incarceration
component?  
  
And then the second question: Republican legislators have signaled that
they’re going to look to roll back some of the voting procedures from
the last election.  We know that that’s centered in some of those swing
states in largely black and brown communities.  What’s the
administration going to do about that as well?  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Well, with respect to prisons, policing, the entire
basket of very important criminal justice reform issues: This is
something that we are committed to addressing and we will have more to
say on criminal justice in the coming weeks, including on matters
related to policing.  So please stay tuned for that.  
  
With respect to efforts to roll back the access to the ballot: This is
something that I expect that the President will address in his remarks
today.  It’s a matter of real concern because we ought to be in the
business of encouraging and enabling all Americans who are eligible to
vote to be able to vote.   
  
And that’s why, you know, we will continue to work with Congress on its
various efforts to advance democratic reforms.  There’s legislation on
the Hill that would move us in that direction, including restoring and
revitalizing the Voting Rights Act.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Jonathan, you’ll have to be the last one.  But Susan will
come back, I’m sure.   
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  You’re going to let me come back?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ll welcome you back.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Thank you, Ambassador.  These measures here are
executive actions, which of course could be overturned and reversed by a
future President.  Can you talk about what steps could be taken to
codify these, to make them permanent, whether it’s private prisons or
other measures, so they could not be undone by a future President?  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Okay, well, Jonathan, as you know, to codify something
and make it lasting in law requires that Congress — both houses of
Congress pass it and that the President sign it.  And for this, as well
as many other things, there will be areas where legislative actions are
the best and most durable approach.  There’ll be some instances where,
in advance of legislation or efforts to achieve legislation, it’s wise
to take executive action.   
  
So I don’t think we should assume that by doing something by executive
action, where it may also be appropriate to seek legislation, that we
wouldn’t do it.  We have a very full legislative agenda.  The
President’s first priority is enacting the American Rescue Plan, as well
as getting our nominees confirmed.  And we’ll be focused in the next few
weeks on that.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Ambassador Rice.  
  
AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thank you, Jen.  Thank you, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you, Ambassador Rice.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Just a couple more things at the top, and then I’d be
happy to take your questions.  
  
The President and his team have been working around the clock over the
past six days to make meaningful progress on vaccinating as many people
as possible.  As we’ve talked about in this room before, increasing the
vaccine supply and building increased cooperation between the federal
government and state and local leaders on the ground is key to getting
that done.  
  
The President will speak later today on those efforts and provide an
update on his team’s work to bolster the vaccine supply available so
that we can, in turn, get more shots into Americans’ arms as quickly as
possible.   
  
And I’ll also add, as many of you have reported, there are some calls
this afternoon with governors to brief them on these plans and give them
an update on how we will continue to work together even more
efficiently.  
  
A couple other things.  Earlier today, the first female Vice President
swore in the first female Secretary of the Treasury — what’s that for
history? — Dr. Janet Yellen.  Today, of course, is pretty historic
day.   
  
And this afternoon, the Vice President will make her first visit to a
federal agency, the National Institutes of Health, where she will — she
and the secol- — Second Gentleman, excuse me, will receive their second
dose of the Moderna vaccine.  The Vice President will thank Director
Collins, Dr. Fauci, and the staff of the NIH for their work to develop
the vaccine and efforts to keep Americans safe.   
  
She will also make the case that Congress needs to immediately pass the
American Rescue Plan, which includes $20 billion to invest in local
community vaccine distribution centers in the hardest-hit areas.  Her
remarks on the vaccination at NIH will be livestreamed on the White
House YouTube channel, so you can all turn in — tune in for all of
that.   
  
Okay, Jonathan, kick us off.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  First, on the response to the pandemic — two
matters there.  First, could you give us or provide a little more detail
as to how much more of the vaccine is going to be distributed and how
quickly to these states?  We’ve heard governors sound the alarm that
they are desperately low on what they need.  And then, can you talk
about — has CDC considered, with White House support, a measure for
testing for all passengers on U.S. domestic flights?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jonathan, on — the first part of our effort is
certainly to ensure we are more effectively and efficiently working with
governors and local officials who have expressed some frustration in
recent weeks about the lack of information and the lack of a federal
plan.   
  
We’ve only been here six days, but we want to take steps as quickly as
possible to address that.  And part of that will be what the President
updates us all on this afternoon.  And I would be a very short-lived
press secretary if I got ahead of the President.  And we’re having so
much fun in here, so you don’t want that to happen.   
  
On the second question on testing: We’re constantly evaluating — of
course, our medical and health experts — steps that need to be taken to
keep the American people safe.  We announced some travel restrictions,
as you know, yesterday.  I don’t have any additional restrictions to
preview or announce for all of you.   
  
I will remind you that tomorrow is the first day of our briefings that
will be happening approximately three times a week — that you can all
tune in and learn more from our health experts on our plans.  
  
Q    And on another matter — on impeachment: The President yesterday, in
an interview, said that he did not believe that former President Trump
would be convicted and therefore removed from office, but said he felt
like it had to go — the trial had to go on anyway.  Could you please
explain what he meant by that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let’s put this in context of last night.  So
last night, the House impeachment managers delivered the articles of
impeachment to the Senate with a dramatic walk over, as we — you all
carried on television.  And, you know, the President was referencing a
fact that he referenced in his statement of just a couple of weeks ago,
when the House passed the impeach- — the articles of impeachment
themselves, which is that now it, of course, will move on to the
Senate.  
  
As he also said at the time, he hopes — and I’ll quote him here — “the
Senate leadership will find a way to deal with their constitutional
responsibilities on impeachment while also working on the other urgent
business of the nation.”  He still continues to feel that way.   
  
So, last night, they delivered the articles.  The next step, as you all
have reported and people watching at home know, is for the Senate to
proceed with their trial.  He’s going to allow them to move forward at
the pace and manner that the leaders in the Senate determine.  And I can
promise you that we will leave the vote counting to leaders in the
Senate from now on.  
  
Q    Last follow-up, and then I’ll hand it off.  On this, though, why is
the President so reluctant to express his personal opinion as to what
happens here?  We understand he’s not in the Senate anymore —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    — but he is the leader of the Democratic Party.  Why won’t he say
what he believes should happen?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President believes that the Senate has the
constitutional duty to proceed as they see fit on holding the former
President accountable.  He spent 36 years in the Senate; he’s no longer
there.  As the President of the United States, he feels his role is to
deliver on what he promised for the American people.  So that’s what
he’s trying to do every day.  
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Just a little housekeeping as it relates to what’s going on in the
Senate right now.  When is the last time that President Biden spoke to
Leader McConnell?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He has spoken with Leader McConnell.  As he said, he’s
spoken with him a couple of times.  But I’m not going to —  
  
Q    Since — since inauguration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to read out specific calls to all of you on
the pace or number of their phone calls.  
  
Q    I guess the question is: This is someone who has always said — the
President — that his strong suit is the ability to work with both sides
of the aisle, and he criticized the previous administration for not
bringing lawmakers here on COVID relief to sit down in the Oval Office. 
So why not say to Democrats and Republicans, “Come to the White House
right now.  Let’s hash this out, and let’s get it done”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that would make for excellent television and
quite a dramatic moment here at the White House.  But he is in close
touch, as our team is — members of our senior team — as you know, Brian
Deese, a number of senior officials here at the White House — speaking
with different caucuses in Congress — Republicans, Democrats, people
from different wings of different parties — about our plans and our
commitment to getting the COVID package passed.  But our view is that a
lot of those conversations should happen one-on-one, should happen in
small groups, and that’s the most productive way to move this bill
forward.  
  
Q    Let me ask you, if I can: There seemed to be a little bit of
disagreement in terms of the way both Dr. Fauci and President Biden
viewed herd immunity and when we get out of this pandemic right now.  We
heard the President yesterday say, “I feel confident that by summer
we’re going to be well on our way towards herd immunity.”  Dr. Fauci
said that he thought this would likely occur — where we were closer to
being back to normal — by this fall.  Just so it’s clear for Americans
what the administration is promising or telling them, when should we
expect that takes place?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is certainly pushing his team every day
to deliver results as quickly as possible.  So as part of his comments
yesterday, he also talked about his desire to ensure there’s greater
availability in the spring, and certainly his hope that every American
will — that more Americans will have access as quickly as possible.  
  
But he has also said many times it will take months and months for a
broad swath of the population to be vaccinated.  And, as always, he’s
guided, as we all are, by scientists and medical experts and certainly
Dr. Fauci’s guidelines of when we can expect for a broad swath of the
population to be vaccinated.  
  
Q    And for specificity on the vaccine stockpile, yesterday you didn’t
have a specific number; CDC director Rochelle Walensky didn’t as well. 
What is the stockpile right now?  Where do we stand at this moment?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is going to have more of an update later
this afternoon, as I — as I previewed earlier.   
  
Q    Do you know the answer, I guess?  Do we now — do we have our hands
around that, though?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly.  There is — we monitor updates on a daily
basis through Tiberius and multiple systems that have available
information on vaccine numbers that are distributed to states — what
states have received, what they have distributed.  And we have been
connecting all the dots to ensure we have our best understanding of
where the holdups are.  
  
And we, of course, have that assessment, but we’re continuing to dig in
every day on where the — what the issues are: Why aren’t — why isn’t the
vaccine getting out to states?  What is the holdup with vaccinators? 
Why aren’t there more vaccine sites that are getting the supply they
need?  
  
But later this afternoon, he’ll have more of an update on our additional
vaccine supply that we’ll make available to states.  
  
Go ahead, Peter.  It’s a “Peter row” over here.   
  
Q    “Pete and Pete.”  Or Pete and “re-Pete,” I guess.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, the jokes could go on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Yeah, let’s do that.   
  
So there are some reports that FEMA is now planning to reroute up to $10
billion in money that could be used to combat COVID-19 right now to
preemptively combat climate change by building sea walls and elevating
flood-prone homes.  And I’m curious if there has been any thought given
to waiting until COVID is behind us to do that.   
  
Q    Peter, I had not actually seen that report before we came out
here.  As you know, and I’ll just repeat, the President’s first priority
is getting the pandemic under control and doing everything needed,
putting all of the necessary resources behind that.  But I’m happy to
circle back with our team on that specific report.   
  
Q    And another question.  The President says that he hopes that the
Senate leadership can continue — can do a Senate impeachment trial while
working on the people’s business.  What if they can’t?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as President, you always have to be hopeful, of
course.  That’s your role as a leader: to push and push leaders, push
Democrats and Republicans to make more progress.  
  
But, you know, I think what the President will continue to do privately
in his conversations with members of Congress — Democrats and
Republicans — and publicly is make the case for the cost of inaction. 
And I think he doesn’t feel that there — the Democrats and Republicans
in Congress have the space and the time to wait; that there’s an urgency
that the American people are going to continue to push members who are
representing them on.  And so I don’t think he feels there’s an
alternative, other than to — them to move forward with urgency.   
  
Q    And then just one more.  The riots in Portland and the violence in
Portland recently — there was some discussion earlier about the January
6th rioters being reviewed by the DNI as domestic violent extremists. 
Are the rioters in Portland also being viewed through the same lens, or
is that something different, as the White House sees it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we — you and I talked about this yesterday and
conveyed that all violence happening around the country will be reviewed
as a part of the tasking that was done by that national security team. 
But I don’t have anything to preview on it.  
  
Cecilia, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  On COVID relief, we’ve heard Republicans come out in
opposition in broad brushstrokes at this point.  But in terms of the
conversations that Brian Deese is having, or the President for that
matter, or anyone on your team, has any Republican come forward to give
you an alternative?  What is happening with these negotiations?  What
are they telling you that they want?  To go?  To stay?  What’s the non-
— without you negotiating from here, but what alternatives are they
giving you?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Cecilia, you have the benefit of having covered
Congress for quite some time, and you know none of them are quiet about
what they like and don’t like, and they often say it publicly.   
  
So, the President and members of our team are hearing many of the same,
you know, expressions of support and sometimes expressions of questions
about whether packages need — the package needs to be the same size,
whether it’s targeted, whether it should be targeted in this way.  Those
are the same questions that they are hearing privately.   
  
And — but what they all — what the President is also hearing privately
and what members of our team are also hearing privately is that they
expect him to be focused on this package, and they will be as well, and
they hear and understand the urgency.   
  
And as you know from covering this quite — for quite some time yourself,
oftentimes things come together right before there’s a vote, right?  The
President kind of alluded to this yesterday, but we feel democracy is
working how it should: He laid out his big package, his big vision of
what it should look like, and people are giving their feedback, and he’s
happy to have those discussions and fully expects it’s not going to look
exactly the same on the other end.  
  
Q    And on the stockpile assessment, I want to flip the answer that
you’ve been giving, saying that “it’s five days or six days; give us
some time to catch up with this.”  I understand that.   
  
On the inverse, it’s been six days.  Why don’t we know exactly what is
in this stockpile?  How — what have been the hurdles, the biggest
hurdles in getting that answer?  
  
Slaoui — you probably heard this — yesterday defended the program,
Operation Warp Speed, saying that this is — the results were
“exceptional.”  So why has it taken so long —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not —  
  
Q    — six days in?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  Six days in.  Well, six days in, the President is
also giving an update on steps we’re going to take to provide more
vaccine supply to states across the country in response to their concern
there has not been a federal plan in place and that they haven’t
received the coordination, cooperation, and information they desired. 
So, in my view, that’s a pretty rapid response to states’ concerns.   
  
We do have an assessment — as I referenced, Tiberius, which is quite a
name for this website, I will say.  It sounds like a magical creature a
little bit, to me.  But it provides vaccine information — publicly
available information on vaccine supply that’s gone to states and what’s
been used.  It doesn’t mean it’s perfect.  Oftentimes it isn’t.   
  
But our concerns and our focus is not just on the supply; that’s part of
the issue.  It is also about ensuring that states have the number of
vaccinators they need, so that means people who are literally taking the
shots and qualified to put them in the arms of Americans.  And some
states and some communities don’t have people who are able to do that
and vaccine centers and places where people can go and receive the
vaccine.  
  
So there’s multiple steps in this process, and our focus is on ensuring
not just the supply is at the rate it needs to be and that states have
more advance notice — this is one of the things governors will tell you
and have told us, that it is very difficult for them when they find out
a day before or a couple days before that they’re going to run out of
supply or when a next supply shipment is coming.  They want more time. 
That’s something we’re also working on.   
  
So those are all pieces that are a part of this herculean operational
task that our team has undertaken.   
  
Go ahead, Mario.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Senator Schumer, last night, said that he wants
President Biden to consider declaring climate change a national
emergency, to give him power similar to what his predecessor, President
Trump, did with the wall.  Is that something that the President is
considering?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has long said it is one of the four
crises that he believes are central to the presidency and central to his
time as the Commander-in-Chief and the President of the United States:
addressing the threat of climate.   
  
     So he has not only taken actions — executive orders — taken actions
that fall under the purview of the President, but also he has pushed to
find ways to work with Congress on taking additional steps moving
forward too.   
  
There will be more we have to share on our efforts on climate in the
days ahead, but I don’t think Leader Schumer has any doubt about the
President’s commitment to this, and certainly the fact that he has
called it a crisis.  It is — he said it is central to the issues he
wants to take on, and his presidency speaks to his commitment to the
issue.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So two more questions to bring it back just to COVID response for a
second.  So, first, one of the questions that’s come up is, how much
money is needed, exactly, to respond to the emergency that we’re in?  Is
it $1.9 trillion?  Is it some other figure?   
  
Do you have an assessment just of how much money is left from Congress’s
last allocation towards these issues?  How much is left to spend?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as Brian Deese — the NSC Director Brian Deese said
last week, the problem with focusing on the $900 billion package as the
answer to our current problem now is that it was catching up for what
had not been done for the prior six months.  So what we’re really
focused on now is what is needed for immediately, now, of course, but
also in the months ahead.   
  
And as I was alluding to a little bit earlier, the way the President
thinks about this is what the cost of inaction is.  So, if you look
ahead, it’s critical — and I talked about this a little bit yesterday —
that we don’t get anywhere near the March cliff, which would mean the
end of eviction and foreclosure moratoriums; the end of $300 additional
UI assistance; the end of PPP loan applications for small businesses. 
And, as you all know from covering what’s happening in the country, you
know, people need security, and what we’re trying to do now is provide
that.  
  
So this package was designed not with a number in mind — we weren’t
trying to get a shock-value sticker value.  The President relied on the
advice of economists, of health experts, and others who recommended:
This is the size and the components that are needed now, not just to
distribute the vaccine, but to provide certainty and a bridge to the
American people to get to the other side.   
  
So —  
  
Q    But do you have a number right now for how much is — for vaccine
distribution alone, how much you have to spend as compared to what
you’ve asked for?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check with our team on that, but I will say
that what we’re looking ahead to is where are we in a couple of weeks
and where are we in two months?  And no one wants to be having a
conversation in May about why our schools aren’t open and why millions
of people have been kicked off of unemployment insurance.  So, part of
our role here is to look ahead, and that’s what — exactly what we’re
trying to do with this package.  
  
Q    Okay.  And to one other issue: The — President Trump signed an
executive order restricting exports of vaccines that are manufactured
within the United States.  That order is still in effect.  First of all,
what is your assessment of exactly whether drug manufacturers are able
to send these vaccines overseas?  Can they do that under current law? 
And, two, will you take any action to reverse that executive order?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a great question, and we’ve talked about, obviously,
joining — rejoining the World Health Organization.  And ensuring we are
a partner to the global community on this effort only makes us safer and
the American people safer.  But I’d have to check on a specific export
question for you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, the National COVID strategy of the administration, released
just a couple of day ago, says that, quote, “The United States will
accelerate the pace of vaccinations by encouraging states and localities
to move through priority groups more quickly.”  What is “more quickly”? 
How should governors interpret that?  And, you know, will you provide
more detailed guidance to state and public health officials on how they
should be going through these priority groups?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the answer is yes.  And part of our effort — as I
mentioned, there was a call with governors this afternoon to provide an
update on vaccine supply and steps we’re taking, from the federal
government, to ensure they have not just the information they need but
also the access to supply they need.   
  
And in terms of the pace, the guidelines will, of course, be publicized
by the CDC.  They have their first briefing tomorrow.  We’ll see if they
have an update on that.  But really, what they’re trying to — what we’re
all trying to endeavor to do is ensure that we have not just more
supply, but more vaccinators — as I noted, more people in communities
who can vaccinate — more centers and locations that can provide these
vaccinations.   
  
So all of those components will lead to expediting.  We’re not asking
states to do this on their own.  In fact, we’re asking — we are trying
to reset and be partners here in a more effective way than we’ve seen
over the last 10 months.  
  
Q    And health officials seem to be recommending now double masking. 
Is that something that the White House would like to see?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ve seen some of those reports.  I haven’t seen that come
officially from the CDC.  But again, I’d encourage you to ask them that
question tomorrow, and I’d refer to them for any new guidance on that
front.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  Regarding the Defense Production Act, what is the timeline for
ramping up production of supplies, specifically the specialized
syringes?  And has the administration been in talks with any specific
companies or manufacturers?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s already been invoked and underway, so those discussions
and efforts to ramp up production are already underway.  They started as
of 24 — less than 24 hours after the President signed that executive
order and made that announcement last week.  I don’t have any specific
companies, I don’t think, to kind of preview or read out for you, but
I’m sure we can follow up and see if there’s more specifics to provide
on the specific companies.  
  
Q    And is the Department of Defense considering plans to deploy
military — National Guard to help with the vaccinations, be those
vaccinators in communities that are underserved?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly, the government — across the government,
everyone is going to play a role in COVID, and addressing COVID and
getting the pandemic under control.  But in terms of their specific
plans, I would send you to the Department of Defense.  
  
Q    Can I ask one more on behalf of the radio pool?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.   
  
Q    The administration — this is for a reporter who can’t be in the
room: What are the administration’s plans for Guantanamo and restarting
military trials for detainees?  One case announced last week.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything new on that.  I’m happy to follow up
on that for you as well.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I just wanted to circle back to Peter’s question.  So Dr. Fauci, on
Fox today, went back to quoting that “100 million doses in 100 days”
number.  So did the President misspeak when he said the new goal was 150
million shots in a hundred days, yesterday?  Or was he operating under
some new update that he got?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President didn’t actually say, “The new goal is…”  The
President said, “I hope we can do even more than that.”  And that is
certainly, of course, his hope.  He is continuing to push our team to
get as many Americans vaccinated as quickly as possible.  That’s why we
set the bold goal of 100 million shots in the arms of Americans in a
hundred days, to begin with.   
  
I would just remind everyone this has literally never been done before. 
And what he has asked the team to do, and what the team is focused on
doing, is also planning for contingencies.  I mean, we’re at war with
the virus.  So, in a wartime theme here, there are a lot of things you
plan for, including trucks breaking down; freezers breaking; you know,
needing to plan for that; you know, not having vaccinators in a location
to be able to put the syringes in people’s arms.  
  
Q    So the 100 million number, though, would be a more accurate number
to be citing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s the number we set, based on the recommendations of
health and medical experts; it continues to be our goal.  But does he
want to do — beat that goal?  Of course, he does.  Of course, he
does.   
  
But, again, it is a goal that was set with contingencies we need to plan
for in mind, and he’s going to continue to push the team to meet that
goal and go beyond it.  
  
Q    And I had one other question —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    — that I wanted to ask the Ambassador, but I didn’t get a chance
to, which is: In terms of the racial equity goals, does the White House
support overturning the Small Business Administration language that
prohibits people with records from accessing PPP relief?  It’s something
that on the Hill has the support of Portman and Cardin.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know I had talked a little bit with our econ — economic
team about this issue earlier, but I’ll have to circle back with you on
it.  It’s a good question.  We’ll bring Ambassador Rice back, but we’ll
circle back with you on this today.   
  
Yamiche, go ahead in the back.   
  
Q    Hi, I have a couple of questions.  The first is: David Kessler said
that most Americans would not be vaccinated until the third or fourth
quarter of this year.  He said that last week.  President Biden spoke
and said that he — we could possibly have herd immunity as early as this
summer.  That’s the difference of a couple months.  I’m wondering if you
could reconcile the difference there and talk a little bit more about
when herd immunity and most Americans will be able to vaccinated.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s sort of similar to what Peter asked a little bit
earlier.  But, you know, what the President — but the President is, of
course, pushing his team to deliver results.  And his goal is to ensure
there is a greater availability in the spring and that it continues to
improve in the summer.  
  
Everybody won’t be — won’t be eligible this spring, as you all know,
even with — even as CDC — the CDC continues to provide updated
guidance.  But he would certainly defer to medical health and medical
experts, and obviously the guidance of Dr. Fauci, on when we may be at
the pace of reaching herd immunity.  But, you know, we will continue to
update, as more progress is made, what the goals look like.  
  
Q    And following up on that, in terms of data collection, it’s my
understanding that something like 50 percent of the vaccinations are
coming in without racial data.  Is that accurate, or is there something
else there?  I’m wondering how you’ll measure success in vaccinating
people of color in vulnerable communities if you don’t have the data on
who’s getting vaccinated.   
  
And will we see — be seeing, kind of, mobile outlooks, mobile, kind of —
mobile — just mobile outreach to those communities, in terms of
vaccines?  When might we see that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, absolutely.  That will be part of it.  But also part of
it will be working with pharmacies and working with health centers in
communities so that communities across the country — rural communities,
communities of color — have easier access to know where they can go and
get a vaccine.   
  
But this is going to be hard, and we are not trying to sugarcoat that. 
And it will be very challenging.  This is why everybody who comes and
speaks about COVID talks about our — the challenge of vaccine hesitancy
and how we’re going to overcome that.  And it won’t just be just about
having centers; it will also be about overcoming a lot of these
contingencies I’ve mentioned that we have to plan for — about more
effectively communicating with people, about the safety of the vaccine,
and really being thoughtful about who we’re using to communicate.   
  
So it is — it is going to take a multi-faceted approach, and we are
open-eyed about the challenge.  
  
Q    On the data part of that question: Is it accurate that there’s very
little racial data, or at least less than 50 percent of racial data
coming in on vaccinations?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would — I would defer — I would refer you to the CDC.  And
I know they’ll have their first briefing tomorrow, and that sounds like
a great question to ask them.  
  
Q    And I know Ambassador Susan Rice, she didn’t take all the
questions, so maybe I’ll ask you the same —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — the question that I was going to ask her, which is: We’ve seen
that, after January 6th, there is obviously this issue of white
supremacy and racism coursing through our country.  What’s the biggest
challenge when you think of equity in this country?  And how do you
measure success for something like that, especially when we think of all
of the different ways that our country is dealing with it?   
  
I know this — these EOs are about housing and about criminal justice,
but can you talk a little bit about how you’re going to measure success
and what the federal government’s role is on something so big as
inequality and racism?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what Ambassador Rice was conveying to all of
you, and obviously what the President will sign later this afternoon, is
an executive order that makes racial equity and addressing racial equity
a priority across the government.  And what the Pres- — how the
President talks about this is that far too often, when you think of
racial — issues that are in the racial equity bucket, shall we say, are
only related to a couple of categories, and that’s just not accurate.  
  
We need to address racial equity in terms of health disparity.  We need
to address it in terms of access to lending and to loans.  We need to
address it in terms of biases and discrimination as it relates to
housing.  
  
And so what this executive order will do — it will make it a priority
and infuse expertise and personnel to ensure we are addressing issues
that impact communities of color across the country every day, and not
just every few months when it’s an issue that comes up and prompts
questioning.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  And thank you for making sure that everybody gets
the opportunity to ask questions.  I really appreciate that.  I’ve got
one on housekeeping, real quick, and then I’ve got a domestic and a
foreign policy question.   
  
So you got some beautiful screens behind you.  Your predecessors have
rejected multiple requests to bring back the Skype seat to the daily
briefings for the benefit of reporters who are trying to stay safe
during the pandemic while working remotely.  Would you consider bringing
back the Skype seat?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We would.  I will say — people don’t usually realize this,
but there’s normally about 60 people in this room; I think that’s the
right number.  That’s certainly something we would be happy to have in
this room, and I think all of you would too because you’re asking
questions on behalf of your colleagues.   
  
But we also — we rely on the advice of our health and medical experts on
what’s safe — not just for us, but for all of you.  And having everybody
sit seat-by-seat wouldn’t be safe.  I know that’s not what you’re
asking, but we’d certainly be open to taking questions via Skype.   
  
I took some questions on Twitter the other day.  We’re going to try to
take some questions from the American people that they ask on YouTube. 
And so we’ll continue to look for ways to not just bring back the daily
briefing, but to take questions from more reporters and people.  
  
Q    Okay.  During the campaign — this is the foreign policy question. 
During the campaign, Mr. Biden had said that he would give benefits to
the Palestinians, but he didn’t specify anything that he would ask — any
concessions.  So the question is: Is it the belief of this
administration that the Palestinians don’t have to make concessions to
get funding for a consulate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think I’ve talked about this particular issue enough
in my old days at the State Department to know I’m going to defer to our
national security team and the State Department and Jake Sullivan on any
more specifics.  Obviously, the President’s view continues to be that a
two-state solution is the only path forward and that — you know, that
that continues to be the position of his White House and
administration.  
  
Q    And finally — finally, this is on behalf of a colleague who was not
able to be here today due to social distancing: Does the President
believe he can attain unity with the 74 million Trump voters while
urging his allies in the Senate to hold an impeachment trial after his
predecessor has already left office?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s belief is that he was elected by 81
million Americans, in part because they believed that he was somebody
who could help bring the country together, unify the country around
addressing the crisis that we face.  And when he talks every day,
nearly, about getting the pandemic under control, putting people back to
work, he’s not just speaking to people who voted for him; he’s speaking
to all of the American people, including the 74 million who didn’t vote
for him.    
  
And certainly addressing the pandemic, making — ensuring that people
don’t worry about the health and safety of their grandparents, of their
sisters and brothers, getting kids back to school — that’s not a
partisan position; that’s a position — that’s a leadership position and
one he’s taking because he wants to make sure he’s delivering for all
the American people.   
  
Go ahead, all the way in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I’m Marek Wałkuski from Polish Radio.  The
President spoke with Chancellor Merkel yesterday.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    But the readout from the phone call doesn’t mention  
Nord Stream 2 — the pipeline from Russia to Germany.  Have they
discussed this particular project?  And what’s President Biden’s
position on Nord Stream 2?  Is he determined to use all the tools he
has, like sanctions, to stop the project?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any more for you on the particular read
out.  But I can convey that we continue to believe — the President
continues to believe that Nord Stream 2 is a bad deal for Europe.  We’re
aware that the previous administration imposed new restrictions on
activities related to the pipeline under the National Defense
Authorization Act, and we will be reviewing those measures.   
  
And so he looks forward to continuing to consult with our European
partners on this issue.  And if there’s more to share on his
conversation with Chancellor Merkel on it, we will certainly circle back
with you more directly.   
  
Let me just get to everybody.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  This is just following on from Yamiche’s question
earlier.  We heard the President, yesterday, say that anyone who wanted
to get a shot would be able to get one by spring and that we would be
well on our way to herd immunity by summer.  I’m wondering how we can
make those projections — and we don’t know what the National Stockpile
is — when the CDC director says that supply won’t increase until March
and when we’re still having these enormous distribution problems in the
different states?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first start by saying, as I started the
briefing conveying, the President will have more to say on our vaccine
supply and also — and also assistance and cooperation that we will be
doing with the states later this afternoon.  So we’ll have an update on
that.   
  
And as I also noted, we do have a sense.  There is Tiberius — my
favorite word of the day — a website that has available information on
not just the vaccine that is available in states, but what has been
distributed.   
  
So what I was conveying, and I think what a number of our medical and
health experts have been conveying, is that we’ve been here for now six
days — I’ll at a certain point stop saying that.  But less than a week
is not that long period of time.  We are assessing every day where the
holes are, where the gaps are, what the holdups are.  It’s not just
supply; it is beyond that.  It’s also having the number of vaccinators
we need, the number of vaccine distribution sites we need.  Those are
all issues, if you talk to any governor, that they will say are
challenges to getting the vaccine in the arms of the American people.  
  
And what the President’s goal is, is ensuring that there is greater
availability in the spring.  He will push his team.  He pushes his team
on COVID and updates on it, even when it’s a meeting about other
issues.  This is his focus every single day. And — but the fact is,
every American is not going to be eligible this spring.  We’re going to
continue to increase supply; that’s part of it.  And he has said many,
many times, it’s going to take months and months for a broad swath of
the population to be vaccinated.   
  
But he would, if he were standing here today — one, he’d be a lot taller
than me, but he would say there are — he will defer to health and
medical experts to get their assessments on when we can reach the point
of herd immunity.  
  
Peter, go ahead.  
  
Q    There is a report now that the Chief Financial Officer of Florida
has sent a letter to the International Olympic Committee that Florida
would like to host the Olympics if Japan, next year, is uncomfortable
because of the pandemic.  Is a Florida Olympics in 2021 something you
can see the White House supporting?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Wow.  Well, that’s a lot of steps that need to take place,
and I don’t know the entire process of the Olympics, but I would
certainly think — send you to the U.S. Olympic Committee and the
International Olympic Committee, first, on what their assessment of that
offer is, and certainly, of course, what their assessment is of Japan’s
preparedness for the Olympics.  
  
Go ahead, right here.  
  
Q    Jen, on contingencies: If these COVID vaccines need to be tweaked
or changed because of these emerging variants, how is that going to
complicate your rollout effort?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Dr. Fauci spoke to this a little bit last week, and I
expect this will be one of the lines of questioning with our health and
medical experts when they have their first briefing tomorrow.  And they
have spoken to both assessments that have been made about the efficacy
of the vaccine, even with the new variants, and how they are evaluating,
you know, what the efficacy will be moving forward.  This is something
that they will continue to look at through a medical and health lens.  
  
So I don’t think I’m going to have a new update or assessment for you
from here, but it’s something they’re looking closely at, and the
President will continue to encourage them to be as honest and
straightforward with the American people as possible.  
  
Q    Just one unrelated question.  One of President Trump’s last acts
was to grant protective status to Venezuelans who are in the United
States.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    I believe that still stands.  Can you give us an update on your
position on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Let me see.  Let’s see.   
  
While the overriding goal of the United States is to support a peaceful
democratic transition in Venezuela through free and fair elections, he
has long been clear — the President, that is — that his administration’s
approach to Venezuela will focus on addressing the humanitarian
situation, providing support to the Venezuelan people, and
reinvigorating multilateral diplomacy to press for a democratic outcome
and pursue individuals involved in corruption, human rights abuses, and
pursue individuals involved with that.   
  
I don’t have anything more for you on the status of temporary protected
status.  That was a mouthful.  I will — of course, our national security
team is doing a review of all of the positions put in place by the Trump
administration and will provide an update when we have one.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    One more question.  Ambassador Rice outlined all of these
disparities when it comes to Americans of color being infected and dying
from COVID at higher rates.  Do you — does the White House fault the
policies of the previous administration for creating those disparities
that we’re seeing?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, health disparities in communities of color existed
long before the Trump administration took office, and I think that’s a
statement of fact.  But what did not happen was actions put in place to
ensure greater accessibility to communicat- — communities of color for
healthcare, greater communications on public campaign about how
communities of color could gain access to healthcare and treatments. 
And certainly the actions taken by the prior administration to, for all
intents of \[sic\] purposes, destroy the Affordable Care Act didn’t help
any American and certainly didn’t help communities of color.   
  
So, the vaccine, as you all know, has only — we did not have the
scientific and medical breakthrough until late last year.  And now it’s
incumbent upon this administration, the Biden-Harris administration, to
ensure that we are taking secs — steps to increase access, but also to
communicate more effectively with communities of color about the vaccine
and the efficacy of it.  And that certainly is a primary focus.  That’s
one of the reasons why Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith is leading a COVID task
force and is a pivotal part of the COVID team.  
  
And I will say, from being on the transition, she wasn’t a person who
was, aside from by reputation, but she wasn’t known by President — then
President-elect Biden previously, but he was so impressed with her as a
member of the COVID Advisory Task Force that he felt, personally, it was
important to have her as a pivotal member of the team to address exactly
this issue.  
  
Okay, go ahead.  Last — last one, says Jonathan.   
  
Q    Thank you very much.  If I can ask a follow-up, I’d appreciate it. 
The Trump administration granted waivers to Arkansas and other states to
require work for some Medicaid recipients.  That was challenged in the
court.  The court struck it down.  The Trump administration pushed it to
the Supreme Court.  It’s ending there.  Does the Biden administration
support these waivers, oppose them?  Are they going to argue for it,
against it?  What’s the position of the administration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would certainly send you to our Department of
Justice, my Department of Justice colleagues, to speak to anything
related to a legal case.  I will say that President Biden does not
believe, as a principle, it should be difficult to — for people to gain
access to healthcare.  And he’s not — he’s not been supportive in the
past, and is not today, of putting additional restrictions in place. 
And he’s spoken about that publicly, too.  
  
Q    And then, if I could follow up.  Yesterday, former President Trump
endorsed Sarah Huckabee Sanders for Governor of Arkansas in 2022.  Where
does President Biden stand on that particular race, and how high is this
on his list of priorities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Wow.  How high is the Arkansas Republican gubernatorial
primary on the President’s list of priorities?  Not high.  I can confirm
for you I’m not running for Governor of Connecticut in the future.  So
I’m here to confirm that for you, as well.  I don’t expect he will get
involved in this race, but also politics is not front and center for his
mind, in general, at this point in time.  He’s focused on getting the
pandemic under control.  
  
Okay.  
  
Q    Jen, who leads the governors’ call today, just for clarity?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What did you say?  
  
Q    Who is leading the governors’ call today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Who is making — leading the governors’ call?  
  
Q    Who is leading it?  The President won’t be on it, so who is leading
it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Jeff Zients will be one of the — one of the health
officials, or one of the, I should say, policy officials, who is on the
call today.  There may be others, but he’s one of the primary leaders of
the call.  
  
Q    And bipartisan governors, obviously, participating?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I believe so, yes.  Exactly.   
  
Okay, last one.  I’m breaking Jonathan’s rule, but —  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  We just saw that President Biden has spoken to President
Putin.  Can you give us an update on the nature of their call?  What
came up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  Well, I beli- — the call — I can confirm for you
the call was scheduled.  The call has happened, I believe, since I have
come out here.  So, we will, of course, be putting a readout of the call
out.  But since you gave me the opportunity, I will just convey to you
that he called him — called President Putin this afternoon with the
intention of discussing our willingness to extend New START for five
years, and also to reaffirm our strong support for Ukraine sovereignty
in the face of Russians’ ongoing — Russia’s ongoing aggression, and also
to raise matters of concern, including the SolarWinds hack, reports of
Russia placing bounties on United States soldiers in Afghanistan,
interference in the 2020 Election, the poisoning of Alexei Navalny, and
treatment of peaceful protestors by Russian security forces.  
  
His intention was also to make clear that the United States will act
firmly in defense of our national interests in response to malign
actions by Russia.  But we’ll have a readout for you, I assume, sometime
early this afternoon.  
  
Thanks, everyone.  
  
                        END                1:39 P.M. EST
