---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-01-27'
modified_time: 2021-01-27 17:31:58-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/01/27/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-special-presidential-envoy-for-climate-john-kerry-and-national-climate-advisor-gina-mccarthy-january-27-2021/
published_time: 2021-01-27 17:31:57-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, Special Presidential Envoy for\
  \ Climate John Kerry, and National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy, January 27,\_\
  2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:31 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon.  President Biden is continuing to follow
through on his key promise to take swift and bold action that addresses
the climate crisis, building on his day-one actions of rejoining the
Paris Agreement and strengthening our clean air and water protections
and holding polluters accountable.

Today, he will take executive action to tackle the climate crisis at
home and abroad, while creating good-paying union jobs, building
sustainable infrastructure, and delivering environmental justice. 

I’m thrilled today, as a part of our effort to bring policy experts into
the briefing room, we’re joined by two very special guests who are going
to talk you — talk to you all about today’s executive orders and take a
few questions as well.  And I will always — as always play the role of
bad cop when they have to go: National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy and
Special Presidential Envoy for Climate — and my former boss — former
Secretary of State John Kerry.  And a big day for Boston in the briefing
room, so — (laughter).

Okay, with that, go ahead.

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Thank you.  It’s a big day for Boston every
day.  Thank you, everybody. 

Today, President Biden will build on the actions he took on day one, and
he’ll take more steps to fulfill commitments he made to tackle the
climate crisis, while creating good-paying union jobs and achieving
environmental justice.

In his campaign, he and Vice President Harris put forward the most
ambitious climate vision that any presidential ticket had ever embraced,
and he spent more time campaigning on climate than we have ever seen. 

The President also has consistently identified the climate crisis as one
of four interrelated existential crises that are gripping our nation all
at once, and he’s demanding answers that can address all four.  And he’s
not waiting to take action, getting us started on his first day in
office, because science is telling us that we don’t have a moment to
lose to fight against all four of these crises in a way that recognizes
their intersectionality. 

He’s always committed the U.S. to reenter — I’m sorry, he’s already
committed the U.S. to reenter the Paris Climate Agreement.  And he
committed us, as well, to start undoing the assault on our environment
that has occurred over the past four years.  And he is now taking
additional action to really target the challenge of climate change. 

So today, for me, is a very good day.  Just one week into his
administration, President Biden is continuing to move us forward at the
breadth and the pace that climate science demands. 

Today’s executive order starts by saying, “It is the policy of this
administration that climate considerations shall be an essential element
of U.S. foreign policy and national security.”  That’s where the big guy
comes in.  It gives my colleague, John Kerry — the first-ever
international climate envoy — the authority to really drive forward a
process that will restore American leadership on climate throughout the
world.  And you will see and hear more about that from Secretary Kerry.

But, here at home, we have to do our part or we will not be able to make
the kind of worldwide change that climate change demands. 

So this executive order establishes a White House Office of Domestic
Climate Policy, and it directs everyone who works for the President to
use every tool available at our disposal to solve the climate crisis,
because we’re going to take a whole-of-government approach.  We’re going
to power our economy with clean energy.  We’re going to do that in a way
that will produce millions of American jobs that are going to be
good-paying, that are going to be jobs that have the opportunity for
workers to join a union. 

Because, as President Biden has often told us, when he thinks of climate
change, his first thought is about jobs.  And it should be, because
people in this country need a job, and this is about making that happen
in the most creative and significant way that the federal government can
move forward.  And we’re going to make sure that nobody is left behind,
and I’m not just talking about communities, in terms of environmental
justice, but workers as well. 

This order takes historic strides to address environmental injustice. 
It creates both a White House interagency task force to address
environmental justice, as well as an advisory council.  It directs the
Department of Health and Human Services to create an Office of Climate
Change and Health Equity because, after all, climate change is the most
significant public health challenge of our time. 

And it tasks the Department of Justice with establishing an Office of
Climate Justice because we know the communities who are being hurt, and
we know we have to start enforcing the standards today and ensuring that
they are part of the solution and in places that we can invest.  In
fact, it commits 40 percent of our investment in clean energy towards
disadvantaged communities so they can benefit from the new jobs that are
available and see that better future. 

President Biden’s order establishes a Working Group on Coal and Power
Plant Communities because we have to make sure that, in this transition,
every agency in government is using every tool at their disposal to
drive resources to those communities.  And it fulfills longstanding
commitments to leverage our vast natural resources to contribute to our
clean energy future. 

It places a pause and review on new oil and gas leases on federal public
lands and waters, consistent with a promise President Biden has
repeatedly made and has been very clear in the face of efforts to
distort his promise.  And it sets a goal of doubling offshore wind
production by 2030. 

In addition, he plans to sign a presidential memorandum that aims to
restore scientific integrity across the federal government and earn back
the public’s trust, making a commitment to base solutions on the best
available science and data. 

So today is a very big day for science and for our efforts to power our
economy with good-paying union jobs. 

Thank you very much. 

SECRETARY KERRY:  Good afternoon, everybody.  It’s great to be here. 
Let me say, first of all, what a pleasure it is to be here with Gina. 
I’m a big fan of Gina’s.  Gina and I worked very, very closely together
during the campaign, when we sat down to bring the Bernie Sanders folks
together around the Biden climate plan.  And she is the perfect person
to be tackling the domestic side of this equation, which is
complicated.  And nobody knows the details better than she does, and
nobody is going to be more effective in corralling everybody to move in
the same direction. 

It’s also an enormous pleasure for me to be here with Jen Psaki.  She
mentioned that — nobody was her boss, but I had the privilege of working
with her.  And she — seven years ago, we gathered in the State
Department briefing room.  She’s traded up, obviously, but she has not
given away any of her fundamental principles and commitment to telling
you all the truth, telling the American people the truth, and doing so
with great candor and transparency.  And I’m very happy to be here with
her.

The stakes on climate change just simply couldn’t be any higher than
they are right now.  It is existential.  We use that word too easily,
and we throw it away.  But we have a big agenda in front of us on a
global basis, and President Biden is deeply committed — totally seized
by this issue, as you can tell by this executive order and by the other
— the initiative for getting back into Paris immediately.  That’s why he
rejoined the Paris agreement so quickly, because he knows it is urgent. 

He also knows that Paris alone is not enough — not when almost 90
percent of all of the planet’s emissions — global emissions — come from
outside of U.S. borders.  We could go to zero tomorrow and the problem
isn’t solved.

So that’s why today, one week into the job, President Biden will sign
this additional executive set of orders to help move us down the road,
ensuring that ambitious climate action is global in scope and scale, as
well as national, here at home.

Today, in the order that he will sign — that Gina has described to you —
he makes climate central to foreign policy planning, to diplomacy, and
to national security preparedness.  It creates new platforms to
coordinate climate action across the federal agencies and departments
sorely needed.  And most importantly, it commissions a National
Intelligence Estimate on the security implications of climate change to
give all of us an even deeper understanding of the challenges.

This is the first time a president has ever done that.  And our 17
intelligence agencies are going to come together and assess exactly what
the danger and damage and potential risks are.

The order directs the State Department to prepare a transmittal package,
seeking Senate advice and consent on the Kigali Amendment, to the
Montreal Protocol — an amendment that by itself, if ratified and fully
enforced globally, could hold the Earth’s temperature by 0.5 of an
entire degree — not insignificant.

And it sets forth a process for us to develop an ambitious new Paris
target, as well as a U.S. climate finance plan, both of which are
essential to our being able to bring countries of the world together to
raise ambition and meet this moment when we go to Glasgow for the
follow-on agreement to Paris.

So that’s the only way for the world to succeed together, my friends. 
And so, again, this is an issue where failure literally is not an
option.

As he committed to doing on the campaign trail, the President is
announcing that he will host a Leaders Summit on Climate Change less
than three months from now, on April 22nd, Earth Day, which will include
a leader-level reconvening of the Major Economies Forum.  We’ll have
specifics to lay out over time. 

But the convening of this — of this summit is essential to ensuring that
2021 is going to be the year that really makes up for the lost time of
the last four years and that the U.N. Climate Conference — COP26, as
it’s called, which the UK is hosting in November — to make sure that it
is an unqualified success. 

The Road to Glasgow will be marked not just by promises, but by
progress, at a pace that we can all be proud of.  And Gina is going to
be putting her efforts into making certain that that is true.  The world
will measure us by what we can do here at home.

So with these executive actions today, we believe we’re steps further
down that journey.

Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  All right.  Let’s start with Nancy.

Q    Thank you so much.  Secretary Kerry, a question for you and then
for Administrator McCarthy.  You talked about the fact that it won’t
really matter what we do very much if the rest of the world doesn’t do
the same thing.  But the U.S. has had a fairly rocky relationship with
China recently.  How do you plan to try to bring both China and India to
the table on this issue?

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, before I — before I answer that, let me just say
that the issue of making a difference — i.e. what we do at home — what
I’m saying is you can’t solve the problem alone, but our doing things
makes an enormous difference.  What Gina succeeds in pulling together is
essential to our ability to have credibility in the world.

Now, with respect to China, obviously we have serious differences with
China on some very, very important issues.  And I am as mindful of that
as anybody, having served as Secretary of State and in the Senate, the
issues of theft of intellectual property and access to market, the South
China Sea.  I mean, run the list; we all know them.  Those issues will
never be traded for anything that has to do with climate.  That’s not
going to happen.

But climate is a critical standalone issue that we have to deal on in
the sense that China is 30 percent of the emissions of the world; we’re
about 15 percent of the emissions of the world.  You add the EU to that,
and you got three entities that are more than 55 percent or so.

So it’s urgent that we find a way to compartmentalize, to move forward. 
And we’ll wait and see.

But President Biden is very, very clear about the need to address the
other issues with China.  And I know some people have been concerned. 
Nothing is going to be siphoned off into one area from another.

Q    And then a question for either of you on coal.  Your executive
order talks about oil and gas on federal lands, but it doesn’t really
say much about coal.  What is this administration’s policy when it comes
to coal? 

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Well, in terms of the oil and gas decision, it
was to — is to make sure that we take a little pause and review the
entire strategy of we’re looking at public lands.  So it will include
looking at what new leases ought to be approved and sold; it’s looking
at our ability also to look at coal in that mix. 

So the program review is going to look at how we manage public lands —
consistent with climate, but also consistent with the marriage between
climate and really growing jobs of the future.  So it will be in the mix
to be looked at, but it is — it is not, at this point, included.  It was
not part of the commitments on the campaign, but we’re going to take a
close look at all of it.

And can I just add on your comment about China, which — I’m not going to
speak to the international dynamic, but I am going to say that part of
the challenge that we face here is a challenge that President Biden has
already started to address with his Buy American Pledge.  We have to
start, not just going — shifting to clean energy, but it has to be
manufactured in the United States of America — you know, not in other
countries.  And there is going to be a large discussion about how we
make sure that a lot of the investment is about building up our
manufacturing base again.  That’s great jobs.  That’s often, hopefully,
union jobs.  But it is also a wonderful opportunity for us to recoup the
benefits of that manufacturing and lower the costs of clean energy.

Part of the way we’re going to get there is by making sure the federal
government buys American and that the federal government looks at its
procurement across every agency so that the breadth of what we spend is
spent — designed to advance job growth in the United States, to advance
health benefits for environmental justice communities, and to begin to
tackle the very challenge — the existential challenge of climate change.

MS. PSAKI:  Jeff Mason. 

Q    Thank you.  Jeff Mason with Reuters.  Question for both of you: Can
you give us a sense of when you expect to have the so-called “NDC” or
U.S. target for cutting greenhouse gas emissions as part of the Paris
Accord?  And can you also give us a sense of how ambitious you plan to
make that number?  Will it be 40 percent, 50 percent — higher than that?

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Well —

SECRETARY KERRY:  We’re united in this, so — 

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Yeah, I’m the dude who’s supposed to deliver
this in a timely way — (laughter) — and he sets the timing.  So,
basically, we want to make sure that the NDC is something that can be
announced before the summit on Earth Day.  And so we’re going to be, out
of the gate, working with the agencies to see what kind of reductions
and mitigation opportunities there are and also, again, to look at our
public lands to make sure that we can continue to store carbon in our
soil, to work with agriculture and others to look at how we better
manage our forests so we’re not seeing the devastating forest fires that
we’ve been having before. 

So, all across the federal government, every agency — and you’ll see
many of them specifically tasked in this executive order — will
participate in the task force that we’re going to have to actually
develop the most aggressive NDC that we can to deliver the kind of boost
that Secretary Kerry is looking for to be able to ensure that our
international efforts are robust and sufficient to address the challenge
internationally.

Q    And just a follow-up on that, perhaps, for Secretary Kerry: How do
you assure international partners that the U.S. will stick to whatever
you propose after having seen the Trump administration take the U.S. out
of the Paris Accord? 

SECRETARY KERRY:  That’s precisely why we’re going to stick by it, and I
think our word is strong.  I’ve been on the phone for the last few days,
talking to our allies in Europe, elsewhere around the world.  And they
are welcoming us back.  They know that this administration already had a
significant part of what has brought us to — will bring us to Glasgow,
which was the Paris Agreement. 

The Obama-Biden administration had great credibility on this issue, and
having President Biden be the person now who is driving this forward is
enormously meaningful to the folks there.  And they also know that I was
deeply involved in the negotiations in Paris and am now asked by the
President — by President Biden — to make certain that we do the same in
Glasgow, if not more. 

So I — I have had no one question our credibility at this point in
time.  Someone probably will, and the answer will be that I think we can
achieve things in the course of the next four years that will move the
marketplace, the private sector, global finance, innovation, and
research that, in fact, no — no one, no political person in the future
would be able to undo what the planet is going to be organizing over
these next months and years. 

This is the start of something new.  I don’t know if you read Larry
Fink’s letter, of BlackRock, the other day — yesterday.  But there’s a
new — new awareness among major asset managers and commercial banks and
others about the need to be putting resources into this endeavor because
it is — it is major in investment demand. 

So I think the proof will be in what we do.  Neither Gina nor I are
going to start, you know, throwing around a lot of big promises, but you
heard what she just said, and we will work very closely.  Because we’re
going to try to bring to the table, to help inform her and the folks
she’s working with, what we’re picking up abroad and what people are
doing abroad and the steps that they’re taking and how we now have to
measure ourselves against them, and they will measure themselves against
us.  We are well aware of that.

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Can I just add something?  I just want to call
attention to the fact that cities and states have really picked up the
initiative to move forward on clean energy because the solutions are
cheap.  The solutions compete effectively against fossil fuels. 

We are talking about solutions that we’re not asking anybody to
sacrifice, but are to their advantage.  And if you look at the record
over the past four years, while the prior administration might have
wanted energy — clean energy to head in a different direction, it’s gone
faster and farther than anyone ever expected. 

And the idea that we could, with this new work that we’re doing
together, send signals to the marketplace, who are purchasing at the
federal level and are re-looking at different ways of having
on-the-ground change — we can build that demand.  We can actually grow,
significantly, millions of clean energy jobs.  And all of a sudden, the
question won’t be whether the private sector is going to buy into it;
the private sector is going to drive it.

And so this is going to be a signal setter, the way the federal
government ought to set, on what our values are, what we think the
future needs to be.  And that’s — it’s — this is a value-lading \[sic\]
— -laden effort that President Biden has undertaken, with full knowledge
that is going to benefit jobs, it’s going to benefit our health, and
it’s going to lead to that future we want to hand to our children.

MS. PSAKI:  We’ll just do these two in the front, and then they will
come back, I promise.  So, go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  Mr. Secretary, if you would, there’s — there certainly
are oil and gas industry workers who are watching you both right now who
will hear the message that’s — that the takeaway to them is that they
are seeing an end to their livelihoods.  What do you say to them,
particularly those people who President Trump struck a chord with on the
campaign trail when he promised to save their jobs?  What is your
message to them right now? 

And also, to the oil industry executives who are listening — are you
putting them on notice today?

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, we didn’t come here to put anybody on notice,
except to the seriousness of President Biden’s intent to do what needs
to be done to deal with this crisis, and it is a crisis.

With respect to those workers, no — no two people are more — in this
room, are more concerned about it.  And the President of the United
States has expressed, in every comment he has made about climate, the
need to grow the new jobs that pay better, that are cleaner, that —

I mean, you know, you look at the consequences of black lung for a
miner, for instance, and measure that against the fastest-growing job in
the United States before COVID was solar power technician.  The same
people can do those jobs, but the choice of doing the solar power one
now is a better choice.  And similarly, you have the
second-fastest-growing job pre-COVID was wind turbine technician. 

This is happening.  Seventy-five percent, seventy percent of all the
electricity that’s come on line in the United States in the last few
years came from renewables, not — you know, coal plants have been
closing over the last 20 years. 

So what President Biden wants to do is make sure those folks have better
choices, that they have alternatives, that they can be the people who go
to work to make the solar panels — that we’re making them here at home. 
That is going to be a particular focus of the Build Back Better agenda. 

And I think that, unfortunately, workers have been fed a false
narrative.  No surprise, right?  For the last few years, they’ve been
fed the notion that, somehow, dealing with climate is coming at their
expense.  No, it’s not.  What’s happening to them is happening because
of other market forces already taking place. 

And what the — what the — what the financiers, the big banks, the asset
managers, private investors, venture capital are all discovering is:
There’s a lot of money to be made in the creation of these new jobs in
these sectors.  So whether it’s green hydrogen that is going to come,
whether it is geothermal heat, or whether it — whatever it’s going to
be, those are jobs.

The same worker who works in South Carolina today putting together a
BMW, which happens to be made there, and — and is currently an internal
combustion engine, can put together a car, but it’s electric. 

So this is not a choice between having jobs, having good jobs, having
the quality of life.  Quality of life will be better when Gina has put
her team together that produces choices for us that are healthier, less
cancer, cleaner air.  The greatest — the greatest cost in America, the
greatest cause of children being hospitalized every summer in the United
States — we spent $55 billion a year on it — is environmentally induced
asthma.  That will change as we begin to rein in what we used to call
“pollution” in this country, because it is pollution. 

And I think that workers are going to see that, with the efforts of the
Biden administration, they’re going to have a much better set of
choices, and, frankly, it will create more jobs than stuck where we
were.

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Could I just add by pointing out a couple of
things in the executive order that I want you to just call to your
attention?

We talked about the Civilian Conservation Corps.  That is an opportunity
to put younger people into work in vitally important efforts.  But if
you look at this, it also has set up a task force that is looking at
these coal communities — communities that are really reliant on their
local energy and utility, and it talks about how do we revitalize those
economies.  And it talks about how we can put people to work, using the
skills they currently have, where they are, to start looking at those
old abandoned oil and gas wells that are spewing out methane or all of
the coal that that is — mines that haven’t been properly closed that are
doing the same. 

That has great impact on climate, but also will keep an opportunity for
those — for those individual workers to have work in their own
communities.  We’re not going to ask people to go from the middle of
Ohio or Pennsylvania and ship out to the coast to have solar jobs.  You
know, solar jobs will be everywhere, but we need to put people to work
in their own communities.  That’s where their home is.  That’s where
their vision is. 

So we’re creatively looking at those opportunities for investment, so
that we can get people understanding that we are not trying to take away
jobs.  Remember when — when we say “climate change,” eventually, people
are going to think “jobs,” just like President Biden when he hears the
words “climate change.” 

And so we’ll do everything we can to recognize that revitalization is
necessary in these communities, to find creative ways to put them to
work.  And then we’re going to do, as Secretary Kerry says, and start
investing in new technologies and new manufacturing, and that includes
the large manufacturing, like cement and steel.  That’s work that we
should be doing here.  That’s work that inevitably is going to be
necessary to rebuild our infrastructure, which is also one of the
biggest opportunities we have for job growth moving forward.

Q    Two quick questions?

MS. PSAKI:  Kick us off, Peter.

Q    Sure.  Administrator, one to you, and one to the Secretary, if I
may.  What you may hear from some corners of criticism is: Why are we
doing this now, when we’re already in an economic crisis?  You look at
the state of New Mexico, where one third of the state’s budget is funded
by oil and gas.  So why not let the country get back on its feet before
we do this?

ADMINISTRATOR MCCARTHY:  Well, the issue in New Mexico is that somebody
reported — a bit incorrectly, or maybe not as precisely enough — that
this wasn’t about impacting existing permits and fracking; this was
about new leases on federal lands. 

So I think that the opportunity for the states to continue to accrue the
royalties from — from both coal and oil and natural gas that is properly
done on federal lands is going to continue, and there’s even an
opportunity in the review of that program to look at the royalty issues,
look at the job growth opportunities, look at a variety of things to
make sure that public lands are being properly managed.

Now, in terms of the job issue, we’re explicitly doing this because our
economy is right now stagnant.  We have millions of people out of work,
out of jobs; millions of people that are afraid they can’t feed their
families.  If you’re faced with that, what do you do?  You boost the
economy, and you grow jobs. 

But why, at the same time, aren’t we thinking about the weaknesses of
our current economy, in terms of the number of environmental justice
communities that have been left behind, the number of people that are
breathing dirty air, and that kids are getting asthma? 

So, instead, let’s think about all of it at the same time.  I know it’s
a crazy idea.  In a bureaucracy, you’re only supposed to do one thing,
but we’re going to do and think about all of it, because people need to
have jobs.  This is all about building the jobs of the future we want,
not continuing to niddle at an economy that is no longer going to be
where our future lies.

Q    And, Mr. Secretary, to you: Right now, over the course of this
first week, there are a lot of big priorities here.  There’s COVID, the
economy, immigration, racial justice, now climate change.  As a veteran
of Congress, of the Senate, what is the priority?  And how quickly do
you need legislation to make this permanent?

SECRETARY KERRY:  Well, Peter, the priority is precisely what the
President has set out: all of them, all six of the major crises that he
faces.  And he’s addressing every single one of them, and he knows that
the United States, all of us, have the ability to be able to do that. 
And the reason that has to be done is: Every single one of them are life
and death.  Every single one of them represent a challenge to the very
fiber of our society. 

And the other reason — obviously, everything — I agree with everything
Gina said, but I’d simply add that the other reason for doing it now is
the science tells us we have to.  And that’s one of the things the
President is restoring today in the executive order is respect for
science and the science office.

So, I mean —

Q    And $2 trillion price tag — $2 trillion for COVID, $2 trillion for
this — is a lot of money to a lot of Americans.

SECRETARY KERRY:  It is real money, and yes, it’s a lot of money.  But
you know what?  It costs a lot more if you don’t do the things we need
to do.  It costs a lot more.  There are countless economic analyses now
that show that it is now cheaper to deal with the crisis of climate than
it is to ignore it. 

We spent $265 billion, two years ago, on three — three storms: Irma,
Harvey, and Maria.  Maria destroyed Puerto Rico.  Harvey dropped more
water on Houston in five days than goes over Niagara Falls in a year. 
And Irma had the first recorded winds at 185 miles an hour for 24
sustained hours.  Last year we had one storm — $55 billion.

So we’re spending the money, folks.  We’re just not doing it smart, and
we’re not doing it in a way that would actually sustain us for the long
term. 

So this is critical.  We’re — the goal of the Paris Agreement was to
hold the Earth’s temperature increase to two degrees centigrade.  Even
if you did everything that was in Paris, we’re going up to 3.7 or 4. 
That’s catastrophic.  What President Biden is trying to do is listen to
science, listen to facts, and make tough decisions about what we need to
do to take the world to a better place, and particularly our own
country.  And that is what he is committed to doing.

So, yes, there are a lot of challenges right now, which, sadly, all of
them were exacerbated by the last four years.  Now we have to try to
make up for that.  And that is a hard pull, but this President is
capable of doing it, and he’s putting together a great team that I think
can help him do that.

Q    Thank you, sir.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, Gina McCarthy.  Thank
you, Secretary Kerry, for joining us.  You’re free to go —

ADMINISTRATION MCCARTHY:  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  — to go see the President.

So you can all see they’re both experienced and passionate and
tenacious, having worked with both of them in the past.  So the crisis
is in good hands.

I know we have a short period of time here, but I just wanted to provide
an update on a question that you all have been asking a bit about, which
is what some of the outreach our teams are doing as it relates to the
COVID package.  That is a top priority for President Biden.

As we have talked about almost every day in here — probably every day —
our team continues to build support for the American Rescue Plan as more
and more voices across the country recognize the urgent need to get
American families the help they need. 

We’ve obviously seen a broad coalition of support emerge, from the
Chamber of Commerce, to Senator Sanders and organized labor, to hundreds
of mayors and local public health officials.  The President and Vice
President are engaged directly with members and have had a number of
productive conversations.  That will continue through the course of the
week and will only pick up in the days ahead. 

Senior White House officials are also engaging with not just
congressional leaders, but also state and local officials, key
constituency groups, and others to gather feedback on the proposal and
move the package forward.

So let me give you a couple of examples from just yesterday:

Chief of Staff Ron Klain engaged with members directly throughout the
day, as did Senior Advisor Anita Dunn, which they will both continue to
do moving forward.  Counselor to the President Steve Ricchetti and
Office of Legislative Affairs Director Louisa Terrell are quarterbacking
the team’s broader legislative outreach and have had dozens of
conversations with individual members to understand their priorities and
receive their feedback.

In addition to ongoing conversations with leadership on both sides of
the aisle, already this week, members of the National Economic Council
and Domestic Policy Council and staff from Treasury have met with the
relevant committees, including Senate Banking Committee, Senate Finance
Committee, House Ways and Means, House Financial Services, House
Education and Labor, and the bicameral Small Business Committee. 

NEC Director Brian Deese is doing one-on-one briefings with members of
Congress and meetings with caucuses, including yesterday’s meeting,
which I believe has been reported, with the Problem Solvers Caucus to
discuss the proposal.

Hill engagement will continue, with Jeff Zients and Brian Deese meeting
with the New Dem Coalition, along with several other briefings that are
scheduled.

Also, our outreach isn’t limited to Congress, which is vitally
important.  This isn’t just about speaking to elected officials; this is
also about speaking to the country, and building support, and educating
and engaging with leaders across the country.

So, yesterday, Jeff Zients and his team spoke with bipartisan governors
— as you all know, they talked about the COVID package — by the National
Governors Association — organized by them.  And administration officials
briefed tribal leaders and a number of mayors yesterday as well.  And
the Office of Public Engagement, led by Cedric Richmond, briefed civil
rights groups yesterday, including the NAACP, the National Action
Network, Justice Action Network, Urban League, Coalition of Black Civic
Participation, and Black Women’s Roundtable. Today they have meetings
with labor leaders, advocates for young people, as well as organizations
dedicated to building wealth in the black community.

On Friday, OP will also — the Office of Public Engagement, I should say;
I hate acronyms — will convene 100 presidents of historically black
colleges and universities also to discuss this proposal.

And the only other thing I wanted to mention before we get to your
questions is that, as you all know, Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen was
just confirmed.  The President will be meeting with his economic team on
Friday, including Secretary Yellen, for a briefing on the impact of
delay and moving forward with the additional economic relief.

And now, with that, let’s get your questions.  Alex, it’s your first day
in the White House Briefing Room. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  And Alex’s first day.  Two Alexs’ first days.

Q    It’s good to be here.

MS. PSAKI:  There’s an initiation afterward that the press corps will
conduct.

Q    Hazing?  I’m ready for it. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, go ahead.

Q    Yeah, I’ll make it quick because I know you have a pretty hard out
in a few minutes.

MS. PSAKI:  I think you all have a hard out too.  But, yes.

Q    Absolutely.

I wanted to ask about one of your favorite topics: impeachment.  Nearly
every Republican senator last night voted to throw out the impeachment
trial against President Trump.  Does President Biden have a reaction to
that?  Does he trust Congress to hold President Trump accountable for
the insurrection against the Capitol?  And does he see censure against
former President Trump as a viable alternative to convictions, since it
looks unlikely at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President certainly respects the role that
Congress has — senators, of course — the Senate — as they’re overseeing
the trial moving forward, in determining the pace and the path forward
for holding the former President accountable.  That continues to be his
belief.

In all of his conversations that he’s been having with members about the
recovery plan, he has — they have said they expect from him that his
focus will be on COVID relief.  That’s how he will use the bully
pulpit.  That’s how he will speak to the American people.  And they are
eager to work with him on that.  So that’s where his focus remains.  And
what steps they take to hold the former President accountable, he’ll
leave it to them.

Q    Why the resistance on weighing in on the issue?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve weighed in many times.  The President has been asked
about the issue.  We put out a statement when the House put out a vote —
voted on impeachment, I should say.

But his focus is on doing — delivering on what the American people
elected him to do, which is to get relief to the American people, to get
the pandemic under control, to ensure working families can put food on
the table.  And that’s where he feels his efforts should be to remain.

Okay, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Does the White House have a comment on this social
media profile that has emerged of Representative Marjorie Taylor
Greene?  And is there a response to whether any disciplinary action
should be taken against her, given everything that’s come out?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t.  And I’m not going to speak further about her, I
think, in this briefing room.

Q    Okay.  And —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    One more, if you don’t mind.  Just kind of — a little bit of a
housekeeping.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    The last administration had suggested that — on the origins of the
COVID-19 virus — that it may have originated in a lab in China.  It was
never definitive.  Do you have an update on that — on the origin or
where we are on an investigation?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, obviously the misinformation, of course, that
has — we’ve seen also come out of some sources in China is of great
concern to us.  It’s imperative that we get to the bottom of the early
days of the pandemic in China, and we’ve been supportive of an
international investigation that we feel should be robust and clear. 

We — our view is that we must prepare to draw on information collected
and analyzed by our intelligence community, which is something that is
ongoing, and to work — and also to continue to work with our allies to
evaluate the report’s credibility on the investigation once it’s done. 

In addition, as you all know, the Secretary of State was just — Tony
Blinken was just sworn in yesterday, and one of his priorities is, of
course, ensuring that our staffing on the ground in Beijing — which is
something that fell back in the last administration — is returned to
what it was prior, which means we want to have science experts, policy
experts on the ground in the roles that they should be serving in to
ensure that, you know, we’re also there representing, you know, our
interests from the United States, on the ground in China.

Go ahead, Peter. 

Q    A couple quick ones that I still don’t think I fully understand.  I
know the executive order that was signed, but has this White House
invoked the DPA?  And how soon until we’ll actually see companies
compelled to produce supplies or vaccine or whatever else that impacts
Americans?

MS. PSAKI:  We — it was invoked the day it was signed — within 24 hours
of it being signed.

Q    But you said that jumpstarted the process.  So I guess that meant
it was invoked?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  And I confirmed that when it was — the next day — the
following day in the briefing room, which I realize everybody can’t be
here every day because of COVID.

But it was invoked, and it means that our work is ongoing with companies
to ensure that we are expediting the manufacturing of materials to
ensure that we can get 100 million shots in the arms of Americans.  And
I know there’s been some confusion about this and what exactly it is,
what does the DPA mean. 

There are a few examples that our team has cited, including, on vaccine
supply; low dead space syringes, which means it allows for the ability
to get an extra dose into the Pfizer vial, which is important to getting
more doses out there; help — additional N95 — the production of
additional N95 masks; isolation gowns; gloves; pipette tips; and high
absorbency foam swabs.  So we’re really talking about very specific
materials that can be used by vaccinators to get these shots in the arms
of Americans.

Q    Thanks for clarifying.  There was some confusion on the earlier
call, which is why I repeated it here. 

Let me ask one other question.  Yesterday, you deflected this to the
USOC, but my question is a little bit different today.  We’re now
hearing from the organizers of this year’s Summer Games in Japan, and
the head of Japan’s Olympics Committee is seeking public reassurances
from President Biden himself — given that the U.S., of course, is the
largest contingent of athletes — that the Games should be able to go
on.  As the world’s — as the world is dealing with the pandemic right
now, based on where we are now with the vaccine, does President Biden
believe the Games in Japan can safely go on?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President — and I’m not sure if this readout had
gone out yet — but he had spoken with the Prime Minister of Japan
earlier this morning, and a readout was going out as we were coming out
to the briefing.  I’m not sure if they spoke about the Olympics.  I’m
happy to check with our national security team on that, to follow up
with, but I don’t have any more assessment of the Olympics at this point
in time.

Q    Whether he has — so it hasn’t been discussed whether he has a
position on whether it would safely be able to go on yet?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more, other than — I haven’t had much
on it, but I don’t have anything more than I’ve had on other days on it.

Q    Japan is asking, so we asked.  So we’ll follow up with (inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  Understood.  And they just had a call this morning, but I
haven’t had a chance to talk to him specifically about it.

Go ahead, Jen.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two vaccine questions.  First of all, this came up on
the COVID call earlier, but how seriously is the White House considering
using the Defense Production Act to compel other pharmaceutical
companies to produce the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines to do supply?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I didn’t hear the entirety of the call because we were
doing some preparation for the event this afternoon.  But from listening
to our team talk about it, there are obviously manufacturing facilities
that have the capacity and the ability to get these vaccine doses out. 
And we don’t want to get our — get behind the pace of — and start from
scratch, I should say, and ensuring that they’re ready to do that. 

I don’t think our concern at this point is whether or not we’re going to
have the vaccine doses.  Obviously, the President announced yesterday
the intention to purchase doches \[sic\] — additional doses, the — our
confidence in the manufacturers to have those doses available. 

The concerns we have are, one, contingency planning and all of the
different things that can happen, because this is a herculean task that
has never been done before, but also ensuring we have vaccinators, we
have vaccine sites, et cetera, available. 

So I have not heard from our team plans to seek other manufacturers at
this point in time.  And I’m happy to follow up with them and see if
there’s anything additional.

Q    And then, on the 200 million doses, the President said he’s
ordering them.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    What is the status of that order?  Have Pfizer and Moderna agreed
to produce 100 million doses each?  And how quickly do they say they can
do it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we expect to get the doses by mid to late summer.  The
majority of doses by mid to late summer, some earlier than that.  So we
are confident that we’ll be able to get those from the manufacturers. 
Yes.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Jen, a couple of questions on schools.  Does the administration
plan to develop metrics or standards for what a safe reopening of
schools will look like?

MS. PSAKI:  We do.  And our CDC director — and I’m not sure, again, if
she was asked about this important question — I know as a fellow mother
— but we will have specifics that we’ll defer to the CDC on, on the safe
reopening of schools.  As you know, the President talked about — has
talked about his commitment and his goal of reopening most K-8 schools
within 100 days.  There are obviously a number of steps that will need
to be taken in order for that to be possible.  But he has directed the
Department of Education, the Department of Health and Human Services to
provide guidance on safe reopening and operating for schools, childcare
providers, and institutions of higher education.

But as our COVID team has outlined, that’s going to require testing
materials, support for contact tracing, vaccinations for teachers and
ensuring they’re equitably provided.  But our CDC director and team will
be looking into putting together some specific guidelines so there can
be clarity on that front, which I know a lot of districts are looking
for.

Q    And to follow on that: Those things you mentioned all cost a lot of
money, and a big part of the COVID relief package is a lot of money to
go to school reopening.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    If Congress doesn’t approve the money you want, and schools don’t
have what they need to pay for things to open safely, would the
President support teachers staying at home and support virtual learning
continuing through this entire school year?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the President recognizes, as we all do, the
value of having children in schools and doing that in a safe way, which
is one of the reasons he set this ambitious goal of reopening most K-8
schools within 100 days.

But one of the reasons that this — the funding for safe reopening, for
getting schools the equipment, the testing, the ventilation, in some
cases, that they need is because nobody wants to be having a
conversation in May or June about why schools are not reopened. 

So this goes back to the argument that our team has been making, and all
of these calls and engagements and meetings that I outlined, about the
importance and vital nature of each component of the package.  So we
won’t get into a hypothetical.  We’re confident that Congress will move
forward with a package.

Let me just go — oh, we got to wrap up soon.  Okay, I’m sorry.  We’ll do
more questions tomorrow, but we had two such great guests. 

Jen, go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  I just have two quick questions.  One is just on the
climate actions today.  They leave out Treasury’s Financial Stability
Oversight Council, which experts say could play an influential role in
addressing climate risks.  Does the administration have plans to take
action on climate finance?  And should FSOC direct agencies and
regulators to address climate change?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m going to use a reference that my friend and
colleague, Ambassador Susan Rice, used yesterday, which is: There are
1,453 days left in this administration, and addressing climate and the
crisis of climate is an issue that the President has conveyed to members
of his Cabinet and members of his senior team as an absolute priority. 

So, Secretary Yellen has been in her role for one day, but certainly I’d
send you to them for any more specifics.  But this is the beginning, not
the end, of our work on climate.

Nadia.

Q    And just another question —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    Is the White House concerned about the stock market activity we’re
seeing around GameStop and now with some other stocks as well, including
the subsidiary — or whatever — the company that was Blockbuster?  And
have there been any conversations with the SEC about how to proceed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m also happy to repeat that we have the first female
Treasury Secretary and a team that’s surrounding her.  And, often,
questions about market we’ll send to them.  But our team is, of course —
our economic team, including Secretary Yellen and others, are monitoring
the situation.  It’s a good reminder, though, that the stock market
isn’t the only measure of the health of our econom- — of our economy. 
It doesn’t reflect how working and middle-class families are doing. 

As you all know from covering this, we’re in the midst of a K-shaped
recovery.  America’s workers are struggling to make ends meet, which is
why the President has introduced this urgent package to get immediate
relief to families.

All right, I’m going to go Nadia, and then we’ll be totally done because
everybody has to go. 

Okay, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Good to see you on a different podium.  I have two
questions: one about COVID and one about China.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    Regarding COVID, the President promised to increase supply to
states by 10 million doses, yet statistics shows that 47 percent of
Americans are hesitant to take the vaccine, despite that the President
and the Vice President took it publicly.  What is the administration
doing to convince Americans to take it to reach the herd immunity by,
say, 70 percent by the fall?

MS. PSAKI:  You’re absolutely right, Nadia, that this is one of the
biggest challenges we face.  And for anyone who tuned in to the briefing
that our health team led this morning, it was one of the first issues
that CDC Director Dr. Walensky raised.

And one of the things we’re doing is prioritizing — providing correct
information about it.  And the vaccines — and one — so I’ll take the
opportunity: The Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are safe and effective. 
That’s one of the things she said today.  They were tested in large
clinical trials to make sure they meet safety standards.  About 30
percent of U.S. participants in those trials were Hispanic, African
American, Asian, or Native American; about half were older adults. 

And so we want to provide clear data, as I just did, but also we want to
meet people where they are, communicate directly with communities of
color, people who have concerns, and use medical and health
professionals to do exactly that.

Okay, you had a China question, and then you really have to go, but go
ahead.

Q    And, second, many welcomed your rejoining of the WHO, yet some want
to push for a transparent investigation into the relationship between
China and WHO.  And also, yesterday, in her hearing in the Senate,
Governor Raimondo declined to blacklist Huawei technology in the U.S. 
Is this some kind of caving into China, or is it a nuanced way to deal
with China?

MS. PSAKI:  So, I think your — the second reference, I think, was to
Huawei, right?  And then —

Q    Right.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

So let me just convey clearly our position on this.  Let us be clear:
Telecommunications equipment made by untrusted vendors, including
Huawei, is a threat to the security of the U.S. and our allies.  We’ll
ensure that the American telecommunications network do not use equipment
from untrusted vendors, and we’ll work with allies to secure their
telecommunications networks and make investments to expand the
production of telecommunications equipment by trusted U.S. and allied
companies.

Again, we’ll take many more questions tomorrow.  Thank you all.  Have a
great rest of your day.

                              END                 1:24 P.M. EST
