---
date: '2024-10-02'
published_time: 2024-10-02 09:21:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/10/02/bills-signed-s-133-s-134-s-612-s-656-s-670-s-679-s-2685-s-3639-s-3640-s-3851-s-4698/
tags: legislation
title: "Bills Signed: S. 133, S. 134, S. 612, S. 656, S. 670, S. 679, S. 2685, S.\
  \ 3639, S. 3640, S. 3851, S.\_4698"
---
 
On Tuesday, October 1, 2024, the President signed into law:

S. 133, the “NAPA Reauthorization Act,” which extends and amends the
National Alzheimer’s Project and the Advisory Council on Alzheimer’s
Research, Care, and Services.

Thank you to Senators Collins, Warner, Capito, Markey, Moran, Murkowski,
and Stabenow, and Representatives Tonko, Chris Smith, and Waters for
their leadership.

S. 134, the “Alzheimer’s Accountability and Investment Act,” which
requires direct transmittal of the annual National Institutes of Health
budget estimate for the National Alzheimer’s Project.

Thank you to Senators Collins, Warner, Capito, Markey, Moran, Murkowski,
and Stabenow, and Representatives Chris Smith, Tonko, and Waters for
their leadership.

S. 612, the “Lake Tahoe Restoration Reauthorization Act,” which
reauthorizes the Lake Tahoe Restoration Act through September 30, 2034.

Thank you to Senators Cortez Masto, Rosen, Padilla, and Butler, and
Representatives Amodei, Susie Lee, Titus, Horsford, Garamendi, Kiley,
and Duarte for their leadership. Thank you to the late Senator Dianne
Feinstein for her leadership as well.

S. 656, the “Veteran Improvement Commercial Driver License Act of 2023,”
which revises the rules for VA approval of commercial driver education
programs for purposes of veterans education assistance.

Thank you to Senators Fischer and Padilla, and Representatives Edwards,
Pappas, Crane, and Spanberger for their leadership.

S. 670, the “IMPACTT Human Trafficking Act,” which establishes two
programs within U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Homeland
Security Investigations (HSI) to provide: outreach and training to HSI
employees who have been exposed to various forms of trauma in working
with victims of human trafficking; and services for trafficking victims.

Thank you to Senators Peters, Lankford, and Cornyn, and Representatives
Dave Joyce, Titus, Wagner, and Slotkin for their leadership.

S. 679, the “GAO Database Modernization Act of 2023,” which requires
Federal agencies to submit to the Government Accountability Office
reports on rules that the agency revokes, suspends, replaces, or amends,
or that are otherwise made ineffective.

Thank you to Senators Rick Scott and Peters, and Representative Bentz
for their leadership.

S. 794, the “Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Pilot Program
Act of 2023” or the “CTPAT Pilot Program Act of 2023,” which requires
the Department of Homeland Security to carry out a pilot program to
assess whether allowing certain third-party logistics providers to
participate in the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism would
enhance port security or otherwise help meet the goals of the program.

Thank you to Senators Cornyn, Carper, Lankford, and Hassan, and
Representatives Slotkin, Luttrell, Menendez Jr., and Miller-Meeks for
their leadership.

S. 2685, the “Reuse Excess Property Act,” which requires the General
Services Administration to make data and internal guidance on excess
personal property of Federal agencies publicly available.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Lankford, and Representatives McClain
and Porter for their leadership.

S. 3639, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 2075 West Stadium Boulevard in Ann Arbor, Michigan,
as the Robert Hayden Post Office.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Stabenow for their leadership.

S. 3640, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 155 South Main Street in Mount Clemens, Michigan, as
the Lieutenant Colonel Alexander Jefferson Post Office.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Stabenow for their leadership.

S. 3851, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 90 McCamly Street South in Battle Creek, Michigan, as
the Sojourner Truth Post Office.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Stabenow, Representative Huizenga, and
the entire Michigan delegation for their leadership.

S. 4698, the “DHS Joint Task Forces Reauthorization Act of 2024,” which
extends by two years, until September 30, 2026, the Department of
Homeland Security’s authority to establish and operate departmental
Joint Task Forces.

Thank you to Senators Peters and Lankford, and Representatives Higgins
and Suozzi for their leadership.

\###
