---
date: '2023-04-05'
published_time: 2023-04-05 17:22:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/05/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-on-the-investing-in-america-tour-in-vermont/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden on the \u201CInvesting\
  \ in America\u201D Tour in\_Vermont"
---
 
Burlington, VT

Thank you, Governor Scott, for your kind words and for your leadership
in connecting students to the careers of the future. You and Diana are
working hard for Vermont.   
  
Secretary Cardona, Senator Welch, Congresswoman Balint, Mayor
Weinberger, and all the other leaders here, thank you for joining us
today.   
  
Jane, in countless backstage areas, waiting rooms, and hold rooms, we
built a friendship. We have so much in common, and one of those things
is our careers as educators. Thank you to you and Bernie for your
steadfast support of our students and educators, today and every day.  
  
After passing historic legislation these last two years, the
Biden-Harris Administration is traveling the country on an “Investing in
America” tour to talk to people about what it all means for you, for
your families and your communities. From new manufacturing jobs, to
high-speed internet, to airport safety, to clean water, these new
investments are helping leaders in states, cities, and rural areas
improve people’s lives.   
  
I’m excited to be in Vermont, where, to date, Joe’s Administration has
already announced more than one billion dollars for roads, bridges,
roadway safety, and other major projects. And he’s invested millions of
dollars in building the green economy of the future here.   
  
For most people, a high school diploma alone isn’t enough to find a
great career. But they often don’t need a four-year degree to pursue
their passions either. And as technology brings changes to so many
industries, these kinds of learning paths are more important than
ever.  
  
Since he took office, my husband, President Biden, has been focused on
rebuilding the middle class. And today, millions of new jobs in
infrastructure, clean energy, and manufacturing are being created.   
  
These positions pay well. And many of them require associate degrees,
certificates, or other hands-on instruction, not four years of
college.   
  
Still, a lot of high school students don’t necessarily know how to get
from earning their diplomas to earning a living. They may not even know
what roles are out there.   
  
That’s why learning that’s connected to careers is the heart of the
Biden education pathway. It starts with free, high-quality universal
preschool and goes through high school. It provides access to two years
of affordable community college and connects to great jobs. And it helps
students pursue four-year degrees if they want to continue their
education.   
  
Just look around us right now. The students who are with us today are
learning what it takes to design airplanes and maintain electric
vehicles. They’re exploring jobs that didn’t even exist when many of us
were in school.  
  
With dual enrollment, shadowing programs, and paid internships, high
school students are getting experience and credentials that will give
them a jump start on college or a career. And with the state’s
investment in free community college, many of those students will have
an affordable path forward.  
  
I want to thank Community College of Vermont, Beta Technologies, and all
of the partners here today for investing in these opportunities. What
you are doing in this community is the future of our workforce: how we
grow our economy from the bottom up and the middle out.  
  
These aren’t red ideas or blue ideas. They’re American ideas. With
champions from both sides of the aisle, these kinds of programs are a
great place to find common ground.   
  
President Biden understands that. It’s why he’s making community
colleges and career-connected learning top priorities in his 2024
budget. We’re going to continue to be partners with you.  
  
In fact, just today, the Department of Labor is announcing an $80
million grant competition to support innovative training programs for
jobs being created by President Biden’s Investing in America efforts.  
  
Your governor and legislators have been leaders on this issue. So, I
want to thank this state for your leadership and ask you to keep going.
             
  
Keep innovating in how you help high schools and colleges work together
so that every young person has a pathway to the jobs that are critical
to rebuilding our infrastructure, propelling our clean energy future,
and revitalizing our manufacturing here at home.     
  
You know how to get this done, but you don’t have to do it alone. Joe
and his Administration are with you.   
  
Through the Biden education pathway, we can fundamentally transform what
it means to make a living and make a life here in America.  
  
Thank you.

\###
