---
date: '2023-04-26'
published_time: 2023-04-26 16:19:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/26/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-yoon-suk-yeol-of-the-republic-of-korea-in-joint-press-conference-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of\
  \ Korea in Joint Press\_Conference"
---
 
   
Rose Garden

1:43 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. President, it’s good to see you again, my
friend.  
  
We’ve met several times over the last year.  And each time, we have
deepened our nations’ partnership and for the benefit, I think, of both
our peoples.  And today is no exception.  
  
Our nations’ relationship is a — has a been a great success story.  The
alliance formed in war and has flourished in peace.  
  
Seemingly every day, we’ve launched new areas of cooperation on cyber,
strategic technologies, space, democracy, and all the areas that matter
most to our future.  
  
Because of its core, our alliance is about building a better future for
all of our people.  And there’s no better example than our economic
relationship and partnership, which has — is delivering incredible
benefits to both our nations.  
  
Through the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, we’re advancing economic
growth grounded in high standards for our workers, for the environment,
and for communities throughout the region.  
  
We’re standing together against economic influence being leveraged in
coercive ways.  
  
And since I took office, Korean companies have invested more than $100
billion in the United States, driving innovation and spurring good new
jobs for Americans and Korean workers.  
  
Our mutual defense treaty is ironclad, and that includes our commitment
to extended deterrence, and — and that includes the nuclear threat and —
the nuclear deterrent.  
  
They are particularly important in the face of the DPRK’s increased
threats and the blatant violation of <s>U.S.</s> \[U.N.\] sanctions.  
  
At the same time, we continue to seek serious and substantial diplomatic
breakthroughs with the DPRK to bolster stability on the Peninsula,
reduce the threat of proliferation, and address our humanitarian and
human rights concerns for the people of the DPRK.  
  
The Republic of Korea and the United States are working together,
including through our trilateral cooperation with Japan, to ensure the
future of the Indo-Pacific is free, is open, prosperous, and secure.  
  
I want to thank you again, Mr. President, for your political courage and
personal commitment to — to diplomacy with Japan.  
  
I’ve worked on these issues for a long time, and I can tell you it makes
an enormous difference when we all pull together.  
  
I also welcome and support your administration’s new Indo-Pacific
strategy.  It’s a strategy that affirms how aligned our two nations are
and our visions of the region, and how similar they are.  
  
Today, we discussed our work together on promoting peace and stability
in the Taiwan Straits, ensuring freedom of navigation in the South China
Sea and beyond.  
  
(Clears throat.)  Excuse me.  
  
I also affirmed our shared commitment — we, together, shared our
affirmed shared commitment to stand with the people of Ukraine against
Russia’s brutal assault on their freedom, their territorial integrity,
and democracy.  
  
And the Republic of Korea’s strong support for Ukraine is important,
because Russians’ flagrant — Russia’s flagrant violation of
international law matters to nations everywhere in the world, not just
in Europe.  
  
When I — when it comes right down to it, it’s about what you believe,
what you stand for, what kind of future you want for your children and
grandchildren.  
  
And right now, I believe the world is at an inflection point.  
  
The choices we make today, I believe, are going to determine the
direction of our world and the future of our kids for decades to come.  
  
That’s why this partnership is so important, Mr. President — because we
share the same values, the same vision.  
  
And I greatly appreciate, Mr. President, that the Republic of Korea
co-chaired the second Summit on Democracies last month and that you will
host the third Summit on — for Democracies.  
  
We both understand that our democracies and our people are our greatest
sources of strength.  And working together, they make our nations
stronger and more effective.  
  
From tracking the climate crisis and strengthening our effort to fight
it, and strengthening global health, no two countries are better suited
to meet the challenges ahead than the Republic of Korea and the United
States.  
  
I want to thank you again, Mr. President, for your friendship, your
partnership, and all you’ve done to help build a future of shared
strength and success.  
  
The floor is yours, Mr. President.  
  
PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  President Biden, thank you for your
special and warm hospitality.  I am very pleased to be making a state
visit to the United States during this meaningful year that marks the
70th anniversary of the ROK-U.S. Alliance.  
  
Our two countries have overcome challenges and crises during the past 70
years based on the deep roots of freedom and democracy, building a value
alliance that is strong, resilient, and sustainable.  
  
We are now being threatened by an unprecedented polycrisis.  The
ROK-U.S. Alliance is jointly overcoming this crisis also coming from
North Korea as a righteous alliance that contributes to world peace and
prosperity.  
  
We will further expand the depth and denotation of the ROK-U.S. global
comprehensive strategic partnership and march forward to the future.  
  
Today, President Biden and myself engaged in constructive dialogue to
discuss ways to materialize this shared vision.  The outcome of our
dialogue is well outlined in the joint statement adopted today.  
  
The first key outcome is extended deterrence.  Sustainable peace on the
Korean Peninsula does not happen automatically.  Our two leaders have
decided to significantly strengthen extended deterrence of our two
countries against North Korea’s nuclear and missile threats so that we
can achieve peace through the superiority of overwhelming forces and not
a false peace based on the goodwill of the other side.  
  
Such a will and commitment is captured in the Washington Declaration. 
President Biden has reaffirmed his ironclad commitment to extended
deterrence towards the Republic of Korea.   
  
Our two countries have agreed to immediate bilateral presidential
consultations in the event of North Korea’s nuclear attack and promised
to respond swiftly, overwhelmingly, and decisively using the full force
of the alliance including the United States’ nuclear weapons.   
  
Our two countries have agreed to establish a Nuclear Consultative Group
to map out a specific plan to operate the new extended deterrence
system.   
  
Now our two countries will share information on nuclear and strategic
weapon operations plans in response to North Korea’s provocations and
have regular consultations on ways to plan and execute joint operations
that combine Korea’s state-of-the-art conventional forces with the
U.S.’s nuclear capabilities, the results of which will be reported to
the leaders of our two countries on a regular basis.   
  
In addition, our two countries have agreed to further advance tabletop
exercises against a potential nuclear crisis.  
  
In addition, deployment of the United States’ strategic assets to the
Korean Peninsula will be made constantly and routinely.   
  
President Biden and I will continue to cooperate to strengthen extended
deterrence between our two countries based on our historical and
concrete agreement reached during our summit.  
  
Second, our two leaders have agreed to further strengthen the strategic
partnership in economic security, which is directly related to the
national economies of our two countries.   
  
President Biden and I welcomed the expansion of our firms’ bilateral
mutual investment and advanced technology including semiconductors,
electric vehicles, and batteries.  
  
President Biden has said that no special support and considerations will
be spared for Korean companies’ investment and business activities in
particular.  
  
We have agreed to consult and coordinate closely so that the U.S.
Inflation Reduction Act and the CHIPS and Science Act can further
strengthen supply chain cooperations between the two countries in
advanced technology.   
  
Furthermore, we plan on ramping up partnerships in cutting-edge
technology.  
  
We have agreed to establish a dialogue for next-generation emerging and
core technology between the U.S. National Security Council and the Korea
Office of National Security, pertaining to chips, batteries,
biotechnology, quantum science, and other cutting-edge technologies,
with the aim of promoting joint R&D and experts exchange.  
  
We have also adopted a separate joint statement for strengthening
cooperation in the rapidly emerging quantum science and technology
domain.   
  
President Biden and I have also agreed to get the ball rolling on
discussions about expanding our alliance into cyber and space by
applying the Mutual Defense Treaty in cyberspace and space as well.  
  
We have also agreed that the Strategic Cybersecurity Cooperation
Framework adopted this time around will serve as the foundation on which
we address cyber threats together and boost cooperation and information
sharing, collection, and analysis.   
  
Space is another area that shows great promise for cooperation between
our two countries.  During my time here, I was able to visit the NASA
Goddard Space Center.  President Biden welcomed the establishment of
KASA, and we have agreed to promote cooperation between KASA and NASA.  
  
We have also agreed to accelerate discussions on reaching a reciprocal
defense procurement agreement, which is equivalent to an FTA in terms of
national defense.   
  
Meanwhile, President Biden and I have agreed to promote exchange between
the future generations of our two countries.  To this end, we have
launched the U.S.-ROK special exchange initiative for youths.  
  
In celebration of the 70th anniversary of the ROK-U.S. Alliance this
year, our two countries plan to invest a total of $60 million to support
exchanges between 2,023 youths majoring in STEM, humanities, and social
sciences.  And this also includes the largest Fulbright program to date,
which will provide scholarships for 200 students.  
  
Last but not least, President Biden and I have agreed that South Korea
and the United States, as key partners in achieving stability and
building peace in the Indo-Pacific region, will put our heads together
as we implement our Indo-Pacific strategies to strengthen our
cooperation in addressing regional and global challenges.  
  
In particular, President Biden expressed strong support for efforts made
by the Korean government to normalize Korea-Japan relations, and we have
agreed to continue our efforts in strengthening Korea-U.S.-Japan
trilateral cooperation.  
  
Furthermore, we reaffirmed that the use of force to take the lives of
innocent people — an example of which would be Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine — can in no circumstances whatsoever be justified.   
  
In that sense, we agreed to continue our cooperation and efforts
alongside the international community to support Ukraine.

During this meeting, we also discussed plans through which our two
countries can take a leadership role in addressing global challenges,
such as climate change, international development, and energy and food
security.  
  
I am delighted that through today’s meeting, we’ve opened up a new
chapter for the next 70 years of the ROK-U.S. Alliance.   
  
I hope President Biden and I, with the support of people in our two
countries, can fully deliver on the blueprint that we have mapped out
today with the aim of our — founded in the reaffirmation of the value of
freedom and our universal values.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  
  
Now we’re going to take some questions.  The first question is from
Courtney of the Los Angeles Times.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Your top economic priority has been to
build up U.S. domestic manufacturing in competition with China.  But
your rules again- — against expanding chip manufacturing in China is
hurting South Korean companies that rely heavily on Beijing.  Are you
damaging a key ally in the competition with China to help your domestic
politics ahead of the election?  
  
And one for President Yoon: There have been concerns since last year
that North Korea will soon be conducting its seventh nuclear test amid
growing domestic support in your country for your own nuclear weapons. 
Meanwhile, Russia has suggested it could send its latest weapons to
North Korea if South Korea sends lethal aid to Ukraine.  How do you seek
to manage the North Korea risk amid obligations to Ukraine and NATO?  
  
Thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me respond to your question first.  
  
My desire to increase U.S. manufacturing and jobs in America is not
about China.  I’m not concerned about China.   
  
Remember, America invented the semiconductor.  We invented it.  We used
to have 40 percent of the market.  And we decided that what we’re going
to do over the past — I don’t know how many decades — we decided that it
was going to be cheaper to export jobs and import product.  And along
came the pandemic.  And the pandemic taught us that — we used to have,
as I said, 40 percent of the market just some years ago.  Now it’s down
to 10 percent.  And again, we invented the super- —  
  
We got — so I decided to go out and see what we could do to increase our
hold on the market once again.  And so what I did was I went around the
country.  As well as in addition to passing the CHIPS and Science Act,
I, in fact, visited countries around the world.  And two significant
South Korean companies decided they were going to invest billions of
dollars in chip manufacturing in the United States.   
  
It wasn’t designed to hurt China.  It was designed to — so we didn’t
have to worry about whether or not we had access to semiconductors.  For
example, during the pandemic, what happened was all of a sudden
everybody started to learn the phrase “supply chain.”  A year ago, no
one knew what the hell anybody was talking about when you said “supply
chain.”  But now they all know.  And we lost access to these — these
semiconductors and which new automobiles in the United States need
30,000 of them just to build a new automobile.  And we didn’t have
them.   
  
So we started to invest here.  And what happened was, when we encouraged
the investment through the CHIPS and Science Act — and now we have
enormous investment in the United States — well over $200 tril- —
billion in long-term investment in semiconductors.  And we’re rebuilding
the economy of the United States with those semiconductors.  It’s not
designed to hurt China.   
  
The only thing I did say, with regard to China: There are certain
extremely sophisticated semiconductors that we have built that are
useful for nuclear and/or other weapons systems.  Those we are not
selling.  We’re not exporting them to China or anyone else.   
  
And so that’s the context in which this has all occurred.  In the
meantime, we’re creating thousands of jobs and bringing back a sense of
pride and dignity to so many towns in the country where, all of a
sudden, over the last three decades, we found out that factory that
hired — had 600 people shut down.  The soul of that community was
lost.   
  
And so I made sure, when the semiconductors were coming back, that they
were not just going to go to the coast, they’d be all over the
country.   
  
And so we have a significant “field of dreams” in — outside of — in
Ohio, outside of Columbus.  We’re in Texas.  We’re in Arizona.  Anyway —
they’re all over the country.   
  
So, it’s not viewed to hurt anyone else.  We are providing access to
those semiconductors.  We’re not — we’re a supply chain you can count
on.   
  
But we are not — we are not going to sit back and be in a position where
we don’t have access to those semiconductors.  We are not going to be a
place where we’re the end of that line.  We — we’re the beginning of
it.  
  
And it’s generating significant economic growth in America and not
hurting anybody.   
  
And, by the way, it’s creating jobs in — in South Korea.  It’s creating
jobs in South Korea — and not just with SK, but — anyway — with Samsung
and other — other industries.   
  
So, I think it’s a win-win.   
  
PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  With regard to your question, let me
provide my answer.  Korea and the U.S., based on its Washington
Declaration, our two countries have agreed to strengthen extended
deterrence, and the implementation level is different from the past.   
  
First of all, we have an NCG — Nuclear Consultative Group — that has
been launched that will implement discussions and actions.  And we will
hold regular meetings and consultations under NCG.  We will share
information on mutual nuclear assets and intelligence, and we will
jointly plan responses and also jointly plan exercises and drills and
implementation plans.  So, all of these will be strengthened and
specified under the Nuclear Consultative Group.   
  
We want to customize our response against North Korea’s nuclear threat
based on extended deterrence.  And in the process of achieving this
goal, any concerns that Koreans may have against North Korean nuclear
weapons will be relieved, I believe.  
  
If nuclear weapons are used, our two countries will strengthen our
response in a swift manner.   
  
Any further questions to me?  Please.   
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  Reporter Won Junghee from MBN.  I have two
questions for you.  With regard to extended deterrence, the NCG that has
been formed, how will Korea function under NCG?  Any kind of
nuclear-equipped nuclear assets will be in function?  
  
And to President Biden: Korea is to maintain the NPT and it is to
strengthen extended deterrence, correct?  So, based on your view, do you
think this is enough to guard Korea against the North Korean nuclear
threat?  
  
Thank you very much.   
  
PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  Well, let me address your question
about the activities of the NCG.  We are going to be sharing
information, and we are going to be acting jointly.  That is the key.   
  
I can’t talk to the specifics right now about what type of information
and what type of specific activities we will be conducting.   
  
But, however, under the nuclear umbrella, our extended deterrence was a
lot lower.  So, right now it’s an unprecedented expansion and
strengthening of the extended deterrence strategy under the Washington
Declaration, which will create the NCG.  
  
The implementation and the response at this level has never thus far
been this strong.  So, this is a new level of extended deterrence much
stronger; that, I can say with confidence.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  The response that I would give you is that the
extended deterrence means that we are having more consultation with
whatever action is to be contemplated or taken.  And we made it really
very, very clear.   
  
Any — the ROK has repeatedly formed its — confirmed its commitment to —
to the nonproliferation treaty.  And the Washington Declaration is a
prudent step to reinforce extended deterrence and respond to advancing
DPRK nuclear threat.  
  
Look, a nuclear attack by North Korea against the United States or its
allies or partisans — partners — is unacceptable and will result in the
end of whatever regime, were it to take such an action.   
  
And it’s about strengthening deterrence in response to the DPRK’s
escalatory behavior and to deal in complete consultation.   
  
And, you know, the idea that I have absolute authority as
Commander-in-Chief and the sole authority to use a nuclear weapon.  But,
you know, what the declaration means is that we’re going make every
effort to consult with our allies when it’s appropriate if any actions
are so called for.  
  
Certainly, we’ve talked about this and some other things today.  But the
bottom line here is: There’s even closer cooperation, closer
consultation.  And — and we’re not going to be stationing nuclear
weapons on — on the Peninsula, but we will have visits to — port visits
of nuclear submarines and things like that.  We are not walking away
from that.  
  
My turn to ask a question?  I think the next question is Mary Bruce,
ABC.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President. You recently launched your reelection
campaign.  You’ve said questions about your age are “legitimate.”  And
your response is always “Just watch me.”  But the country is watching,
and recent polling shows that 70 percent of Americans, including a
majority of Democrats, believe you shouldn’t run again.  What do you say
to them?  What do you say to those Americans who are watching and aren’t
convinced?  
  
You’ve said you can beat Trump again.  Do you think you’re the only
one?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I may not be the only one, but I know him well.  And I
know the danger he presents to our democracy.  And we’ve been down this
road before.   
  
And with regard to — to age, you know, and — and polling data, I noticed
the polling data I keep hearing about is that I’m between 42 and 46
percent favorable rating, et cetera.  And — but everybody running for
reelection in this time has been in the same position.  There’s nothing
new about that.  You’re making it sound like “Biden is really
underwater.”  And — number one.  
  
Number two, when the same polling data asks whether they think what kind
of job I’ve done, it gets overwhelmingly positive results — from 58
percent thinking everything from the CHIPS Act and the — all the things
we’ve done.  
  
You know, we’ve created — like I said, we’ve created 12 million new
jobs.  We’ve created 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  We have economic
growth moving.   
  
We’re in a situation where the climate — we’ve invested more money and
more help in dealing with the climate crisis than any nation in the
world.  And so, things — things are moving.   
  
And the reason I’m running again is there’s a job to finish.   
  
The other thing is that — look, you know, think about what I inherited
when I got elected.  I inherited a nation in overwhelming debt at the
time, number one — in the hole for the four years that he was
President.  
  
I inherited a nation that had a serious lo- — loss of credibility around
the world as “America First” and —  
  
You know, the first meeting I attended — the G7 — I said, “American is
back.”  And one of the world leaders looked and said, “For how long? 
For how long?”   
  
There was a great concern about the United States being able to lead the
free world.  And we’re doing that again.   
  
And those same polls you look at — you take a look at the polls that are
saying whether I pulled together NATO and the European Union, as well as
the Asian partners.  I think we have.  But there’s more to do.   
  
And with regard to age, I can’t even say — if I guess how old I am, I
can’t even say the number.  It doesn’t — it doesn’t register with me.   
  
And — but the only thing I can say is that one of the things that people
are going to find out — they’re going to see a race, and they’re going
to judge whether or not I have it or don’t have it.  I respect them
taking a hard look at it.  I’d take a hard look at it as well.  I took a
hard look at it before I decided to run.  
  
And I feel good.  I feel excited about the prospects.  And I think we’re
on the verge of really turning the corner in a way we haven’t in a long
time.   
  
I know you’re tired of hearing me say we’re at an inflection point, but
we really are.  What happens in the next two, three, four years is going
to determine what the next three or four decades look like.  And I have
never been more optimistic in my life about the possibilities of the
United States.   
  
Q    To be clear, though, you just said, “I know him well.”  Did Donald
Trump’s decision to run affect yours?  Would you be running if he
wasn’t?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Yeah, I think I still would be running if he wasn’t. 
I — I do know him well.  He’s not hard to know, as you know.  You know
him well, too.   
  
And the question is whether or not — look, there’s just — there’s more
to finish the job.  We have an opportunity to put ourselves in a
position where we are economically and politically secure for a long
time.   
  
Look, there — we continue to have — and I know you don’t like me —
hearing me saying it.  There’s still a contest between autocracies and
democracies, and we’re the leading democracy in the world.  And it’s
something I know a fair amount about.  It’s something I care about and
something that I have found a willingness of an awful lot of our allies
and friends to follow.  
  
So, I think that, you know, we have to finish the job and nail it
down.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
INTERPRETER:  You need to repeat the question; the mic was not used.  We
cannot interpret.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  They need to repeat the question.   
  
Q    Mr. President, (inaudible).  
  
INTERPRETER:  Please use the microphone.  We cannot provide
interpretation if you do not use the microphone.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  You need the microphone.   
  
Q    My apologies.  Thank you.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Inaudible) stealing the microphone.  
  
Q    Did the recent leaks revealing that the U.S. was spying on South
Korea come up at all in your discussions?  And did President Biden
provide you any assurances?  
  
PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  With regard to that, we are
communicating between our two countries, and we are sharing necessary
information.   
  
I believe that investigation is underway in the United States, so
various and complex variables are always in play.  We need time to wait
for the investigation results by the United States.  And we plan to
continue to communicate on the matter.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This will be the last question.  
  
Q    (As interpreted.)  I’m from Financial News.  My name is Kim
Hakjae.  My question goes to both of you.  My first one goes to
President Yoon first.   
  
During the state visit, you’ve said that the alliance has strengthened
to cutting-edge industries, to cutting-edge science.  And also
investments in businesses have been some of the outcomes.  These are
some positives.  However, to each individual of the public, how will
this have a long-term impact?  What will be the direct benefits felt?

And to President Biden: In celebration of the 70th anniversary of the
ROK-U.S. Alliance, I know that the atmosphere is really positive. 
However, Korean businesses, especially because of the CHIPS Act and the
IRA, are on edge.

What message can you send to the Korean companies to really make sure
and tell them that this is not something to worry about?

PRESIDENT YOON:  (As interpreted.)  The technology cooperation between
the ROK and the U.S., and also in partnerships in cutting-edge
industries, in science and technology, was your first question.  So,
that is about really strengthening the competitiveness of our two
countries.  And it will enhance the productivity and to create added
value — high added value.  These are the types of products that are
going to be produced. 

And from the perspective of the public, for each individual: In that
process, they will reap the benefits wide and comprehensive that will
stem from these industries and investments in these industries — for
example, from job creation, as well. 

And above all, the future generations will be given the determination
and will to take on new challenges and embrace opportunities in our
industry so that they can continue to prosper and grow and become more
abundant in the future.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  The reassurance is that it’s overwhelmingly in our
interests for Korea to do well.  No, it is.  It’s very much in America’s
interest that Korea do well in the Pacific — very well — because they
are one of our most valued partners.   
  
And so I think the combination of growing democracies and the democratic
institutions, as well as their economies, is overwhelmingly in the
benefit of the United States, whether it is in South Korea or it’s in
Australia, in the deep South Pacific. 

And so, I think that there’s a reason — overwhelming reason.   
  
Plus, in addition to that, we’re increasing the number of student
exchanges, access to more information between our folks, educating our
people, as well as we’re going to be cooperating on everything from
space to technology to medicine.  And so, there’s so many opportunities
we have. 

And I don’t think we — at least we don’t — and I don’t think, so far,
most of the South Korean companies believe that there’s somehow a — a
U.S. effort to slow them down, prevent their growth, or anything like
that.  We’d like to see them grow.  And — and I mean that sincerely. 

It’s overwhelmingly in the U.S. interest for South Korea to do very well
economically.  It’s overwhelmingly in our interest because it has —

And lastly, you know, I think we underestimate the example that South
Korea sets.  Here you have a nation that is significant but is not a
nation of 2-, 3-, 400,000 people, making the kind of changes it’s
making.   
  
It gives other smaller nations hope to believe that if they have
democratic institutions and commitment and in- — and impact on
industries that in fact are the cutting-edge industries — new sciences
and technology, including AI and other things — that there’s a future
for them.  And I think that’s what this is about. 

And so we — we view South Korea’s economic growth as a benefit to the
United States, as well as freedom around the world. 

Thank you all so very much.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)

Q    (Inaudible) debt limit vote?  Are you going to (inaudible)
McCarthy?

Q    Republicans say you’re refusing to negotiate on the debt limit. 
They’re saying you’re missing in action.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  They haven’t figured out the debt limit yet.

Q    Are you missing in action?

Q    Will negotiate with them on the debt limit?

Q    Will you meet with McCarthy?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m happy to meet with McCarthy, but not on whether or
not the debt limit gets extended.  That’s not negotiable.   
  
I notice they quote Reagan and they quote — they quote Reagan all the
time and they quote Trump, both of which said — it says — I’m
paraphrasing — it would be an absolute crime to not extend the debt
limit.

2:19 P.M. EDT  
