---
date: '2023-04-20'
modified_time: 2023-04-20 18:47:08-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-20 18:47:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/20/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-gustavo-petro-of-colombia-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Gustavo Petro of Colombia Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

2:43 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. President, welcome.  It’s great to see you
here in the Oval Office and in Washington.   
  
And, by the way, Happy Birthday.   
  
PRESIDENT PETRO:  (Laughs.)  *Gracias.  Muy amable*.    
  
(As interpreted.)  It was yesterday.  The 19th of April is a very
important date for Colombia, for Latin America, and for me as well.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, it’s very difficult turning 40 years of age. 
(Laughter.)   
  
PRESIDENT PETRO:  (As interpreted.)  They say that, in this generation,
being 63 is like being 40 in the old generation.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I fully subscribe to that.   
  
Mr. President, I’ve long believed, as you probably know, that Colombia
is the key to the hemisphere — and I mean that sincerely — the
keystone.  And I think we have an opportunity, if we work at it hard
enough, to have a Western Hemisphere that is united, equal, democratic,
and — and — and — and economically prosperous.  
  
Together, Colombia and the United States are leading an effort to deal
with climate change and to — I’ve been working for a long time, and we
make — we’re going to make a $500 million commitment to deal with
preserving the Amazon.  
  
And working through the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity,
we’re working to grow our economies from the bottom up and the middle
out, not from the top down.  
  
And I know we share one view very passionately: that it’s inherent —
their inherent dignity and the rights of individual workers.  
  
We’re also working together to counter narcotics trafficking and address
the historic levels of migration in our hemisphere, especially through
the Darién Gap.  
  
And, Mr. President, I want to thank you for the hospitality and support
Colombia continues to show to Venezuelan refugees.  It’s a humanitarian
and a generous thing for you — that you’re doing.  
  
And as I know you know, we’re working closely with regional partners to
help Colombia meet this challenge, which is consequential and — and
costly.  
  
And I really want to thank you for your outspoken and strong commitment
to peace and human rights across the Americas.  You speak to it all the
time.  
  
And as we begin the next century of our partnership, I believe we can do
even more to deepen and develop cooperation.  So I want to thank you
again for taking the time to be here, and I look forward to our
conversations.  
  
PRESIDENT PETRO:  *Gracias.*

(As interpreted.)  The Americas has, across all the countries, two
common elements in its history.   
  
Unlike other parts of the world, our countries grew ever since their
founding under the concepts of democracy and freedom.  
  
The concept of democracy and freedom is not etched in stone; rather, it
is a flow.  It flows along, and it evolves with history and becomes ever
more profound.  
  
So we are going down the same river, a river that leads us to ever
greater democracy and ever greater freedom.

We also share in common that in this hemisphere there’s almost never
been war between the nations, between the peoples.  We are well
accustomed to peace and not war.  Therefore, democracy, freedom, and
peace constitute our common agenda.  
  
And if we look at the economy, today, humankind and the whole Earth
calls for an in-depth thoroughgoing economic change.  
  
We need to move from a fossil fuel sort of capital, the coveting of
fossil fuel — which has evolved like a hurricane that is increasingly
threatening our existence — to an economy that does not use coal, oil,
or gas.  
  
If we put together these pillars of political and economic — on the
political side, democracy, freedom, and peace; and on the economic side,
building decarbonized economies — then I think we can have a common
destiny whereby this region of the Americas can become a beacon for all
humankind.  
  
I believe that humankind in the Americas may well have the greatest
potential for democracy and freedom in the Americas, as well as the
greatest potential for green energies — clean energies.   
  
So we have a common agenda and a lot of work to do.  
  
Thank you so much for having received me in your house.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I couldn’t agree with you more.  
  
By the way, this morning I had a teleconference with 10 other nations in
preparation for the next COP meeting.  And I honestly believe we’re
making some real progress moving toward a carbon-free environment.  
  
And one of the things we may talk about is how we can be of assistance
in coming through the Panama Canal to Colombia for your electric needs. 
But that’s for a longer discussion.   
  
Thank you all.   
  
2:53 P.M. EDT
