---
date: '2023-04-03'
published_time: 2023-04-03 13:17:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/03/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-on-the-investing-in-america-tour-in-colorado/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden on the \u201CInvesting\
  \ in America\u201D Tour in\_Colorado"
---
 
Colorado State Capitol | Denver, CO

Thank you, Governor Polis, for your kind words and for your leadership.
You and Marlon are working tirelessly for the people you serve. It’s my
honor to be back in Colorado with you today.   
  
I’d also like to thank Lieutenant Governor Primavera for joining us
today. And I’m grateful to all the leaders here for taking the time to
be with us and for your very warm welcome.   
  
Yesterday, I attended the NCAA Women’s Basketball Championship in Dallas
and want to congratulate both teams on a great season.   
  
Throughout the years, I’ve had the opportunity to visit your state many
times, often at the invitation of Mark Udall and his wife, Maggie, who
have been such great friends to us. And I’ve had the opportunity to see
incredible programs at your community colleges.   
  
After passing historic legislation these last two years, the
Biden-Harris Administration is traveling the country on an “Investing in
America” tour to talk to people about what it all means for you, for
your families and your communities. From new manufacturing jobs, to
high-speed internet, to better airport safety, to clean water, these new
investments are helping leaders in states, cities, and rural areas
improve people’s lives.   
  
I’m starting my travel in Denver, where, to date, Joe’s Administration
has already announced more than one billion dollars for roads, bridges,
roadway safety, and major projects in Colorado. And he’s invested
hundreds of millions of dollars in clean energy efforts here. After
this, I’m heading to Michigan. And, later this week I will travel to
Maine and Vermont. I’ll be focusing on community colleges and jobs. We
need to work together to help our students get the education and
training they need for the careers they want.    
  
To do that, I’d like to open with a question: Why do we often equate
success with just a handful of educational pathways?   
  
For most people, a high school diploma alone isn’t enough to find a
great career. But they often don’t need a four-year degree to pursue
their passions either. And as technology changes so many industries,
these kinds of learning paths are more important than ever.  
  
Now, community colleges have always been about jobs. You know that
because many of you have worked to build great community colleges
throughout Colorado. So maybe you’re wondering: Jill, what’s new here?  
  
Well, we’ve added something else to the equation: President Biden and
his administration are creating millions of jobs in infrastructure,
clean energy, and manufacturing.   
  
These positions pay well. And many of them require associate degrees,
certificates, Registered Apprenticeships, or other hands-on instruction,
not four years of college.   
  
Still, a lot of high school students don’t necessarily know how to get
from earning their diplomas to earning a living. They may not even know
what roles are out there.   
  
That’s why learning that’s connected to careers is the heart of the
Biden Education Pathway. Our vision starts with free, high-quality
universal preschool and goes through high school. It provides access to
two years of affordable community college and connects to great jobs.
And it opens up pathways to a four-year degree, should a student choose
to continue their education.  
  
It’s the future of our workforce: how we grow our economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.  
  
These aren’t red ideas or blue ideas. They’re American ideas.   
  
You know that. It’s why you’ve been investing in these pathways for
years, and why Governor Polis and bipartisan leaders of the General
Assembly are coming together to propose a new free job training program.
With your leadership, communities across the state will be able to find
the critical workers they need for their schools, firehouses, and
construction sites.  
  
With champions from both sides of the aisle, these kinds of programs are
a great place to find common ground.   
  
That’s why President Biden is making community colleges and
career-connected learning top priorities in his 2024 budget. We’re going
to continue to be partners with you.   
  
This state is already a model for the country. And today, I want to
thank you for that leadership and ask you to keep going.  
  
Keep innovating in how you help high schools and colleges work together
so that every young person in your city can take advantage of dual
enrollment options and get a jump start on a degree. Continue working
with local businesses and unions to create hands-on learning experiences
like Registered Apprenticeships. Invest in free job training
opportunities like the one that’s on the table right now!    
  
You know how to get this done, but you don’t have to do it alone. Joe
and his Administration are with you.   
  
Through the Biden Education Pathway, we can fundamentally transform what
it means to make a living and make a life here in America.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Now, I’m excited to hear more from legislators and leaders who are
focused on these issues in Colorado.

\###
