---
date: '2023-04-01'
modified_time: 2023-04-01 22:57:17-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-01 22:57:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-meeting-with-private-sector-and-philanthropic-leaders-on-digital-inclusion-in-africa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Meeting with Private Sector and Philanthropic\
  \ Leaders on Digital Inclusion in\_Africa"
---
 
*Intercontinental Lusaka  
*Lusaka, Zambia**

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, good afternoon, everyone.  And again, thank
you all, these extraordinary global leaders, for coming together around
this table for a very important discussion and for combining our
resources, both intellectual, mental, and — and in terms of the work
that we each do.  I’m very much looking forward to the next two hours
spent together and all the work we will do going forward.  
  
As I began this week-long trip on the continent, I mentioned in a
speech, at the very beginning of the trip in Ghana, that the United
States is committed to strengthening our partnerships across the
continent of Africa with governments, with the private sector, and civil
society, including all of you at this table.  
  
On this trip, I have worked with African partners, as well as partners
in the United States and around the world, to deliver significant
investments on this continent.  
  
Yesterday, here in Lusaka, I announced more than $7 billion in private
sector commitments that will support climate resilience, adaptation, and
mitigation.  
  
In Ghana, earlier this week, I announced $1 billion in public and
private sector investments to support the empowerment of African women,
including a new Women in the Digital Economy Fund, with four areas of
main focus, which are: access, affordability, digital literacy, and
gender <s>inequality</s> \[equality\].  
  
I met with tech entrepreneurs in Dar es Salaam and women business owners
and young creatives in Ghana to understand how we can better support
their ideas and innovations.   
  
And in Zambia this morning, I met with farmers using climate-smart
agriculture — agri-tech, some of us call it — in extraordinary ways.  
  
In my meetings with the presidents of Ghana and Tanzania and here in
Zambia, we have launched new initiatives to strengthen our business
ties.  We have also advanced our work to support democracy and good
governance on the continent, which will invariably create greater
stability, predictability, the type that businesses require and need to
invest.   
  
In each of these engagements, it has been clear there is a strong desire
from leaders on this continent, from young entrepreneurs on this
continent, to increase investments on this continent.  
  
My visit has convinced me more than ever that we must all, around the
globe, appreciate and understand the importance of investing in African
ingenuity and creativity, the type I have seen during the course of this
trip, the type that many of you at this table know and lead.  And to do
so, I am convinced we’ll continue to unlock the incredible economic
growth and opportunities that we have seen thus far to the benefit of
the entire world.  
  
To help achieve these goals, I believe in the strength of public-private
partnerships.  And, in fact, this approach that we have taken and the
occasion for this meeting, I probably more accurately would call it a
private-public partnership — in the investments in the private sector,
facilitated and coordinated with the public sector and what that synergy
has done — we’ve seen it before — and can do to maximize the human
capacity, the innovation that is occurring here and in other examples
around the world.  
  
And these partnerships in particular that are private-public,
public-private combine the expertise and the experience of the private
sector with the reach and capacity of the public sector.  By working
together, I have seen and believe, going forward, we can unleash growth
and opportunity that far exceeds what either the private or the public
sector would do on its own.  
  
Throughout my career as attorney general of California, as a United
States senator, and now as Vice President of the United States, I have
engaged the private sector to help identify the work that we can do to
the benefit of our shared interests and mutual goals.  
  
For example, I convened CEOs in Tokyo and Singapore during the course of
the last two years to discuss collaboration on U.S. manufacturing and to
strengthen global supply chains.   
  
I launched an innovative public-private partnership to help address the
root causes of irregular migration from northern Central America to the
United States.  This initiative, with many of the partners who are at
this table, has generated more than $4.2 billion in private sector
commitments in the countries of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador. 
It has created jobs.  It has connected thus far over 4 million people to
the Internet and brought more than 1 million people thus far into the
formal financial system.  
  
So we know this approach works.  We know this approach works.  
  
So now, on my final day on the continent — for now — I have convened
this group of business and philanthropic leaders in Lusaka to discuss
how we can continue to invest and pursue long-term economic growth
together.   
  
Many of you at this table, and the folks that you work with, have a
history of doing work on this continent.  And we will benefit, I
strongly believe, from hearing from you and from lessons learned.  
  
There are many areas of focus of this public-private partnership, but
there are some in particular that I believe have been most effective and
are the main focus of my trip this time.  And one of them is the issue
of digital inclusion.  
  
So when we think about where we are in terms of 21st century economies,
digital services are essential to 21st century economies.  Digital
technologies facilitate opportunities across society and, frankly, I
believe can be great equalizers in terms of giving those who have access
equal opportunity and availability to information, to education, to
networks in a way that improves and empowers themselves, their families,
their community, and all of society benefits.  
  
And, of course, when we talk about digital access, we are talking about
everything from financial inclusion to economic opportunities, all of
which obviously drive growth and innovation.  Africa’s digital economy
is large and growing.  
  
Within the next two years, for example, the forecast is that one in six
of the world’s Internet users will be right here on this continent.  One
in six.   
  
Over the last decade, Africa has continued growth in its digital
infrastructure.  Examples include innovative mobile phone payment
systems in Kenya, fintech in Nigeria, and the delivery of health
supplies by a drone in Ghana that has been replicated in the United
States.   
  
All to say, there are places on the continent of Africa that are leading
the world in digital solutions.  Yet, in other places on the continent,
we see that there is a lag and that there are many who lag behind.  And
we must be clear about the challenges presented to close these gaps and
then commit to take action, because solutions are within sight and
within reach.  
  
So to address this, last December, at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit,
President Joe Biden launched the Digital Transformation with Africa
Initiative.  It is a government initiative, so it has an acronym, and it
is DTA.  (Laughs.)  So you will see it referred to often as DTA.  But
the President is very excited about this initiative, as am I.  And it is
part of a broader initiative and approach that is named the Partnership
for Global Infrastructure and Investment, or PGII.  
  
And President Biden, through these initiatives, has pledged to work with
the United States Congress to invest $350 million and to facilitate
nearly half a billion dollars in development financing to make sure that
people across the continent can participate in the digital and global
economy.  
  
As a next step, today, I’m issuing a call to action to the private
sector and the philanthropic community to support these initiatives and
work alongside us to achieve the goals of DTA and PGII.  More
specifically, I call on the private sector to explore opportunities to
make direct investments and social impact commitments in areas such as
increasing access to mobile banking, financing, and insurance,
especially for women; digitizing small businesses to help them become
part of the formal economy; providing tools, skills, and training to
promote digital literacy; and increasing the use and development of
apps.  
  
On that last point, I’d ask you to just imagine your own smartphone and
the apps that it contains, and what those apps then give you in terms of
access to a myriad of information and systems that help you go about
your daily life.   
  
I mentioned that, earlier today, I was visiting a sm- — a farm.  And the
fellow who runs the operation showed me an app on his phone that,
through the camera on his phom \[sic\], if he — phone — if he takes a
photograph of a leaf of, let’s say, the lettuce he is growing, the app
will then, through AI, diagnose the condition of the leaf: Does it need
more or less sun, more or less water?  
  
So this last point is such a big one in terms of what — when people are
connected to the Internet, when they are digitally connected, what it
does in terms of opening up information sources and opportunities and
access that are unimaginable without it.  
  
So this is the work that we are doing together.  And in each of these
areas, I believe it is particularly important, again, that we focus on
inclusion of women and youth.  And I call on representatives of the
private sector to collaborate with each other, as you do already, and
with our administration so we can identify synergies and support each
other’s work.  
  
And I would like just for a moment for us to think about the enormous
possibilities that exist for growth and the use of technology — if, for
example, as I described, a farmer can prepare for extreme weather or
find new markets for their crops; a female entrepreneur can sell her
goods through an online retailer; young people can take classes online;
elderly people can have access to telehealth — and all that that will do
to improve the quality of their life.   
  
By advancing digital inclusion, I believe we will be able to drive
development in all of these mentioned sectors and so many more.  
  
So, in conclusion, I believe that we are at an inflection point in the
world, where the world is obviously faced with crises that we can
articulate and we witness, but also where we are seeing in the world
incredible innovation, particularly through technology and through,
might I say on this continent where the median age is 19, through
incredible innovation among young people.  
  
So the investments that we make today have the potential to turn the
challenges we face into great opportunities that will have generational
and global impact.  That is the moment that we are in right now, and
that is the ability, then, that we have to participate in where this all
goes.   
  
And so with that, I thank you all.  Obviously, I am extremely optimistic
about the future of this continent and, by extension, the impact it will
have on the rest of the world.  
  
I thank you all for your leadership and for joining us today for this
important discussion.  Thank you all very much.  And I thank the press,
and we will now proceed with the rest of our meeting.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  
  
                                         END  
  
