---
date: '2023-04-27'
modified_time: 2023-04-27 17:50:15-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-27 17:50:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/27/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-renewing-american-economic-leadership-at-the-brookings-institution/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on Renewing American Economic\
  \ Leadership at the Brookings\_Institution"
---
 
*AS DELIVERED*

I want to start by thanking all of you for indulging a National Security
Advisor to discuss economics.  
  
As most of you know, Secretary Yellen gave an important speech just down
the street last week on our economic policy with respect to China.
 Today I’d like to zoom out to our broader international economic
policy, particularly as it relates to President Biden’s core
commitment—indeed, to his daily direction to us—to more deeply integrate
domestic policy and foreign policy.  
  
After the Second World War, the United States led a fragmented world to
build a new international economic order.  It lifted hundreds of
millions of people out of poverty.  It sustained thrilling technological
revolutions.  And it helped the United States and many other nations
around the world achieve new levels of prosperity.  
  
But the last few decades revealed cracks in those foundations.  A
shifting global economy left many working Americans and their
communities behind.  
A financial crisis shook the middle class.  A pandemic exposed the
fragility of our supply chains.  A changing climate threatened lives and
livelihoods.  Russia’s invasion of Ukraine underscored the risks of
overdependence.  
  
So this moment demands that we forge a new consensus.   
  
That’s why the United States, under President Biden, is pursuing a
modern industrial and innovation strategy—both at home and with partners
around the world.  One that invests in the sources of our own economic
and technological strength, that promotes diversified and resilient
global supply chains, that sets high standards for everything from labor
and the environment to trusted technology and good governance, and that
deploys capital to deliver on public goods like climate and health.   
  
Now, the idea that a “new Washington consensus,” as some people have
referred to it, is somehow America alone, or America and the West to the
exclusion of others, is just flat wrong.  
  
This strategy will build a fairer, more durable global economic order,
for the benefit of ourselves and for people everywhere.  
  
So today, what I want to do is lay out what we are endeavoring to do.
 And I’ll start by defining the challenges as we see them—the challenges
that we face.  To take them on, we’ve had to revisit some old
assumptions.  Then I’ll walk through, step by step, how our approach is
tailored to meeting those challenges.  
  
When President Biden came into office more than two years ago, the
country faced, from our perspective, four fundamental challenges.  
  
First, America’s industrial base had been hollowed out.  
  
The vision of public investment that had energized the American project
in the postwar years—and indeed for much of our history—had faded.  It
had given way to a set of ideas that championed tax cutting and
deregulation, privatization over public action, and trade liberalization
as an end in itself.   
  
There was one assumption at the heart of all of this policy: that
markets always allocate capital productively and efficiently—no matter
what our competitors did, no matter how big our shared challenges grew,
and no matter how many guardrails we took down.  
  
Now, no one—certainly not me—is discounting the power of markets. But in
the name of oversimplified market efficiency, entire supply chains of
strategic goods—along with the industries and jobs that made them—moved
overseas.  And the postulate that deep trade liberalization would help
America export goods, not jobs and capacity, was a promise made but not
kept.    
  
Another embedded assumption was that the type of growth did not matter.
 All growth was good growth.  So, various reforms combined and came
together to privilege some sectors of the economy, like finance, while
other essential sectors, like semiconductors and infrastructure,
atrophied.  Our industrial capacity—which is crucial to any country’s
ability to continue to innovate—took a real hit.    
  
The shocks of a global financial crisis and a global pandemic laid bare
the limits of these prevailing assumptions.  
  
The second challenge we faced was adapting to a new environment defined
by geopolitical and security competition, with important economic
impacts.  
  
Much of the international economic policy of the last few decades had
relied upon the premise that economic integration would make nations
more responsible and open, and that the global order would be more
peaceful and cooperative—that bringing countries into the rules-based
order would incentivize them to adhere to its rules.  
  
It didn’t turn out that way.  In some cases it did, and in lot of cases
it did not.  
  
By the time President Biden came into office, we had to contend with the
reality that a large non-market economy had been integrated into the
international economic order in a way that posed considerable
challenges.   
  
The People’s Republic of China continued to subsidize at a massive scale
both traditional industrial sectors, like steel, as well as key
industries of the future, like clean energy, digital infrastructure, and
advanced biotechnologies.  America didn’t just lose manufacturing—we
eroded our competitiveness in critical technologies that would define
the future.  
  
Economic integration didn’t stop China from expanding its military
ambitions in the region, or stop Russia from invading its democratic
neighbors.  Neither country had become more responsible or cooperative.

And ignoring economic dependencies that had built up over the decades of
liberalization had become really perilous—from energy uncertainty in
Europe to supply-chain vulnerabilities in medical equipment,
semiconductors, and critical minerals.  These were the kinds of
dependencies that could be exploited for economic or geopolitical
leverage.  
  
The third challenge we faced was an accelerating climate crisis and the
urgent need for a just and efficient energy transition.  
  
When President Biden came into office, we were falling dramatically
short of our climate ambitions, without a clear pathway to abundant
supplies of stable and affordable clean energy, despite the best efforts
of the Obama-Biden Administration to make significant headway.  
  
Too many people believed that we had to choose between economic growth
and meeting our climate goals.  
  
President Biden has seen things totally differently.  As he’s often
said, when he hears “climate,” he thinks “jobs.”  He believes that
building a twenty-first-century clean-energy economy is one of the most
significant growth opportunities of the twenty-first century—but that to
harness that opportunity, America needs a deliberate, hands-on
investment strategy to pull forward innovation, drive down costs, and
create good jobs.  
  
Finally, we faced the challenge of inequality and its damage to
democracy.  
  
Here, the prevailing assumption was that trade-enabled growth would be
inclusive growth—that the gains of trade would end up getting broadly
shared within nations. But the fact is that those gains failed to reach
a lot of working people.  The American middle class lost ground while
the wealthy did better than ever.  And American manufacturing
communities were hollowed out while cutting-edge industries moved to
metropolitan areas.  
  
Now, the drivers of economic inequality—as many of you know even better
than I—are complex, and they include structural challenges like the
digital revolution.  But key among these drivers are decades of
trickle-down economic policies—policies like regressive tax cuts, deep
cuts to public investment, unchecked corporate concentration, and active
measures to undermine the labor movement that initially built the
American middle class.  
  
Efforts to take a different approach during the Obama
Administration—including efforts to pass policies to address climate
change, invest in infrastructure, expand the social safety net, and
protect workers’ rights to organize—were stymied by Republican
opposition.  
  
And frankly, our domestic economic policies also failed to fully account
for the consequences of our international economic policies.   
  
For example, the so-called “China shock” that hit pockets of our
domestic manufacturing industry especially hard—with large and
long-lasting impacts—wasn’t adequately anticipated and wasn’t adequately
addressed as it unfolded.  
  
And collectively, these forces had frayed the socioeconomic foundations
on which any strong and resilient democracy rests.   
  
Now, these four challenges were not unique to the United States. 
Established and emerging economies were confronting them, too—in some
cases more acutely than we are.   
  
When President Biden came to office, he knew the solution to each of
these challenges was to restore an economic mentality that champions
building.  And that is the core of our economic approach. To build.  To
build capacity, to build resilience, to build inclusiveness, at home and
with partners abroad.  The capacity to produce and innovate, and to
deliver public goods like strong physical and digital infrastructure and
clean energy at scale.  The resilience to withstand natural disasters
and geopolitical shocks. And the inclusiveness to ensure a strong,
vibrant American middle class and greater opportunity for working people
around the world.  
  
All of that is part of what we have called a foreign policy for the
middle class.  
  
The first step is laying a new foundation at home—with a modern American
industrial strategy.   
  
My friend and former colleague Brian Deese has spoken about this new
industrial strategy at some length, and I commend his remarks to you,
because they are better than any remarks I could give on the subject.
 But in summary:  
  
A modern American industrial strategy identifies specific sectors that
are foundational to economic growth, strategic from a national security
perspective, and where private industry on its own isn’t poised to make
the investments needed to secure our national ambitions.    
  
It deploys targeted public investments in these areas that unlock the
power and ingenuity of private markets, capitalism, and competition to
lay a foundation for long-term growth.  
  
It helps enable American business to do what American business does
best—innovate, scale, and compete.  
  
This is about crowding in private investment—not replacing it.  It’s
about making long-term investments in sectors vital to our national
wellbeing—not picking winners and losers.  
  
And it has a long tradition in this country.  In fact, even as the term
“industrial policy” went out of fashion, in some form it remained
quietly at work for America—from DARPA and the Internet to NASA and
commercial satellites.  
  
Now, looking over the course of the last couple of years, the initial
results of this strategy are remarkable. 

The Financial Times has reported that large-scale investments in
semiconductor and clean-energy production have already surged 20-fold
since 2019, and a third of the investments announced since August
involve a foreign investor investing here in the United States.  
  
We’ve estimated that the total public capital and private investment
from President Biden’s agenda will amount to some $3.5 trillion over the
next decade.   
  
Consider semiconductors, which are as essential to our consumer goods
today as they are to the technologies that will shape our future, from
artificial intelligence to quantum computing to synthetic biology.  
  
America now manufactures only around 10 percent of the world’s
semiconductors, and production—in general and especially when it comes
to the most advanced chips—is geographically concentrated elsewhere.   
  
This creates a critical economic risk and a national security
vulnerability.  So thanks to the bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act, we’ve
already seen an orders-of-magnitude increase in investment into
America’s semiconductor industry.  And it’s still early days.   
  
Or consider critical minerals—the backbone of the clean-energy future. 
Today, the United States produces only 4 percent of the lithium, 13
percent of the cobalt, 0 percent of the nickel, and 0 percent of the
graphite required to meet current demand for electric vehicles. 
Meanwhile, more than 80 percent of critical minerals are processed by
one country, China.  
  
Clean-energy supply chains are at risk of being weaponized in the same
way as oil in the 1970s, or natural gas in Europe in 2022.  So through
the investments in the Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we’re taking action.  
  
At the same time, it isn’t feasible or desirable to build everything
domestically.  Our objective is not autarky—it’s resilience and security
in our supply chains.  
  
Now, building our domestic capacity is the starting point.  But the
effort extends beyond our borders.  And this brings me to the second
step in our strategy: working with our partners to ensure they are
building capacity, resilience, and inclusiveness, too.  
  
Our message to them has been consistent:  We will unapologetically
pursue our industrial strategy at home—but we are unambiguously
committed to not leaving our friends behind.  We want them to join us. 
In fact, we need them to join us.  
  
Creating a secure and sustainable economy in the face of the economic
and geopolitical realities will require all of our allies and partners
to do more—and there’s no time to lose.  For industries like
semiconductors and clean energy, we’re nowhere near the global
saturation point of investments needed, public or private.   
  
Ultimately, our goal is a strong, resilient, and leading-edge
techno-industrial base that the United States and its like-minded
partners, established and emerging economies alike, can invest in and
rely upon together.  
  
President Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen
talked about this here in Washington last month.  
  
They released a very important statement, which, if you haven’t read it,
I really encourage you to read.  At its heart, what the statement said
was the following: bold public investments in our respective industrial
capacity needs to be at the heart of the energy transition.  And
President von der Leyen and President Biden committed to working
together to ensure that the supply chains of the future are resilient,
secure, and reflective of our values—including on labor.  
  
They laid out practical steps in the statement to achieve those
goals—like aligning respective clean-energy incentives on each side of
the Atlantic and launching a negotiation on supply chains for critical
minerals and batteries.  
  
Shortly after that, President Biden went to Canada.  He and Prime
Minister Justin Trudeau established a task force to accelerate
cooperation between Canada and the United States toward exactly the same
end: ensuring our clean-energy supply and creating middle-class jobs on
both sides of the border.  
  
And just a few days after that, the United States and Japan signed an
agreement deepening our cooperation on critical-mineral supply chains.  
  
So we are leveraging the Inflation Reduction Act to build a clean-energy
manufacturing ecosystem rooted in supply chains here in North America,
and extending to Europe, Japan, and elsewhere.   
  
This is how we will turn the IRA from a source of friction into a source
of strength and reliability.  And I suspect you’ll hear more on this at
the G7 Summit in Hiroshima next month.  
  
Now, our cooperation with partners is not limited to clean energy.  
  
For example, we’re working with several countries—in Europe, the
Republic of Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and India—and we’re also working with
Taiwan—to coordinate our approaches to semiconductor incentives.  
  
Analyst projections on where semiconductor investments will happen over
the next three years have shifted dramatically, with the United States
and key partners now topping the charts.  
  
Let me also underscore that our cooperation with partners is not limited
to advanced industrial democracies.  
  
Fundamentally, we have to—and we intend to—dispel the notion that
America’s most important partnerships are only with established
economies.  Not just by saying it, but by proving it. Proving it with
India—on everything from hydrogen to semiconductors.  Proving it with
Angola—on carbon-free solar power.  Proving it with Indonesia—on its
Just Energy Transition Partnership.  Proving it with Brazil—on
climate-friendly growth.  
  
This brings me to the third step in our strategy: moving beyond
traditional trade deals to innovative new international economic
partnerships focused on the core challenges of our time.  
  
The main international economic project of the 1990s was reducing
tariffs.  On average, applied U.S. tariff rates were nearly cut in half
during the 1990s.  Today, in 2023, our trade-weighted average tariff
rate is 2.4 percent—which is low historically, and relative to other
countries.  
  
Of course, those tariffs aren’t uniform, and there is still work to be
done bringing tariff levels down in many other countries.  As Ambassador
Tai has said, “We have not sworn off market liberalization.”  We do
intend to pursue modern trade agreements.  But to define or measure our
entire policy based on tariff reduction misses something important.  
  
Asking what our trade policy is now—narrowly framed as plans to reduce
tariffs further—is simply the wrong question.  The right question is:
how does trade fit into our international economic policy, and what
problems is it seeking to solve?  
  
The project of the 2020s and the 2030s is different from the project of
the 1990s.   
  
We know the problems we need to solve today:  Creating diversified and
resilient supply chains.   Mobilizing public and private investment for
a just clean energy transition and sustainable economic growth.
 Creating good jobs along the way, family-supporting jobs.  Ensuring
trust, safety, and openness in our digital infrastructure.  Stopping a
race-to-the-bottom in corporate taxation.  Enhancing protections for
labor and the environment.  Tackling corruption.  That is a different
set of fundamental priorities than simply bringing down tariffs.  
  
And we have designed the elements of an ambitious regional economic
initiative, the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, to focus on those
problems—and solving those problems.  We’re negotiating chapters with
thirteen Indo-Pacific nations that will hasten the clean-energy
transition, implement tax fairness and fight corruption, set high
standards for technology, and ensure more resilient supply chains for
critical goods and inputs.    
  
Let me speak a bit more concretely.  Had IPEF been in place when COVID
wreaked havoc on our supply chains and factories sat idling, we would
have been able to react more quickly— companies and governments
together— pivoting to new options for sourcing and sharing data in
real-time.  That’s what a new approach can look like on that issue—as on
many others.  
  
Our new Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity, launched with a
number of our key partners here in the Americas, is aimed at the same
basic set of objectives.  
  
Meanwhile, through the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council, and through
our trilateral coordination with Japan and Korea, we are coordinating on
our industrial strategies to complement one another, and avert a
race-to-the-bottom by all competing for the same targets.  
  
Some have looked at these initiatives and said, “but they aren’t
traditional FTAs.”  That’s exactly the point.  For the problems we are
trying to solve today, the traditional model doesn’t cut it.   
  
The era of after-the-fact policy patches and vague promises of
redistribution is over.  We need a new approach.   
  
Simply put: In today’s world, trade policy needs to be about more than
tariff reduction, and trade policy needs to be fully integrated into our
economic strategy, at home and abroad.

At the same time, the Biden Administration is developing a new global
labor strategy that advances workers’ rights through diplomacy, and we
will be unveiling this strategy in the weeks ahead.    
  
It builds on tools like the rapid-response labor mechanism in USMCA that
enforces workers’ association and collective-bargaining rights.  Just
this week, in fact, we resolved our eighth case with an agreement that
improved working conditions—a win-win for Mexican workers and American
competitiveness.  
  
We’re in the process now of continuing to lead a historic agreement with
136 countries to finally end the race-to-the-bottom on corporate taxes
that hurt middle-class and working people.  Now Congress needs to follow
through with the implementing legislation, and we are working them to do
exactly that.  
  
And we’re taking another kind of new approach that we think a critical
blueprint for the future—linking trade and climate in a way that has
never been done before.  The Global Arrangement on Steel and Aluminum
that we’re negotiating with the European Union could be the first major
trade deal to tackle both emissions intensity and over-capacity.  And if
we can apply it to steel and aluminum, we can look at how it applies to
other sectors as well.  We can help create a virtuous cycle and ensure
our competitors aren’t gaining an advantage by degrading the planet.  
  
Now, for those who have posed the question, the Biden Administration is
still committed to the WTO and the shared values upon which it is based:
fair competition, openness, transparency, and the rule of law.  But
serious challenges, most notably nonmarket economic practices and
policies, threaten those core values.  So that’s why we’re working with
so many other WTO members to reform the multilateral trading system so
that it benefits workers, accommodates legitimate national security
interests, and confronts pressing issues that aren’t fully embedded in
the current WTO framework, like sustainable development and the
clean-energy transition.  
  
In sum, in a world being transformed by that clean energy transition, by
dynamic emerging economies, by a quest for supply chain resilience—by
digitization, by artificial intelligence, and by a revolution in
biotechnology—the game is not the same.  
  
Our international economic policy has to adapt to the world as it is, so
we can build the world that we want.  
  
This brings me to the fourth step in our strategy: mobilizing trillions
in investment into emerging economies—with solutions that those
countries are fashioning on their own, but with capital enabled by a
different brand of U.S. diplomacy.  
  
We’ve launched a major effort to evolve the multilateral development
banks so they are up to the challenges of today.  2023 is a big year for
this.  
  
As Secretary Yellen has outlined, we need to update the banks’ operating
models—especially the World Bank but the regional development banks as
well.  We need to stretch their balance sheets to address climate
change, pandemics, and fragility and conflict.  And we have to expand
access to concessional, high-quality finance for low income and for
middle-income countries as they deal with challenges that span beyond
any single nation’s borders.   
  
We saw an early down payment on this agenda last month, but we will need
to do much more.  
  
And we’re very excited for Ajay Banga’s new leadership at the World Bank
to make this vision a reality.   
  
At the same time as we are evolving the multilateral development banks,
we’ve also launched a major effort to close the infrastructure gap in
low- and middle-income countries.  We call it the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment—PGII.  PGII will mobilize hundreds of
billions of dollars in energy, physical, and digital infrastructure
financing between now and the end of the decade.  
  
And unlike the financing that comes in the Belt and Road Initiative,
projects under PGII are transparent and high-standard and in service of
long-term, inclusive, and sustainable growth.  And in just under a year
since this initiative launched, we have already delivered significant
investments in everything from the mines needed to power electric
vehicles to global subsea telecom cables.   
  
At the same time, we’re also committed to addressing the debt distress
faced by an increasingly large number of vulnerable countries.  We need
to see genuine relief, not just “extending and pretending.”  And we need
to see all bilateral official and private creditors share the burden.   
  
That includes China, which has worked to build its influence through
massive lending to the emerging world, almost always with strings
attached.  We share the view of many others that China now needs to step
up as a constructive force in assisting debt-stressed countries.  
  
Finally, we are protecting our foundational technologies with a small
yard and high fence.  
  
As I’ve argued before, our charge is to usher in a new wave of the
digital revolution—one that ensures that next-generation technologies
work for, not against, our democracies and our security.  
  
We’ve implemented carefully tailored restrictions on the most advanced
semiconductor technology exports to China.  Those restrictions are
premised on straightforward national security concerns.  Key allies and
partners have followed suit, consistent with their own security
concerns.  
  
We’re also enhancing the screening of foreign investments in critical
areas relevant to national security.  And we’re making progress in
addressing outbound investments in sensitive technologies with a core
national security nexus.  
  
These are tailored measures.  They are not, as Beijing says, a
“technology blockade.”  They are not targeting emerging economies.  They
are focused on a narrow slice of technology and a small number of
countries intent on challenging us militarily.  
  
A word on China more broadly.  As President von der Leyen put it
recently, we are for de-risking and diversifying, not decoupling.  We’ll
keep investing in our own capacities, and in secure, resilient supply
chains.  We’ll keep pushing for a level playing field for our workers
and companies and defending against abuses.  
  
Our export controls will remain narrowly focused on technology that
could tilt the military balance.  We are simply ensuring that U.S. and
allied technology is not used against us.  We are not cutting off
trade.  
  
In fact, the United States continues to have a very substantial trade
and investment relationship with China.  Bilateral trade between the
United States and China set a new record last year.  
  
Now, when you zoom out from economics, we are competing with China on
multiple dimensions, but we are not looking for confrontation or
conflict.  We’re looking to manage competition responsibly and seeking
to work together with China where we can.  President Biden has made
clear that the United States and China can and should work together on
global challenges like climate, like macroeconomic stability, health
security, and food security.   
  
Managing competition responsibly ultimately takes two willing parties.
 It requires a degree of strategic maturity to accept that we must
maintain open lines of communication even as we take actions to
compete.  
  
As Secretary Yellen said last week in her speech on this topic, we can
defend our national security interests, have a healthy economic
competition, and work together where possible, but China has to be
willing to play its part.  
  
So, what does success look like?  
  
The world needs an international economic system that works for our
wage-earners, works for our industries, works for our climate, works for
our national security, and works for the world’s poorest and most
vulnerable countries.  
  
That means replacing a singular approach focused the oversimplified
assumptions that I set out at the top of my speech with one that
encourages targeted and necessary investments in places that private
markets are ill-suited to address on their own—even as we continue to
harness the power of markets and integration.   
  
It means providing space for partners around the world to restore the
compacts between governments and their voters and workers.   
  
It means grounding this new approach in deep cooperation and
transparency to ensure that our investments and those of partners are
mutually reinforcing and beneficial.  
  
And it means returning to the core belief we first championed 80 years
ago: that America should be at the heart of a vibrant, international
financial system that enables partners around the world to reduce
poverty and enhance shared prosperity.  And that a functioning social
safety net for the world’s most vulnerable countries is essential to our
own core interests.  
  
It also means building new norms that allow us to address the challenges
posed by the intersection of advanced technology and national security,
without obstructing broader trade and innovation.  
  
This strategy will take resolve—it will take a dedicated commitment to
overcoming the barriers that have kept this country and our partners
from building rapidly, efficiently, and fairly as we were able to do in
the past.  
  
But it is the surest path to restoring the middle class, to producing a
just and effective clean-energy transition, to securing critical supply
chains, and, through all of this, to repairing faith in democracy
itself.  
  
As always, we need the full and bipartisan partnership of Congress if we
are going to succeed.  
  
We need support from Congress to revive America’s unique capacity to
attract and retain the brightest talent from around the world.  
  
We need the Hill’s full partnership in our reform initiatives in
development finance.  
  
And we need to double down on our investments in infrastructure,
innovation, and clean energy. Our national security and our economic
vitality depend on it.  
  
Let me close with this.   
  
President Kennedy was fond of saying that “a rising tide lifts all
boats.”  Over the years, advocates of trickle-down economics
appropriated this phrase for their own uses.   
  
But President Kennedy wasn’t saying what’s good for the wealthy is good
for the working class.  He was saying we’re all in this together.  
  
And look at what he said next: “If one section of the country is
standing still, then sooner or later a dropping tide drops all the
boats.”  
  
That’s true for our country.  That’s true for our world.  End
economically, over time, we’re going to rise—or fall—together.   
  
And that goes for the strength of our democracies as well as for the
strength of our economies.  
  
As we pursue this strategy at home and abroad, there will be reasonable
debate.  And this is going to take time.  The international order that
emerged after the end of the Second World War and then the Cold War were
not built overnight.  Neither will this one.   
  
But together, we can work to lift up all of America’s people,
communities, and industries, and we can do the same with our friends and
partners everywhere around the globe as well.    
  
This is a vision the Biden Administration must and will fight to
achieve.   
  
This is what is guiding us as we make our policy decisions at the
intersection of economics, national security, and democracy.   
  
And this is the work that we will do not just as a government, but with
every element of the United States, and with the support and help of
partners both in government and out of government around the world.

END
