---
date: '2023-04-20'
modified_time: 2023-04-20 06:37:14-04:00
published_time: 2023-04-20 06:37:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-vision-for-the-economy/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on his Vision for the\_Economy"
---
 
International Union of Operating Engineers Local 77  
Accokeek, Maryland

(April 19, 2023)

2:39 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello. (Applause.)

Thank you, Paula, for that introduction. I appreciate it.

And hello, Operating Engineers Local 77. (Applause.) I might note: From
the time I announced for the United States Senate when I was a kid, I
had the support of the Operating Engineers. I love you all. Thank you,
thank you, thank you.

You guys were founded 122 years ago. That’s not when I got endorsed.
(Laughter.) Skilled workers operating all kinds of construction
equipment. There can’t be a better place to talk about the progress
we’ve made together, how it’s working for the country, and how our MAGA
—

By the way, please sit down. I’ve — I’ve failed to tell you — to say to
you. Thank you.

You know, I’m going to — just to say at the front end, this ain’t your
father’s Republican party. This is a different deal right now.

And a minority of the party — the MAGA — I call them MAGA Republicans —
are in control of the party. And they’re in Congress threatening to undo
all the stuff that you’ve helped me get done.

That’s why I’m here today: because you and the American people should
know about the competing economic visions for the country that are
really at stake right now.

I’m here in this union hall with you when, just two days ago, the
Speaker of the House, Kevin McCarthy, went to Wall Street to describe
the MAGA economic vision for America. And it’s very clear; they’ve laid
it out.

I know when I was telling you what’s going to happen — I was telling
folks, they looked at me like, “That can’t happen.” Well, guess what?
He’s attempting to try to happen now.

Massive cuts in programs you count on, massive benefit protected for
those at the top. A lot of — you know, all the tax cuts go to the top,
none to the bottom. The threat of defaulting on America’s debt for the
first time in 230 years. We’ve never, ever defaulted on a debt. And it
would destroy this economy.

And who do you think it will hurt the most? You — hardworking people.
The middle class. The neighborhoods I got raised in. Not the
super-wealthy or the powerful, but working folks. And that’s what I want
to talk about today.

You know — and I know where I st- — you know where I stand. I make no
apologies — and I mean this sincerely — for being the most pro-union
president in American history. (Applause.) It’s not just because I grew
up with you all. It’s because it’s true.

You know, when I speak to the Business Roundtable and the muckety-mucks,
they’re good — a lot of decent people. The very — all the business
enterprises, they look at me like —

(Looks at audience on balcony.) Hey, guys, don’t jump. Okay? (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, you know, they look at me like why am I always
talking about unions? I say because, you know, they don’t appreciate how
damn hard you all work, how damn hard it is for you to get a — to be
able to become something other than an apprentice.

It takes four years to train an apprentice, just like going back to
school.

I tell business leaders — all the time I tell them — that I’m pro-union
because union workers are the best workers in the world. And you are the
best. (Applause.) Not a — not a joke. That’s the God’s truth. That is
the God’s truth. You’re the best in the world.

It’s better long-term for them to hire you because you get the job done,
you get it done on time, and, ultimately, it costs them less when they
hire you.

So I’ve said many times: Wall Street didn’t build America. The middle
class built America. And unions built the middle class. That’s a fact.
(Applause.) Unions.

One of the reasons I ran for President was to rebuild the backbone — the
backbone of this country, the middle class; to grow the economy from the
middle out and the bottom up, not from the top down.

Because when the middle class does well, the poor have a ladder up and
the wealthy do very well still. And we middle class can get a shot. We
do well as well.

And that’s in clear contrast to my friends on the other side of the
aisle these days. Didn’t used to be. Didn’t used to be, but it is now.

For decades, they’ve said that the best way to grow the economy is from
the top down — trickle-down economics. Well, growing up, I didn’t see a
whole hell of a lot trickle down on our three-bedroom house with four
kids at my dad’s kitchen table.

You know what? Trickle-down didn’t work for us, and it didn’t work for a
long time.

And, by the way, it’s not just what’s been with MAGA Republicans. For
the last three, four decades we’ve been losing ground.

And, you know — and it’s hollowed out the middle class, you know,
rewarding wealth, not work; rewarding companies moving overseas because
they get cheaper labor.

Look at all — a lot of you know — and maybe you come from neighborhoods
and small towns where — like Scranton, Pennsylvania, where I came from,
or Claymont, Delaware, where I came from — where there used to be a lot
of pride because we had business, we had factories that were working,
operating.

In Scranton and Claymont, there were 4,500 steelworkers. There’s none
today.

And not only do you lose the jobs, you lose a sense of pride, lose a
sense of who are you. You begin to wonder: Does anybody see me? I mean
it sincerely.

Those of you from the Midwest, travel through the Midwest — the towns
where they had a factory employing six to eight hundred people, if you
lose it, you lose everything.

And a lot of people get this — I’m not — how many of your friends you
know of around the country who have had this conversation? Their son or
daughter finishes their education in high school and comes to mom and
dad and says, “Mom, I can’t stay. There’s no work. I got to move. I got
to leave.”

And why does it — why do these jobs go overseas? Because of cheap labor.
Rather than making the product here in America, we’ve made it overseas,
leading to wider economic inequity and, along the way, losing something
else, as I said: pride. Literally pride. It matters.

My dad never went to college. My dad was a decent, honorable man. Busted
his neck. But he was my dad, and he would talk about, you know,
“Everybody deserves to be treated with dignity,” with self- —
recognizing their self-worth. No, I mean it sincerely. Not — not — it’s
not a joke. This is something I feel in my gut, not just my — in my
heart.

You know, how many of you know what it’s like growing up in a community
where that factory does shut down, where the community gets hollowed it?
It gets hollowed out, literally.

Folks, trickle-down economics doesn’t work. And together we’ve been
doing everything we can to turn things around.

And with your help, one of the first things we did was pass the American
Rescue Plan with not one of the other team voting for it. (Applause.) It
helped — it helped vaccinate our nation. It delivered immediate relief
to folks who needed it the most to get our economy back on track. It put
small businesses back in business. It worked. It provided increased
employment.

And then I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, making the case
that to have the strongest economy in the world, we have to have the
best infrastructure in the world. How in God’s name could we lead the
world with a second-rate infrastructure? The best roads, the best
bridges, the best airports, the cleanest water systems, high-speed
Internet, and so much more.

Can you believe that we used to be the best infrastructure — rated
number one in the world? You know what we’re rated now internationally?
We’re rated number 13 — 13 in the world. The United States of America is
rated 13 in the world.

And guess what? That’s where — that’s where you come in to get us back
on top.

We’ve announced over 25,000 infrastructure projects so far, over four
thousand — (applause) — over 4,500 cities and towns across the country,
ranging from ports and airports, wind and solar projects.

Operating engineers are going to be the biggest — do the biggest
groundbreaking for new and updated roads and bridges and so much more.

As a matter of fact, the Lieutenant Governor already grabbed me for one
bridge already. She grabbed me when I walked in. (Laughter.) There you
are, Gov. I don’t blame you. (Applause.)

I told her we view the Eastern Shore of Maryland as the Western Shore of
Delaware. (Laughter.) And also, the Bidens all come from Baltimore,
going all the way back to the early 1800s — from Baltimore.

You know, you’re — look, you’re the ones that are going to trans- — this
is not hyperbole. It’s a fact. You’re going to transform America. You,
the operating engineers, are going to transform America. And it can’t
get done without you. Without you, it can’t get done. That’s — I mean,
it’s just — there’s certain thing that’s fact, obvious.

And so, when we — when we rebuild America — and I mean literally rebuild
America — we’re going to buy American. I — you know, I’ve gotten a lot
of criticism because — (applause) — there was a law passed in the early
‘30s that said “Buy American.” But no President has ma- — made much —
paid much attention to it.

What is means is: The money that Congress gives me to allocate to spend
on projects, whether it’s a new deck of an aircraft carrier or building
an interstate highway or a bridge — you know, I get to say it has to be
American products, American workers. Every federal project built by
American workers, using American products, creating American jobs is
what I’ve done since I’ve become President.

I announced — (applause) — and, by the way, it’s consistent with
international trading agreements. I announced new standards to require
all construction material used in a federal infrastructure project have
be made in America: the lumber, the glass, the drywall, the fiberoptics,
and so much more. And guess what? It creates jobs down the line.

And here’s something else. Decades ago, the United States used to invest
over 2 percent of its entire gross domestic product — all the money we
spend — on research and development. We led the world in research. Today
we invest less than 1 percent.

We used to rank number one in the world in research and development. Now
we rank number nine in the world. How in the hell does that happen?

China was number eight decades ago. Today, they’re number two, and we’re
number nine. And a lot of countries are closing in fast.

I don’t want to wish any other country ill, but we have the best
scientists, researchers, and people in the world. How in God’s name are
we letting this happen? I’m serious. Think about it.

That’s why, with your help, I signed into law that — initially, when I
suggested it, people thought, “What — what are you doing?” It’s called
the CHIPS and Science Act.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, sir! (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: And guess what? I asked the CEOs of this company — and
I’ve met with them all — you know, the Fortune 500 companies and their —
et cetera. I asked them: When the United States government invests in a
considerable amount of resources in a new industry, does that encourage
or discourage private investment? To a person, everyone says it
significantly encourages the willingness to bring private capital off
the sideline.

And that’s how we’re bringing new key parts of the supply chain back to
America and semiconductors. As all of you know, these are small computer
chips the size of the tip of my little finger. And they affect nearly
everything in our lives, from our cellphones, our automobiles,
refrigerators, the most sophisticated weapons systems in the world. And
it poses and possesses so much more.

I want to remind everyone: America invented this computer chip. We
invented it by investing in going to the Moon a while ago. Okay? And we
increased the sophistication many times over. We’ve made them smaller,
faster, more powerful.

And over time, we went from producing 40 percent of the world’s chips
down to 10 percent, despite our leading the world in research and
design.

How did that happen? I’m being — I’m being deadly earnest. You don’t
have to be a rocket scientist to figure this out. How did that happen?

We all saw during the pandemic when things slowed down in the Far East,
where we imported so many of our computer chips. What happened? People,
all of sudden, didn’t know — all of the sudden, the public became
educated on what a supply chain is. People had never talked about it
before.

Supply chain is: When that factory closes down in the — in the South
Pacific, guess what? There’s not enough chips to build automobiles in
Detroit. It shut down. Families get hurt.

For example, every new vehicle built in America needs roughly 3,000 of
these chips per vehicle.

During the pandemic, as you may remember, automo- — auto companies
couldn’t get enough of these chips. Prices went up because the price of
cars was through the ceiling. Inflati- — biggest cost for inflation.

But now, all over the country, companies are investing in America — not
just American companies, but foreign companies. I asked the large South
Am- — I was at a South — excuse me — South Korean company why they’re
investing in America in computer chips to build the factories here. They
said, “Because you have the best workers in the world.” They said, not
me. (Applause.) We do.

And guess what? It went from a relatively small investment — you know
how much we’re investing now? $400 billion. $400 billion in advanced
manufacturing — a record amount of investment back at home in any time
in our history.

For example, in Ohio I visited what I call “a field of dreams,” about
1,000 acres outside of Columbus, where Intel has committed $20 billion
to build what they call a new chip fab — a factory. They call them
“fabs.”

And guess what? It’s going to hire a hell of a lot of people. Seven
thousand people building it. They’re just — and you’re all going to paid
the prevailing wage at those too. (Applause.)

And, by the way, and the other 5,000 people who are working time in
these factories when they’re built — and they’re bigger than football
fields, the size of these factories — guess what? Average salary:
$130,000 a year. (Applause.) And you do not need a college degree to
have the job. (Applause.)

Well, the same stories up in New York State, Texas, Arizona, Idaho. Jobs
for both construction and operating these fabs — they’re about the size,
as I said, of football fields. Jobs that pay an average of $130,000 a
year — permanent. Jobs that don’t, as I said, require a college degree.

It matters.

Don’t take my word for it. Listen to the recent headlines of the Wall
Street Journal — not what I call a left-wing paper. It says, “America Is
Back in the Factory Business.” That’s the headline. (Applause.)

Fortune Magazine — Fortune Magazine headline: “Biden’s Massive
Manufacturing Push is Working.”

Financial Times: “Transformational Change: Biden’s Industrial Policy
Begins to Bear Fruit.”

Folks, it’s bearing fruit because of all of you, because I have
confidence in you, because you’re getting the job done.

Folks, my economic plan is a blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America.

And that’s not all. I get how folks are struggling with inflation. I
grew up in a house where if the price of gas went up, you felt it. It
was a discussion at the kitchen table. Not a joke.

Inflation has been a global problem because of two things: a pandemic
that disrupted these supply chains around the world; Putin’s war in
Ukraine, which disrupted energy supplies and food supplies, causing
prices of everything from eggs to wheat to go up.

We have a lot more to do, but inflation has been coming down nine months
in a row. It’s down 45 percent. And, again, we can — we have to do more.
It’s still a big problem.

The way I think about is the way my dad talked about it around the
kitchen table. He’d say, “How much are your monthly bills? How much do
you have left to pay for all the necessities when you pay your major
bills? And will there be enough at the end of the month just to have a
little bit of breathing room — just a little bit of breathing room?”

Many of you have been through that. Well, that’s why, with your help, I
signed the thing called the fla- — Inflation Reduction Act. There’s more
— (applause) — more than one day — one way to bring down the cost of
raising a family or controlling a household.

That’s all the other expenses. If you can bring them down that don’t
directly — aren’t counting inflation and bring them down, it reduces the
pressure on you, give you a little bit of breathing room.

For example, Americas pay — Americans pay more for prescription drugs
than any other advanced nation on Earth. The same exact drug you pay
more in the United States than in France, Germany, England — wherever
you go.

I’ve been fighting for years as a senator and Vice President to allow
Medicare to negotiate the price of those drugs — to negotiate the price.
(Applause.)

Guess what? We allowed — we allowed the Veterans Department to be able
to negotiate price for the veterans, but we nev- — (applause) — but that
— that’s been in place, but we’ve never allowed Medicare to do this.

But finally — finally, we beat Big Pharma. And we got it done, again,
without a single Republican vote.

Look, it’s had a profound impact on so much more, and there’s so much
more to come.

How many of you know anybody with diabetes? Okay, well, guess what?
You’re now — you’re now paying 35 bucks instead of 500 bucks a month for
that insulin. (Applause.)

(Points at audience member.) God love you, man.

By the way, you know, when we talk about allowing people the dignity — I
was in Virginia about — before I got this passed — in a town meeting.
This was about a year ago. And a woman stood up. She said — she didn’t
break down, but she was very emotional. She said, “I have two children
with diabetes. I don’t have enough private insurance to be able to pay
for it. We have to — we have to cut their dosage. We have to trade off.”

How do you feel as a parent, looking at your child, knowing if you can’t
get them the drug they need, it may affect their life and their very,
very, very existence?

Well, guess what? That’s changed. One in ten Americans has diabetes.
Every day, millions use insulin to control their diabetes so they can
stay alive.

Insulin has been around for over 100 years. And when the guy invented
it, he didn’t even patent it because he thought everybody should be able
to access it.

You know how much it costs these companies that make that insulin? Ten.
T-E-N. T-E-N dollars. To package it, maybe another dollar and a half,
maybe two. But they were charging four or five, six, seven hundred
dollars a month.

And, folks, Big Pharma has been unfairly charging and making record
profits. Not anymore.

We began by capping the cost of insulin at $35 a month for seniors.
Initially, I proposed for everybody; I couldn’t get enough folks to — I
lost a couple of Democrats. But we’re coming back at it.

And that’s not all. The law — and when I told people that it was going
to be 35 bucks a month when it got passed last year — I don’t blame them
— they looked at me like, “Yeah, Joe.” It didn’t occur — until January
1, it didn’t start.

Well, guess what happens? This law brings total drug costs down the mai-
— the way people need.

How many of you have had cancer or know — or know someone who does? This
law will cap out-of-pocket costs for seniors on Medicare at a maximum
$3,500 \[$2,000\] a year for every single drug they have to take. Every
single drug. This year. (Applause.)

And in the following year, it’s a maximum of $2,000 a year even if
you’re taking a $12,000, $14,000, $16- — $16,000 cancer drug. This is a
gamechanger.

And it’s fair. This is nothing radical; it’s just fair.

They don’t have to pay these prices in other countries.

The Inflation Reduction Act also makes the most significant investment
in dealing with climate ever, anywhere in the world’s history.
(Applause.)

And, by the way — by the way, if I can digress for just a moment. Before
I announce my plan, which is the most consequential one literally in the
history of the world. No country has ever done it. We’ve never done —
America has never seen it.

I went to my friends in the union movement, because you all are worried.
I understand you. You’ve been told that you work out on — on — global
warming is going to cost your jobs.

And I sat down with one of my good friends, the head of the IBEW, who
just retired. I’m going to a retirement party for him this week. And I
laid out — I — you may remember hearing how I was getting beat — the
hell getting beat out me about how I didn’t care about the environment.

And then I met with a lot of you guys, met with your international
presidents. And I said, “If you want to make some real money, this is
where you’re going to make it, because you’re going to — it’s going to
help.”

By the way, guess what? When we’re dealing with the IBEW, they’re going
to put in 550,000 charging stations — 550,000. (Applause.) And you all
are going to build the roads and highways and the bridges that get
there. It’s going generate incredible, incredible economic growth.

For example, it also — families that aren’t even part of organized
labor, they get $1,000-a-year savings by providing a rebate when they
buy a new efficient appliance or weatherize their home. They get a tax
credit for purchasing a heat su- — heat pumps, rooftop solar energy. So
they can afford to do it and they get a tax credit for doing it. And the
long-term savings for them is significant.

Without going into everything, it also provides tax credits for electric
vehicles, new or used, because we’re convinced that the companies are
going to move.

Let me back up. I called a meeting of all the aut- — American automakers
to the South Lawn of the White House last summer — or the summer before.
And I talked about the need for us to have to transition. And at the
time, Mary Barra, who’s the president of General Motors, was suing the
state of California because they said they had an air quality standard
higher than the federal government. And the argument was they couldn’t
do that.

Well, I got a call from her four, five days later saying, “I dropped the
suit. We’ve decided we’re going to go all electric by 2035.” (Applause.)

And guess what? We also put in all electric — over the near term by
providing significant tax exemptions if you purchase a used or a new
all-electric vehicle. It’s a gamechanger.

And, by the way, anybody who doesn’t think we have global warming, hang
out with me, man. Travel to every major fire I’ve been to. You know more
land has burned in two years to the ground because of global warming?
More land because of fires as a consequence of long — the — the utility
poles you put up and all the rest. All of it. More land has burned than
the entire state of Maryland.

Literally, all the land you read about burning, from Arizona to Idaho
and out West — more land burned to the ground, and homes in the process,
than the entire size of the state of Maryland.

And all of you in this room are playing a big — going to play a big
part. Those charging stations, those roads and access points, and so
much more. Because you’re going to be building it.

Folks, look around. And our economic plan is working. We’ve created more
than 12,000 brand new jobs in two years. That’s more than any President
in American history has created in four years — in four years.
(Applause.)

Unemployment is at 3.5 percent, near a 50-year low. And all — for
minorities as well. For African unemployment is — African American
unemployment is down low. Hispanic. Across the board.

Nearly 800,000 good-paying manufacturing jobs. The fastest growth in 40
years. (Applause.)

Where in the hell is it written that says we can’t be the manufacturing
capital of the world again? I don’t — I don’t know where that’s written.
It’s going to be us. You know this better than anyone. It’s an all-time
record for construction jobs. As I said, where is it written that we
can’t manufacture more than anybody in the world?

And, by the way, we’ve made all this progress in a fiscally responsible
way. All the talk that these guys are — I’ll get to this in a second —
but how they’re going to cut spending and the like?

In my first two years in office, I brought the deficit down by a record
$1.7 trillion. (Applause.) All we spent, still less than $1.7 trillion.

Inflation Reduction Act is going to bring down the deficit by hundreds
of billions more in the decades ahead. And again, not a single
Republican voted for it.

Let me be clear again: Under my plan, no one earning less than $400,000
has seen nor will see, as long as I’m President, a single solitary penny
raised in their taxes. Not a single penny.

And we were able to make huge progress for the country by making the
biggest corporations begin to pay their fair share. You all pay your —
you pay more than your fair share. (Applause.) No, I’m serious.

And, by the way, I come from the corporate capital of the world. I was a
senator for 36 years in Delaware. More corporations incorporated in
Delaware than every other state in the union. Okay? So, I’m not one of
these guys who say corporations are all bad. They’re not. But it’s about
time they start to pay their fair share. (Applause.)

Let me — let me ask you a question. Not a joke. How many of you think
the tax system is fair in America? (Laughter.) No, I’m serious. Well,
guess what? You may remember my talking about — when I first got
elected, there were 55 of the Fortune 500 companies that made $40
billion in profit in 2020. And guess what? They paid zero — not a single
penny — in taxes. Not a single penny.

I said it was wrong. So I did something outrageous. I was able to impose
a 15 percent tax. My God, 15 percent. (Applause.) You all pay more than
that. You pay twice that. How many construction workers, firefighters,
teachers, cops, would be happy to pay 15 percent?

You know, I love these guys telling me what they value. My dad used to
have an expression. He’d say, “Don’t tell me what you value. Show me
your budget. I’ll tell you what you value.” (Applause.)

Let me tell you what I value compared to the other side. While I’m here
in this union hall with you, Speaker McCarthy just got finished speaking
to Wall Street two days ago and speaking to the United States Congress a
few hours ago in what we described as the MAGA’s economic vision. It was
days before Tax Day. Do you think he told the wealthy and powerful that
it’s about time they step up and start paying a fair share? Not a word.

Do you think he told the billion-dollar companies to stop — stop
stashing profits and tax havens out off the coast and shipping jobs
overseas? I didn’t hear any of that. Did you?

Instead, he proposed huge cuts in imports and very important programs
that millions of hardworking and middle-class Americans count on.

All the while, he and the MAGA officials are separately pushing for more
tax giveaways and overwhelming benefits to the wealthiest Americans and
biggest corporations.

Folks, it’s time — the same old trickle-down, dressed up in MAGA
clothing is worse than ever.

Let’s be clear. A plan has details. A plan is straight — that’s with the
American people. McCarthy comes along and delivers a speech with no —
not a plan.

Actually, in some sense, it’s pretty simple. For example, he talked
about limiting spending. All for that, man. Let’s limit spending.

But look at what he didn’t say. He didn’t tell you exactly how much he
wants to cut. But the House leading Republican proposal will cut
critical programs — so-called discretionary spending — by 22 percent.

That would mean cutting the number of people who administer Social
Security and Medicare, meaning longer wait times; higher costs for
childcare — significantly higher — preschool, college; higher costs for
housing and especially for older Americans, people with disabilities,
families with children, veterans. Thirty million fewer veterans
outpatient visits, leaving our brave warriors to get checkups and mental
health services and treatment and subsidies dis- — and substance
disorders out in the cold. Tens of thousands of people suffering from
opioid ep — the epidemic would be denied treatment they need for
recovery.

The MAGA 22 percent cut undermines rail safety, food safety, border
security, clean air, clean water. It’s not hyperbole; it’s a fact. Look
it up.

MAGA Republicans in Congress wants to defund the FBI and the police.
Talk about defunding. (Laughs.) They don’t like the FBI. Maybe it
arrested some of them. (Laughter.) It’s outrageous. I mean, think about
it. Defund the FBI?

MAGA Republicans in Congress have introduced a bill that could take food
assistance away from as many as 10 million kids — people, 4 million
children and put them at risk of going hungry in the wealthiest country
in the world.

MAGA Republicans in Congress have introduced a bill that could take food
assistance away from as many as 10 million kids — people, 4 million
children and put them at risk of going hungry in the wealthiest country
in the world.

MAGA Republicans in Congress support cuts in Medicaid that could lead to
millions of people losing their healthcare, including the working poor
and people with disabilities.

And here’s the thing. Does the painful — do these painful cuts actually
help the deficit? Do they actually reduce costs? Well, the answer is —
the honest answer is no.

The very first bill that the House Republicans passed was to get rid of
the law I signed to crack down on wealthy tax cheats. I’m talking about
the multi-millionaires and the billionaires.

What does it mean? Well, it was estimated by all the experts that if
they kept the number of IRS agents — not — not doing your taxes but
doing the incredibly sophisticated taxes required to do the
multi-billionaires and millionaires.

And guess what? It was estimated that it would in fact reduce the
deficit because we’d bring in more money — more money from the
super-wealthy, who would start to pay their fair share. Make it easier
for the wealthy to get away with cheating on their taxes — they wanted
to get rid of these IRS agents.

Well, that’s what they proposed again.

And, folks, while you pay your taxes, others aren’t. They want to
increase the deficit and get rid of the corporate minimum tax, a 15 per-
— 15 percent.

Look, I want to make sure that the $2 trillion Trump tax cut that he
passed in last term — only term — for $2 trill- — (laughter). Well, I
didn’t mean it that way. (Laughter.) I didn’t mean it that — (applause).

But they — they want to take that $2 trillion tax cut that
overwhelmingly helped the super- — I don’t know how many you got — you
guys benefited from that tax cut — to make it permanent.

And that tax cut, in the previous four years, ballooned the deficit —
ballooned the deficit by over 40 percent. They want to continue it.

And, by the way, the tax cuts didn’t help very much — overwhelmingly
benefit the wealthiest, the biggest corporations, the super-wealthy
families making more than — for example — $4 million a year, got an
average tax cuts of $175,000. How much did you get? (Laughter.)

MAGA Republicans in Congress also want to repeal the Inflation Reduction
Act, which will increase the deficit because, right now, allowing
Medicare to negotiate drug prices they have to pay to provide for healt-
— prescription drugs for the elderly. Guess what? That saves the
government $160 billion because they’re paying that much less. And
people are getting the benefit.

And, by the way, the previous administration cut the number of IRS
agents that are reviewing these complicated tax returns. That was part
of it as well.

The Inflation Reduction Act gives the IRS agents they need to get — the
number — the number of agents they need to get the taxes owed. It was
estimated that it would recover over $100 billion in taxes owed — if
they’re able to have these agents looking at them.

And, you know, all of this reduces the debt that we — that I’ve proposed
by $240 billion over the next 10 years. And the MAGA Republicans want to
repeal it.

Folks, that’s the MAGA economic agenda: spending cuts for working- and
middle-class folks — Americans — and tax cuts for those at the top of
the — the pile.

It’s not about fiscal discipline. It’s about cutting benefits for folks
that don’t seem to care — and they don’t seem to care much about. It’s
about finding ways to squeeze out more of America’s middle class. They
should be getting tax reliefs themselves, not the super-wealthy.

Imagine denying some veterans the Medicare they need — the medical need
— the medical care they need so the big corporations can keep paying
their taxes.

I felt very strongly about the legislation we passed. It affected the
ability of us to take care of those folks who were — died as a
consequence or sick because of burn pits.

My son was one of those kids. He spent a year in Iraq. I’ve been in and
out of Iraq and Iran — or Iraq and Iran — but Iraq — not Iran — I
misspoke — Iraq and Afghanistan over 30 times.

When I saw him when he was in Iraq — in Baghdad, he was less than a
couple hundred yards from one of those burn pits.

They’re 10 tee- — feet deep, the size of a football field. And they burn
everything in it, from jet fuel to toxic — a lot of you guys know folks
who are firemen. How many people came back with cancer as a consequence
of going into 9/11? And we finally took care of them.

Well, I was determined to take care of these kids. And we got it passed.
We got it passed.

Imagine trading off less food inspections so the wealthy can have a
giant tax cut.

Imagine denying poor and disabled Americans on Medicaid — Medicaid, not
Medicare — the treatment they need for asthma and diabetes so the
wealthiest Americans can keep cheating on their taxes.

And, by the way, I’m not saying every American cheats on their taxes.
But you have — we have a thousand billionaires in America. You know, the
average tax rate they pay? Eight. E-I-G-H\[-T\] percent. Eight percent.

I proposed a better way. How about starting with Big Oil? Guess what? We
still are going to need some oil. But we made — they made a $200 billion
in profit last year in the middle of a global energy crisis because they
weren’t reinvesting it in refineries.

And they received, in the process, an additional $30 billion subsidy
from the taxpayers. I want to cut those wasteful subsidies for Big Oil,
saving taxpayers $30 billion. (Applause.)

MAGA Republicans want to protect those subsidies for Big Oil.

We just finally beat Big Pharma by giving Medicare the power to
negotiate lower drug costs, and I want to keep going.

The MAGA Republicans in Congress want to hand Big Pharma back to power —
back in power.

Just think about it: We have now about 1,000, as I said, billionaires.
Their average tax is 8 percent, as I said. It’s wrong. That’s why I
proposed a billionaire minimum tax. No billionaire should be paying less
for the — of a tax rate than a schoolteacher or a firefighter.
(Applause.)

So, folks, here’s what really dangerous: MAGA Republicans in Congress
are threatening to default on the national debt — the debt that took 230
years to accumulate overall — overall — unless we do what they say. They
say they’re going to default unless I agree to all these wacko notions
they have. Default. It would be worse than totally irresponsible.

It would mean cuts in Social Security and Medicare, higher interest
rates for things like credit cards, car loans, mortgages. Working people
and middle-class seniors would pay the price for — the entire economy
would be at risk.

America has never defaulted on our debt, which is accumulated over 200
years. Let’s remember: The last administration alone increased the
national debt by 40 percent in four years. Yet, every single year they
passed — they passed the debt limit. Every single year.

In a speech to Wall Street, the Speaker failed to guarantee he would for
— be the first Speaker not to default on our debt. Let’s be clear, if he
fails, the American people will be devastated not just 10 or 20 years
from now, but today.

The Speaker likes to quote his hero, Ronald Reagan, who I knew because I
was a senator. But he doesn’t quote everything Reagan said.

Reagan said, “\[Debt ceiling\] brinkmanship threatens the holders of
government bonds and those who rely on Social Security and veterans’
benefits… And the United States has a special responsibility to itself
and the world to meet its obligation.” He goes on to say, “It means we
have a well-earned reputation \[of\] reliability…credibility — two
things that set us apart from \[the rest\] of the world.” That’s what
Ronald Reagan said.

Donald Trump is seeking to increase the debt limit while he was doing
what he was doing.

He said, quote, “I can’t imagine anybody ever even thinking about using
the debt ceiling as a negotiating wedge.” I guess he didn’t know the new
MAGA Republicans he bred. (Laughter.)

America — America is not a deadbeat nation. We meet our obligations.

And I made clear to Speaker McCarthy about how we should proceed to
settle our differences. No one should do anything to jeopardize the full
faith and credit of the United States of America.

Instead of making threats of default if I don’t go along with what they
want, which would be catastrophic for the country — if we don’t do it,
they say they’re going to let default take place — take default off the
table, and let’s have a real, serious, detailed conversation about how
to grow the economy, lower costs, and reduce the deficit.

I’ve laid — first time ever, I said, “I will lay my budget on the table
by March the 9th. You lay your budget on the table. And then we’ll
negotiate.”

MAGA Republicans owe the people the same. Offer a plan, not speeches.
Offer a budget that levels the American people exactly what you intend
to do and how you’re going to cut, what tax giveaways you plan to extend
to the super wealthy, what it means for the deficit.

Let me close with this. My en- — economic plan for the middle class is
transforming our economy to be stronger, fairer, and more innovative and
more compar- — more competitive.

That’s where all of you come in. Without you, we can’t rebuild America.
And, again, that’s not hyperbo- — we cannot rebuild America without you.

You’re part of a bold plan to invest in America that I have — and all of
America, including the places and people who have been forgotten. You
build the roads, the bridges. You’re going to take all those lead pipes
out of our system, make it safer to generate economic growth for the
country.

You get more — you got more to do, but we made a lot of progress, and we
just got to keep it going.

Because of you, we’re on the move.

I can honestly say — and I mean this — I’ve been doing this a long time,
but I’ve never, ever, ever been more optimistic about America.

We just have to remember who we are. We are the United States of
America. There is nothing beyond our capacity. (Applause.) Nothing we’ve
ever set our mind to we’re not able to do it when we’ve done it
together. (Applause.)

So God bless you all. May God protect our troops. Thank you so much.
(Applause.)

3:21 P.M. EDT
