---
date: '2023-09-15'
published_time: 2023-09-15 18:54:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:34 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.  Happy Friday.  Going to be really
quick here at the top.  As you can see, we have our National Security
Advisor, Jake Sullivan, here.  He’s going to preview the President’s
trip next week to the U.N. General Assembly and also take any foreign
policy questions you all may have. 

Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Karine, and good to see you all of you guys
again, including those of you who made the around-the-world trip just a
few days ago. 

As you all know, next week world leaders will convene in New York for
the opening of the 78th session of the U.N. General Assembly.  President
Biden will be in New York through Wednesday.  And he’s eager to use this
trip to advance U.S. interests and values on a range of issues from
mobilizing financial resources for the Global South for development and
infrastructure needs, to galvanizing cooperation to tackle the climate
crisis, to strengthening global support for Ukraine’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity as it defends itself against Russia’s brutal
invasion. 

At the G20, President Biden announced initiatives that will mobilize
significant additional financing for international development from
multiple sources, public and private, domestic and international. 

And he also reafformed U.S. — reaffirmed U.S. support for reform and
evolution of the multilateral development banks, especially the World
Bank, to better serve the needs of poor and middle-income countries. 

At this year’s General Assembly, the President will build on this
theme.  He will also reaffirm and advocate for the principles at the
core of our international order, including the U.N. Charter, the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  And he will underscore the need
for the U.N. and all multilateral institutions to be more
representative, democratic, and effective. 

So, on Tuesday, President Biden will deliver his annual address to the
General Assembly.  And in that speech, he will lay out for the world the
steps that he and his administration have taken to advance a vision of
American leadership that is built on the premise of working with others
to solve the world’s most pressing problems. 

We put a lot of points on the board and the President will talk about
how those steps — how all of those steps he’s taken so far ladder up to
a larger vision. 

In addition to speaking before the General Assembly, the President will
also meet with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres, and
they will cover both immediate hotspots and the longer-term trends. 

The President will also meet with the presidents of five Central Asian
nations: Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and
Uzbekistan.  This will be the first-ever C5+1 presidential summit. 

The C5+1 actually began in 2015.  It has been strengthened in the years
since.  And now we will see it come together at the leaders level for
the first time.

And this inaugural presidential summit will allow for the leaders to
discuss a range of issues, from regional security, to trade and
connectivity, to climate change, and ongoing reforms to improve
governance and the rule of law.

The President will also host the traditional reception with world
leaders, where he’ll have the chance to engage with dozens of heads of
state in government from around the world.

On Wednesday, the President will have the opportunity to hold a
bilateral meeting with President Lula, as well as join him in an event
with labor leaders from Brazil and the United States to highlight the
central and critical role that workers play in building a sustainable,
democratic, equitable, and peaceful world.

Also on Wednesday, President Biden will sit down with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss a range of bilateral and
regional issues focused on the shared democratic values between the
United States and Israel and a vision for a more stable and prosperous
and integrated region, as well as to compare notes on effectively
countering and deterring Iran.

President Biden will then return to Washington to host President
Zelenskyy of Ukraine here at the White House on Thursday.  And this will
be their third meeting here at the White House, and it certainly comes
at a critical time, as Russia desperately seeks help from countries like
North Korea for its brutal way in Ukraine, as Ukrainian forces continue
to make progress in their counteroffensive, and just after the next
Ukraine Defense Contact Group meeting that Secretary Austin is
organizing with dozens of our allies and partners in Europe earlier next
week as we continue to coordinate the provision of arms and equipment to
help Ukrainian forces.

President Biden looks forward to hearing President Zelenskyy’s
perspective on all of this and to reaffirm for the world and for the
United States, for the American people his commitment to continuing to
lead the world in supporting Ukraine as it defends its independence, its
sovereignty, and its territorial integrity.

Let me close with this.  President Biden is going to head to New York,
head into next week with the United States in a position of strength of
confidence; with strong allies, with new partners; with a vision for
institutional reform at the U.N., at the World Bank, and elsewhere; with
initiatives to deliver on infrastructure, on health, on climate, and
other global public goods.

And we see, at this point, more — a strong demand signal for more
American engagement, for more American investment, for more American
presence in — across all continents and all quarters of the world.

So, he is very much looking forward to the opportunity that next week
provides. 

And, with that, I’d be happy to take your questions. 

Yeah.

Q    What will President Biden’s message on Ukraine be at his U.N.
speech?  And are you preparing a new military package for Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We are always preparing a new military package for
Ukraine.  As you know, we do these presidential drawdown packages
essentially every couple of weeks.  And I think you can anticipate that
there will be a further announcement of additional resources and
capabilities, additional weapons to go to Ukraine — as they continue
this counteroffensive and to defend against Russian attacks — at some
point next week. 

With respect to his speech, the President will have a substantial
section of the speech devoted to the war in Ukraine.  He will talk about
the fundamental fact that the United Nations Charter — the charter that
founded the organization that everybody is gathering next week in New
York to engage with — speaks to the basic proposition that countries
cannot attack their neighbors and steal their territory by force. 

That was also a proposition that was at the core of the G20 statement
last weekend.  It will be a set of principles that he lays out in the
speech as he continues to advocate for the very large number of nations
that have stood with Ukraine in the U.N. General Assembly to continue to
stand with Ukraine. 

And he will connect the kind of cooperation we’ve seen across both the
developed and developing world to support Ukraine at the General
Assembly — that we need to take that same kind of cooperation and apply
it in other contexts as well where we can deliver for people on the hard
global challenges that will be at the center of the agenda for next
week. 

Yeah.

Q    Jake, what is the message that the White House believes that
President Zelenskyy needs to deliver to Congress, particularly
Republicans in the House, while he’s in town to convince them to
continue supporting U.S. military assistance to Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Frankly, I don’t believe President Zelenskyy needs our
advice to be an advocate for what Ukraine needs.  He has proven over the
course of the past 18, 19 months that there is no better advocate for
his country, for his people, and for the urgent and continuing need for
countries like the United States and our allies and partners to step up
to provide the necessary tools and resources that Ukraine needs to be
able to effectively defend itself.  He will come do that this time, as
he has done before. 

He’s had the opportunity in Kyiv over the course of the past several
months to host both Democrats and Republicans from both the House and
the Senate.  So, he is very much abreast of the perspective and the
discussions that are taking place up on Capitol Hill. 

And I think he’s looking forward to the opportunity not just to see
President Biden here at the White House, but also to see congressional
leaders from both parties to make the case that the United States has
been a great friend and partner to Ukraine throughout this entire brutal
war and that United States should continue to do that.

We have confidence that there will be bipartisan support for this.  I
think President Zelenskyy does as well.  And he wants to build momentum
towards that as we head to the end of the month. 

Yeah. 

Q    To that point, how do you have that confidence given the showdown
on Capitol Hill?  How can the President give assurances to President
Zelenskyy that there will be additional funding?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, President Biden doesn’t build his Ukraine policy on
assurances or promises; he builds it on delivering.  And we have
delivered multiple rounds of supplemental funding that passed with large
bipartisan majorities. 

We believe, based on our consultations on the Hill, that there continues
to be strong bipartisan support in both houses for continued funding
because, frankly, Republicans and Democrats both recognize that the
United States cannot — in its own naked self-interest, let alone the
moral obligations we have — walk away from Ukraine at this critical
moment. 

So, we believe that whatever other to-ing and fro-ing there is in the
legislative context — that at the end of the day, the United States will
be able to continue to deliver for Ukraine and continue to be able to
lead a diverse coalition of countries that are also stepping up to
deliver. 

I — I mentioned in my opening that Lloyd Austin is hosting another
contact group meeting next week.  And we expect to see other countries
stepping up on air defense, on ammunition, on other capabilities
increasingly — that they are sharing the burden, our European partners
and others, alongside the United States. 

And we’re showing that to the Congress to say, “This isn’t just about
the United States alone.  This is about the United States with the free
world and friends of the free world stepping up together to continue to
deliver for Ukraine.”

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  So, just to clarify: So, you’re n- — are you not
concerned at all about Ukraine funding and extra aid getting kind of
wrapped up or kind of mixed into the shutdown situation?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I spend my life concerned about everything under the
sun.  As those of you who know me know, I never sleep easily at night
about anything. 

The point I’m making is not about what’s going to happen on a particular
day, a particular vote, or, as I said before, the to-ing and fro-ing of
the legislation.  The point I’m making is to look at the bigger picture.

In the bigger picture, I do believe that the United States will be there
on a bipartisan basis to continue supporting the fight.

Q    And I don’t know if you can say this, but can you talk — do you
anticipate that Zelenskyy will be meeting with McCarthy and Republican
leaders as well on this trip, on this visit?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I — it’s not for me to announce his meetings up on the
Hill.  I will say that we have every expectation that he will meet with
both Democrats and Republicans from both branches of government on the
Hill. 

What the nature of those meetings will be, who exactly will be in them,
I will leave it to the leaders in the House and the Senate to — to make
their announcements. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  I know you said the President is going to be
meeting with Netanyahu next week when he’s at UNGA.  Is there a
possibility that he’ll meet with the Saudi Crown Prince as well to
discuss the potential peace deal?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not aware that the Saudi Crown Prince is coming to
the U.N. General Assembly, but we do not have a meeting scheduled with
him for next week.

Yeah.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Jake.  A little change of topic.  In the UK,
there was a staffer in the British Parliament who was arrested and
charged on the suspicion of being a Chinese spy.  Are you guys worried
there might be such an infiltration here on Capitol Hill or in one of
the U.S. agencies?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have any specific information with respect to
that.  But, of course, the United States takes very seriously the
possibility of espionage by a wide range of countries, whether that’s
cyber-enabled, human, signals intelligence, you name it. 

And, you know, we have a counterintelligence enterprise across the U.S.
government precisely to deal with that. 

But nothing specific to speak to at this time. 

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  A couple of questions.  First, on the Houthi visit. 
You issued a statement welcoming that.  How significant is this?  And do
you see the Saudis’ role now moving from being a party to the war to
more of a moderating — or medi- — mediating, rather, in the conflict in
Yemen?

And I have a question on Iran.

MR. SULLIVAN:  We believe that the Houthi visit is a significant step. 
It is the first time we have seen this happen in a very long time.  It
comes in a moment when we are 18 months in now to a truce that has
abated the violence in what had been the most violent and catastrophic
conflict going, you know, a couple of years ago. 

And it has been a paramount priority of the Biden administration to
deescalate and ultimately end that war. 

And we commend the government of Oman for what they have done to help
facilitate this. 

We are working closely with the Yemeni and — the Yemeni parties and the
United Nations. 

And as far as the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is concerned, we commend their
leadership as well, because this is a big step forward for them.  And we
believe that they are trying to work to help bring about an end to this
conflict. 

That would be good for everyone.  It’d be good for Saudi.  It’d be good
for the rest of the countries in the region.  It would certainly be good
for the Yemeni people.  And it would be good for the cause of peace and
stability across the Middle East.

Q    And on the first anniversary of Mahsa Amini’s death, you also
issued a statement reiterating everything that you have done in the last
year — whether it’s keeping Iran out of the U.N. Human — Human Rights
Council in New York or putting 70 other officials on the sanction list. 
But we haven’t seen anything to coincide with this one-year
anniversary. 

Do you think that anything that the administration might have announced
would complicate the prisoners deal?  Or do you see it separately?  And
why didn’t you issue anything new?

MR. SULLIVAN:  In fact, we are issuing today additional sanctions: more
than two dozen additional entities and individuals involved in
repression in Iran.  And we’ll continue to do that.  We’ll continue to
sanction Iranian behavior, whether it is flouting basic norms of human
rights contained in the Universal Declaration or it’s relative to the
work that Iran is doing to provide weapons to Russia to kill Ukrainian
civilians.  And — and we’ll have more designations on that in the coming
days. 

So, we believe that we are capable, on the one hand, of taking the
necessary steps to bring American citizens home — who belong here at
home, who have been wrongfully detained — and also to hold Iran
accountable for actions that they take that are contrary to
international law and to the basic norms and principles that even Iran
has signed up to at the United Nations.

Q    Follow on Iran.  Follow on Iran.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    On Ukraine, Ukrainians had hoped to come to New York after severing
the land bridge in Crimea.  What message does President Biden hope to
send about calls in the developing world to negotiate settlement — a
sense of openness or no interest in that?  And then on the Security
Council, will President Biden and President Zelenskyy attend?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, with respect to calls for peace or negotiations,
President Biden has been clear and will continue to be clear: The United
States supports peace in Ukraine.  But we support a just peace in
Ukraine, and a just peace has to be based on the principles of
territorial integrity and sovereignty.

And incidentally, many of those countries that you’re referring to in
Africa and Southeast Asia and Latin America have actually reinforced the
idea that they’re not just generically calling for peace, they are
calling for peace based on the very same principles that the United
States supports: sovereignty, territorial integrity, and the proposition
that you cannot simply rip off another country’s territory by force and
you can’t attack civilian infrastructure and try to destroy grain or
energy capabilities that are — are sustaining human life and — and the
economy of Ukraine.

So, we actually believe that we have, over the course of the past
several months, built a strong engagement and dialogue with the Global
South on what ultimately a just peace looks like.  It does not seem that
Russia is particularly serious about that at the moment. 

And so, our job, from our perspective, is to provide Ukraine with the
tools it needs to be in the best possible position on the battlefield so
that it can be in the best possible position at the negotiating table.

And the last thing that I would say, and we say this not just at
podiums, but to our partners in the Global South: Nothing about Ukraine
without Ukraine.  Nobody is going to negotiate Ukraine’s future without
Ukraine being the ones being the judge of their own decisions.  Not us
or anyone else imposing outcomes upon them.

Yeah.

Q    On the Security Council —

Q    So, just to follow up —

MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, I’m sorry.  What was the Security Council question?

Q    On the Security Council, will President Biden and President
Zelenskyy attend?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We don’t currently have plans for the — the President to
be there, but I can’t rule it out.  But at the moment, I don’t have
anything to announce on that.

Q    And to just follow on those two questions —

Q    Thank you, Jake. 

Q    — Jake.  You mentioned the Global South, and I think there’s a lot
of concern from the Global South that Ukraine is taking up a lot of
oxygen at this and previous UNGA. 

And so, wh- — how would the President balance the needs of the Global
South countries — particularly, you know, on debt reduction and climate
change, and so on — and rally support for Ukraine at the same time? 

And also, just to follow up on your point about making the General
Assembly a more — making the U.N. a more representative and demo- —
democra- — democratic and effective body, where are we in terms of the
President’s support to reform the Security Council?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President, in his U.N. General Assembly speech last
year, actually laid out his view that we need to add additional both
permanent and non-permanent members to the U.N. Security Council and
that we need a wider geographic represent- — representation on the
Security Council.  He will reinforce and reiterate that commitment this
year as well. 

And then, with respect to the question of how, on the one hand, we
continue to support Ukraine full-throatedly and, on the other hand, we
also make sure we’re addressing the needs of the Global South developing
countries, I’d say two things. 

First, these are connected.  Because of the war, Russia’s brutal
invasion of Ukraine has caused ripple effects that impact food security,
energy security, and other forms of harm to countries around the world. 
And so, ending this war on just terms, on the principles of sovereignty
and territorial integrity would serve the benefit not just of the
Ukrainian people, but people everywhere. 

Secondly, we have shown we can walk and chew gum at the same time.  We
have strongly supported the Ukraine at the same moment that we’ve put
forward ambitious proposals on World Bank reform, that we have led at
the table on debt relief, that we have mobilized tens of billions of
dollars for infrastructure needs in developing countries, that we’ve
announced new significant projects in every significant corner of the
world that is meant to deliver for the needs of people in those
countries. 

And we’re going to continue to do that.  And the President’s speech will
reflect that as well.

Yeah. 

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Yeah.  Moscow said there was no agreement reached
after the meetings in — with North Korea and Eastern Russia.  What’s
your evaluation of what we’ve seen during the last days?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, we’re not going to take their word for that or
basically anything they say.  We’ll see what ex- — actually ends up
happening. 

Our view has been before the visit and after the visit that talks about
the provision of weapons by North Korea to Russia to kill Ukrainians
have been advancing and continue to advance.  We don’t — I can’t name a
specific agreement for you today.  But we take a look at that with a
heavy dose — heavy grain of salt.

Q    And as for the meeting with Lula next week, will we — will there be
a moment to talk about the situation in Venezuela?  What’s your
evaluation of how much progress has been made on the Venezuelan side for
a change in the sanctions and the — concerning progress in the elec- —
electoral — on the electoral side in Venezuela? 

My question — I rephrase it: Have you heard anything from Venezuela that
brings you closer to reconsider sanctions?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to handicap the progress or characterize
the progress.  I’m just going to say what our position is and what we’ve
communicated to the Venezuelans and have said publicly — which is we are
prepared, on a step-by-step basis, to provide sanctions relief to
Venezuela as long as they are meeting milestones towards credible
elections.  And this has to be on the basis of reciprocity. 

They understand where we are on this.  And time will tell whether, in
fact, there is the possibility of moving forward along a roadmap that
involves this kind of step-by-step set of actions on both sides.  Time
will tell. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you — thank you, Jake.  I have a question on Russia, China,
and North Korea.  First question is Russia and China will work together
to neutralize all sanctions against North Korea currently being posited
by the U.N. Security Council.  Are you satisfied with the current
(inaudible) of the U.N. Security Council?

And second question is: At the meeting between the President Putin and
the Belarusian President Lukashenko yesterday, President Putin announced
that cooperation between Russia and North Korea and Belarus.  What
signal do you think this sends?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, it’s hard for me to characterize this trilateral
cooperation.  We’ll — we’ll see what comes of that.  That, at the
moment, feels like words, but we’ll see what it translates into in terms
of actions. 

With respect to the U.N. Security Council, there are a number of U.N.
Security Council resolutions that, as permanent members of the U.N.
Security Council, both Russia and China have legal obligations to
enforce and uphold.  And it is the case that we have very real concerns
based on what Russia has just done that they are going to live up to
their basic responsibility as a permanent member of the U.N. Security
Council on the basis of those resolutions. 

So, we will continue in New York and here in Washington and working with
both Tokyo and Seoul to continue to raise the fact that these
resolutions are on the books and that they need to be enforced. 

I would not put Russia and China in precisely the same box on the
question of North Korea.  Obviously, Russia has taken this step
forward.  We are continuing to communicate to Beijing that we expect
that they will uphold their responsibility with respect to the
enforcement of these resolutions.  And we will continue to press for
further action in New York in response to provocations and — and other
steps that North Korea takes that are in violation of international
law. 

Final point I would make: Yesterday, we held the first of our commitment
to consult mechanism engagements at the National Security Advisor level
in response to this meeting between Kim Jong Un and Putin.  So, I spoke
with my counterparts from Japan and South Korea.  The three of us had
the opportunity to compare notes on this and to coordinate what steps we
will take in the coming days and weeks. 

So, we are very closely aligned on a trilateral basis to respond to
anything that Russia chooses to do with North Korea on a going forward
basis. 

Q    Thanks, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Thanks a lot, Jake.  I want to ask you about the communiqué
concerning Ukraine that came out at the conclusion of the G20.  The
communiqué reads a lot differently than the communiqué that came out the
prior year at the G20 in Bali, Indonesia.  It is more neutral; it’s
tepid versus the prior communiqué that was released. 

What is the reaction that you’ve received from your Ukrainian
counterpart to that statement that came out at the G20? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  I — I have not received any kind of formal or, really,
informal reaction from Ukraine with respect to the G20 communiqué.  What
they’re focused on — what Ukraine is focused on is the process that
began in Copenhagen, continued in Jeddah, which is an opportunity for
Ukraine itself to be able to engage with the countries of the Global
South and find a way forward towards a common understanding of the
principles upon which the just peace should be based. 

And actually, the conversations in both Copenhagen and Jeddah bear a
strong resemblance to the propositions that are laid down in that
communiqué.  First, the paramount centrality of territorial integrity
and sovereignty.  Second, the statement that it is totally unacceptable
for any country to use force to violate the territorial integrity of
another country.  Third, that attacking grain infrastructure or civilian
infrastructure should be totally off-limits.  And fourth, the threat or
use of nuclear weapons in a conflict like this should be inadmissible. 

Those four things, which all showed up in the G20 communiqué, all are
powerful and, I would argue, in a way, not neutral statements in this
context because those are all four things that really say to Russia,
“What you are doing is not acceptable” — are the — are the same kind of
four principles or premises that have been core to the conversation that
Ukraine is having with its partners.

So mainly, what they wanted to talk to me about in the aftermath of the
G20 was: What was the nature of the conversation in the room?  What is
the attitude of key Global South countries about a just peace?  And
then, how do we take and build upon the engagements that Ukraine has had
in that process and move forward from there consistent also with the
principles that are laid out in Ukraine’s own peace formula?

So, that’s how we’ve had the conversation so far.  I think we’re very
much aligned on how we think about a constructive, effective engagement
with Global South countries.  And when I say “we,” I mean Kyiv and
Washington.   
  
And so, we’ll continue to work down that line accordingly.  
  
Q    And then just one other one here at home.  With this push to get
additional Ukraine funding, you acknowledged this year heading into the
U.N. General Assembly, the dynamic is different.  Last year, Democrats
controlled both the House and Senate at this time.  Now Republicans
control the House.   
  
The dynamic being different — does that make your job, the
administration’s job that much more difficult to move forward with
trying to get the aid that you think is necessary for Ukraine?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Last week, I had the chance to sit with the leadership —
Democratic and Republican — in the Senate, the leadership and the chairs
and rankings of the major national security committee — committees. 

Yesterday, I had the chance to sit with the Democratic and Republican
leadership in the House and the chairs and ranking members of the — of
the key committees.   
  
And I’ve got to say, in those conversations, I felt the basic vibe, so
to speak — the idea that the United States needs to come together on a
bipartisan basis to support Ukraine — felt as strong as it did a year
ago on both sides of the aisle.   
  
But, of course, I acknowledge that there’s a difference between this
Congress and the last Congress.  And we’ll have to contend with that as
we go through the discussions that will continue in the days ahead on
how to get Ukraine the resources it needs.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  
  
Q    On the C5+1 summit at the U.N., are there specific asks or
deliverables that the administration is seeking from this bloc?  And
secondly, should that be viewed as a signal to China that this — this
summit is happening?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, this summit is not against any country.  It is for
a positive agenda that we want to work through with these countries. 
And so, on your question of deliverables, we do expect to have a joint
statement at the end of it that will lay out, in key areas, concrete
things that we intend to work on and do together, and the United States
will bring to the table some resources to be able to do that
effectively.   
  
Yeah.

  
Q    Jake, I — apologies if I missed it.  But is the President not
participating in Wednesday’s Climate Summit?  And if not, who will be
dispatched from the U.S.? 

And then, more largely, I know the Secretary-General said he wants folks
to come with something ambitious and new.  Will the U.S. have something
ambitious and new to offer at that summit?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, currently, the President is not scheduled to
participate in the — in the U.N. Climate Summit on Wednesday.  I will
have to come back to you on who the U.S. representative is going to end
up being, and I’ll let that person speak to what the United States
brings to that summit.  
  
Yeah.

  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  Yesterday, we saw a report on China that the defense
minister has been the subject to an investigation.  We also saw the U.S.
Ambassador to Japan quoting Shakespeare about something being “rotten in
the state of Denmark” and saying that this minister hasn’t been seen for
three weeks.  Do you have any information on that?  Anything you can
tell us?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have anything for you today on that.  
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Given the complex issues you’ve been talking about that the
President is dealing with and given your role being such a close
advisor, I want to ask you about how you would describe to us the impact
on a personal level that the President is going through with the
indictment of his son?  And does it have anything that you can see that
affects his ability to prepare or his focus on these issues as he’s
going into a consequential week?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  You don’t have to take it from me; you heard directly
from the President that he’s focused on delivering for the American
people.  That’s true in terms of what he’s trying to get done here at
home, and it’s definitely true in terms of what he’s trying to deliver
in the way of security at the U.N. General Assembly in supporting
Ukraine and moving forward.   
  
So, that’s what he’s focused on.  That’s where his mindset is.  
  
I had the opportunity to participate in the President’s Daily Briefing
today.  And he was dialed in on the key issues that we’re confronting
and will continue to be as we head into the New York week next week.   
  
Last question.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  Back on MBS.  Did the President have an
opportunity to speak to the Saudi Crown Prince in New Delhi,
specifically about oil production over the next year?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The President had a brief exchange with the Crown
Prince.  He didn’t have a formal meeting, and I did not get into details
on that topic or other topics.  What he was really focused on at that
meeting was the announcement of this economic corridor.   
  
But, of course, we are in regular contact at senior levels with Saudi
Arabia about ensuring a stable and affordable supply of energy to global
markets.  And we’ll continue that conversation in the days ahead.   
  
So —  
  
Q    The Chinese Vice President is going to be there.  Are any U.S.
officials going to meet with him?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have an announcement for you today.  But stay
tuned in case, you know, there is a — a U.S. official who ends up seeing
the Chinese Vice President.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.

Q    One more?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On food security, just finally, the U.N. leadership is expecting to
have talks on reviving the Black Sea grain deal.  Does the White House
have any optimism on the likelihood of that happening?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I think I said earlier I’m never optimistic about
anything, which remains true in this context, as well.   
  
But, no — look —  
  
Q    We’re worried about you, Jake.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Are you getting enough sleep?  I mean —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  It — (laughter) — thank you.  Although —  
  
Q    He needs a vacation.

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s — you know, it’s what Joyce said about Irish people,
that they have an abiding sense of tragedy that sustains them through
temporary periods of joy.  (Laughter.)  It’s — that’s my existence.  
  
Look, we don’t see an immediate pathway back to this because, you know,
Russia’s excuses, answers on this just keep shifting.  And what they all
sort of betray is a base of — a basic lack of willingness on their part
to allow grain to free flowly — flow freely to the world.   
  
We are going to continue to press on them.  We are going to call on the
rest of the world to do the same.  We know the Turks are working hard at
this; Guterres is working hard at this.  So, we hope that they can
generate an outcome. 

But the Russians are not giving us a huge amount of cause for optimism
at this moment.   
  
Thanks, everybody.

  
Q    Thank you for coming.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Jake.  Okay, a couple of things before we
take additional questions.

The President, his senior staff, and officials across the federal
government are monitoring the path of Hurricane Lee.   
  
Late last night, the President immediately approved Maine’s emergency
declaration to help the state prepare for the impacts of Hurricane
Lee.   
  
Additionally, FEMA Administrator Criswell has been in contact with
governors from New Hampshire, Maine, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island. 
And FEMA has staged resources across New England to provide rapid
federal assistance if needed.   
  
Now, we encourage all of those in the path of this large and dangerous
storm to remain alert, listen to local officials, and prepare for the
impact.  Visit Ready.gov for tips on how to prepare.  
  
The President and his entire administration stand ready to support
communities which may be impacted.   
  
As you all know, today is the first day of Hispanic Heritage Month.  It
is a time to honor the history and contributions of the Hispanic
community to our nation.   
  
Next Thursday, September 21st, President Biden will attend the 46th
Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute Gala, and Vice President Harris
will participate in a moderated conversation with young Latinos during
the CHCI Leadership Conference.   
  
The First Lady will celebrate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month in
Atlanta, Georgia, today at an event honoring trailblazing Latino leaders
hosted by the Georgia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.   
  
And later today, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Small Business
Administrator Isabel — Isabella Casillas Guzman will also be visiting
<s>Latino small owned businesses</s> \[Latino-owned small businesses\]
in Washington, D.C., to highlight how Bidenomics is delivering for
Latinos.   
  
Stay tuned, as we will have more to come through — throughout the month
about how the President’s agenda is delivering for the Latino
community.   
  
And finally, as Jewish communities in the United States and around the
world prepare together at sundown for Rosh Hashanah, the President and
the First Lady are extending their warmest wishes for a happy and
healthy New Year. 

Last night, the President spoke to over 2,000 rabbis across the country,
wishing them a happy New Year.  To every Jewish — Jewish family across
America, Israel, and the world celebrating this evening and observing
the High Holidays ahead, shana tovah. 

With that — that’s it.  Go ahead, Aamer.

Q    Thanks.  Why did the President think it was important to dispatch
Acting Labor Secretary Su and Gene Sperling now?  The targeted strike is
about a half — half-day old now.  Does this early action suggest that
the President is worried about this situation quickly spiraling —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — and impacting the broader economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  Let me just lay out a couple
of things that the President said, and let me just start by saying,
like, no one wants a strike, right?  No one wants a strike. 

But the President respects workers, as you heard from him.  He respects
workers’ rights to use op- — to use their options under the collective
bargaining system and understands their frustration. 

The President believes the UAW, the Big 3 contract must lead to a
vibrant auto — auto future made in America that promotes good, strong
middle-class jobs that a worker can raise a family on and where the UA-
— the UAW remains at the heart of our economy. 

So, the President appreciates that the parties have been coming together
and working 24/7 and that companies have made their significant offers,
but he believes that they must go further to ensure that record
corporate profits mean a record contract for the UAW. 

And so, the negotiating parties are continuing their work.  That’s what
we’ve heard from them. 

The UAW has made clear their desire to continue negotiations with the
company on Saturday morning.  That is tomorrow, as you all know.

And as the President mentioned, to your question about Julie Su and —
the Acting Secretary and Gene Sperling, as you know, they have been
active in this from very early on — very early — early days of — of the
negotiating process.  They’ve been — made themselves available for — for
conversations.  And so, we have mentioned that multiple times.  Gene
Sperling has certainly played as a coordinator — coordinator role from
the White House. 

So, look, they are not — I want to say one last thing is that
negotiations are up to the parties to work out.  That’s why there’s co-
— collective bar- — bargaining system.  They’re not going to intervene
or mediate — or mediate.  They’re here to help in any way that is
needed. 

Again, we have engaged with these parties from almost the beginning.  It
is — want to make sure that we continue to be clear that we’re — we’re
here.  The team stands — the President’s team stands to assist. 

But certainly, we are — we are glad to hear that tomorrow — that they’re
going to continue to have the conversation.

Q    So, it shouldn’t be seen as a reflection of the President being
overly concerned about the situation?  This is just: They’ve been
involved — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: They’ve been involved.

Q    — and this is just a further —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we have said this before.  We have — we have — we
have talked about the President’s engagement, how he has talked to the
Big 3, how he’s reached out to UAW.  We have been — we have — we have
been engaging with them for some time now. 

And so, look, this is — this is something that we are going to leave to
the parties, to continue to have these negotiations, to continue to have
these — these conversations.  And I think it’s important to do that.

This is part of the collective bargaining system.  This is what we
believe has worked, right?  We have seen it worked in the past.  And
we’re going to encourage all the parties to continue to have this
conversation.

Q    And just a brief second one.  Would the President pardon or commute
his son if he’s convicted?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve answered this question before.  It was asked
of me not too long ago, a couple of weeks ago.  And I was very clear,
and I said no.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Thanks.  The President said today record profits for the automakers
should mean record contracts for the UAW.  Does that mean that he
supports a 40 percent raise in these new contracts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into the specifics. 

I mean, the President has always said that there should be — that he
believes in fair wages and fair benefits for workers.  That is nothing
new, right?  He believes in making sure that workers are able to raise
their family — right? — to be able to — to have what they need to do
that in a way that is very fair. 

And so, that’s nothing new.  The President has said that. 

Look, what we’re going to continue to say is the President is going to
urge the parties back to the table to hammer out a win-win agreement. 
That’s what the President wants to see. 

We appreciate the parties continuing to do that on a 24/7 basis.  And
the President believes that the companies must go further, as — as you
just mentioned, to ensure that record profits mean a record contract. 
And it’s simple as that. 

He wants —

Q    Further than what they’ve already proposed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into the specifics. 

What — the President made himself very clear.  We have always been
really clear.  He respects workers’ rights to use their options for —
for collective bargaining.  That’s what we’re — we’re seeing. 

The collective bargaining system works.  We’ve seen that happen multiple
times in the last two years under this president. 

And — and certainly he understands their frustration, but he’s going to
encourage — continue to encourage to have that conversation and
continuing to negotiate.

Q    And can you tell us if the President has talked to his son since
these charges came down yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  There’s nothing new here.  As I’ve — as I’ve
been asked that question many times.  I’m not going to get into private
conversations that the President has with his family.  I’m just not
going to speak to it.

Q    Will those conversations, though, have to change given the
heightened scrutiny —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just —

Q    — over these charges?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — I’m just not going to get into private
conversations that the President has with his family.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    How damaging do you expect the strike to be to the U.S. economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to — certainly not get into
hypotheticals from here.

Look, we are going to continue to monitor — that is something that we do
here — to see what — what is going to be happening here.  And we’re
closely monitoring the situation.

But no decision have been — has been made on any path forward. 

And so, again, we’re going to monitor.  We’re going to encourage.  And
we’re actually — we’re happy to see that the negotiation is continuing
to happen, to continue to occur.  We’re going to see them — as the UAW
stated: They’re going to get back together tomorrow, Saturday morning. 

And so, that’s what the President wants to see: collective bargaining
happening at this level, at this time. 

Q    And are you hoping for a quick agreement?  Is that what Gene and
Julie are going to try and get?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, Gene and Julie, as I mentioned, the —
the Acting Secretary of Labor and also Gene Sperling, who has played
coordinator throughout this process, is — is going to do what they’ve
been doing: engaging, offering assistance if they — if — if they need
it. 

And — and so, we’re going to continue to stay engaged.  We’re going to
continue to monitor. 

This is nothing new.  They’ve been engaging for some time now.  But, of
course, this is up to the parties to come up with a win-win, we believe,
agreement so that — so that we can move forward. 

Go ahead, Kayla.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President’s remarks today were seen as a
pretty firm endorsement of the workers’ position.  Previously, the White
House had avoided taking sides, encouraging both parties to stay at the
table.  What changed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think anything has changed.  I mean, the
President has always been a pro-union president.  I mean, you have heard
to say that he is seen as the most pro-union president that we’ve had
thus far. 

And so, you know, the President respects workers’ rights.  He does.  He
respects their rights to collective bargaining.  We believe it is
something that is important that they have the right to — to choose to
use.  And he understands their frustration.  He believes that workers
should have — should be able to ask and to get fair pay and fair
benefits.  And that’s nothing new.  That is nothing new. 

So, again, you heard directly from — from this President: the
negotiation — negotiating parties are continuing to work.  That’s what
is really important here.  And — and they’ve made clear — UAW has made
clear that they’re going to continue these conversations on Saturday
morning, and that’s what we’re — we’re going to see.

We — we are offering, you know, Senior Advisor Gene Sperling and Acting
Labor Secretary Julie Su, they’re going to go to Detroit.  But
ultimately, these negotiations are up to the parties to work out.  And
we understand that, but we are offering any assistance that we can
provide. 

Q    But to say that the negotiations are up to the parties to work out
and also have the President say that the companies have not gone far
enough, it appears that the President is — is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    — taking the side of the workers here. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I don’t think so.  I mean, look, the President
respects workers’ rights.  There — there is a collective bargaining
system happening, and he understands their frustrations.  He understands
the frustrations of the workers.  Absolutely. 

Again, this is nothing new.  We have said they should — they should be
able to ask and receive fair pay and fair wages — I’m sorry — fair
benefits.  And so, that’s what we want to see. 

Those conversations, those negotiations are continuing to move forward. 
We appreciate fo- — what they’ve been doing for the past 24/7 — you
know, the past — the past, you know, 27 — period of time, right? 

And, you know, we want to see them continuing to work this out.  And
that’s what they’re doing. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can you speak to some of the difficult intersections here for the
President.  He obviously supports electric vehicles and development of
that.  He clearly supports labor, as you’ve discussed.  Michigan is
important.  And that, of course, is a big part of where the Big Three
resides. 

So, these sort of different points of pressure on the President when he
is trying to send a message that really has different audiences here. 
And they’re at odds in some ways when you’re talking about management
and labor. 

Could you just speak to the sort of unique set of circumstances here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, there are always unique sets of
circumstances when we are talking about collective bargaining with
unions.  Right?  We saw that with UPS and Teamsters.  We saw that with
other — with the West Coast ports.  I mean, there are always interesting
circumstances that are — that lie in front of — lie in front of us that
needs to be worked out. 

But, again, the President has been very clear: This is why collective
bargaining, we believe, is important here.  This is why we appreciate
all the sides staying at the table and continuing to have this
conversation.  Because what the President — and what I have just said:
We believe that they can hammer out a win-win agreement.  We think that
could happen. 

And so, this is — I don’t think there is anything unique about this.  We
have seen this before.  But we encourage –continuing to encourage them
to — to — you know, to move forward in a way where they are at the
table; they’re hammering this out, with — doing it in good faith; and
they come — come — come forward or end — end in a place where it’s a
win-win agreement for — for everyone. 

And so, that’s what the President is going to continue to do.  Again,
we’ve seen it with the West Coast ports.  We’ve seen it with the
Teamsters and — and UPS.  We’ve seen it with the railroads — right? —
we’ve seen it with rails.  So, we’ve seen this before. 

And so, again, all of them are interesting circumstances.  The President
is going to continue to — to speak for workers’ rights and also continue
to say, “Let’s continue to have those conversations.  Collective
bargaining is really important.”

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You’ve spoken about past outreach that the
President had done to President Fain and to the Big Three leaders, and
Gene Sperling and Acting Secretary Su’s involvement.  But now that the
strike is underway, can you just clarify: Do you anticipate the
President reaching out personally, again, to the UAW and to the Big
Three leaders?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I don’t have anything to read out at this
time.  You heard directly from the President and how he wants to see a
win-win agreement for folks to continue to stay at the table. 

Just don’t have anything to read out, as far as a call, a conversation
that the President is going to have.

Q    And can you confirm the report that the Biden administration is
considering options to provide aid to auto suppliers who are impacted by
the strike, including potentially Labor Department grants and
small-business loans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re monitoring this situation.  I just
don’t have any — any announcements or decisions to make or anything to
confirm at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is the White House planning to have a news
conference next Thursday when President Zelenskyy visits the White
House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you just heard from the National Security
Advisor.  He just announced the visit — the zi- — the visit from pel- —
President Zelenskyy.  We’re going to hammer out what that day looks
like, what the logistics are going to be.  I just don’t have anything at
this time. 

Q    And second question for you: The President is reportedly going to
be having a democracy speech in the next couple of weeks.  What can you
tell us about that?  What’s the message he hopes to deliver?  And why
now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of any announcement of a
president- — of a presidential speech.  Once we have something to
announce, certainly we will share that, just not going to get ahead of
it at this time. 

Go ahead.

Q    On Su and Sperling’s deployment to Detroit, can you clarify the
timing of that?  What — did the President ask them after the deadline? 
Are they there yet? 

And when you say they’ve been “active in the conversations,” what has
the help that they’ve provided look like?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m —

Q    And then I have a COVID question after that.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, totally.  So, look, we’ve been engaged with the
parties on a regular basis.  We have.  And I’ve mentioned this multiple
times over the past several weeks, certainly.  So — probably even more,
a couple of months.   
  
And so, we are making it clear that, if it’s helpful — right? — the
President’s steams \[sic\] — team continues to stand ready to assist. 
And that is what the President was laying out in — in having — in having
the Acting Secretary, Julie Su, and his Senior Advisor, Gene Sperling,
go out to Detroit.  
  
But they have been regularly engaging for some time now.  This is just a
continuing — a continuing engagement that we’ve seen.  And I’m not going
to get into point to point — point by point on what’s been discussed,
what’s been — what’s been put forth in front of anybody.  This is a
conversation that is happening amongst the folks who are, certainly, at
the table negotiating.  But I’m not going to get into specifics from
here.

  
Q    The President asked them to go to Detroit after the deadline —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have — I don’t have any timeline.  But
what I can say is, they have been engaged for some time now — both Gene
Sperling, both Julie Su — at the direction of the President for some
time.  And so, this is a continuation of that engagement.   
  
Again, the President wants to — is urging parties to continue to have
those conversations, to stay at the table.  And he appreciates what they
have been doing for 24/7.   
  
We’re going to see, as the UA- — A- — UAW has made clear, their desire
to — to continue those negotiations and — with the companies.  And we’re
going to see that tomorrow morning.  
  
That’s all I have.  
  
Q    And then, on COVID, what is the White House’s reaction to Governor
DeSantis’s announcement advising against COVID boosters for people
younger than 65?  Is the White House concerned about this, especially
considering snowbirds are going to be heading down to Florida —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — soon?  And also, will the President get boosted?  Will he do that
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’ve answered the second question already, which
is the President is going to get the updated booster.  That is something
that he is planning to do.  So — so, answered that question a couple of
days ago.  
  
Look, the fact that — the fact is that we know that these vaccinations
against COVID-19 remain effective.  They do.  And they protect — they
protect people from — from avoi- — from going to the hospital, avoiding
the hospital, long-term health challenges, and death.   
  
And — and as we head to the fall and winter season, these — this is the
best way to protect yourself from COVID.  And so, this has been — and
let me add, this has been thoroughly reviewed — right? — by scientists,
by the experts, leading public health agencies.  And they are safe, and
they are effective.   
  
And this is a — you know, this is a message that we’ll continue to
push.  And we know, since this administration’s launch of the largest —
the largest vaccination program in our nation’s history, for COVID-19
vaccines, it has saved — those vaccines have saved millions of lives. 
That is something that we know.   
  
So, this is a — when you when you look at the vaccines, that — that —
these new boosters, this is something that public experts have
approved.  And that’s what’s important.  It’s important that, as we go
into the fall and winter months, that the American public is safe, that
they get updated on their vaccines.   
  
And let’s not forget, there’s the flu — the flu vaccine, as well. 
There’s RSV.   
  
All of these things are going to protect the American people.  And so,
we’re going to continue to encourage Americans to — to make sure they do
everything that they can as we’re providing — or as we’ve seen these
vaccines being provided now to protect themselves as we get into the
winter.

  
Go ahead, Ed.

AIDE:  We have time for one or two more.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m going ask you about the strike, if I could.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    So, is the automakers’ strike and the contract impasse partly a
result of the President’s forced transition to electric vehicles?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  We don’t believe that to be — look — and we’ve —
you’ve heard us say this.  Jared was here just the other day.  He talked
about the President’s policies as it relates to the future of auto
industry and how it’s going to build — how it’s going to rebuild America
— right? — making sure that we’re making things in America — right? — by
— by American workers.  That has always been the President’s focus.   
  
EV — EV sales, if you look at it, hit a record high last quarter,
increased by nearly 50 percent from the same time last year.  And EV
prices are down 20 percent year over year, being driven in part by
Inflation Reduction Act credits.   
  
So, again, thanks to the President, thanks to congressional Democrats,
sales are going up and costs are coming down.  And that’s what we’re
seeing.  
  
Q    But Ford says it’s going to lose four and a half billion dollars
this year on its EV division.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, look, I just laid out how important this part —
this provision is, as it — as it was part of the Inflation Reduction
Act, how important it is, how sales are indeed going up.  Right?  That’s
Ford.  Right?  Sales are going up while costs are going down.  Really
important — important to bringing — bringing manufacturing jobs here,
making sure we’re building in America, also making sure that we’re
dealing with the climate crisis.   
  
This is what the President’s focus is on — right? — making sure that we
rebuilt an industry back in America, as well as bringing jobs back here,
too.   
  
And so, that’s what we’re seeing.  Again, sales are going up and costs
are going down.  
  
Q    One more quick thing.  I wanted to get your reaction.  The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce president released a statement saying — and I’m
going to read this, the quote — “The UAW strike and indeed the ‘summer
of strikes’ is the natural result of the Biden administration’s
‘whole-of-government’ approach to promoting unionization at all costs…
For the 94 percent of American private sector workers not in a union,
the costs are stacking up.”  I want to get your reaction.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  My reaction is this: The President believes that
collective bargaining works.  That’s what he believes.  And we’ve seen
that work.  And it is important that workers are able to have benefits
and wages so that they can raise their family.  That’s what the
President has always talked about, whether it’s his economic plan or in
this — in this instance, as we’re talking about unions and making sure
that workers — right? — come together with — with the companies and have
these real — these businesses — and have these win-win, hopefully,
agreements.   
  
And so, it’s important that workers’ rights — right? — they have their
rights, are able to ask for fair pay, fair wages.  And that’s what we’re
going to continue to say.  That’s why col- — we believe the collective
bargaining system works.  And we have seen that happen.  And it’s
important that we move forward in that direction.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just a couple on COVID.  Will the President get
that shot on camera like we’ve seen him do with his previous vaccination
rounds?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share about — about how
that’s going to look, if it’s going to be in front of camera or not. 
What I can say for sure is the President is going to get the updated
booster.  I just don’t have anything to announce at this time.

  
Q    Okay.  And the administration has said that there will be free
vaccines this round for uninsured Americans and through the Bridge
Program.  But there are certainly concerns among experts about the
rollout over the next couple of weeks being — having disparities for
people that have insurance getting out to pharmacies or to the sites
where people without insurance would go.  And already we’re seeing that
there isn’t availability at the Bridge sites just yet — through
Vaccines.gov. 

What is the administration doing to make sure that there isn’t a
difference for people who don’t have insurance — where they can get it,
how quickly they can get it — versus those that do have insurance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is something that, as you know, from
the beginning of our comprehensive vaccination program, we’ve always
made sure that we do the microtargeting, making sure that we don’t leave
communities behind.  That has been incredibly important.  In order to
fight the pandemic, to fight this — to fight COVID, you have to make
sure that all communities are getting — are certainly getting this
vaccine.  So, that is not going to change in this regard. 

And so, look, HHS has a number of initiatives underway, including
community stakeholders and digital outreach.  That’s going to continue. 

Let’s not forget the physicians and the — and the healthcare providers;
they’re going to play a critical role here, as they have in other kinds
of campaigns that we’ve had around these COVID vaccines as they’ve been
announced. 

And so, look, we’re — HHS is going to make sure that we are continuing
to be public facing here, having events with administrators.  We’re
going to do that.  We’ll have more to announce on that.  And so, this is
a priority for this administration.  We want to make sure that people
are aware on how to get these vaccines and that, again, communities —
that all communities are able to have access to this. 

This is something that we have done throughout the past two years of
this administration as we’ve tried to move forward with our vaccination
program.

Q    And it will get to the places at the same timeline?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re — we’re going to do everything that we can.  As
I mentioned, HHS has a — a few initiatives underway.  We’re going to use
not just — we’re going to make sure we do — continue to do what we’ve
done before — right? –the experts on the ground, the physicians on the
ground to get the information out there. 

But, again, we’re going to do everything that we can, as we’ve done with
every other campaign around the vaccination program, to make sure that
communities — all communities have access to this.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You’ve seen all the public polling, people
concerned about age.  How does the President plan to convince the
American people over the next year that 80 is not too old for someone
who’s running for re-election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Eighty is the new forty.  Didn’t you hear? 
(Laughter.)

But look, it is — let’s — let’s — you know, I get asked this question
about once a week, maybe twice a week.  I don’t know.  I’ve lost track. 

This is a president, if you think about it — in 2019, he got the same
criticism; in 2020, he got the same criticism; in 2022, he got the same
criticism.  And every time, he beats the naysayers.  Every time, he does
above and beyond and makes history in doing that — that others are not
able to — others are not able to do, right?  And I think that’s really
important, too. 

When you look at his record, you look at how he’s been able to bring
both sides together to get some really important things done — that
matters. 

You know, if you think about what the President and the Vice President
was able to do in 2020, 80 million votes — 80 million votes; more than
any other — any other ticket in history.  In history.  And they did that
in 2020. 

And so, you know, I get the — I get the question on age.  Certainly, we
all do.  But what we’re going to continue to talk about is the record
that this President has had.  It’s been a historic record. 

It is — it is something that’s going to change the lives of Americans. 
You think about his economic policy.  You think about the infrastructure
plan.  You think about — I was just talking about the Inflation
Reduction Act — whether it’s EV, you know, fighting climate crisis;
whether it’s lowering drug costs, because now Medicare is able to fight
Big Pharma. 

All of these things are things that the presidents before this president
had been trying to do for years and years and years and have not been
able to do that.  And so, that’s what we’re going to focus on.  We’re
going to focus on how can we continue to do big things and how we’re
going to build on the successes that this President has had in the last
two years.

Q    And so, given all that — everything you just listed — why do you
think so many Americans still say they have concerns about someone in
their 80s being President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I can’t speak to every American out there
and their concerns.  What I can speak to is what this President has
done, right?  I can speak to his experience.  I could speak to the
wisdom that he has.  I can speak to his record.

When it comes to — when it comes to how Americans — what they’re saying
about your particular question to me, that’s for them to speak to.  I
can just stay on — on our message — the platform that we’re trying to
push forward, and that is delivering for the American people.  We
believe that we’re doing that. 

You just heard the President talk about Bidenomics and how it’s building
a middle class — right? — from the bottom up, middle out, and how —
because of the economic policies that we have seen, we’ve seen some
historic growth, right?  The <s>3.5</s> \[13.5\] million jobs. 
Unemployment under 4 percent.  All of these things matter.  And making
sure that inflation is being — is being, you know, moderated, and that’s
what we’ve seen.  So, all of these things are important. 

I get — I get the question, but what we’re going to focus on is how
we’re going to continue to build on this President’s record, and that’s
what I can speak to. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  Have a great weekend.  See some of you
in New York.

2:33 P.M. EDT
