---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-08 01:50:08-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 01:50:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/08/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-ramstein-air-base-germany/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan En Route Ramstein Air Base,\_Germany"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Ramstein Air Base, Germany

(September 7, 2023)

7:06 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, everybody.

Q Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Well, thank you for joining us on our trip to New
Delhi, India, where we’re going to be headed to the G20, as you all
know.

As you see to my right, we have our National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan, who is happy to take your questions.

MR. SULLIVAN: Hi, everyone. Before I take your questions, I’m going to
repeat everything I said in the press briefing room — (laughter) — three
days ago.

All right, I will give you the mercy of not doing that. I’ll just say:
As we head into the G20, we’re looking forward to an opportunity to
engage on a range of what we think are really significant issues facing
all of the major economies of the world. And that goes from climate, to
energy security, to food security, to global macroeconomic stability, to
being able to deliver public goods to people everywhere through
ambitious initiatives like the World Bank reform initiative that
President Biden has been working on. And so, we think this will be a —
an important milestone moment for global cooperation at a critical time.

One thing I would note, because I got the question a couple of times in
the press briefing room about China and, you know, the fact that Xi
Jinping is not coming — whether they would play spoiler and so forth.
I’m not going to handicap what will happen at this summit in that
regard.

But I would point out that if you look at the hosts of the G20 over the
next few years: We have India this year, Brazil next year, South Africa
the following year, and then the United States. And I think, along with
those three country — countries — India, Brazil, and South Africa — the
U.S. has a deep stake in stewarding the G20 and making sure that it
remains a central mechanism for global coordination on all the major
challenges we face.

And I think, over the course of the weekend, you’ll see opportunities
for us to reflect that.

The other thing I would say is that, tomorrow, the President will be
meeting with Prime Minister Modi, and it will be an opportunity to
follow up on Prime Minister Modi’s visit to the United States. And we
will see meaningful progress on a number of issues, including the GE jet
engine issue, the MQ-9 Reapers, on 5G/6G, on collaboration on critical
and emerging technologies, and progress also in the civil nuclear area
as well.

So, we will mark all of that progress when the two of them meet
tomorrow, which shows the breadth of the relationship between our
countries.

Of course, President Biden will also speak on critical, fundamental
values that the United States stands for, as he does in all of his
engagements. And then, he’ll look forward to seeing a number of other
leaders on the margins of the G20 over the weekend before we head off to
Vietnam.

So, let me leave it at that, and I’d be happy to take your questions.

Q Jake, on the fundamental values question with Modi, there was a moment
at the State visit when they were standing next to each other, and the
President, you know, made very clear that press, religious, and other
fundamental freedoms had to be a core part of both of these democracies.

They’ve had, I think, roughly at least a dozen engagements — virtual,
in-person, and otherwise — now. Can you offer an assessment of how much
is that message resonating? I know you say he brings it up every time
with every one of these leaders. But in the case of Modi, how much is
that message resonating?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I can’t characterize another leader’s perspective, and
I’m not here to issue scorecards. What President Biden said when he was
standing at the State visit earlier this year and what he will say in
every significant leader engagement is what he believes and what the
United States believes and what an American president stands for.

That’s our responsibility. That’s what we do on behalf of our national
values, who we are as a people, who we are as Americans. That’s what
we’ll keep doing, and I’ll leave the scorekeeping to others.

Q Can I ask you a —

Q Oh, go ahead.

Q Can I ask you about some of the bilats? Can you confirm that the
President will be, indeed, meeting with the Crown Prince of Saudi
Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman?

MR. SULLIVAN: No, I can’t confirm any bilats. And, to be honest with
you, I think you will not see, because of the way the schedule is
structured, a significant number of formal engagements with other
leaders. I think most of the work that he’s going to do with a number of
significant heads of state and government over the course of the 48
hours he’s in Delhi will be more informal, on the margins, not formal
sit-down bilats.

So, I don’t — I don’t have any bilats to announce today.

Q Jake, quick question: We understand that the — the U.S. is planning to
announce a major rail deal with India and the Arab world — UAE, Saudi —
to connect both the Gulf countries and Arab countries with this major
railway network. And we were wondering if you can confirm that for us
and speak to its significance. We understand it’s one of the biggest
deliverables out of the summit.

MR. SULLIVAN: I can’t confirm anything for you tonight. I’ve seen those
reports as well.

What I can tell you is this is an initiative that we have invested
effort into with our partners. We believe that connectivity from India,
across the Middle East, to Europe is incredibly important and will bring
a significant number of economic benefits, as well as strategic
benefits, to all of the countries involved.

But where things land with respect to any potential announcements this
weekend, as opposed to down the line, I can’t say tonight.

Q Jake, going back to Modi and American values, our understanding is
that press access to the bilat will be pretty limited, if not
nonexistent. Can you detail what, from the U.S. side, you guys are doing
to press for press access and why Biden would meet with Modi if there
are no reporters allowed to participate in a pool spray or something
like that?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first, I mean, the President has private meetings
with other heads of state where in the room are the teams and not the
press. Secondly, we will of course provide a readout of the meetings so
that you have the opportunity to understand what was discussed.

And, third, we have a significant number of issues that we need to deal
with with India, both issues that present opportunities for substantial
cooperation and our mutual interest and issues where we need to work
through differences in perspective. So, the President will take the
opportunity to do that.

This meeting will be taking place at the Prime Minister’s residence. So,
it is unusual in that respect. This is not your typical bilateral visit
to India with meetings taking place in the Prime Minister’s office and
an entire program. This is the host of the G20 hosting a significant
number of leaders, doing so in his home, and he has set out the
protocols he’s set out.

Now, obviously, we in the U.S. government work hard to ensure and obtain
access for U.S. journalists to everything the President does. I’ll let
Karine detail all the steps we’re taking. But many of us at very senior
levels have been significantly involved in this, but that doesn’t always
yield a particular journalist standing in a particular pool spray.

What we can pledge to you is what’s in our control, which is ensuring
that we are transparent and comprehensive in our readout of what the two
leaders discussed, which we will.

Q Has there been an instance where President Biden, as president, has
had a bilateral meeting without a pool spray that — that you can think
of?

MR. SULLIVAN: You know, I think at multilateral meetings, there have
been times he’s gone and sat down with foreign leaders. In fact, I can
think of instances where I’ve snapped photos because it’s just been me
in the room with the foreign leader and President Biden.

Because of the dynamic nature of these multilateral summits, press —
press access issues tend to be different than they are in typical
bilateral fashion. And so, that’s why I think you find this circumstance
different from previous instances where the President and Prime Minister
Modi have stood before the press.

And I would also point out — I think it was Aamer who said they’ve met a
dozen times. I didn’t even realize that. But, I mean, to me, this is not
really a reflection of either the U.S.-India relationship or some larger
question of press access.

This particular — this is a — a circumstance-based issue, not some
larger issue. Because, obviously, you’ve had access to bilaterals
between the two. They’ve had press conferences, including the unusual
circumstance of a press conference in which Prime Minister Modi took
questions. So, that’s how we see it.

We consider this a serious issue. You guys have raised it with us. We
take that extremely seriously. I personally take it extremely seriously.
We are doing what we can, but at the end of the day, we will have to
kind of work through the parameters and protocols of these meetings in
coordination and consultation with the host and, in particular, with the
host at his personal residence.

Q Did you say the request was made, though? Did you guys ask for a pool
spray at this particular event, and you were told no?

MR. SULLIVAN: Of course. We ask for pool sprays — we spend our lives
asking —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Seriously.

MR. SULLIVAN: — for pool sprays and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All the time guys. All the time.

MR. SULLIVAN: — other things, of course. Of course.

Q Can I ask you about China? You mentioned a few times that you’ve been
asked about President Xi not being there. Can you describe, though, by
his absence, how that changes at all the dynamic or the tenor? Does it
make the idea of a joint communiqué — specifically some language on
Ukraine — easier, stronger for you all? I mean, it must change
something.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, our coordinators have been working all day and all
night the last few days on the joint statement. We come into this, the
United States, with immense goodwill towards producing consensus. And in
that, we bring a spirit of compromise to a lot of the different issues
that are contentious so that we can find a text that everybody can live
with.

I’m not going to personally characterize the Chinese position in the
room or the Russian position in the room. I think I’d ask you to go ask
around about that.

What I will say is that, even though the leader is not going to be
there, their premier will, the entire Chinese team is engaged, their
Sherpa or their coordinator is engaged. So, I can’t say that I have
personally seen or heard about a fundamental shift in their posture
because President Xi isn’t there.

But there’s still some distance to travel before there is a final
communiqué re- — released to the public or agreed among the leaders, and
we’ll have to see what happens.

Q Can I ask one quick follow? On President Xi, is it correct — I just
want to confirm there were no meetings or calls that we are unaware of —
that Biden and Xi have not spoken over the phone in any way since last
year’s G20? Is that correct?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, we’ve had a number of meetings without pool sprays
between President Xi and President — no, I’m — I’m joking.

Q Just checking. For a second, I was like, “Wah!” (Laughter.)

MR. SULLIVAN: Yes, I can confirm they have not —

Q Zero communication?

MR. SULLIVAN: — spoken since — since Bali.

Q And that means zero communication between the two since last year’s
G20 at that level?

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah, I mean, I hesitate to say “zero communication” only
in the following sense: Obviously, we’ve seen Secretary Blinken,
Secretary Yellen, Secretary Kerry, Secretary Raimondo all travel. I’ve
met with my counterpart. In those meetings, we are speaking on behalf of
our leaders, frequently, to one another.

So, the idea that there’s been no communication, I think, is — is kind
of an — could be a misnomer.

But the two of them have not had a telephone call or a meeting since
then.

Q Jake, on — you mentioned second — Secretary Raimondo’s trip to China.
The Chinese are reportedly considering blocking the sale of iPhones not
only to government agencies, but also state-owned and -operated
corporations in China. The whole point of that trip was to kind of open
up commerce between the countries.

Is this a concerning development for you guys? Is it something that
you’re going to raise? Is it something that you’d like the Chinese to
reconsider?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, without accepting the premise that that was the
whole point of the trip, because I think Secretary Raimondo did a
remarkable job of laying out what she was trying to accomplish — which
is about deepening the economic relationship, but also about explaining
what de-risking means and why it is a relevant element of our policy and
why national security is a feature of the relationship between the U.S.
and China, including the economic relationship.

But on the particular question of Apple phones, I’ve seen the reports. I
think this is more of a question for the PRC — what’s motivating them,
what the scope of this will be, and what they think the net effect of
that will be — than it is a question for the U.S. government.

Q Are you going to raise it in your talks with the Chinese at all?

MR. SULLIVAN: I mean, I don’t have plans to have a near-term
conversation with the PRC on this. And we’ve only seen the reports, so
we’ll see how things play out.

Q Can I —

Q A quick follow-up on China.

Sorry. Go ahead.

Q Well, I was just going to follow up on Huawei. I know you were asked
about it on Tuesday. You said you needed more time to evaluate the
situation. Is there any update? Or if there’s not, can you walk us
through what the timeline is for you guys to investigate this, what
method you’ll be using to investigate it, and how we can kind of see
that proceeding?

MR. SULLIVAN: First, this is largely an issue within the competence of
the regulatory authorities and the agencies, like the Commerce
Department, for example.

Second, there’s a number of different methods to try to, sort of, come
to an understanding of what exactly it is that we’re dealing with here.
All I will say is — and I said a version of this when I was at the
podium on Tuesday: We’re committed to the small-yard, high-fence
proposition. We are committed to ensuring that the fence — where it
exists — is patrolled effectively, and we will continue to do that.

And then, the question of timeline on this — that was Tuesday; today is
Thursday — I can’t give you an exact number of days, but this is not
going to be months down the road. We’re going to want to look at this
carefully, consult with our partners, get a clearer sense of what we’re
looking at, and then we’ll make decisions accordingly. And we’ll do so
in the context of the totality of our approach, not any one particular
smartphone or chip.

Q Are you confident, though, that there hasn’t been too much leeway
given already at this point, considering the breakthrough that — that we
think we’ve seen?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m confident in our approach. I’m confident that that
approach is built on a set of principles, and then we need to make
updates to the parameters of our rules as we go forward. And I mean that
as a generic statement, not with respect to this particular — this
particular news report or this particular account.

I’m confident of our approach, and I think it is built to be able to
inquire as to what the state of play is with respect to technology and
to make adjustments as necessary.

Q A quick follow-up on China, Jake. We understand the U.S. is planning
to send a very strong message on the issue of debt distress, and, you
know, we’ve heard you talk about the World Bank. But in terms of, sort
of, concrete proposals of foreign relief for these countries, what are
you planning to offer at this summit? And if you can talk a little bit
about that.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, this is not a summit to negotiate with particular
distressed countries, and each country requires its own workout
according to its own terms.

But what we are going to underscore at the summit is that there is a
fairly broad-base consensus about the shape of the solution for many
countries. And we just ma- — need to make sure that all countries,
including the PRC, get on board with that.

Q You had mentioned a joint — sorry.

Q Jake, can you give us a read- — a bit of readout about your meeting
with the Senate leadership today on the Ukraine supplemental? Was there
any kind of openness from McConnell and the GOP to, you know, keeping
that in there?

MR. SULLIVAN: It was a very substantive meeting. The senators have a lot
of specific questions about the policy, the state of play in Ukraine.
They had constructive suggestions for how we should proceed on multiple
dimensions of the policy.

And the most striking feature was the strong bipartisan support for
standing with Ukraine, for resourcing Ukraine, and for ensuring that
America’s commitment to Ukraine does not flag.

I felt that coming from Republicans as well as Democrats, from multiple
different elements of leadership and committee chairs on both sides of
the aisle.

And I’m not going to characterize any individual senator’s perspective
because that’d be, you know, violating the trust of the private meeting,
but I think I’m on solid ground saying that there was strong bipartisan
commitment on the Senate side to support Ukraine.

And with respect to the House, I’ll have a chance to go see both
Republicans and Democrats in the House next week.

Q Are you —

Q Can I follow — just on that real — I’m sorry.

Q Oh, no, I was just — are you — after that meeting, are you confident
that it would still be part of the supplemental, or does it seem like
maybe it would be pulled out? How are those conversations?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I think I said at the podium on Tuesday that I’m
confident that we will continue to get the resources we need for
Ukraine. I continue to believe that, in the end, that will be the case.
And nothing about today made me change that view.

Q Does that noise, though, from the House GOP — is that unhelpful going
into a major summit like this when you’re trying to build consensus?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think — and I’ve said this before in other contexts,
where our democracy has displayed different points of view on different
issues we’re dealing with — the leaders who are at this G20 are
sophisticated actors. They’re pols — whether they’re Democrats or
autocrats, they know that there is sausage-making and there’s debate and
there’s back-and-forth and toing-and-froing on issues. So, no, I don’t
think it — it puts us in a problematic position heading into this.

Q You mentioned a joint statement a bit ago. Given just how difficult it
was to come to consensus a year ago in Bali, is the view of the United
States still that you’re going to have some joint statement out of this
G20?

MR. SULLIVAN: I will not make a prediction on that.

I will say that the United States is ready to do our part to deliver a
joint statement, and we think there is a joint statement to be had. And
the question is: Will every country step up, be responsible, be
constructive? If the answer to that is yes, then we will get a joint
statement. But it’s too soon to tell.

Q I have a quick question on Saudi, Jake. We understand the White House
has now had several meetings with Israeli and Saudi leaders. And
wondering to what extent is a framework — a normalization deal shaping
up?

MR. SULLIVAN: Many of the elements of a pathway towards normalization
are now on the table. We don’t have a formal framework. We don’t have
the terms, you know, ready to be signed. There’s still work to do. And
we’re working through it.

But I think there’s a broad understanding of many of the key elements,
and the specifics require an incredible amount of legwork, discipline,
rigor. And all of the stakeholders in this are applying that as we
speak.

Q So, was there — I mean, would you characterize the recent meetings as
progress?

MR. SULLIVAN: I would characterize them as constructive.

Q Jake, on the —

Q Do you think —

Q — on the communiqué, obviously, one stumbling block is Ukraine. But
putting that one aside, the other seems to be climate — where
oil-producing countries want a certain language, while others are being
more ambitious. And there also seems to be an effort by China to tie
access to technology to climate change language.

Can you kind of talk through it — where you feel like those talks are,
from the U.S. perspective, right now and what you think of the Chinese
idea?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think the idea of holding climate hostage to a
particular country’s priority on some totally separate issue is not the
height of responsibility.

We have a climate crisis. We should deal with climate on its own terms.
It should not be a source of leverage. It should be a source of urgency
for countries to actually come to the table and try and solve it.

And I’ve said many times that the PRC’s effort to link climate to
America’s actions on other issues is not a game we are going to play,
and that’s true in the G20 context as well. And I believe that that is
true of other countries’ view, too; they do not want climate held
hostage.

Q Jake, another on China. What is your reaction to this Wall Street
Journal report that said Chinese nationals posing and \[as\] tourists
are trying to get access to military installations?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, one of the things about that report is it indicated
this has been a longstanding issue that very much pre- — pre-dates our
administration. Look, we take the security of our installations
extremely seriously against any form of threat, and we will continue to
do that.

And I work with DOJ and the DOD — and “I” meaning in my capacity on the
National Security Council — with DOJ and DOD to ensure that we have the
proper safeguards in place, and we will continue to do that as we go
forward.

Q Will this be brought up at the — at the meeting this weekend?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, we don’t have a plan for the President to engage
with the Chinese premier this weekend at this time.

Q You think —

Q Is there any disappointment —

MR. SULLIVAN: This will be the last one.

Q Is there any disappointment that Zelenskyy wasn’t invited to address
this summit?

MR. SULLIVAN: Look, from our perspective, anytime President Zelenskyy
gets the opportunity to address a body, a group is a good thing. We
believe that about the G20. He addressed it last year.

But President Zelenskyy has been relentless in his capacity to engage
all of the leaders who are seated at the table. And we also saw in
Jeddah, not long ago, many of the key countries of the G20, including
from the Global South, sit with Ukrainians in the same room to talk
through the principles of a just and durable peace, including
sovereignty and territorial integrity.

So, I feel good about where we are, although the U.S. view is very much
that having Zelenskyy have a role in this G20 would be a good thing.

Q Jake, can I ask you one quick thing on Vietnam? I know that there are
expectations that Vietnam will upgrade its formal relationship status
with the U.S. Can you confirm that or offer us any clarity on the record
here?

MR. SULLIVAN: I will be happy to talk to you on the record about Vietnam
in, like, 36 hours. (Laughter.)

Thank you, guys.

Q Thanks, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Jake. I appreciate it.

All right. Do you guys want to still hear from me?

Q Yes.

Q I got one for you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. All right, I do have a couple of things at the
top. Here we go.

So, today, the President nominated Michael Whitaker to serve as the next
FAA Administrator. I know not such big news, but it happened today.
Whitaker has over 30 years of aviation experience and broad support from
labor unions and industry stakeholders.

Since day one, the administration has taken action to increase air
travel safety, including hiring 1,500 new air traffic controllers and —
in 2023 — and — well, in 2023 and leading 90 runway safety action team
meetings at airports across the country to improve safety.

We urge Congress to swiftly confirm Mike Whitaker to lead the FAA.

On a similar note, the Senate has confirmed all three of the President’s
Federal Reserve nominees on a bipartisan basis.

In the past year, inflation come — came down by around two thirds, while
the job market has — has remained historically strong, and we are
confident that Dr. Jefferson, Dr. Cook, and Dr. Kugler will help
continue this progress.

One last thing here on — on the tropical storm that all of us are — are
keeping an eye on. As we shared a little bit earlier today — as you
know, we put out a pool note on this — as part of the President’s
regular briefing today — briefings today, he was also provided with the
latest trajectory of Hurricane Lee. And the preparations are underway by
FEMA, which has pre-deployed assets to Puerto Rico and the Virgin
Islands and is coordinating with local officials.

I do want to address one thing before I open up for questions, and this
is what Jake was allud- — was asked from all of you — by all — by — by
some of you — about the access for — press access for G20.

Look, as you know — and you hear us say this all the time — when it
comes to — comes to free press, it is the pillar of — of our democracy,
so we are doing everything that we can to make sure that you guys can
cover — cover this important summit.

And so, a couple of things I do want to lay out, as — as I think Jake
was alluding to — a couple of things that — key points and key actions
that we have — we have done in the past several days — which is Ben
LaBolt, the White House Communications Director, reached out to his
counterpart. Jake Sullivan, who is — as you know, you just heard from
him — our National Security Advisor, reached out to his counterpart as
well.

John Finer and Kurt Campbell from the National Security — National Sec-
— the National Security Advisor \[National Security Council\] also
reached out to their counterparts. The G7 \[G20\] Sherpa team pressed
their counterparts. State mobilized our ambassador and our embassy. This
was a days-long process that we have engaged in, and we will continue to
engage, you know, while we are there.

So, this is, as you know, incredibly important to us. We know how
important it is for all of you to cover what the President is doing,
especially abroad, and so we are — we are doing our darndest, doing our
best to do everything that we can to get you access.

As you heard from — from Jake, it — you know, it’s sometimes at these
summits — and I know — Justin, you’ve been around for some time now —
I’m not — not aging you at — at all. But you have been around for some
time now. (Laughter.) And you’ve seen this. You see how other presidents
have had to — have to deal with these types of summits. So, this is not
new. This is something that any and every administration has to deal
with.

And I just wanted to lay out very clearly as to all of the different
senior leadership who have been out there talking to their counterpart —
-parts and making — making it very clear that we want our press to make
sure to be able to — to be there and to be — to — to see the interaction
that our President has.

With that, Aamer.

Q That was a rough analysis of Justin’s aging there, I’d say.
(Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m sure he’s thrilled. I’m sure he’s thrilled. I’m
sure I’ll hear about it.

Q After you just itemized all these very senior people, explaining how
important this is to this administration, what does it say, like, that,
you know, there isn’t a ton of access? Is the President concerned that
after all his most senior people are raising concerns about this, the
Indians just don’t seem to care?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m going to be really fair. We have seen this before
in these summits. Let’s be very clear here. This is not an unusual
thing. This happens. We kind of have these conversations with many other
— with many — at many other summits. I think you guys know this very
well. So this is not unusual.

I’m just going to, like, kind of refer to what Jake laid out and let —

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — let the national security speak to — speak to those
pieces.

But, look, what I — my job is and what I’m trying to do is to share with
you and all of you that we have been very much all hands on deck in
trying to make this happen. And I know — and I know some of you know
that personally, how much we have worked to make sure that people — that
the press gets access to what the President is doing.

And we think he believes — obviously, we work on behalf of the President
— he believes it’s incredibly important.

As I just stated at the top, you know, free — the free press is the — is
the pillar of our democracy. We believe that wholeheartedly. And you’ve
heard that from the President. You’ve heard —

Q I could — and I’m just getting at we’re obviously frustrated.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely.

Q Does this — does this — does it frustrate the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, the President believes the free press is
the pillar of our democracy. Obviously, yes. If we are — I just listed
one, two, three, four, five, six, seven — right? — seven senior people
that you all know — you know the names — who have been out there the
past couple of days dealing with their counterparts.

And not — not even — I think not even including the folks on the ground
as part of the G20 Sherpa. So, yes, of course, we are all trying to do
our best at — at the behest of the President — right? — to get this
done. And so, we’re going to keep working on it.

Q Karine, what explanation —

Q This issue specifically about the — the access issue sort of speaks
broadly to issues around press freedom, even in India, and humanitarian
issues, you know, rights for minorities. I know some of that was raised
when the Prime Minister visited the United States. But how much emphasis
is the President going to place on some of these things again during
this specific bilateral?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you just stated, the President raised it in the
last — in the last meeting that they had, which was the State dinner, as
you just referenced to. I mean, look, I don’t think there’s a better way
to show how committed we — we were or we are than the press conference
that the President held with the Prime Minister in the United States
when the Prime Minister was visiting.

That is something that we were — we wanted to make sure that happened
and that you hear directly from both leaders. And so, you know, that was
an important, critical moment.

Look, I’m not going to get into what’s going to come up in the
conversation in this bilat. Certainly, we will have a readout and have
more to share. But the President never, never fails to raise the
importance of human rights, and you’ve heard us say this over and over
again, and it has come up with multiple leaders, including the Prime
Minister, as you just stated, in the last — in the last conversation or
the last bilat — important bilat that they’ve had.

Look, guys, we are doing everything that we can to — to make sure that
there is access. And — and I think we’ve proven that over — over
multiple summits and over even the last couple of days with this
upcoming trip as we’re headed to G20.

Q Was the decision to move the press conference from India to Hanoi a
result of issues around press freedom and press access in India?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I wouldn’t go that far. I think it’s just that
it was easier — it was a logistical piece. It’s easier to do — it was
just easier to do it in Vietnam. As you know, when the G- — these types
of summits happen, the G20 summits happen, it is all-consuming, all
hands on deck. And it was just logistically easier to do it there.

And it wouldn’t — it wouldn’t have changed anything because it would
have just been the President doing a solo press conference. So, instead
of doing it in — in India, he’s going to be doing it in — in Hanoi.

There’s really — it wouldn’t — that doesn’t change anything at all. It
wasn’t like he was going to do a mul- — multilateral or bilateral press
conference.

Q Karine, you outlined the number of officials who have been in touch
and reached out on this issue of press access. What is the explanation
or the justification that the Indians are giving?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, that’s a good question. I am not — I am not — I
have not — I haven’t part of those conversations. I can’t tell you what
they’re saying on the other side. What I can share — and, honestly, to
be quite honest, it’s for them to speak to.

What we — what I can say is we have reached out, we have made the
request multiple times at different pressure points, if you will — at an
NSC level, comms level. The folks on the ground who are doing, you know
— you know, a lot of hard work on the ground to get — to make sure that
this trip — not just for the President, but for all of you; all of us —
is smooth. And as I mentioned, the G20 Sherpa team.

And so, it’s been happening. We’ve been doing the work. I mean, I would
leave it to — I would leave it to the Indian government to speak for
themselves on — on the specific question you just asked.

Q Jumping forward in time a little bit, can you flesh out a little more
about how the President plans to spend 9/11 in Alaska?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, just a couple of just high-level stuff here. First,
on 9/11, look, the President is going to mark the anniversary of the
September 11th attacks this year in Alaska, as you just mentioned, with
— with service members and their families.

And, as he does every year, as he’s done the — every year, he plans to
honor the lives lost and the families and loved ones who still feel the
pain of the terrible day. This is something he feels is very important
to do. We can only imagine the heartbreak and the pain that the 9/11
families have felt every day for the past 22 years.

So, I know the families have — have certain- — certainly been on this —
on his mind recent- — in recent days, and they will continue be on — to
be on his mind as we approach. The anniversary, as you know, is coming
up on Monday.

Certainly, if we have more to share, we will do that.

Q Do you know, will he meet with anyone who has been–

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — personally impacted by 9/11 in Alaska?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m sorry?

Q Will he be meeting with anyone who was personally impacted —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, I see your question. We’ll have more to share, but
we’ll definitely be meeting with the service members and their families,
which he believes is incredibly important. We’ll certainly have more to
share as we get closer to Monday.

Q On the issue of press access, obviously the most ambitious step that
would be taken would be for the President not to meet if there is not
press access. Is that something that’s being considered at all? It
sounds like no, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, Jake just was essentially asked this question,
so I certainly don’t have more to share beyond what Jake just shared.

Look, here’s the thing. We will continue to do everything that we can
for all of you to have press access. I think we have proven that in — in
multiple — in multiple instances, in multiple summits.

As I mentioned, the last State dinner with India, we made that happen,
made a press conference happen. And — and so, that will continue.

And, look, these meetings are incredibly important. I think the first
question — one of the first questions Jake got was on this, and he
talked about the importance of deepening this relationship and what it
means and having these types of multilateral conversations, especially
at these big summits.

And so, that’s going to — that’s going to continue. What we have — we’ll
continue to ask for press access, yes, absolutely. Doesn’t shy — it
doesn’t stop us from making sure that we’re asking for what we believe
is important, not just for you, but for the American people to — for you
all to — to report on what you’re seeing and what this President is
doing.

And so, I’m just not going to go beyond — I mean, Jake just kind —
addressed this moments ago.

Q Karine, I also wanted to ask real quick about your favorite topic,
which is the President’s testing cadence. He obviously tested negative
for multiple days here. Do you have a sense at all on whether he’ll
cont- — is there a need to have him continue testing as he arrives at
the G20? And I assume they’ll still mask, as you indicated the other
day.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I don’t have any update to the protocols to
share with you at this time. As you know, the President tested — I think
just to put it in — all into context — right? — he tested negative on
Monday; negative on Tuesday; negative on Wednesday; negative today,
which is actually very, very good, and has no symptoms.

All of these decisions — and as I’ve said multiple times — is going to
be in close consultation with his physician. I don’t have anything else
to share, but we’ve been — you know, we’ve shared when he’s tested. He’s
been — he’s tested four times, been negative, and has no symptoms.

I think that’s — that’s a good thing.

Q Karine, just to clarify. So, at this time, there are — there’s no
anticipation of the possibility of bilats with other world leaders
during the G20? And if — and if there are, would — you know, would we be
able to pool that since it would be not with an Indian (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So — so, Jake just answered that question. He said that
it will be — basically, he said it will be very difficult to do these
types of bilateral, formal meetings at the G20 the way that — he said
the way it’s structured, the way it’s scheduled at this G20. So, he’s
not anticipating that to happen.

And so, that’s what, you know, Jake Sullivan said, and so I’m just
repeating what he said. And if that were to change, of course we will do
everything that we can to let you all know and certainly to try and
provide access. But he just stated that he didn’t think that was going
to — to be happening because of the structure of this particular summit.

Q A couple quick eco ones. So, first, you know, we might not all be
Vogue stars, but I don’t know if I’m AARP Magazine yet. (Laughter.) You
know, it’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What did I tell you? I told you he would come back. I
told you I would get it back. I told you.

Q Two on the economy, though. One is retail — retail sales for the last
month have been kind of sharply down. There are obviously strong
economic indicators, but I’m wondering if this at all changes your guys’
economic forecast. Thoughts about a possible recession? Any — any signs
of worry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I mean, look — and I know this question comes up
often. You know, we’ve seen those — that data point on retails before.

Look, you know, we feel that the economy is — is heading to a slow,
stable growth, which is what we’ve been saying for some time. And the
data points of, like, seeing the GDP; the data points of jobs created,
of wages going up, unemployment being under 4 percent, and that
continuing to happen and also inflation moderating — I think that shows
— all the indicators.

And also, you know, economics experts have said this — that, you know,
recession is very much unlikely. So, we don’t see ourselves headed to a
recession. We see that the work that this President is doing, the
economic policies that he’s put forward is actually helping here and
leading us into, again, a slow, steady growth into that transition.

And so, I think that’s what’s really important.

Q Former President Trump issued a statement on the UAW and the
negotiations, and encouraged them to basically oppose the President’s
plan. I wanted to give you a chance to respond to his comments on
electric cars, but also just ask if you have any update on how the
administration in the last day or so has been engaged on this issue.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. When it comes to the former
President, want to be very careful because he’s also a candidate. So, I
want to be careful how to respond here and not speak to anything that’s
related to G20 — I mean — G20; I just said G20 — 2024.

But, you know, as it relates to IRA (inaudible), just a couple of things
that I want to say. Look, the administration is always committed to
taking every legal and appropriate step to ensure federal investments
and leading to good-paying union jobs. Right?

And I think that is something that the President has led with in almost
all of his pieces of legislation, including, in particular, the
bipartisan infrastructure legislation.

And so, a couple of things. It’s providing $12 billion through Inflation
Reduction Act to convert existing auto plants into EV plants while
retaining existing workers and collect- — collective bargaining
agreements. Very important.

And this is something that — this is something that Shawn Fain has
actually lifted up and praised. This particular piece is implementing
tax incentives and the Inflation Reduction Act for clean energy
companies to pay their workers the prevailing wage and hire registered
apprentices, including Buy America requirements in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.

So, there are things in this — these — there are these provisions in
both of these bills that are so (inaudible) — so important and that is
actually going to make a difference for unions — right?; going to make a
difference for workers; going to make a difference for Americans. And
so, things that have historically never been done before.

And so, the Pre- — the President is proud of these two pieces of
legislation. He has done more as — you know, as the President that is
passing these historic legislation than any — any his- — any —
(inaudible) — any past — any modern-day presidents.

And look, I’ll say this last thing. You know, in the last
administration, we kept on hearing about “Infrastructure Week,”
“Infrastructure Week,” with nothing to show for it. And here, this
President has made Infrastructure Decade; you’ve heard him say that. And
he actually has something to show for it.

And so, just look at that. And I think that’s what matters. And that is
my response.

Q Quick — quick follow-up on the UAW, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Obviously, the President made those remarks over Labor Day, saying he
doesn’t think the union is going to strike. Shawn Fain said, “He knows
something that we don’t.” You said the President said that because he’s
being an optimist.

Has the President spoken to the UAW president since? Have they had any
communication? And is he just currently being updated on this by Gene
and Julie? Does he have any direct lines of communications open with
other labor leaders who are — I mean, I would imagine Liz Shuler is
involved.

You know, I mean, there are other labor leaders who have to be involved
in this. Can you give us some sense of what that is?

And what is Gene — what are the updates, you know, that Gene is offering
the President look like? Because we really haven’t heard anything other
than he’s — he’s there to monitor and make sure people are at the table.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I will remind you that the President — the
President sat down, spoke, met with the union and folks from — who put
together — who got done the West Coast port, right?

And one of the reasons that was so important to highlight that — what we
saw the President do — is because it showed that collective bargaining
worked. It shows that when two sides come together and have that
conversation, it works.

And so, I just want to reiterate the importance of that happening. We
saw that with UPS and the Teamsters, and we saw that many other times as
well under this President during — well, during this President’s tenure.

And so, again, this is a President that believes in collective
bargaining. We’ve seen it work in some of the most contentious
situations. We’ve seen it work.

Look, the President is an optimist. He is going to con- — encourage both
sides to continue to talk.

As you mentioned, Gene Sperling has been kind of our coordinator, our
point person. The President is getting briefed by his senior advisors,
by Gene Sperling, by Julie Su. And Julie Su did amazing work with the
West cort- — with the West Coast — pardon me, West Coast por- — port.

And so, we have an excellent team that is — that is doing — that is
monitoring this, having these conversations, or staying close —
basically staying in close touch. And I think that’s important.

Again, collective bargaining works. We’ve seen it work a few times in
the past two years.

I’m losing my voice, guys. Anything else before I head out?

Q About — about Eric Adams’s comments on the migrant crisis destroying
New York City. Implication being there that President Biden and
Washington writ large and his governor are not doing enough. Any
response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. I do want to lay this down
because I think it’s important.

So, we’ve been taking action to support communities across the country
who are managing the arrival of migrants. And in New York — specifically
to your question, Aamer — we have worked closely with officials at the
state and city level to coordinate efforts and provide recommendations
and identify possible efficiencies in their operations.

We have — we have provided the state and city more than $140 million
dollars in federal funding through DHS just this fiscal year.

Following conversations with leaders in New York, across the country,
the administration launched a first-of-its-kind national campaign for
individuals who are — who were — who are work-eligible but have not yet
applied to work authorization with information on how to apply to
employment authorization. Hundreds of thousands of MS- — MSMs — sorry,
SMN — SMSs and emails have been sent in — in English, in Spanish, in
Haitian Creole, and many other languages to make that happen.

Only Congress can really reform. You hear us say that all the time: this
broken system that has broke — been broken for the past couple of
decades, this immigration system — and so, we — that — that could
provide additional assistance. The President has done all that he can
from his perch, but we need more, and we need Congress to act.

And just to add to one more piece of this. Today, senior — senior White
House officials had another constructive conversation with Governor
Hochul about the many lines of efforts that the federal government is
pursuing to support New York.

So, we have had extensive conversation with — with the leaders in New
York. We have been fully engaged from the White House and also DHS and
other — certainly, that agency — to see how else we can help and have
offered — have offered, you know, ideas on how to move forward to that.
And that’s my response.

Q Is he being hyperbolic?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You would — you would have to figure — look at that for
yourselves.

What I can speak to is the engagement that we have made — we have had
with — with New York, whether state or local.

And I just mentioned Governor Hochul; you know that Governor Hochul was
just at the White House last week. And — and we put out — we put out a
statement after that; she put out a statement after that. We put out a
joint statement if I — if I — if I’m remembering correctly.

And so, we’ve been in — we’ve been in touch and engaging with them on a
regular basis, if not — definitely weekly if not daily.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. I’ll the last one here. Go ahead.

Q On extreme heat. So, yesterday, ERCOT — the Texas power grid — entered
into emergency operations as they — the demand for power nearly
surpassed the state supply because of the extreme heat. ERCOT has had to
ask Texans to conserve power 10 times this summer alone. What is the
federal government doing to alleviate strains on power grids as we
increasingly see extreme heat over longer stretches of time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you know, the — this is one of the reasons why
the bipartisan infrastructure legislation was so important.

I know when Liz Sherwood-Randolph \[Randall\] came to the briefing room
she talked about making sure that the grids are resilient and, kind of,
talked through that a little bit.

What I can say is the Department — when it comes to extreme heat, in
July, the President announced that NOAA will partner with universities
and other institutions to improve our nation’s weather forecasts. So,
that’s actually really important. And the Department of Interior is
investing $150 million to support communities significantly impacted by
drought in the West.

But look, again, this is why the bipartisan infrastructure legislation
is so important — grids — making sure that these grids are resilient,
not just in Texas. We talked about Puerto Rico, the work that we’ve done
there, especially after — certainly after the last hurricane.

So, this is certainly a — an important — an important part of the
provision for us in the Bipartisan Law. And we’re going to continue to
work to make sure that grids are resilient, because it is important as
we see extreme weather continue — continue to be an issue, especially as
we see in the last couple of months.

All right, guys.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you. All right. Enjoy your ride or your sleep or
your rest — whichever.

7:54 P.M. EDT
