---
date: '2023-09-05'
modified_time: 2023-09-05 19:28:16-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-05 19:28:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/05/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-6/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:21 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy Tuesday. Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, before I turn things over to Jake, I have a couple
of updates at the top, and then we’ll get this going.

So, this afternoon, President Biden will award the Medal of Honor,
America’s oldest and highest recognition for valor, to Captain Larry L.
Taylor, United States Army.

On June 18, 1968, then First Lieutenant Taylor led a helicopter team in
Vietnam that rescued a four-man Army patrol unit which had been
surrounded by nearly 100 enemy forces.

First Lieutenant Taylor and his wingmen braved intense groundfire for
more than 30 minutes to provide aeri- — aerial fire support until they
were nearly out of ammunition.

With the enemy still closing in on the patrol, First Lieutenant Taylor
courageously decided to extract the team of American soldiers on the
ground using his two-man Cobra helicopter, a feat that had never been
accomplished or even attempted.

First Lieutenant Taylor landed his helicopter under heavy enemy fire and
with complete disregard for his personal sta- — safety. He successfully
rescued the patrol team and carried them to a safe location.

First Lieutenant Taylor’s conspicuous gallantry, his found — his
profound concern for his fellow soldiers, and his actions, which went
above and beyond the call of duty, are in keeping with the highest
tradition of military service.

In recognition of his service, he will be awarded the Medal of Honor
here today at the White House this afternoon.

Now, as you all know, the President believes that education beyond high
school should unlock doors to opportunity, not leave borrowers stranded
with debt they cannot afford.

That’s why from day one, the Biden-Harris administration has been
working to fix the broken student loan system, make college more
affordable, and cancel loan debt for millions of borrowers.

In fact, to date, the Biden-Harris administration has canceled more than
$117 billion in loan debt for 3.4 million borrowers.

And earlier today, the Biden-Harris administration announced that more
than 4 million student loan borrowers are enrolled in the
administration’s new income-driven repayment plan: the Saving on a
Valuable Education — or SAVE — Plan. This includes those who were
transitioned from the previous Revised Pay As You Earn — or REPAYE —
Plan.

SAVE is the most affordable repayment plan ever and will save millions
of borrowers money on their monthly payments.

Student borrowers can visit StudentAid.gov/SAVE to sign up today. The
application takes less than 10 minutes to fill out for most.

And finally, an update on the President and the First Lady since she
tested positive for COVID-19 last night. I can tell you that the First
Lady is experiencing mild symptoms and will remain in Delaware for the
week.

President Biden tested negative last night for COVID-19 and tested
negative again today. He’s not experiencing any symptoms.

As far as the steps that he is taking: Since the President was with the
First Lady yesterday, he will be masking while indoors and around people
in alignment with CDC guidance. And as — as has been the practice in the
past, the President will remove his mask when sufficiently distanced
from others indoors and while outside as well.

The CDC guidelines recommend a combination of masking, testing, and
monitoring for symptoms. The President is doing all of that in con- — in
close consultation with his physician.

There are currently no updates to the White House COVID-19 protocols. We
continue to work closely with public health and medical professionals to
monitor the virus. We’re in our strongest position yet to fight COVID-19
and the viruses responsible for majority of fall and winter
hospitalizations.

As we head into the fall, we have more tools and systems available today
to help communities this fall and winter season, including safe, updated
vaccines that will be available mid-September; widely available at-home
COVID tests; widely available effective treatments, which can reduce the
risk of severe illness hospitalizations and death.

We will be encouraging, as I have said before, Americans to get their
updated COVID-19 vaccine in addition to their annual flu shot and also
RSV vaccines, as you all know.

With that — thank you, Jake, for your patience — Jake is going to talk
about the President’s travel to India and any other foreign policy
questions that you may have.

The podium is yours.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you, Karine. And thanks to all of you for giving me
the opportunity to be here today.

And Karine mentioned my patience. I’m going to test your patience for a
moment because I’d like to take a few minutes at the top just to set the
scene for the President’s upcoming trip to Delhi for the G20 and to
Vietnam to elevate our partnership with Vietnam.

On Thursday, the President will travel to New Delhi, India, to attend
the G20 Leaders’ Summit.

On Friday, President Biden will participate in a bilateral meeting with
Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India.

And on Saturday and Sunday, the President will participate in the
official sessions of the G20 Summit.

As the President heads to the G20, he is committed to working with
emerging market partners to deliver big things together. That’s what we
believe the world will see in New Delhi this weekend.

The United States’ commitment to the G20 hasn’t wavered, and we hope
this G20 Summit will show that the world’s major economies can work
together even in challenging times.

So, as we head into New Delhi, our focus is going to be on delivering
for developing countries; making progress on key priorities for the
American people, from climate to technology; and showing our commitment
to the G20 as a forum that can actually, as I said before, deliver.

And thanks to the leadership of Prime Minister Modi and India’s
presidency, we hope we’ll be able to do all of those things.

We’re also looking forward to warmly welcoming the African Union as a
permanent member of the G20 — the newest permanent member. We believe
that the African Union’s voice will make the G20 stronger.

Let me say a few more words, stepping back, about what the United States
is bringing to the table as we head into this summit.

Here at home, President Biden has worked to rebuild the American
economy, as you’ve all heard him say, from the bottom up and the middle
out by making smart investments in the industries of the future while
tackling climate change and empowering workers. And we believe that
those investments are paying off.

We think countries around the world, too, can benefit from a similar
type of approach and that we can help them as well by mobilizing
investment to support them in tackling the challenges that they face.

And that’s one of our main focuses heading into the G20: delivering on
an agenda of fundamentally reshaping and scaling up the multilateral
development banks, especially the World Bank and the IMF.

We know that these institutions are some of the most effective tools
that we have for mobilizing transparent, high-quality investment into
developing countries. And that’s why the United States has championed
the major effort that is currently underway to evolve these institutions
so that they are up to the challenges of today and tomorrow.

Just last month, President Biden asked Congress for additional funds
that would have the impact of increasing World Bank financing by more
than $25 billion. And we’re working to make sure other partners follow
our lead.

And at the G20, we have been leading an effort that we hope will see the
G20 endorse this level of ambition and deliver a broader vision of
multilateral development banks that are better, bigger, and more
effective.

President Biden will also be calling on G20 members as leaders in the
global economy to provide meaningful debt relief so that low- and
middle-income countries can regain their footing after years of extreme
stress.

He’ll be clear that the United States expects real progress on ongoing
cases by the World Bank and IMF Annual Meetings in Marrakech next month.
And he will be clear that we need all G20 members to be constructive and
at the table with no exceptions.

We’ll also be making progress on other key priorities from climate, to
health, to digital technology, including commitments with respect to a
more inclusive digital transformation and a responsible path and
approach to AI development.

In addition, we’ll spotlight the progress that we’ve been making on the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment — or what we call
“PGI.” We’ll have some announcements that we’re excited about.

Now, we know that there will be continued focus on how the G20 deals
with Russia’s illegal and ongoing war in Ukraine. The reality is that
Russia’s illegal war has had devastating social and economic
consequences, and the poorest countries on the planet are bearing the
brunt of that.

As he has done before, President Biden will call for a just and durable
peace, one founded in respect for international law, principles of the
U.N. Charter, the precepts of territorial integrity and sovereignty. And
he will continue to emphasize that the United States will support
Ukraine for as long as it takes to redeem these principles.

Last but not least — and this is important — you’ll see the United
States will make it clear that we remain committed to the G20 as a
critical forum for all of the major economies of the world to come
together for global problem-solving.

At a moment when the international economy is suffering from historic
and overlapping shocks, it’s more important than ever that we have a
workin- — working forum with the world’s largest economies to deliver
meaningful outcomes.

So, in a sign of that commitment, the United States is looking forward
to hosting the G20 in 2026.

Now, turning briefly to Vietnam. On September 10th, the President will
travel to Vietnam to meet with the General Secretary and Vietnam’s top
leadership.

Building on President Biden’s string of diplomatic successes in the
Indo-Pacific just this year, this visit is a remarkable step in the
strengthening of our diplomatic ties, and it reflects the leading role
that Vietnam will play in our growing network of partnerships in the
Indo-Pacific as we look to the future.

For decades, the U.S. and Vietnam have worked to overcome a painful
shared legacy of the Vietnam War, working hand in hand to promote
reconciliation, with our service members and veterans lighting the way —
work that is dear to the President’s heart, particularly in light of his
close friendship with Senator John McCain.

As we survey common challenges on everything from the South China Sea to
critical and emerging technologies, the United States and Vietnam will
chart out a vision for facing the 21st century together with an elevated
and energized partnership.

And finally, Vice President Harris will be traveling — is traveling,
literally, as we speak — to Jakarta, Indonesia, to attend the U.S.-ASEAN
Summit and the East Asia Summit and to engage with leaders from across
the Indo-Pacific from September 5th to September 7th.

Her upcoming visit will be her fourth visit to the Indo-Pacific in two
years and her third visit to Southeast Asia. Vice President Harris has
met with more than three dozen presidents and prime ministers from the
Indo-Pacific.

And throughout her work, she has focused on strengthening alliances and
partnerships, driving economic growth in the United States, and
upholding international rules and norms.

At both summits, the Vice President will underscore the United States’
enduring commitment to the Indo-Pacific generally and to ASEAN
centrality specifically. And we look forward to having her be able to
report back to the President on those trips as the President embarks on
his own trip to India and Vietnam.

I told you that I was going to test your patience a bit. I think I made
good on my promise. So, with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q Given what we know about how COVID works — I understand the President
is negative now, but are you planning for any contingencies in case he
does test positive in the coming days or during the trip? Could he
attend any of these meetings virtually? Are you thinking ahead to that?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’ll let Karine speak to COVID planning here at the White
House. It’s beyond my ken.

But, of course, we have long experience now, from the early days of the
administration, in managing for situations in which COVID plays a role
in summits. And, you know, we’ve seen various leaders at various times
participate virtually in events.

But in terms of specific contingency planning here from the White House,
Karine can speak to that.

Q And just one more. On Sunday, the President said he was disappointed
that President Xi was not going to be attending the G20. But then he
said, “I’m going to get to see him.” What did he mean by that? Has
something been scheduled here?

MR. SULLIVAN: Nothing has been scheduled. But the President has said
before that he’s looking forward to picking up the conversation that he
had with President Xi in Bali last year, and he fully intends to do that
in the months ahead.

Yeah.

Q Jake, thanks so much. Can you — just following up on that point — give
us a sense of the timing? Do you think that that conversation might take
place in the coming weeks, in the coming months?

MR. SULLIVAN: I can’t give you a sense of timing today.

Q Okay. On North Korea, very quickly. There are obviously reports that
Kim Jong Un could be poised to visit Russia. This comes as the White
House has recently said arms negotiations between North Korea and Russia
were, quote, “actively advancing.” What is the latest assessment of the
state of play between those two countries?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, “actively advancing” captures it well. Our current
analysis is that discussions between North Korea and Russia, with
respect to North Korea providing military support to Russia for its war
in Ukraine — that those discussions are actively advancing.

Most recently, we saw the defense minister of Rus- — Russia, Sergei
Shoigu, make a trip to Pyongyang, in essence to ask for weapons.

And we also have information, as we have indicated publicly, that North
Korea’s leader, Kim Jong Un, has some expectation that those discussions
will continue as we go forward — including leader-level discussions,
perhaps even in-person leader-level discussions.

Now, I can’t get into all the details of what we know. But at the broad
parameters, that is what we are seeing: ongoing discussions and
discussions where we have information that the leadership of North Korea
sees this as potentially leading to leader-level engagement.

And I would just add that we have been discussing publicly the
possibility of North Korea supplying weapons to Russia for quite some
time. And the reason why that there — there is such an intense effort on
the part of Moscow to generate this kind of support from North Korea is
that we have continued to squeeze North K- — Russia’s defense industrial
base, and they are now going about looking to whatever source they can
find for things like artillery ammunition.

That’s what we see going on now. And we will continue to call it out.

And we will continue to call on North Korea to abide by its public
commitments not to supply weapons to Russia that will end up killing
Ukrainians.

Q And any indication they’re listening to those very public warnings
that you’ve been issuing?

MR. SULLIVAN: Over time, we have not seen them actively supply large
amounts of munitions or other military capacity to Russia for the war in
Ukraine. I cannot predict to you what will happen at the end of this.

I can only say that the discussions have been actively advancing and the
Russians have imbued them with an increased intensity, as reflected in
the fact that their defense minister — their number-one guy in their
defense establishment — actually got on a plane and flew to Pyongyang to
try to push this forward.

Yeah.

Q Jake, just — I wanted to talk to you about G20 for a second. But — but
just to follow up on North Korea, could we get a little bit more
analysis of how you think this is benefiting the North Koreans or what
they want out of this?

Do you think that part of this has to do with them getting less than
they — they want from their traditional patron in Beijing? Do you think
that the U.S. has any leverage, in terms of what it can do here — in
terms of either providing food aid to the North Koreans or ratcheting up
sanctions?

Where’s the — the room for movement there?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, I can’t speculate on North Korea’s motives.

What I can say is this: Providing weapons to Russia for use on the
battlefield to attack grain silos and the heating infrastructure of
major cities as we head into winter to try to conquer territory that
belongs to another sovereign nation — this is not going to reflect well
on North Korea, and they will pay a price for this in the international
community.

We have also imposed sanctions — specific, targeted sanctions to try to
disrupt any effort to use North Korea as a conduit or as a source for
weapons going to Russia. We did so as recently as mid-August. And we
have continued to convey privately as well as publicly to the North
Koreans — and asked allies and partners to do the same — our view that
they should abide by their publicly stated commitments that they’re not
going to provide these weapons.

What has changed in their calculus is not something that I can speak to.
That’s in the mind of Kim Jong Un. And he obviously will be the ultimate
decisionmaker.

But we will continue to look for opportunities to dissuade the North
Koreans from taking this step, to get others to do the same, and to
report to the world what we are seeing in terms of the actively
advancing discussions that are taking place between these two countries.

Q And then, on G20, just cognizant of the fact that the State Department
has blistering human rights reports out on both of the countries that
Biden is going to — India and Vietnam — including passages about their
restrictions on freedom of expression for the media, threats of
violence, arrests, this sort of thing — is that something that the U.S.
journalists who are traveling with Biden should expect? And are you
taking any actions to ensure their safety ahead of that trip?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first of all, the ability of the American press
traveling with President Biden to be able to go to the G20 and cover the
G20 in an unencumbered way is something that has been a serious priority
for this White House, for me personally, as recently as just this
morning. And we are putting our money where our mouth is in terms of
making sure that American press will have all of the access that they
need and are entitled to as members of the international press, as
members of the White House press.

Secondly, President Biden himself has spoken to questions related to
democracy and human rights as recently as the state visit earlier this
year. The United States, our position on these issues is clear. It is
reflected in the statements of our president. It is, of course,
reflected in the reports that you’re referring to.

And when it comes to the trip to Vietnam, we believe that we have a
powerful opportunity to advance our partnership in a way that will
deliver for the American people and will deliver broader security,
stability, and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific. But we also always raise
issues related to freedom of expression, freedom of religion, and other
basic human rights that are at the core of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights. This trip will be no exception to that.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. What does it say about the state of Russian supply lines
that they’re asking, of all people, the North Koreans for help? And is
North Korea able to provide artillery and things you were talking about
at a volume that can have any kind of meaningful impact on the conflict?

MR. SULLIVAN: We have asked our intelligence community that second
question. It is a good question. Our visibility into both the question
of quantity of stocks and then, of course, quality of stocks is somewhat
constrained. But it’s something that we will continue to look at
carefully.

I think there is an open question about how much materiel and what the
quality of the materiel is that could be provided if it were to be
provided.

And then I think it says a lot that Russia is having to turn to a
country like North Korea to seek to bolster its defense capacity in a
war that had expended — expected would be over in a week; that in
September of 2023, it is going to North Korea to get munitions to try to
continue to grind out on the battlefield in Ukraine.

Q And if I could —

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah.

Q — real quick, on the G20. My colleague asked the China question. But
is the President scheduled to meet with Mohammed bin Salman or Erdoğan
or any of these other leaders that we might be interested in while he’s
there?

MR. SULLIVAN: (Laughs.) I don’t know who — I laugh because I don’t know
who fits on the list of who you might be interested in.

Q We’re interested in everyone, but those are the two. (Laughter.)

MR. SULLIVAN: It’s like there are two categories: the ones you’re not
interested in and the ones you are interested in.

Q We’re interested in all of them. I’m the State Department nerd. I’m
interested in all of them.

MR. SULLIVAN: Okay.

Q However, those two specifically.

MR. SULLIVAN: All right. We don’t have bilaterals scheduled with either
of those two leaders at this time. I’m not going to speak to how the
schedule will shape up over the course of the coming days.

And as you know, there is a certain dynamic element to this, which is
all of these leaders in a very confined space with time on the margins.
So, some of the bilateral engagements, as you saw last year in
Indonesia, will likely be announced at the last minute. And we will do
our darndest to make sure that they are done in a way where the U.S.
press has the ability to participate in them.

Yeah.

Q Thank you. The Bali Communiqué said that most members of the G20
condemned the war in Ukraine. What progress has been made in the last 10
months to get India and China on board with that position?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first of all, India signed on to the statement —
most members. It was, as I recall, Russia who was the main objector to
the proposition that so many of the other members of the G20 signed on
to.

I don’t expect that Russia is going to flip its position on the Ukraine
war this year.

So, to get absolute consensus on a statement on Ukraine is challenging
because you’ve got Russia seated at the table, albeit not at the leader
level because Putin isn’t going to be there.

But the fact that most members of the G20 — as most members of the U.N.
General Assembly — continue to hold the position that Russia’s war was
illegal, in violation of the U.N. Charter, and that this war must end on
terms consistent with the U.N. Charter — that is the result of months of
hard diplomacy by the United States and our partners, and it continues
to reflect where international sentiment is on this issue.

Q And what assurances has the administration received from Congress that
the U.S. will be able to continue funding Ukraine’s defenses going
forward?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, we are working closely with the Congress, as you
know, right now, on a supplemental funding package that the President
has submitted seeking funding through the end of the year.

We’ve been working with both the Senate and the House. We’ve had
constructive conversations on a bipartisan basis in both chambers. We
believe we will be able to secure the necessary funding as we go
forward.

I’m not going to speak to assurances per se, but the conversations have
been constructive, they’ve been positive, they’ve been substantive. And
— and we anticipate being able to work our way through to a sound
package so that Ukraine can get what it needs.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. On World Bank reforms. On the one hand, you’ve talked
about it not being about a specific country, that it’s not about China.
On another hand, though, you have said that you need an alternative to
the, quote, “coercive and unsustainable lending through the Belt and
Road Initiative.”

So, I — I mean, how can it be about China and not be about China at the
same time?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, we believe that there should be high-standard,
noncoercive lending options available to low- and middle-income
countries. That’s a fact.

It’s also a fact that World Bank reform is not about China, in no small
part because China is a shareholder in the World Bank. So, growing the
size, relevance, capacity of the World Bank to deliver for low- and
middle-income countries is not against China. It’s for the entire
international community, all of the shareholders of the World Bank —
China being one of them.

And we believe that just as the United States would benefit from a more
stable, more capable set of low- and middle-income countries being able
to deal with their own problems with help from the World Bank and the
IMF, China would benefit from that too.

Q But there is — there is at least a part of it that is focused on China
— on those coercive practices, on those reforms?

MR. SULLIVAN: This is an affirmative agenda. It is an agenda about
providing high standards — transparent, sustainable, resilient funding
streams to countries that cut through the red tape and give not just the
poorest countries in the world, but middle-income countries who are
dealing with the stresses of climate and COVID and migration and — and
the war in Ukraine access to capital that they can actually take
advantage of and put to work.

That’s not against anybody. That is not a negative agenda. That is an
affirmative agenda, a positive agenda, and one that’s been embraced not
just by the United States, not just by our closest allies, but by a very
wide range and diverse set of countries. And we believe it will be
embraced by the G20 as a whole when we go to New Delhi.

Q And if I may, just finally, you mentioned China being the
third-largest shareholder. How does it impact that Xi Jinping won’t be
at the table when you’re asking for various reforms? Does it — does it
change the pitch at all or how does — how does that — how does that
change with them not being there?

MR. SULLIVAN: It won’t change our pitch. And — and, you know, our pitch
has been consistent working into the summit. President Biden will
reinforce it. China will have representatives at the table, al- — albeit
not represented at the leader level. But the United States is going to
put forward the same straightforward, in our view, clear-cut case for
why this is so important.

And more importantly, we’ll also put on the table the fact that we are
asking the Congress for financing to be able to make sure that the
United States is not just talking the talk, but we’re actually walking
the walk.

Yeah.

Q Thank you, Jake. Two on the Saudi announcement today, and then one on
China. On the Saudi announcement to extend the supply of oil curbs, can
you talk to us about what that means to you geopolitically, how serious
it is for the global oil market? We saw crude go above $90 a barrel
today.

And then separately, does that up the ante for meeting with the Saudis
at fora like the G20 where you want to do big things with (inaudible) as
you mentioned?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, on the first question, I’ll leave it to others to
speak to the specific oil market impacts. I would point out that what
was announced today was a continuation of an existing policy, not a new
set of cuts — just a continuation of those cuts for three months as
opposed to for one month.

So, as far as I’m concerned, the most important thing that the President
is focused on is just trying to do everything within his toolkit to be
able to get lower prices for consumers at the gas pump in the United
States. It’s really the price of a gallon of gas for the American
consumer, not the — the question of which country is doing what, here or
there, that is going to be his ultimate metric for whether we’re
succeeding or not.

Secondly, as I said before, we don’t currently have bilateral meetings
scheduled at the G20 to announce with any leaders. I don’t think that
the announcement today is going to move us one way or another in terms
of engaging with leaders at the G20.

So, you know, we’ll make our decisions on that — on the basis of a far
broader set of considerations than — than any one policy.

Q Does that change the calculation at all though for communications in
the future with the Saudis? I mean, does it make it more pressing to
engage with them on this issue?

MR. SULLIVAN: We have, obviously, regular engagement with the Saudis at
multiple levels — with their energy minister, with their leadership —
and that will continue. And we will make sure that they understand where
we stand, and we will come to understand where they stand as well.

And the thing that we ultimately stand for is a stable, effective supply
of energy to the global markets so that we can in fact deliver relief to
consumers at the pump and also that we do this in a way that is
consistent with the energy transition over time.

Q Just one quick one on China —

Q In the back, Jake?

Q — as my Bloomberg colleagues reported that Huawei has reached a
breakthrough with its new smartphone and shows it’s using the most
advanced chips produced by Chinese chipmaker SMIC. I’m wondering how
concerned you are about this development. And does it prove that the
U.S. export controls are failing or that they’re violating those export
controls?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m going to withhold comment on the particular chip in
question until we get more information about precisely its character and
composition.

And for my — from my perspective though, what it tells us, regardless,
is that the United States should continue on its course of a “small
yard, high fence” set of technology restrictions focused narrowly on
national security concerns, not on the broader question of commercial
decoupling. That is where our emphasis has been. That’s where it’s going
to continue, sort of, regardless of the outcome.

But in terms of characterizing the chip in question, that’s something
that we need to gain more information from before we make any definitive
comments on it.

Yeah.

Q Jake, thank you. Do you see division between India and China affecting
cooperation, especially with the climate issue in the summit, and
ultimately affecting the — perhaps the results that could be achieved
from the summit?

And second, if you allow me: Today, Secretary Blinken spoke to both the
Israeli Prime Minister and the Palestinian President. Should we read
into this as more than just a routine call and maybe a series of steps
towards normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia? And will the
President meet with the Crown Prince at this summit? Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN: I think I’ve answered your last question.

With respect to Secretary Blinken’s calls, I wouldn’t describe them as
“run of the mill” or “routine.” He speaks with these leaders
occasionally, but not every month. But it also does not portend any
imminent breakthrough or action with respect to the question of
normalization.

It’s an important moment for a check-in at a high level, and Secretary
Blinken is well poised to do that, given his relationships with both men
and the central role that he is playing in efforts to explore whether in
fact a broader normalization is possible.

But beyond that, I won’t characterize the call.

As far as the question of tensions between India and China affecting the
summit: Really, that’s up to China. If China wants to come in and play
the role of spoiler, of course, that option is available to them.

What I think that the chair, India, will encourage them to do, what we —
the United States — and every other member — virtually every other
member in the G20 will do is encourage them to come in in a constructive
way on climate, on multilateral development bank reform, on debt relief,
on technology, and set aside the geopolitical questions and really focus
on problem-solving and delivering for the developing countries.

Yeah.

Q Thank you. Thank you, Jake. I have two questions. Recently, North
Korea and Kim Jong Un said that it had tested tactical nuclear weapons
by launching missiles. How is the U.S. analyzing this?

Second question is: Defense Minister — I mean Russia Defense Minister
Shoigu said that the North Korea-Russia maritime joint military
exercises are possible. How are you concerned about this?

MR. SULLIVAN: We’re staying in close consultation with both South Korea
and Japan on the question of North Korea’s advancing nuclear and missile
capabilities. I don’t have a specific comment on their most recent
characterization. They’re prone to making a lot of statements of a lot
of different flavors.

We’re just studying each of their individual tests and making
determinations about their capabilities accordingly. And then we’re
responding to that through increasingly tight and interconnected
trilateral cooperation, as most recently evidenced in the President’s
summit with President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida at Camp David.

And then, with respect to the comments by — by Shoigu on the — the
military exercises: As far as I’m concerned, Russia looking to do more
military exercises with North Korea, that’s their business if they
should choose to do so.

I think if you look at the broader pattern of activity across the
Indo-Pacific — the security cooperation; the exercises; the work
together on trying to ensure a secure, open, and prosperous Indo-Pacific
— what the United States has done with a broad network of allies and
partners, I believe, has enhanced the stability and security of that
region.

And the year 2023 has been a year of substantial progress in that
regard, delivered by President Biden — from our relationship with India
to Southeast Asia, to Australia, to the Pacific Islands, and then, of
course, to Korea and Japan.

So we’re quite hopeful about the progress we have made in enhancing our
own deterrent capability, our own security and prosperity. And we’ll let
other countries and the relationships they’re developing speak for
themselves.

Yeah.

Q Thanks. Brett McGurk is in Riyadh, and so are Palestinian negotiators.
Can you update us at all on Saudi-Israel-U.S. diplomacy talks? And then
I have a quick follow-up.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, Brett’s trip this time is focused on a set of broader
regional issues. One of the main things that has brought him there,
along with Barbara Leif, the Assistant Secretary of State of Near East
Affairs, and Tim Lenderking, our Special Envoy for Yemen, is to talk
about the war in Yemen.

We are entering either our 17th or 18 month — 18th month of a truce —
the longest period of peace in Yemen in years — which has been delivered
in part through painstaking U.S. diplomacy. We not only want to keep
that going, we want to deepen it and get to a permanent peace in Yemen.
And that’s one of the main reasons that Brett is there.

He’ll also be meeting with the Crown Prince of Bahrain in advance of his
trip here next week.

And then, of course, he will speak to the Palestinians about the whole
range of issues relative to the Israeli-Palestinian file.

Normalization will be one of the topics on the agenda, but it’s not the
main thrust of this trip. And like I said before, with respect to the
phone call Secretary Blinken made today, we don’t expect any imminent
announcements or breakthroughs in the period ahead.

Q Does the admin- — just want to follow up — does the administration
support Palestinians’ public demand, though, that they’ll accept nothing
less than statehood?

MR. SULLIVAN: I’m not going to negotiate from the podium on the question
of normalization, how the various pieces fit together.

Yeah.

Q Jake, it seems like every administration, when it gets into office,
complains about the problems it inherits from the previous
administration. But how do you defend this administration’s role with
issues like Russia, China, North Korea, Iran? It seems like, in all of
those cases, our relationship is worse than it was before?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, first of all, Russia decided to launch a massive
land war in Ukraine. The United States has mobilized not just the West
but a coalition of dozens of countries. And more than 140 countries have
voted for a U.N. General Assembly resolution condemning what Russia did.

If you look at the U.S. leadership in that regard, we have stopped
Russia from being able to take over a sovereign state. We have ensured
that Ukraine will continue as a viable, free, sovereign democracy out
into the future, you know, in the support we have given to the brave and
courageous Ukrainians out there on the frontlines.

I think the story of how the U.S. has stood up to Russia and galvanized
the world to do so is a significant achievement of President Biden and
one that we expect to continue.

With respect to China, I’m not sure I’d agree with your characterization
of the previous administration. But I’m not interested in comparisons.
We’re taking our own approach on this, which is to ensure that we
compete intensively to put the United States in the strongest position
possible while, at the same time, managing that competition so that it
doesn’t tip over into conflict. We believe we are managing the
competition effectively.

And from the question of what we inherited to where we are today, if you
look at the U.S. economy and you look at China’s economy, if you look at
the U.S.’s alliances and the strength that we have built up in the
Indo-Pacific and beyond, we feel very good about the strategic position
of the United States, in terms of the — the unfolding competition.

With respect to Iran, I would just point out that, under the
administration before the previous guy, Iran’s nuclear program was in a
box. The last guy let it out of the box. We are now trying to manage the
results of that decision. And we are doing so while deterring Iran from
going for a nuclear weapon. And we have thus far been able to do that.
It’s something we remain vigilant about every day.

And finally, with respect to North Korea, the previous administration
believed that if it simply engaged in summit-level diplomacy, it could
end North Korea’s missile and nuclear program.

By the time we took office, North Korea’s missile and nuclear programs
had accelerated dramatically. The most important breakthrough we had
seen from them — the first test of an intercontinental ballistic missile
— that didn’t happen on Joe Biden’s watch; that happened before he came
to office.

So, we are dealing with the inheritance not just of the last
administration but multiple administrations on North Korea. And we are
doing so in a way where we have drawn more closely together the U.S.,
Japan, and Korea in a historic summit that has strengthened our capacity
to deter and defend the interests of the United States and our allies
and partners going forward.

So, if you look at the overall position of the United States as it
relates to those four countries, as it relates to our broader alliances
and partnerships, and as it relates to the underlying sources of
national strength — our manufacturing, our infrastructure, our
technology — all of this, we believe, we will leave better than we found
it by the time President Biden exits this office.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. I wanted to return to the Ukraine supplemental. And you
said that you believe that you’ll be able to secure the necessary
funding.

I was hoping you could talk a little bit about why you believe that and
whether it’s getting harder to — to get those supplementals through
Congress, and also why the administration doesn’t do more to sell the
American public on the need for those requests.

MR. SULLIVAN: So, you know, on the first question, our view is that the
strong bipartisan support for Ukraine in the Congress — in both the
House and the Senate — has been on evidence, has been on display, not
just in the past votes for Ukraine funding but in the current public
statements of critical members of both parties in really important
positions in the Senate, as well as key chairs of committees in the
House.

And so, we believe that there is still — while there are some dissonant
voices — a strong core, on a bipartisan basis, of support for ensuring
that we continue to provide Ukraine with the support that it needs
because it’s fundamentally in America’s national interest to do so.

And with the question of — quote, unquote — “selling it,” the President
has made clear repeatedly since this conflict began what the stakes are
for the American people: that letting Russia run roughshod over Ukraine
would put Europe at risk.

And we know what happens when a marauding, aggressive, hostile power
places the continent of Europe at military risk. It comes at much
greater cost, not just in American treasure but in American lives later.
And so, let’s make the investments now to ensure we uphold the
fundamental rules of the international order.

The President has made that case repeatedly. We believe, if you actually
look at where public attitudes are, that they have been surprisingly
resilient, despite the constant assertion that they’re — the bottom is
going to fall out from underneath them.

And similarly, we believe support will hold up in the Congress for us to
be able to continue to provide Ukraine with the support that it needs.

But we don’t take that for granted. That’s something we need to go work
at every day — consult with members, ensure we’re answering their
questions, ensure accountability for every dollar that’s spent, ensure
that our allies and partners are stepping up and doing the
burden-sharing so that they’re carrying their fair share of the load.
We’re doing all of those things, too.

And I think in a dynamic discussion with the Congress, we believe that
we can secure a good funding package when all is said and done.

Q And you feel like support is still steady, rather than eroding, in
terms of monetary support for Ukraine?

MR SULLIVAN: What I will say is: We believe that there is still a strong
base of bipartisan support in the Congress to pass a material package
that Ukraine needs to be able to not just sustain its gains on the
battlefield but also to ensure that those gains can be consolidated and
not rolled back as we go forward.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. A member of your team said in recent days that the
administration is actively negotiating with the Maduro regime in
Venezuela about exchanging sanctions relief for concrete steps toward
democratic elections. Do you believe that Maduro has any actual interest
in democratic elections?

MR. SULLIVAN: Look, I’m not going to speak to promises, pledges, hopes
for the future. The administration’s position has been clear and
consistent for a long time: We’re prepared to engage in discussions
about specific sanctions relief in return for concrete steps that lead
us towards a free and fair election.

So, our measurement is not about promises. It’s not about what we get on
the come; it is about getting clear, concrete benchmarks and steps along
the way.

And I’m not going to characterize any current diplomatic discussions in
that regard, just to state that that is our North Star. We’re going to
judge by actions, not by words. And that’s how we approach our sanctions
relief policy — not just with respect to Venezuela, but other countries
as well.

Yeah.

Q And just on Haiti, quickly. With the — with the General Assembly
coming up at the U.N., what kind of priori- — priority of it — is it —
pardon me — for the administration to pass a resolution through the
Security Council that would operationalize a multilateral force in
Haiti?

And what kind of force do you want to see? Do you want it to have the
ability to actually go out front, into the streets of Haiti and actually
secure, you know, key — key ports and bridges, et cetera?

MR. SULLIVAN: What we’re looking to do is to support a multinational
force that is fundamentally a policing support mission, not a military
mission, and one that is in support of the Haitian National Police, not
taking over the sovereign policing capacities from the Haitian National
Police.

In terms of the precise operational elements of that — how they will
operate physically in Port-au-Prince and other parts of Haiti — I’m
going to defer that question, because the experts are engaging to work
out what an operational plan would look like.

In terms of New York, it is certainly our priority to get the necessary
backing that we feel we need to build for a multinational force and to
get the resources necessary. And we’ve said that we’re willing to put
forward a substantial investment to do that, and we’re asking other
countries to do the same.

Last question. Yeah.

Q Given that you said bolstering the World Bank is not about countering
China — in this country, credit card delinquencies have spiked, mortgage
rates are through the roof, inflation remains a problem. Meanwhile, the
federal deficit this year has almost tripled, and the President wants to
increase funding to foreign nations through the World Bank. How is that
fair to a citizen in, say, Scranton?

MR. SULLIVAN: Look, I think citizens in Scranton recognize that problems
that happen overseas don’t stay overseas. They come here, too, at great
cost to working people.

COVID came here from overseas. When there’s massive debt or instability
or conflict elsewhere, it has a drag on the global economy, and America
is part of the global economy.

So, our perspective is that for a modest investment, from the point of
view of the overall size of the U.S. budget, to put into ensuring
greater stability, greater prosperity, greater capacity in the rest of
the world, that is going to end up reducing the costs and burdens on
working people in Scranton or Minneapolis or any of all — your all’s
hometowns.

And, frankly, that’s not some novel idea. That has been a bipartisan
commitment of the United States for decades. And even the last
administration — the biggest skeptic of all of this — made investments
in foreign aid because those investments are in the naked self-interest
of the United States, as well as being the right thing to do.

Thank you, guys.

Q Thanks, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much, Jake.

Q Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you, Jake.

I just have two things, and then we’ll — we have a few minutes to take a
couple more questions.

The first one — I actually don’t see her in here. It’s April Ryan’s
birthday. I thought she was going to be here. She’s not here. Happy 21st
birthday, April. (Laughter.)

And then the second thing is: I want to say — I want to say
congratulations here to Kristen Welker on her last day. We were talking
earlier, and you said you have covered the White House for about a
decade. So, which makes you — what? — I don’t know — 30 years old?

Q Thirty.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thirty.

Q Just 30. (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s great.

So, with — in all seriousness, we will miss you. And — and we are
incredibly thrilled and excited for you and your new adventure in a — in
a — in a different Washington institution, if you will. And so, we will
be watching. Please keep in touch. And, of course — of course, book our
people —

Q I will.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — as you know.

But seriously, in all — seriously, per- — this is a — just for me,
personally, it is a — it is — it has been a joy working with you. And I
am so thrilled to have you — to see you in this new rol- — in this new
role that is going to, I think — you know, little girls and boys are
going to watch you and hopefully be inspired by everything that you do
every — every Sunday — so — as they have been these past 10 years.

Q Thank you, Karine. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, thank you.

Q It’s been an incredible honor to cover this administration, the White
House for the past decade. So, thank you for that. I really appreciate
it. And thank you to all my incredible colleagues.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, Kristen. Go forward.

Q Can we ask a question now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Go ahead, Colleen.

Q Okay —

Q It’s my birthday, too. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, my gosh. Janne, happy birthday.

Q It’s my birthday, too.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, all right. All right, Mr. Shear. (Laughter.)

Happy birthday.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hope you have a wonderful, wonderful day.

Q All right. Thank you.

Q Yeah, I know (inaudible) same birthday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Go ahead, Colleen.

Q Not to talk about news, everybody, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) It is news!

Q Okay. The — the COVID protocols —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q — for the President. Is he going to test every day before he gets on
the plane? Does he have to mask when he’s in India? I think there are
not — I think the protocols for the G20 are that there really aren’t
any. So, I wondered, sort of, what’s going to happen going forward with
the President while we’re watching.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, what I can tell you is that the President certainly
is going to test on a regular cadence determined by his physician. Of
course, all travelers — all travelers, including the President — will
test before traveling to India. So, that is certainly something that the
President will do.

As I mentioned, the CDC — he is following CDC guidelines. The CDC does
not recommend testing every day after close contact. That is their
recommendation. Again, we are going to follow the CDC guidelines.

They recommend a combination of things, as I mentioned at the top, which
is masking, testing, and monitoring for symptoms. He has no symptoms. So
— and so, we’re going to continue to follow those guidelines, have those
— he’s going to have those clo- — close consultation with his suv- — his
physician. And that’s all I can share at this time.

Q Can you be more specific on what a regular cadence means?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Regular cadence is up to — really, in consultation with
his physician.

I can tell you right now, as I said, all travelers are certainly going
to test — right? — before they head out to India, and that’s including
the President. So, that is something that’s happening in — what? — I
don’t know. We’re leaving on Thursday. So, there you go.

Q Just a couple more logistical —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — COVID questions. Are these PCR tests that the President is getting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is something that the — the physician decides on.
I just don’t have that information.

Q And just reiterate again to us: What is the current COVID protocol for
anyone meeting with the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Like senior staff, those who meet with him every day, brief him, are
you all still tested?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, anytime we’re around any of the principles, we do
test. That has been — that has been the way we have moved forward for
the past almost two years here. So, that has not changed.

No other — no White House protocol is going to be changing, as I said at
the top. But when we do have a close engagement with the President — the
senior staff — and, as you all know — or anyone — we do have — we do
test.

Q And just a broader COVID question. We recently did an interview with
Dr. Deborah Birx, and she said that American leaders are living in a
fantasy world amid this latest COVID surge. She said that next month’s
vaccine booster is coming way too late.

What’s your response to that assessment, which she shares with — with
some other experts as well? I mean, are you confident that you are as
prepared as you can be and that this booster is going to — to work?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look, we know that we have made historic progress
in this nation in this ability to manage COVID — right? — in a way
that’s no longer meaningful in disrupting our daily lives. Right? And
that is because of the work that this President has done, of the work
that this admin- — administration has done.

And we actually believe we are in a better place than we have ever been
to deal with COVID. And that’s because we have tools in our toolbelt.
Right? We have safe — we’re going to have those midterm — midterm, sorry
— mid-September vaccines, which is going to be incredibly important.

We’re going to — we have these home at tests — home — at-home tests,
which is absolutely important. We have these treatments that we know are
effective so that we can reduce severe illness, we can reduce
hospitalization, and we can reduce death.

So, look, we — we listen to the experts, the scientists. That’s what we
do here. And — and we’re going to be continuously working with them,
certainly in coordination.

CDC and FDA announced these midterm — “midterm” — why do I keep saying
that? — (laughter) — these mid-September — yowzer — these mid-September
—

Q Hatch Act. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) It passed. It passed. So, I’m safe.

Anyway — so, these mid-September vaccines, which are going to be
incredibly, we believe, important. If it’s also d- — let’s not forget —
the flu vaccine and also the RSV vaccine, all of those things are
important. And this is something that the President had made sure that
we are — that is available.

We feel, again, we are in a very good position to deal with COVID-19 in
the fall. And — and we’re tak- — and we’re going to continue to listen
to the experts as we move forward.

Q And just one more. Jake noted, you know, obviously, you have some
experience on attending summits virtually if need be. But when you look
ahead to what the next week looks like and could look like, are you
actually thinking logistically through this should the President — you
know, were he to test positive halfway there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m —

Q — or, you know, halfway through the summit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m certainly — I’m just not going to get ahead of
that. What I can say right now is that we do not have any changes to —
any updates or changes to his travel. The President tested negative
yesterday. He tested negative this morning. And he has no symptoms. He’s
feeling good.

You’re all — you all are going to see him in about an hour and see for
yourselves. Of course, he’s going to be very cautious. And we’re — he’s
going to wear a mask, as — as the CDC guidelines suggest — or request.

And so, you know, that — that’s — that’s how we’re going to move
forward. We just don’t have any updates and changes. I’m just going to
just repeat what my colleague Jake said, is that, of course, we know how
to move forward in these situations.

But, again, you know, we feel — we don’t have any updates in — in any
schedule. And the President is feeling fine, and we’re going to move
forward.

Q Just — on COVID, just a follow on that. Is there — (laughs) — is there
— the President did have a bit of a cough yesterday during his speech,
and I’m just wondering if he had any other symptoms or if there is any
concern about — around that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no other — no symptoms at all that I can — that’s
related — that would be related to — to this — to this current — current
conversation that we’re having.

Q Okay. And then you — you mentioned the mid-September vaccines, and I’m
just wondering, because there is this spike of — of, kind of, incidents
that are happening: Is there any concern that that is coming just a
little bit too late in terms of the immunization that is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look —

Q — in the population now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, totally understand the question. That is — you
know, the experts feel that — and, again, we listen to the experts —
CDC, FDA. They got to go through their process in getting these vaccines
done and ready to go. That’s going to be mid-September. We’re — what? —
September — I don’t know — 5th? What is it?

Q It’s 5th, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right? Right? So, we’re not far from that — from
mid-September. And we’re going to do our job, as we do every time, when
it comes to new vaccine or anything — any of the tools that are out
there. We’re going to make sure that we encourage — we encourage
Americans to get those vaccines.

We know — we know that these vaccines work. Right? We know when people
stay up to date with their vaccine, that works. And so, that’s where
I’ll certainly leave that.

But look, we have seen — we’ve experienced increases in COVID-19 during
the last three summers, so it’s not surprising that we’re seeing an
uptick in this long period, right? It’s been a long period of decline —
declining rates. So, this is not surprising.

But again, we’re going to make sure that when these mid- — mid-September
vaccines are available, that we’re certainly going to let folks know and
give them the information that they need and also remind them to take
your flu — flu vaccine and also RSV shots. All three are going to be key
and critical as we get into the — and get into the fall.

Go ahead, Joey.

Q Yeah, if President Biden does test positive for COVID in the coming
days, we can assume he’s not going to travel to India, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals. I’m
really not. There’s no updates to his — to his schedule. That’s where we
are right now. He tested negative last night. He tested negative today.
That’s what matters. He’s not having any symptoms.

I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals.

Q All right. Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Karen.

Q Just a quick follow, and then I want to do another topic, if I can.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, for sure.

Q So, when should we expect the next test update from you? You said the
CDC is saying not every day, but he’s doing it based on doctor’s
recommendations. Would he get tested tomorrow and then again on Thursday
before leaving?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, this is something — this regular cadence is going
to be up to his physician — a close consultation with his physician.

As I just mentioned, all travelers, including the President, is going to
get tested before we go to India. We leave — leave for India on
Thursday. Today is Tuesday.

I don’t have anything else further to share. We just shared with you
that he tested yes- — tested, clearly, last night and today. That is —
that is up to the physician.

We are going to continue to follow — the Pr- — as — as well as the
President — CDC guidance.

Q On the UAW possible strike. The President said yesterday — when he was
asked if he was worried about it, he said, “No, I’m not worried about a
strike until it happens. I don’t think it’s going to happen.” The head
of the UAW said, “He must know something we don’t know.”

Why is the President confident a strike will not happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, as you know, Karen, as someone who’s followed
this president very closely for some time now, he — he’s optimistic.
He’s an optimistic person. And he’s going to continue to remain opsimis-
— optimistic as these negotiations continue, and that it will result in
a win-win.

And mem- — remember, this is a president that believes in collective
bargaining. He believes on both sides coming to the table. And that with
the — you know, with the UAW being at the heart of an electric vehicle
future made in America with good-paying union jobs, we believe this is a
win-win, right? We believe this is incredibly important.

And so, we believe, as well, auto workers should get the wages and
benefits they deserve. This is a president that has been very consistent
and — and has been — has said that over — over the last two years.

So, he’s optimistic that both sides are going to come to the table and
come to an agreement, as we’ve seen with other — other situations where
there was collective bargaining, where both sides came in good faith,
and — and resulted in a good outcome.

And so, he’s going to remain optimistic. He believes, again, in
collective bargaining. And that’s what we hope to see — that both sides
continue to have that conversation.

Q And how is he being updated on the latest on the negotiations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as I mentioned — I think I mentioned this, and you
all know this; I think you’ve reported on this — Gene S- — Gene Sperling
has played the lead on — on having those discussions, as well as Julie
Su.

So, we’ve been having conversations. And so, he’s updated by his — by
Julie Su and al- — also, White House senior staffers here, including
Gene. And so, that’s how he’s staying up to date.

Go ahead. Oh, of course I should —

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. (Laughs.)

Q Appreciate it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q One quick one on COVID. When the boosters are available, can we expect
that the President and First Lady will get them? Will they do that
publicly, as they have in the past?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I can’t speak to a schedule. But, yes, you can
expect that both of them will get up- — their updated vaccines, like all
Americans who are eligible should do so.

Q Okay. And then, on the potential government shutdown, I understand
that the action is largely on the Hill right now. But how does the
President see his role in trying to avert a government shutdown at this
point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — and I’ve said this over and over again, and
I’ll continue to say this: There is no reason — there is no reason for
Congress to shut down the government. Absolutely none.

They should keep their word, and they should do their job, which is
keeping the government open. And we have to. It is — it is critical. It
is important.

We just heard from the National Security Advisor, right? It is important
to — to fund these incredibly vital programs that American people need,
and also our troops’ needs and emergency needs that — that we have.

And so, there should not be a reason to shut down the government. We
believe Congress should do their job. It is their job. It is their job
to get this done.

Q And has the President had any conversations about this in recent days?
Can we expect him to? And will you read some of those out if he does?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I can’t speak to any conversations that he’s
had. You know, many of these conversations that the President has, we
try to keep them private.

I can say, and you heard from — you’ve heard from Jake, he said that
there’s been extensive conversation on the supplemental, specifically,
to — to Ukraine on both the House and the Senate side and how we truly
want to see this continue to be a bipartisan effort moving forward.

And just more broadly, as you’re asking me about the budget — look,
you’ve heard me say that OMB Director Shalanda Young has been very much
involved in these conversation, our Legisla- — Legislative Aff- —
Affairs Office has been very much engaged in those conversation. And
that’s going to — and that’s, certainly, going to continue because it is
crucial and it is important that we fund — continue to fund these vital
programs.

Q And just very quickly and finally, Karine, there’s been public
reporting that he would support a short-term CR. But is that, in fact,
the case — that he would sign a short-term CR if that came to his desk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we believe that it is going to be up to them
— right? — up to Congress what they decide to do, so I’ll certainly
defer to them.

But look, again, the government should not shu- — be shut down. It
should be funded — these vital and critical programs that American
people need.

I’m not going to, you know — look, I’ll say this: It’s clear, because
the fiscal year is coming to an end, that Congress will need to pass a
short-term continuing resolution to keep the government running. That is
clear. That is where we are right now.

And — and I think I’ve said this before: OMB has provided technical
assistance — I talked about this last week — to ensure there are no
disruptions to impact programs the American people rely on.

As far as how long this should go or — I would have to refer to Congress
on that specific thing.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. President Biden is the oldest president in U.S.
history. Why does White House staff treat him like a baby?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No one treats the President of the United States, the
Commander-in-Chief, like a baby.

Q So, there’s this book that says —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s ridiculous.

Q — when staff walked back —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a ridiculous claim.

Q — what sounded like a call for regime change in Russia, the President,
quote, “Rather than owning his failure, he fumed to friends about how he
was treated like a toddler. Was John Kennedy ever babied like that?”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’ll say this: There’s going to be a range —
always — a range of books that are — about every administration, as you
know — that’s going to have a variety of claims. That is not unusual.
That happens all the time. And we’re not going to litigate those here.
That’s something that we’re not going to speak to.

There is one thing that I do want to — because I think I was asked this
question last week by one of your colleagues, about this particular
excerpt that they were referring to — and so, I’ll say this: You know,
we did see the excer- — excerpt — the context of the excerpt, and it
seemed to be making the opposite overall point about how the value of
his experience and wisdom resulted in rallying the free world against
authoritarianism, which is important — we have seen this; you all have
seen this — and passage of the most historic agenda in recent history in
his handling of foreign policy, like rallying the world around Ukraine,
as you just heard from our Nationally Security — National Security
Advisor, who laid out, in really good questions that your colleagues
asked, about how the President is moving forward, about Ukraine, about
kind of leading into these conversations that he’s going to be having at
the G20.

Q Why do you think it is that, in a Wall Street Journal poll, two thirds
of Democrats think President Biden is too old to run again?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, here’s what I know. Here’s what I can speak to. I
can speak to that — a president who has wisdom. I can speak to a
president who has experience. I can speak to a president who has done
historic — has taken historic action and has delivered in historic
pieces of legislation. And that’s important.

When the last guy who was in this — in the Oval Office talked about
Infrastructure Week, it was a joke. And the President passed a pretty
important piece of legislation, in a bipartisan way, because of his
wisdom, because of his experience. And now we have a Infrastructure
Decade.

And it doesn’t stop there. It’s — that’s — last week, we talked about
how the President beat Big Pharma — something that elected officials and
politicians have been trying to do for 33 years, and he’s been able to
do that. And we introduced 10 — the first tranche — the first 10 drugs
that Medicare can now negotiate on, right? And it’s going to save money
for our seniors, for Americans across the country.

The — the gentleman that introduced the President, Steven, who is 71
years old, paying $16,000 a month — $16,000 a month just to stay alive
because he had cancer and diabetes, and he cannot retire because he’s —
because he has to pay $16,000 a month.

And because of the work that this President has done, he doesn’t have to
do that anymore.

And I’ll say one last thing. I know you have a follow-up — probably
about five more. But let me just say this one last thing — is that the
interesting thing about this is that the President has done these
historic pieces of legislation, whether it’s the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation, whether it’s the American Rescue Plan,
whether it’s CHIPS and Science Act, whether it’s the Infl- — Inflation
Reduction Act.

There are some Republicans — right? — in the House, in the Senate that
did not vote for any of these legislations that I just laid out, who go
back to their state, go back to their district and take credit for
something that the President did.

So, this is not unusual. They did this in 2019. They did this in 2020.
And the Pres- — they did this in 2022. And the President continues to
prevail.

Q Okay. Just one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q The President said over the long weekend that he hasn’t had the
occasion to go to East Palestine. “I just haven’t been able to break.”
The derailment was on February 3rd. President Biden has not had a break
since February 3rd?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President will go to East Palestine. He promised
that he would, and he will. You saw him —

Q But was he on — so, he was not on a break when he was in Lake Tahoe?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I will say this again: The President is going to go to
East Palestine, as he has said that he is committed to do.

You saw him just this Saturday visit a rural area — right? — that was
devastated — some parts were devastated by Hurricane Idalia. And he was
there with the First Lady. They were able to hear directly from the
American people. And he was able to talk about what is it that they
need, what is it — what else do they need from the federal government.

So, the President is going to go to East Palestine. I don’t have a time
or a — or a date to announce at this time, but he will go.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Given recent events, is there any plans to alter the
Vice President’s schedule and pivot her, since she’s already in Asia, to
have her in place in case the President is not able to go?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just — I just don’t have any details or updates to
share on travel.

Q And to follow up on my colleague’s question, my colleague’s question,
and my colleague’s question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — can you explain why you can’t share or won’t share the cadence of
the President’s testing with us? It seems like a pretty —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, yeah, I —

Q — basic question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It has — it has nothing to not share the cadence. We —
I just shared with you: Yesterday, he took — he took a test, and it was
negative. Today, he took a test, and it was negative. The CDC does not
recommend testing every day after close contact. That is not my — I —

Q Right, but since you’re —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m — I’m —

Q — telling us he tested — you — I’m just saying you’re — I’m just
trying to apply logic here. You told us the times he tested previously,
so it would be helpful if we know going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Because it already happened, my friend. It already
happened.

Q I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It already happened, right?

Q I understand. I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right? Right?

Q But —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, therefore, I can tell you that he took the test
because it already happened, right?

Q Would it be safe to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And I’m telling you right now —

Q — assume he’s going to test in the mornings and the evenings going
forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — it is up to the physician and in close consultation
with the physician. CDC — the guidon- — the guidance from CDC recommends
that the — or says it does not have to test — someone with a close
contact does not have to test ev- — every — regularly or every day.

So that is the c- —

Q No, I get that, but —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Well, then there should be —

Q — not everybody is the President.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: There should be — there should be no confusion. We just
explained that he tested — I just explained he tested yesterday. He
tested —

Q No, there’s no confusion. I was just wondering if we could have an
explanation as to why you don’t want to share — I’m —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just explained it. I literally just explained it. CDC
does not —

Q Obviously, I didn’t understand because I’m asking.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, CDC recommends — CDC recommends that testing — does
not recommend testing every day. That’s something that CDC — we’re
following CDC guidance.

Q Just answer her question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just did. In close consultation —

Q You —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — with the physician. That’s what’s going to happen.
The physician is going to decide when the testing is going to happen.
That’s it. That’s the answer.

I don’t have anything else for you. That is the answer that I’m giving
you: in close consultation with his physician. The CDC does not
recommend testing every day. That’s it.

Go ahead. I’m going to call Sabrina. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. I know Jake wouldn’t speak to the components of a
possible normalization agreement between Saudi Arabia and Israel, but
Prime Minister Netanyahu has said that the issue of Palestine is more of
a checkbox in the negotiations. Does the White House agree with that
assessment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I’m not going to go beyond — Jake laid out pretty
well about our position there — the — the meeting that Brett is doing in
the region, especially as it relates to Palestine as well. I don’t have
anything — I’m not going to go be- — beyond or further to what the
national advisor shared —

Q Can you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — he shared.

I’m going to go around. I’m going to take one —

Q Some of us haven’t been called on in months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes. Yes.

Q Back here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Brian. Go ahead, Brian.

Q (Inaudible) entire season (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Brian.

Q Thanks, Karine. I was going to ask about deficit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The federal deficit is projected to increase this year over last year.
During Biden’s term, it decreased in the first two years. It’s going to
increase this year. What’s President Biden’s response to that? And what
are his — what’s his assessment of the reasons that the federal deficit
is increasing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. And I know one of my colleagues
have spoken to this before. Deficits from year to year can be volatile,
and so that’s kind of how we’ve tracked that.

But the reality is: The President has a real plan — as we’ve laid out
multiple times — to reduce the deficit, and we don’t see Republicans
having a real plan. And so, the deficit has fallen by more than $1
trillion under the President — President — this President, and he has
signed legislation to cut the deficit by another $1 trillion.

So, the President’s budget would reduce the deficit by a — by a further
$2.5 trillion by cutting wasteful spending on special interests and
making big corporations and the rich pay their fair share. So, that’s
what we’re trying to do.

And by contrast, what you’re seeing from our Republicans cou- —
colleagues on the other side is that, you know — especially when
President Trump and congressional Republicans — what they did during his
administration is that they added $2 trillion to the deficit with a tax
cut that skewed, obviously, to the wealthy and large corporations.

So, what we are going to do is we’re going to continue to fight for
Social Security. We’re going to continue to fight for Medicare,
healthcare. We’re going to — continue to make sure we do what we can to
— the President believes in moving forward with his economic plan in a
fiscally responsible way. And so, that we’re — that’s what we’re going
to continue to do here.

Q What’s the reason it’s going up, though? Why is the deficit
increasing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just said: It can be — year to year, it can be very
volatile.

Q I mean, he said in March, in Baltimore, in a speech —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah?

Q — “our plan is working” to — it’s decreasing the deficit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right. And I —

Q — and now the projections are showing that it’s not the case.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — and — and we have seen the deficit falling by more
than a trillion dollars under this President, right? But as I stated at
the top, it could be volatile. And that’s why the President has taken
action — right? — more than $2 trillion — to lower the deficit. And
that’s what he’s going to continue to do.

But we know — what we know for sure is that trickle — trickle-down
economy does not work. You hear us talk about all the time when we talk
about Bidenomics is building an economy from the bottom up, middle out.
That’s the President’s plan. That’s what he’s going to continue to do,
and he’s going to do it in a fiscally responsible way.

And, again, that’s — all you have to do is watch what the President has
done the last two years. And he has done a —

Q (Inaudible) identify the reasons that it’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I just laid out, it can be —

Q — (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — very volatile. I just talked about how the President
—

Q How do you explain the volatility?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President deficit — it can be — but that’s the way
it is. From year to year, it can be volatile. That is something the
economy — economies —

Q Why?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — the economy — well, talk to an economist and they’ll
tell you specifically.

What I can speak to is — what the President has done over the last two
years is — we’ve seen the deficit go down by a trillion dollars. He
spent — he signed another piece of legislation where the deficit is
going to go down another trillion.

That is the President’s focus. That’s why we believe Bidenomics is so
important.

Guys, I will see you tomorrow. Thank you very much.

2:32 P.M. EDT
