---
date: '2023-09-08'
modified_time: 2023-09-08 13:48:08-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-08 13:48:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/08/press-gaggle-by-secretary-of-the-treasury-janet-yellen-ahead-of-the-g20-summit-in-india-new-delhi-india/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Secretary of the Treasury Janet Yellen Ahead of the G20 Summit\
  \ in India | New Delhi,\_India"
---
 
The Park Hotel  
New Delhi, India

SECRETARY YELLEN: Good morning, everyone, and thank you for being here.

I’d like to share a few introductory thoughts about the priorities we’ll
be focused on throughout this week.

First, we’re committed to supporting emerging markets in developing
countries and to addressing global challenges. This includes our ongoing
work on evolving the multilateral development banks.

One year since my call to action to the multilateral development banks,
we’ve worked with a growing coalition of partners to make significant
progress on reforms related to the World Bank’s mission and vision,
incentives, operational model, and financing capacity. We’re glad to
have Ajay Banga as our partner in this work.

And we look forward to more work with the regional development banks and
on how to achieve greater collaboration across the MDB system, including
to increase access to climate finance.

We’ve already made significant progress in expanding the MDBs’ financial
capacity. The recommendations that are currently being implemented or
under consideration across the MDBs could unlock an additional $200
billion over the next decade. Those are crucial additional resources for
reducing poverty, advancing global health security, and combating
climate change.

I saw firsthand the impact this funding can have during my last trip to
India just over a month ago, when Ajay Banga and I visited an education
data hub supported by the World Bank and met the students whose lives
were being improved.

There’s scope to do even more on financial capacity, including through
some of the more medium-term recommendations of the G20 Capital Adequacy
Framework review, particularly with respect to callable capital.

We’re also asking Congress for two and a quarter billion dollars to
boost the World Bank’s concessional finance for global challenges and
for crisis response. And we’ve requested authorization for a loan of up
to $21 billion for the IMF, including for the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Trust, which desperately needs more resources.

We also hope to build support for an equi-proportional increase in
quotas during meetings this week.

This week also provides an opportunity to discuss debt relief. We
continue to support efforts to provide predictable, orderly, and timely
debt relief to countries, including under the Common Framework for Debt
Treatment where progress has been too slow.

As a second priority area, we remain committed to extensive and
strategic multilateral action in response to Russia’s war on Ukraine.
The price cap and sanctions, both the result of unprecedented global
collaboration, are having powerful impacts on Russia’s ability to wage
its brutal and unjust war.

We also remain committed to support for Ukraine and recently put forward
a supplemental funding request. There has been bipartisan support for
this funding to date, and it’s critical that we continue to provide
timely economic assistance.

During my visit to Kyiv earlier this year, I saw firsthand the
importance of this assistance in enabling Ukraine’s resistance on the
frontlines.

We’re also grateful for the involvement of our partners, including the
€50 billion package proposed by the European Union and the $15 billion
International Monetary Fund program, which has been essential to
Ukraine’s efforts to implement reforms and stabilize the economy.

And we need to remain focused on addressing the devastating consequences
of the war, including its impact on food security. Russia’s withdrawal
from the Black Sea Grain Initiative is deeply concerning and is
particularly being felt by low- and middle-income countries.

In response, we hope to move forward on efforts such as supporting the
Global Agriculture and Food Security Program and working toward a
successful replenishment of the International Fund for Agricultural
Development.

Last but not least, continuing to advance the U.S.-India relationship
will be a priority this week. We highly value our bilateral relationship
with India.

In fact, this is my fourth time in India over the last year, making it
the country I visited most frequently as Treasury Secretary. We also
welcomed Prime Minister Modi to the U.S. in June.

The U.S. is home to the largest Indian diaspora outside of Asia and is
India’s largest export market. Expanding our bilateral economic ties and
our cooperation on global challenges is crucially important to us.

And let me stop there. And with that, I’m happy to take your questions.

MODERATOR: We’ll start with Josh, with the AP.

Q Secretary Yellen, thank you so much for doing this. The World Bank,
among others, has also expressed concern about a period of higher
interest rates and slower grobal — global growth. I’m curious for what
you’re hearing from other countries about the risks to global growth and
how that’s shaping all the priorities that you just outlined.

SECRETARY YELLEN: So, certainly, we’re aware of the risks to global
growth. I would say the most important negative influence is Russia’s
war on Ukraine, which has escalated energy and food prices. And as — as
many at G20 meetings have stated repeated- — repeatedly: The most
important thing we could do for global growth is for Russia to end its
brutal war on Ukraine.

That said, I think I’ve personally been surprised by the strength of
global growth and how resilient the global economy has proven to be. And
recently, the IMF has somewhat improved its economic projections.

But many countries have built important buffers, which have enabled them
to weather very significant shocks to the global economy. And while
there are risks in some countries that have been — certainly have been
affected, overall, the global economy has been resilient. And, as you
know, the United States has done particularly well.

MODERATOR: Viktoria, Bloomberg.

Q Thank you. As — just a follow-up. How concerned are you about the
Chinese slowdown? Or how does it affect your outlook for the global —
how does it affect your global growth outlook?

And also, just on Ukraine, you talked about U.S. support. I was just
wondering, especially on the supplemental funding request, if you’re at
all concerned about having difficulty getting this through Congress,
given negotiations over government funding and — yeah. Thank you.

SECRETARY YELLEN: So, with respect to China, China faces a variety of
both short- and longer-term global challenges — economic challenges that
we’ve been monitoring carefully, including less of a pickup in consumer
spending than had been anticipated in the aftermath of the COVID
restrictions, as well as longstanding issues with respect to the
property sector and debt — debt related to that.

And longer term, of course, population growth has now turned negative
and the labor force is beginning to shrink, so see China’s growth as
slowing over time.

That said, China has quite a bit of policy space to address these
challenges.

So, we’re monitoring the situation. I don’t see it as having very
significant, direct impact on the United States. Some countries in East
Asia are more likely to be aff- — affected by the slowdown. But it’s
something that we are keeping an eye on.

With respect to the supplemental, I’m pleased that there has been
bipartisan support in both houses of Congress for Ukraine, and I feel
confident that we’ll be able to make sure that we have funding.

We continue to stand behind Ukraine for as long as is necessary.

MODERATOR: Ed, with CBS.

Q Thank you. Madam Secretary, I’m curious about  
two things. First, the absence of President Xi and Putin this weekend
and how that might reshape the meetings or potentially  
affect the utility of the G20 going forward if these two leaders in
their — at the highest levels aren’t here.

Also, curious if you have any comment on the apparent reports out of
China that they’re banning the use of iPhones by government workers or
further restricting them for whatever reason, similar to how we’ve
banned TikTok and Huawei. Would that have any effects more broadly on
this sort of ongoing back-and-forth over U.S. and Chinese technology?
And how could that affect the global economy?

SECRETARY YELLEN: Well, let me start with your first question pertaining
to the absence of Xi and Putin. I think it’s important to emphasize that
the G20 is a prime contributor to the solution of global challenges. We
see it as the premier organization that on a global basis is taking on
critical challenges facing the global economy and, particularly, the
Global South.

And I believe the G20 — in spite of obvious problems due to the — due to
Russia’s war against Ukraine and Russia’s,  
you know, general absence from G20 initiatives, I believe the G20 has
been extremely effective. And especially under India’s leadership, our
goals for the G20 have coincided closely with those of India. We’ve
tackled very important challenges.

As I mentioned, I think we’ve had considerable success in changing the
way the entire multilateral development system is operating — increasing
its mission to take on a variety of global challenges, ranging from
better preparedness for future pandemics, where we have established a
new finance and health ministers task force; a fund — a pandemic fund at
the World Bank; as well as climate change, taking on global challenges
along with poverty reduction.

We’ve made, over the last year, very substantial progress in changing
not only the mission but also improving the financial resources of the
multilateral development banks to perform their critical missions in
changing the incentives and structures under which they operate. And I —
I think that’s been an extremely effective initiative.

Under India’s leadership, debt has been — in- –international debt and
providing relief to countries that are overindebted — partly because of
the impact of Russia’s war against Ukraine, but also the
high-interest-rate environment — and begin — believe we’re beginning to
make significant progress there.

So, I do see the G20 as a very effective forum. We appreciate India’s
leadership. We look forward, ourselves, to hosting the G20 in 2026. And
even without Russia’s active participation and the tensions the war has
created, I still see the G20 as highly effective.

Q And China potentially, you know, withholding access to iPhones?

SECRETARY YELLEN: Oh, on iPhone — I’m sorry. I — I’m not aware of what’s
involved in that. I’m not — I’m not really prepared to give you an
answer on that.

MODERATOR: James (inaudible).

Q Thank you, Secretary Yellen. How soon are you expecting other U.S.
allies and partners to join your plan for the World Bank with specific
pledges? And will the scale of this be sufficient to really reduce the
dependence of emerging economies on lending from China, which your
administration has described as coercive?

SECRETARY YELLEN: Well, we certainly seek with our G20 partners to
enhance the financial capacity of the World Bank and the MDB system more
generally.

And the reforms that are underway, as I indicated, could lead — over the
next decade — to an additional $200 billion.

In addition, we’re looking forward to discussing the possibility of
other Capi- — putting in place other Capital Adequacy Framework rec- —
recommendations, like adding callable capital that could further
increase the resources.

But President Biden has asked Congress to provide an additional two and
a quarter billion dollars to the World Bank — an initiative that is
designed to show our commitment to relieving global problems of the
South; taking on global issues, like climate change and pandemic
preparedness.

And those resources can lead to around an additional $25 billion — just
the U.S. contribution — to lending ability of the World Bank. They would
go toward additional funds for IDA to make very low-cost subsidized
loans to the most challenged low-income countries, as well as conce- —
as concessional finance to attack global problems.

And we have asked other countries to join with us to the extent that
they’re able to in this initiative. We’re hopeful that other countries,
depending on their financial capacity, will join us and we can scale
that up.

In addition, with respect to the IMF, the supplemental calls for an
additional $25 billion loan from the U.S. to the Poverty Reduction and
Growth Trust at the IMF that would be further concessional finance for
low-income countries.

So, these are important initiatives doing what we can. And it’s not just
a question of responding to China; it’s a question of addressing to
longstanding global challenges, reducing poverty, addressing global —
global public goods issues that this is — this is a critically important
mission.

MODERATOR: Catherine Lucey, the Journal.

Q Thank you, Secretary. Do you think that the G20 will be able to reach
agreement on a communiqué and, specifically, on the war in Ukraine as
part of that?

SECRETARY YELLEN: So, I understand that this is challenging to craft
such language, but I know the negotiators are discussing it and working
hard to do so. And we stand ready, certainly, to work with India to try
to craft a communiqué that successfully addresses this concern.

MODERATOR: We have time for one final question. (Inaudible.)

Q Thank you, Madam Secretary. There are indications that Russia has
found some ways around your price cap by using fewer Western insurance
services and ships. And, in fact, the price of Russian oil has — has
climbed, in some cases, above the price cap. Are you worried that your
Russia policy is becoming more difficult to effectively implement?

SECRETARY YELLEN: So, my perception is that the price cap continues to
work.

It had two goals. One was to cut Russia’s revenues. And our estimate is
that Russia’s revenue from oil has declined by around 44 percent over
the last year. The second goal was to keep the global market
well-supplied, and Russia’s exports and sales into the global market
have continued and have not significantly contracted.

Now, the ban repl- — applies to services. The — so, the $60 price cap
applies to any oil sold using services from members of the coalition.
And although there is — there are sales that are permitted under the
price cap, as you mentioned, that do not use Western services — and many
of those are occurring at prices above $60 — they’re not a violation of
the price cap. And it is very expensive for Russia and other countries
to provide services where Western providers have clear price advantages.

And so, while such things are occurring, it erodes the revenue that
Russia is able to receive on net from those sales.

And certainly, there are substantial sales that are occurring as well
using Western services. And as far as we can tell — and we’re certainly
monitoring for evasion of the sanctions — these sales are occurring
below the $60 price cap. So, I do believe it continues to work.

MODERATOR: Thanks, everyone.
