---
date: '2023-09-22'
modified_time: 2023-09-22 18:34:59-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-22 18:34:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/22/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-representative-lucy-mcbath/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Representative Lucy\_\
  McBath"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:43 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, President Biden, as you all know, has met with
countless survivors of gun violence and families mourning loved ones.
And the message he hears most often is: Do something.

Today, President Biden will build upon the historic actions he’s taken
through the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and the two dozen executive
actions he’s taken to date, and announce the establishment of the
first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.

This new office will be overseen by Vice President Harris, who has been
a — who has been a key leader in the Biden-Harris administration’s
effort to end our nation’s gun violence epidemic.

The office will be held by Stefanie Feldman, a longtime policy advisor
to President Biden on gun violence prevention, and two leading gun
violence prevention advocates, Greg Jackson and Rob Wilcox. They will
join the administration as deputy directors of the office.

Ahead of this afternoon’s event in the Rose Garden, I am pleased to
welcome to the podium someone who has more authority to speak on this
issue than nearly anyone else in this town — and I say that sadly:
Congresswoman Lucy McBath.

Through her grief and because of her perseverance, she has become a
tireless advocate for gun safety reform. For some, this is an abstract
debate, but not for Congresswoman McBath. She has lived within — with
the awful and tragic reality of the gun violence epidemic in this
country. I can think of no better person to share what today’s news
means to so many families across the country.

On a personal note, she’s a hero of mine. In 2018, as a — as I was at a
previous job I held, we were sitting around deciding who was going to go
to the district — districts — different districts across the country,
obviously, to organize and knock on doors. I stood up and asked to go to
Lucy McBath’s district because she has so inspired me and, I know, so
many others out there with her strength, with her smarts, and her vision
for this country.

So, I literally went door to door, knocking in what is now your district
for your first election.

REPRESENTATIVE MCBATH: Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And it is a — really, truly an honor to have you here
today on this important, important historic moment here at the White
House.

The podium is yours, Congresswoman.

REPRESENTATIVE MCBATH: Thank you. Thank you. Well, thank you so much,
Karine.

And while I serve as a member of Congress today, I am speaking to you
first and foremost as a mother. Just over a decade ago, I was living
like any other mom in Georgia — in the Georgia suburbs, and I dedicated
my entire life to raising my son, Jordan.

Then on November 23rd, 2012, within the course of three and a half
minutes, a man drove up next to my son and his friends as they were
parked in their car at a convenience store gas station, firing 10 rounds
into the car and killing my only son.

In an instant, I was robbed of every dream that a mother holds for her
child. I would never send Jordan off to college. I would never see him
attend his high school events. He would never graduate from high school.
I would never see him get married.

Nobody wants to experience what I have, but my story is becoming far too
common in the United States of America. Every single day, over 100
people are shot and killed in the United States.

Gun violence has no boundaries. From the suburbs, to the cities, to
rural America, over 100 families a day are living their worst nightmare.

Our kids are continually trauma- — traumatized by lockdown drills, while
their schools teach them how to hide behind their desks and corner
themselves to shield themselves from gunfire.

President Biden knows the deep pain of losing a loved one. And today, he
is taking decisive action by declaring loudly and clearly: We do not
have to live this way.

The historic creation of the gun — of the Office of Gun Violence
Prevention marks a new era in the fight to keep us all safe. The office
will increase coordination between states and ensure proper
implementation of the gun safety legislation that we have already passed
in Congress.

President Biden’s actions today truly, truly will save lives.

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you, Congresswoman.

REPRESENTATIVE MCBATH: Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things before we go into questions.
Today, extreme Republicans are voting in a House committee on four
destructive appropriation bills as they continue to march toward a
shutdown that would hurt our economy and threaten our safety.

House Republicans failed multiple times this week to do their basic
duty: keep the government running. Instead, they were pushed to the
extremes with increasingly severe cuts to programs Americans rely on,
which have no hope of passing the Senate. And having accomplished
nothing — having accomplished nothing this week, they have all decided
to go home.

That’s not delivering for the American people. It’s chaos. It’s failing.
It’s actually failing the American people.

Now, you don’t have to take my words for it. As you know, we like to
take it straight from the horse’s mouth, if you will, and do quotes
here. So, House Republicans have said — they said it themselves.

Representative Frank Lucas said there are, quote, “Folks who want to use
this as an opportunity to blow the place up.”

Representative Jerry Carl said, quote, “I truly think that they want it
shut down.” End quote.

Representative Matt Gaetz said, “We will have a government shutdown.”
“We cannot blame Joe Biden…” “We cannot blame House d- — House
Democrats.” End quote.

That’s because House Republicans are to blame. And we’ve seen that week
after week after week.

So, now the question for House Republicans is very simple: Do they
continue to pursue increasingly extreme bills that would hurt their
constituents by slashing education, slashing healthcare, Meals on
Wheels, and much more, all while barreling toward a needless shutdown
that would threaten nutrition assistance for nearly 7 million mothers
and children? Is that what they want? That’s a question for them. They
have to answer this.

Or do they keep their promise and abide by the bipartisan agreement two
thirds — two thirds of House Republicans voted for — for this bipartisan
agreement just four months ago, back in May? It’s not complicated here.
It’s truly not complicated, because a deal is a deal.

So, another thing before we — we continue. Here at the White House, this
afternoon, the President is taking another action to save lives: signing
a bipartisan law that will make the ar- — the organ transplant system
work better for more than 100,000 people on the waiting list for organs.

Everybody knows the system has been broken for years, with heartbreaking
consequences. Now, with the President’s signature, we are taking
significant steps to improve it.

The law will break up the current monopoly system, harnessing
competition to allow HHS to contract with the best entities to provide a
more efficient system for the people it serves. The law will also
eliminate the funding cap to allow additional resources to modernize the
system, which is a critical lifeline for thousands of Americans. And
this will save lives by creating a more transparent and accountable
system that allows more Americans to access the organ transplants that
many so desperately need.

And finally, finally, finally — on Monday, the President will host
Pacific Islands Forum leaders at the White House during the U.S.-Pacific
Island Forum Summit taking place here in Washington, D.C.

This is the second summit with Pacific leaders that the President will
be doing here. It will reaffirm his support for strengthening ties with
the Pacific Islands and discuss how we address complex global
challenges, like tackling the existential threat of climate change,
advancing economic growth, and promoting sustainable development.

Over the past year, we’ve taken our engagement with PIF countries to new
heights. And we’re looking toward — to continue to deepen our
partnerships.

And we’ll have more for all of you later this afternoon. There will be a
call that all of you can jump on. I believe it’s at 3:30. And so, stay —
stay tuned.

And with that, Will.

Q Thanks. I have two topics. First, on Senator Menendez, did the White
House know that an indictment was coming today? And does the President
believe the senator should resign?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. I’m going to be really careful
here — this is a — and not comment, because this is an active matter.

We learned about this just like all of you. But again, this is active
matter, so I’m not going to comment.

Q Should he resign?

Q No comment on a resignation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I’m just — active matter. I’m not going to comment.

Q Okay. On the — on the UAW strike. The UAW has invited President Biden
to the picket line. I’m wondering if he’s going to — he has any plans to
go.

And also, they — the strike is expanding to 20 states. Is the President
going to feel more pressure to move both parties towards a resigna- — a
resolution —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a cou- —

Q — resolution?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep. On your first question, I don’t have any updates
to the President’s schedule at — at this time. Just don’t have anything
to share.

But certainly, the President appreciates the — Shawn Fain’s inviting
him, including him, certainly, with the — with all the family and
friends of the UAW.

And so, the President has been really clear about this. He believes the
un- — the union built the middle class. That’s something that he has
said for years now. And, of course, he is a union guy who will continue
to fight for UAW and also union workers. So, that will not end. That is
something that he has certainly been steadfast about for the past
several years.

So, we are, of course, in touch with the parties. As you know, Acting
Secretary of Labor Julie Su and also Gene Sperling have been in regular
touch for the past several weeks with all parties.

Certainly, the parties continue to remain at the negotiation table,
which is incredibly important. And so, we’ve communicated to each of
them the importance of continuing to work 24/7 to get to a win-win
agreement, as you’ve heard us say many times.

And look, the auto industry will remain here in America. That’s what the
President has been working towards, investing in that in the last two
years. And, you know, UAW workers remain at the heart — the heart of a
growing industry.

And so, we will do anything — everything that we possibly can to help in
any way that the parties would like us to. But again, they are at the
negotiation table, and they — we believe that’s incredibly important.

I know — I know your — your dad had some thoughts about our
back-and-forth yesterday, so maybe we sh- — we should try this again.

Q I — same question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q Same question as yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Can you repeat the question?

Q What do you call it when 10,000 people illegally cross the border in a
single day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, here’s what I will say. And you’ve heard us say —
you heard me say this a couple of times — and I’ll say it again because
it is the facts: On day one, the first day of this President’s
administration, he put forth a comprehensive immigration reform that we
believe — we believe that was desperately needed for this country.
Right?

As we know, and you’ve heard us say this many times before, we are
dealing with a broken system. And no action was taken from Congress.

And so, what the President was able to do: He imposed consequences for
those who do not have the legal basis to remain. And he has removed more
than 250,000 individuals — this administration has done so — since May
12th. And so, we’ve taken action.

The President has secured — he also secured record funding. And — and
let’s not forget: This record funding that the President fought for over
the last year or so was — was opposed by the House Republicans. This is
something that they opposed and didn’t want to see.

And so, what it allowed us to do is actually hire about 25,000 more —
bring on CBP agents and really do something that was historic, that we
hadn’t seen.

And so, a broken system. It’s been broken for the past couple of
decades. The last administration certainly gutted the immigration system
for four years. That’s what they did.

And you had Speaker McCarthy and the Republicans in Congress who
continuously — continuously take step to undermine what is currently
happening, trying to undermine getting border security.

We saw that — we saw that this week with the — with the CR, where they
put forth another — another piece of legislation to cut — to cut — to
propose continuing to cut — cut some important resources that’s needed,
whether it’s CBP — 800 fewer CBP is what they wanted to do. Fifty
thousand pounds of cocaine, that’s what it would — that’s what it would
hurt — right? — in — in trying to prevent that from coming in. Right?

When you think about more than 300 pounds of fentanyl, when you think
about more than 700 pounds of heroin, more than 6,000 pounds of
methamphetamine to enter the country — that’s what they were trying to
prevent from the work that we’re trying to do — prevent from coming into
the country.

So, we would love to do this in a bipartisan way, but we’re not seeing
that. We’re seeing — what we’re seeing from House Republicans is wanting
to defend — defu- — defund, pardon me, DHS.

Q But when you spoke last month —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — and you said, “We are stopping the flow at the border,” is 10,000
migrants in a single day stopping the flow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I will say is — I just mentioned 250 \[thousand\]
individuals have been — have been stopped who do not have the legal
pathway from coming in. That has been since May 12th.

And — and as we are, you know, looking at Eagle Pass — and I know this
is a — this is a — where — where kind of the — the issue is at the ti- —
at the moment. You know, CBP quickly surged resources and personnel to
the area. And thanks to their great work — their great work, we’re able
to swiftly vet — vetted and processed into custody more than two hun- —
2,500 individuals and cleared the area where migrants had congregated.

And that’s the work of our law enforcement. That’s the work of our law
enforcement at the border.

Remember, House Republicans are trying to cut that. They’re trying to
cut that.

Q Totally different subject.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q There are some new relaxed standards in town. Would President Biden
ever show up to an official meeting wearing shorts and a hoodie?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’ve — you’ve — I’m assuming you’re talking about the
Senate when you say “relaxed standards.”

Q He was in the Senate for a long time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know, but I’m just —

Q He used to be the president of the Senate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just want to make sure we’re clear what you’re
talking about here.

Q Does he think these are appropriate changes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You — you know the President. You’ve seen him. You’ve
seen him for the past — as vice president, as senator. He — he dresses
better than — than most of us here. (Laughs.) And so, I’ll just leave it
at that.

I’m not going to comment on how Senate is running their business and the
decision that they’re — made. That is — that is up to them.

Q And then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is not for us to decide or speak to.

Q — last one. At a fundrai- — at a fundraiser this week, President Biden
told donors about how Charlottesville inspired his campaign. And then,
according to the pool, a few minutes later, he told the story again,
nearly word for word. What’s up with that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can tell you is — and I’m going to be careful
not to talk about — because this was a campaign event for this upcoming
campaign, obviously, in 2024. So, I’m not going to speak to that, put
that out there for the Hatch Act.

What I can speak to is — look, the President was making very clear why
he decided to run in 2020 and 2019. He made it very clear as to what he
saw in this country and what was going on. And he got 81 million votes —
a historic amount of votes — from Americans across the country who
believed that this was a president who can help get our — protect our
democracy, get our economy back on track. And — and could be a leader
and the adult in the room. And so, that’s what you saw.

I’m not going to speak to comments that were made and — during a
campaign — campaign event, but I can certainly speak to why the
President is president today and why he decided to take on this job.

And it is important for him to continue to deliver for the American
people, and that’s what he’s going to do.

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q (Inaudible.)

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nancy.

Q I know you don’t want to interfere with an ongoing investigation. But
given the unique nature of the charges against Senator Menendez, taking
bribes from a foreign country — he’s the chair of the Foreign Relations
Committee — what message does it send to other countries if he’s allowed
to stay in that role?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I believe, from some of your reporting, I think
there’s discussions happening about his next steps — the senator’s next
steps. So, I leave it to the leadership of the Senate and certainly lead
it — leave that to the senator’s office.

I have to be really careful because it is, indeed, an ongoing matter.
And so, I cannot comment on this.

But as far as his leadership role in the Senate, that is something for
Senate leadership to speak to.

Q Given that this is now the second time that he’s faced really serious
federal charges, would the President advise him to step down? Does he
want to see him continue in the Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re going to be very, very clear about this: We’re
not going to get involved. It is a ongoing matter. And so, we’re going
to leave it to — to the prosecutors to move forward with however they
see fit, but we’re not going to comment.

Q On the UAW, the initial plan was the President was going to send Julie
Su and Gene Sperling to Detroit. They stayed here. Why was that decision
made for them to stay here? And now, given that the strike is expanding,
are there plans to now go ahead and send them to Detroit? Or are they
going to continue to — to make those conversations from here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, there was a mutually agreed decision that was made
this week that we — that was believed to be the most productive way to
move forward — was for — for Gene and Julie to stay back and to help
from Washington in the best way possible. That was a mutually agreed
agreement.

And look, we are in constant — those two are in constant conversation
with all parties. They actually spoke to the parties today. And so, that
certainly is going to continue. We are going to help and assist in any
way that they feel necessary.

But look, I think the most important thing is that they are still at the
negotiation table. That is incredibly important. They have done — they
have been really focused on this the last — the last 24/7. And so, I
think that’s important.

The President has always said he’s a union guy. He — he appreciates
being called that by unions and labor leaders out there.

And so, we’re going to do everything that we can to be helpful. But we
are encouraged that they are continuing to have that conversation.

Q Thanks, Karine. Beyond placing the blame on Congress, what’s your
message to federal employees at risk of going unpaid?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, our — our message is: This doesn’t have to
happen. The shutdown does not have to happen. The Republican shutdown
does not have to happen. They can do their — they can do their job and
keep these vital programs continuing, keeping the government open. And
that’s our message.

Our message is: This should not be happening. We should not be putting
American families’ lives in turmoil. We should not be putting their —
even their lives at risk, potentially, because of what this could mean
for the different programs that these families and Americans need.

And so, all they have to do is do their job. And what they’re doing is
putting forth incredibly extreme, partisan — partisan policies forward
and — you know, and saying, “Hey, we have to get this done,” in order to
keep a deal that they made back in May.

And so, this should not be happening. It should not be happening. And
so, look, we’re going to continue to be very clear what we’re — what
we’re saying to them privately is what we’re saying to all of you
publicly — is that they need to do their job.

Q Do you know when federal workers would miss their first paycheck?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have the specifics on any of that. The OMB
director and the OMB more broadly, certainly, is working — is working on
what — on plans of what this could potentially look like if there is a
shutdown, talking to the different agencies.

So, that is — that is certainly in progress right now. Just don’t have
any specifics on payments or what that would — what that would look
like.

Q And the new announcement today on the gun violence — Office of
Prevention of Gun Violence. That has been something advocates have been
pushing for for years. Why do you think it took so long?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, here’s the thing. As you know, there was the
bipartisan piece of legislation that the President was — signed, and it
was the first major piece of legislation on gun violence that was able
to be — to move forward in 30 years.

The President did two dozen executive actions, because he took this
seriously. He called the gun violence in this country an “epidemic.”

And so, I said this yesterday and I’ve said this many times — you’ve
heard this from the President: There are people who are sitting at their
kitchen table every night who is missing a loved one because of this
violence. Because you can’t go — you can’t go to your congregation, you
can’t go to your grocery store and not worry about potentially getting
shot down.

You have kids who are going to school who are — you heard directly from
the congresswoman — what they have to go through now because of this gun
violence epidemic.

So, right now is the right moment to establish this office. We want to
accelerate — accelerate what the President is — put forward in his two
dozen — two dozen executive actions. We want to accelerate the law that
he was able to sign — sign into — sign into law — legislation he was
able to sign into law — to get — to continue to get the work done.

And so, this was the right time to do that. But let’s not forget the
work that the President has done the last two years to get us to where
we are. But more work needs to be done. He’s not going to stop calling
on Congress to continue to do the work that they need to do to protect
our families from gun violence.

But this is an opportunity to accelerate what the President has been
able to do to — to protect communities, to really deal with gun
violence. And that’s what the importance of this office is.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Did President Biden and other Five Eyes leaders raise
their concerns about Canada’s allegations of Indian involvement in the
murder of a Canadian citizen at the recent G20 meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I know that the National Security Advisor spoke to
this yesterday, and I know there’s been some new reporting. I don’t have
anything to — certainly — and this is something that Jake said himself —
you know, I’m not — he was not going to comment about private diplomatic
conversations. I’m not going to do that either. You know, if the — just
— just following what the National Security Advisor said.

And so, I’m just not going to comment on that. Obviously, you know, we
are deeply concerned, as he said as well. And — and so, what — what the
Prime Minister has referenced here — the Prime Minister of Canada. And
so, we remain in regular contact with the — with the Canadian governor —
government and the Canadian partners. But, of course, I’m just not going
to comment on diplomatic conversations from here.

Q Jake did also say that the — that the issue was being raised at the
highest levels with the Indian government. Can you tell us if that’s —
if you’re staying in regular contact with them about this as well?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we have engaged, as — as — as Jake said — our
National Security Advisor — with — with the Indian government. But,
certainly, we’re not going to get into our private diplomatic
conversations, as he said as well. But, yes, there has been
conversations with our partners in the Indian government, as Jake — Jake
stated yesterday.

Q Karine, a follow-up?

Q In another realm of diplomatic conversations, can you say whether or
not President Biden promised President Zelenskyy yesterday that the U.S.
would provide the weapons known as ATACMS?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, again, with this, I’m just not going to confirm the
reportings that are out there. Look — and Jake said this as well when he
was here — the President has long said, in the past, that ATACMS are not
— are not off the table. And — but I just don’t have anything new to
announce.

But, look, I will say this, more broadly — is that what we saw
yesterday, this bilat between the two leaders — between President
Zelenskyy and President Biden — was really important.

It sent a strong signal to the world that — that we will continue to
support Ukraine. And let’s not forget, we also announced a significant
weapons package yesterday to continue to show that support that we have
to Ukraine — their counter- — to support their counteroffensive and
strengthen their air defenses against Russian attacks, which is our
fourth package, as you know.

So, we’ll — going to continue to show our support for Ukraine with these
security assistance. And so, that is our commitment. We will be there as
long as they — as long as it takes. I just cannot confirm those reports.

Q Follow-up on Canada?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Back on the auto workers strike. There’s been some behind-the-scenes
talk about a loan or grant program to help the auto suppliers. Is there
any movement on that? And if a program would happen, could that be
potentially affected by a government shutdown?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, there’s negotiations happening right now. I’m
not going to get into the — into the details of the negotiations at this
time. I’m going to let them have their — we’re going to give them the
space and let them have the conversations. We are encouraged that they
are — continue to be at the table. I’m just not going to go — I’m just
not going to go point to point on what’s being discussed or what’s being
put forward.

Q Is there — is there any discussions in the administration about
helping the suppliers as this strike continues?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Don’t have anything to share at this time from — from
how we’re going to potentially move forward.

What we are encouraged of is that they are continuing to stay at the
table, and that’s what we want to see. And so, I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals at this point.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks, Karine. A possible government shutdown would coincide with the
restart date for federal student loan payments. That starts on October
1st. Is there any consideration right now to pushing that date back if
there were a shutdown?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a really good question. We are — right now, OMB is
having those discussions with agencies at the moment to see how to move
forward if there is a potential shutdown. Don’t have the pa- — specifics
of what the different programs like the student loan program that we’ve
— the different parts of it that we’ve announced is going to look like
because those conversations are just now happening.

Q Can you say, from the White House, how worried you would be if there
were Education Department employees furloughed — who would obviously be
a part of this — but if there was a shutdown and those employees weren’t
there, how concerned would you be that this would not go smoothly then,
starting on October 1st?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you know, the student — student debt
relief program the port- — the President put forth is incredibly
important to him, right? It is something that he believed — the reason
he put it out there was to make sure that we give Americans a little bit
breathing room, especially coming out of the pandemic. And so, it was a
— clearly, part of his economic policy to make sure that we don’t leave
anybody behind, especially, again, as we’re coming out of this pandemic.

Don’t have — I don’t want to get too far into the weeds into this,
because, again, these conversations are just now starting — that OMB is
having — so I don’t want to get ahead of that. But certainly, we’re
looking into it, and we’re planning accordingly.

Go ahead.

Q Yes, Karine. Also on the shutdown. You mentioned yesterday that,
potentially, food safety would be under threat —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — in a shutdown. I understand that in previous years, USDA has
considered those sorts of inspections as essential. Is there something
else that you think will change that would make it non-essential?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, those conversations are happening, as to what the
effects might be — right? — to those certain programs and how these
agencies are going to move forward. Don’t have anything more to share.

Certainly, I laid — I laid out what the impacts would be for a shutdown,
because it’s important for the American people to know what this means,
with this Republican shutdown that they’re certainly seeming to barrel
forward with. But just don’t have any specifics on that.

Again, OMB is having these conversations with agencies. And so — to — to
look to see — to try and figure out how this is going to affect
Americans across the country.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, thanks. Can you expound on what the President is doing and
what he will be doing to avoid a government shutdown? I understand you
all have been saying that Congress needs to do its job. But surely the
President must want to do something to avert this.

And is there a possibility that he would at all alter his travel
schedule next week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look — look, I don’t have anything to speak to on the
President’s travel schedule. But this is — the President did his job. He
did. He helped broker a bipartisan agreement back in May to move forward
with a budget that, as I mentioned, two thirds of Republicans voted on.
He did his part. So, a deal is a deal.

This is not something we can fix. The best plan is to not — is to not
have a shutdown. The best plan is for House Republicans to stop their
partisan political play and not do this to hurt Americans across the
country. That’s the plan. The plan is to — for them to actually do their
job.

The President found it so important — right? — to make sure that there
was a bipartisan budget agreement that he did — he — he ma- — he helped
brokered that.

And, again, a deal is a deal. And so, there should not be a shutdown.
There should not be a shutdown. They should keep their promise not just
to the President but to the American people.

And so, you know, this is for them to fix. This is something that House
Republicans have to fix.

Go ahead. And then I’ll go to back. Go ahead.

Q A couple of things I’d like to follow up on. First of all, when you
referenced the signing of the organ donation, if we had coverage of the
signing of the organ donation, that would certainly expand attention to
that important issue. So, just as an ongoing request that coverage of
bill signings —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I appreciate that.

Q — would be — would be appreciated.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I appreciate that. Yep.

Q Following up on the UAW and — and so forth. Isn’t it an acknowledgment
that the offer to send Julie Su and Gene Sperling was a misstep because
they have not gone and you want to give this space?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, ab- — I don’t think it — I wouldn’t call it a
“misstep,” because I said it was mutually agreed upon that they would
stay back as they continue to have their conversation. And when I mean
“they” — meaning the parties that are — who are a part of this
negotiation process: obviously, the Big 3 and UAW.

And so, wouldn’t call it a misstep at all. I mean, again, it was a
mutual — mutually agreed that it would be — it would be more — most
productive for Gene and Julie to stay back and do the meetings and —
from Washington, D.C.

Now, let’s not forget, this is something that they’ve been doing for the
past several weeks; it’s nothing new. And so, we are — you know, we
appreciated that — again, mutually agreed.

And so, if there’s travel that needs to happen, we’ll certainly assess
that when the time — when the time comes.

But what is the most important thing here — what is the most important
thing is that all parties continue to have these — this conversation and
to continue to negotiate. And that’s, I think, what is the most
important part of this.

Q And following up on Peter’s comment about the fundraiser. For — you
know, we all understand these are off camera. We were not witnesses to
that, except for our pool that was present. But for the President to
retell a story we’ve all heard him tell many times —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — in full — and stipulating that we often — as human beings, you know,
we misspeak. We do things. I’ve done it myself. So, stipulating all of
that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — is it any concern that he would fully retell a story in the same
space in the same event?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sometimes I re- — re-speak as well from here and retell
a story.

But, look, you know, I think it’s important to note that the President
was speaking, as you said, at a fundraiser, and he was speaking from his
heart. He was speaking about why he decided to do this. And you hear the
President talk about this. It’s always incredibly emotional for him,
because he didn’t have to. He went through a incredibly difficult time
when he was deciding to jump into the race.

And so — but he saw — you know, as somebody who served as senator, as
somebody who served as vice president — what was going on in this — in
this — in this country under the last president.

Charlottesville —

Q So, you think knowingly and mindfully that he wanted to retell it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know, I have not spoken to the President about it,
certainly.

But what I can’t say is: The passion that he has when he tells that
story and how important it is for him to have done something because he
believed, you know, our democracy was at stake. You know, and that’s —
and — and what he saw.

I mean, you all saw what we saw in Charlottesville. It was devastating.
It was a part of our country that was devastating to see.

And so, you know, he spoke to that passionately. And, you know, that’s
why he’s in this. He’s in this because he believes that he can — he can
help move this country forward in a way that brings it to — to its best
— right? — when he talks about possibilities. And that’s why he was
speaking to — in an incredibly passionate way.

Okay. Go ahead, Gerren.

Q Thanks, Karine. While gun violence impacts communities all across the
country, Black, Jewish, and marginalized communities often fall at the
intersection of gun violence and hate-fueled violence. In many parts of
the country, those who commit hate crimes can still have legal access to
a gun. How important is it for this office — this new office to address
gun violence intersectionally?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, it’s — I mean, it is incredibly important. When we
talk about gun violence, it’s not one community that’s affecting, as you
just laid out; it’s multiple communities. So, this is something that is
at their intersection. It is so important that we do not forget a
community here.

As you know, this is going to be overseen by VP Harris — the Vice
President, Harris — which is going to be incredibly important. We have
Stef Feldman, who’s going to be the director, and she’ll have two
deputies.

We’re taking this very seriously, and this is about all communities —
all communities. As we hear the horrible stories — right? — we hear
story — stories of different brown and Black communities, rural
communities, urban communities being affected by gun violence. And
enough is enough.

Remember what I said at the top of this — at the top of the briefing:
The President hears from multiple — multiple victims, and the thing that
they say to him is, “Do something.” And it doesn’t matter where he is
around the country, who he’s comforting during these awful attacks,
that’s what he hears, because all of these communities are feeling the
same thing. They’re losing loved ones.

And so, it’s going to be incredibly important to make sure that we don’t
leave any community behind. This is not a president that does that. This
is the president that talks about inclus- — being inclusive. And — and
so, that’s what you’re going to see from this office.

What this office is going to do — as I said moments ago, it’s going to
accelerate the work that the President has already put forth: the
bipartisan — the bipartisan law on gun — for gun violence, when you
think about the two dozen executive actions that he’s taken. It’s going
to help accelerate all of those really critical pieces, so that we can
get to a place where we’re in — — where we’re not sending our kids —
being frightened — to school because there might be — there might be gun
violence at their school or going to — or going to a grocery store.
Right?

And so, that’s the importance of this office — is to really get to work
and accelerate the work that we’ve already been doing.  
Go ahead.

Q Thanks. On Ukraine. After Zelenskyy’s visit yesterday, Biden — Biden
said that he was counting on a good judgment of Congress to keep
approving aid for Ukraine. How confident is he that Republicans are
going to keep approving additional funding in an election year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this is something that Jake — Jake Sullivan
spoke to — our National Security Advisor spoke to yesterday. As you
know, he’s been very much involved and having conversations on — on the
Hill with congressional members — both Democrat and Republican — sitting
down, talking through the importance of continuing the funding.

We have said over and over again how much we appreciate the strong
bipartisan support that we have seen for Ukraine in helping them fight —
fight in this war, as they’re fighting for their democracy.

So, we’re — we’re going to continue to be confident. We’re going to
continue to have those conversations. And — and we believe — and that’s
what I — you know, what I said earlier about how important it was for
the two leaders to have this bilateral engagement yesterday, the message
that it sends is that we should — that — that we are going to continue
to support Ukraine.

So, we’re confident in that support, that bi- — that bipartisan support
for Ukraine. And so, we’re just going to continue to have those
conversations.

Q Also, on Israel. Netanyahu said today that he believes Israel and
Saudi Arabia can achieve a historic peace deal, and that President Biden
can clinch the deal. But he also said that we should not give the
Palestinians a veto.

How confident is the White House that Israel and Saudi Arabia will
normalize relations? Is it possible — a deal without the Palestinians?
Would Biden still like it — I mean, if it doesn’t include the
Palestinians?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. And this is something that Jake
Sullivan spoke to when we — when he spoke to normalization.

So, many of the key elements of a pathway towards normalizations are now
on the table, as you just stated, and there is a broad understanding of
these elements, which will not — which we’re, of course, not going to
discuss publicly.

So, the specifics require an incredible amount of legwork, discipline,
rigor, and all of the stakeholders in this are applying — applying that
as we speak. This is coming from Jake yesterday.

And that said, we don’t have a formal framework here. We don’t have the
— the terms ready to be signed.

There’s certainly a lot of work to do, and we’re going to work through
it.

Look, a normalization agreement between Israel and Saudi Arabia will
include a serious component dealing with the fundamental issue between
Israeli and Palestinian. This is to your question.

But I — I certainly don’t want to get ahead of a process. There’s a lot
of legwork to be done. And don’t have a formal framework. And so, we’re
going to work through it.

And certainly, I’m not going to get into the specifics from here.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Just to follow up on the new office on preventing
gun violence. I was wondering if there’s an international component to
the scope of this new office. For example, will it be able to help curb
the trafficking of illegal guns to Mexico from bordering U.S. states?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, our — our gun policy has always been comprehensive.
And — and, of course, this is — this office is going to continue to talk
to in regu- — be in regular contact with NSC and Homeland Security team.

And, so we’re going to do everything that we can to combat international
trafficking and smuggling, as well.

And so, this is a — a comprehensive approach and — that we’re going to
certainly move forward with.

Q Okay, and just really quickly, a quick confirmation, if I may. Our
sources say that U.S. and Chinese officials are still working towards a
Biden-Xi meeting in San Francisco on the sidelines of APEC in November.
Can you confirm that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything more to what the President has
shared on this. I think most recently may have been Camp David when he
was asked this question. I don’t have anything to share on a potential
meeting or details on that.

Surely, if that were to happen, we would share — we would certainly
share that with all of you.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q Thanks a lot, Karine. A follow-up in regards to the gun violence
prevention office that the President will announce in a few moments. Why
can’t the Domestic Policy Council do the same work that this new office
is setting up? Can you explain what the Domestic Policy Council does
versus what this new office will do and if there is any overlap between
those two offices?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this office is going to implement and expand
upon the key — key executive actions. Right? It’s going to zero in and
focus on those key executive actions, get that moving, accelerate that,
and — and also the legislative action. That is what it’s going to do.

And, look, I said it, the President has said it — you’re going to hear
from him moment- — in a few moments — and the Vice President: This is an
epidemic. Gun violence is an epidemic in our country. And so, we need to
do everything that we can.

And we believe having this office is going to be — is showing — is sh- —
continuing to show the President’s commitment. But it’s going to be
incredibly important, pushing what the President has put forward. And
that’s what you’re going to see.

And I think having it separate and apart from D- — DPC shows our
commitment, yes, but also shows that we are taking this an extra step —
right? — an extra step on how seriously we’re taking it and how
important it’s going to be.

So, this is the President saying he’s wants to — he wants to save more
lives. This is what — this is what we’re going to try and do. We’re
going to continue to see what we can do to save more lives.

Q And then a separate question in regards to President Zelenskyy’s visit
to Washington yesterday. He was up on Capitol Hill; he met with members
of both parties. From what you’ve heard, was he able to change any
minds, particularly those House Republicans that are opposed to
providing any additional aid to Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ll leave that to the House Republicans to speak
to their meetings with — with the Pres- — President Zelenskyy.

As you know, he met with them and shared — shared, you know, certainly,
his — when he speaks about this, as he’s dealing with this, he speaks
about it in such a passionate way. And when he — when President
Zelenskyy speaks, people listen, because he knows what he’s going
through every day with his — what his country is going through, the
people in his country is going through. And we have said how bravely
they are fighting for their democracy and for their freedom.

So, that’s up to House Republicans to speak to, or House — House — House
congressional members to speak to.

What we can do is continue to do what we showed yesterday, right? We
announced another security assistance. Again, we — you saw the bilateral
— the bilateral engagement between the two leaders, which we believe
showed our commitment to Ukraine. You heard from the President at UNGA —
speak to this in a very forceful way, what this means if — if we were
not to continue to support Ukraine.

And so, we’re going to — the President is going to continue to do — to
speak very forcefully, to show how much he supports Ukraine. But that is
up to Congress.

But, with all of that said, we appreciate the bipartisan support that we
have seen for the funding for Ukraine. And we are going — we are
optimistic that that’s going to continue.

AIDE: We can take one more, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: One more? Okay.

Q Karine?

Q Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good to see you, Cristina.

Q So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s been a while.

Q Yes, it has been. Thank you for taking my question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely.

Q If there is so much at stake in case of a government shutdown, is the
President willing to support or even broker negotiations between more
moderate Republicans and Democrats to help Leader McCarthy avoid the
shutdown? Is there any chance for bipartisanship here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — Cristina, look, I appreciate the question —
really do. And I’m just going to reiterate what I said moments ago: This
is something for House Republicans to deal with. It is their job. It is
one of their basic duties to keep the government open. It truly is.

And instead, they’re going in a very bipartisan way — in extreme ways in
putting forth policies and, you know, CRs that’s going to hurt American
families.

We — the President did his job, right? He helped broker a bipartisan
legislation that two thirds of that legislation was voted by
Republicans.

And so, a deal is a deal. They need to stick to what they agreed upon —
what they, themselves, voted on.

And so, that is for Speaker McCarthy to — to figure out — to figure out
how he’s going to move forward here. But this is for them to fix. This
is for them to fix.

So, I’ll leave it there.

Have a great weekend, y’all. I’ll see you on Monday.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you.

2:29 P.M. EDT
