---
date: '2023-09-25'
modified_time: 2023-09-25 11:13:58-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-25 11:13:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/25/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-to-preview-the-u-s-pacific-islands-forum-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials to Preview the U.S.-Pacific\
  \ Islands Forum\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(September 22, 2023)

3:35 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Thank you. And thanks everyone for joining the call to
preview the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum Summit.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.” It is embargoed until Sunday, September 24th,
at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.

For your awareness, not for your reporting: On the call today, we have
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].

With that, I’ll turn it over to you, \[senior administration official\],
to kick us off, and then we’ll take some questions at the end.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes. Thank you very much, \[senior
administration official\]. And thank you all for joining us here on a
busy week as we return from the U.N. General Assembly and also with
Ukrainian friends in town.

So, on — over the weekend and on Monday and Tuesday, the President is
hosting a return visit of the Pacific Island leaders to Washington, D.C.

It’s our second summit in a year, in which he is following up on his
pledge to take our commitment and our engagement in the Pacific region
to the next level. And as we’ve stated all along: We’ve tried to design
a program of active- — activities and engagement that are intended to
meet the needs of the Pacific Islands people.

So, over the course of a couple of days here in Washington, there will
be efforts to underscore our commitments to a variety of things in
technology, in — in matters associated with fishing, in education, in
infrastructure. \[Senior administration official\] will go through all
the specifics that we’re rolling out over the course of two days there.

I do want to just say that we — we have a day in advance of — of the
formal meetings in Washington, D.C. The leaders will be riding on a
special train — Amtrak — from New York to Baltimore. They will be the
guests of the Ravens at the stadium for the football game. They will be
there on the field, in which they will be recognized for their roles as
American friends in the Indo-Pacific. We will celebrate the 80th
anniversary of the — some of the most difficult fighting in the Pacific.

After the game, they will then go to a Coast Guard cutter ship in the
Baltimore Harbor. They will be briefed by the Commandant of the Coast
Guard on all the many issues that we’re doing with the Pacific Island
leaders to combat illegal fishing and to manage maritime domains
effectively.

And then, they’ll come to Washington and there will be a series of
engagements on Monday and Tuesday, beginning with an official set of
meetings with the President — a lunch, a number of engagements with
senior members of the administration, and basically engagements around
town. I’m going to ask \[senior administration official\] to go through
some of the specifics of both the schedule and also the deliverables.

But I would say that I think what the Biden administration has been able
to do is to step up our game considerably in a short period of time in
the Indo-Pacific.

We have deep moral, strategic, and historic interests here. And I think
we’re reaffirming that promise.

And so, you will see, over the course of a few days, our commitment to
reopen embassies. USAID is back in force in the Pacific. The Peace Corps
has — has arrived in many of the islands that they’d served with in
previous periods. We have the engagement of a number of philanthropies
and business groups who also are interested in engaging more deeply in
the Pacific.

And we’re thrilled to have them back here in Washington. And I think
this will be a important and engaging three-day set of events.

\[Senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks so much, \[senior administration
official\]. And thanks to you all for joining us today.

I’ll just add some brief embroidery to \[senior administration
official’s\] remarks. I’ll start with a few more details on the official
summit program and then give you some highlights of the rather meaty
deliverables list that we’ll be releasing on Monday.

The official program, as \[senior administration official\] indicated,
starts on Monday morning when the President will welcome all of the
Pacific Island Forum leaders to the White House. Monday morning will be
taken outside their summit meeting, followed by a set of family photos
to be taken by all the leaders together.

The President will host all the leaders for lunch at the White House.
And they’ll continue their conversation over that working lunch before
the leaders depart the White House for their afternoon programs.

That afternoon program will include a roundtable with Special Envoy for
Climate, Secretary John Kerry, focused on combating climate change and
building resilience — which, of course, is one of the top concerns and
existential concerns for many of our Pacific Island friends.

And that evening, Secretary Blinken will host a dinner at the State
Department along with ambassador to the United Nations, Ambassador
Thomas-Greenfield, in which he will celebrate all the leaders of the
Pacific Islands and, in particular, recognize two new Pacific Islands
diplomatically with whom the United States has not previously had
diplomatic relations: the Cook Islands and Niue.

The second day of the program will kick off with a breakfast that
Secretary Kerry will host alongside USAID Administrator Samantha Power
focused on climate and oceans. That will bring the Pacific Island
leaders into conversation with the philanthropic community.

Later that day, members of Congress will host the Pacific Island leaders
on Capitol Hill to talk about lots of business that we all do together.
Our relationship with the Pacific Islands really does involve a very
deep partnership with Congress. So, we’re thrilled that that is coming
together.

Later that afternoon, we’ll hold a business roundtable that will feature
Secretary Janet Yellen, as well as some of our other economic leaders
from the administration, with a focus on how the economies of the
Pacific can promote trade and investment.

Finally, that evening, we’ll conclude with a barbecue hosted by the
Australian ambassador and the government of Australia, in which we’ll
celebrate people-to-people ties between the United States and Pacific
Island nations as to include our strengthening ties with the Peace
Corps. And that piece of the program will feature the Second Gentleman.

Before turning the floor over to your questions, I’ll also just note a
few of the top deliverables that you can expect to see roll out on
Monday. There are far too many to count, so I’m just (inaudible) here,
but look forward to digging in more in the discussion.

First, as we’ve already noted, we’re going to be taking an important
step to recognize two new Pacific Island nations with whom the United
States has not previously had diplomatic relations: the Cook Islands and
Niue.

The Cook Islands is currently playing an important leadership role
inside of the Pacific Islands forum. So, we think this is an important
step not just for these two islands, but for our relationship with the
whole Pacific.

Second, we’re going to be marking the remarkable progress that we have
made towards revitalizing our diplomatic presence in the Pacific
Islands. You’ll recall that it was not very long ago that the United
States announced that we would be opening new embassies. And since that
announcement, we have done so already in the Solomon Islands and Tonga.

We’ll also be in a position to note quick progress towards opening an
embassy in Vanuatu early next year, and the opening of a new USAID
regional Pacific mission in Fiji — all of these efforts to rebuild our
diplomatic presence and our ability to deliver for Pacific Island
nations.

We’ll be unveiling a deliverable that has U.S. government dollars behind
it to provide secure, undersea cable connectivity for Pacific Island
nations, something that many of these nations need where Internet speed
and connectivity is not as reliable as it should be, and where we all
benefit if our Pacific Island friends can be in closer conversation. And
so, we’re very excited to be able to provide for this important form of
infrastructure.

We’ll also be announcing many million dollars more in other
infrastructure projects that are high on our list of Pacific Island
projects that our Pacific Island friends have drawn our attention to.

Further, the Quad will be bringing its Maritime Domain Awareness
initiative to the Pacific Islands with a program worth more than $10
million that will help to improve Maritime Domain Awareness throughout
the Pacific Islands, working closely with Pacific Islands institutions.
This is a program that the Quad announced in May of 2022 in Tokyo and
has done quick work to stand up now in Southeast Asia, in South Asia,
and in the Pacific Islands.

It’s also the first official partnership between the Quad and a Pacific
Island institution. So we’re really excited to be able to roll that out.

We’ll also have a number of substantial programs in the category of
people-to-people ties. That includes a young leaders training and
education program that is set to roll out at Johns Hopkins SAIS in just
a few weeks’ time. It includes an initiative called Sister Cities, for
which we’ll be pairing American cities with Pacific Island cities to
bring our people together across the Pacific Ocean.

And of course, it includes a raft of new programming coming out of the
Peace Corps now that the Peace Corps has been able to return to a number
of Pacific islands and reinvigorate its historic role there,
particularly in Fiji, Samoa, and Tonga, where, once again, Peace Corps
is working side by side with local counterparts on education,
development, and climate initiatives.

All in all, the message that we’re seeking to send with this program and
with these deliverables is that the United States and this
administration are following up on our Pacific promises and making them
real.

We put a stake in the ground about two years ago saying that we would
significantly revamp our presence and renovate our ties in this part of
the region. And this summit, building upon the one before it, is showing
that the President is making good on his commitment and showing up in
ways that benefit our friends in the Pacific and advance all of our
interests together.

So, I’ll stop there and look forward to your questions.

Q Thanks very much. I need to change my last name, I think.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: You really do.

Q I know. I know. Two questions. So, one on the summit. Can you talk a
little bit about what the U.S. Coast Guard has done since the first
summit? Is there any way you can kind of give us the metrics of the
types of things it’s done? And how do you measure the success of those
efforts?

And then secondly, I just want to ask quickly about India. If the
Canadian investigation shows that the Indian government was somehow
involved in the murder of a Sikh activist, how is that going to impact
your efforts to move ahead with India in all the areas that you’re
trying to do so?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Demetri, I’m just not going to have
anything for you on the second question, and we’ll look for a venue for
an appropriate engagement on that.

On the first question, I’ll at least start you out and say that I think
it would be fair to say that the institution — the institutions,
probably the Peace Corps and the Coast Guard, are those that are most
respected, almost beloved, in the Pacific. The role that they play in
terms of supporting territorial integrity and issues associated with
fishing rights is one of the most important innovations in — in
monitoring these vast oceanic spaces.

And so, the so-called shiprider agreements, which allows the U.S. Coast
Guard cutter to take on the character of the national units, with the
participation of a crew member from another country, allows the Coast
Guard to assist in patrolling for issues associated with illegal
fishing. And those missions are deeply effective at assisting with what
can only be described as rampant illegal fishing in the Pacific.

I’ll let \[senior administration official\] give you a sense of the —
you know, what the uptick of engagement has been like.

I will say the Coast Guard has been a consistent player. Even when other
elements of the American engagement lapse, the Peace Corps — excuse me,
the Coast Guard remained deeply engaged all along in the Pacific.

\[Senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. Demetri, I’ll offer to to put fine point on it by pointing
to a program that \[senior administration official\] was alluding to.
Not this year’s presidential budget, but the one prior to that would be
FY23. We worked with Coast Guard to help them to move an additional
training platform out into the Indo-Pacific.

That is a multinational training platform that is going to be
internationally crewed, has been being refurbished since that budget,
and is ready to depart the United States in just a few short weeks to
make its way to the Indo-Pacific, where it will be rotating through the
Pacific Islands.

That vessel, which is known as the Harriet Lane, will allow for
different Pacific Island nations to train on the vessel, to place crew
members on the vessel so that we and the Pacific Islanders can all be
working together on missions — whether that’s responding to illegal
fishing or responding to climate events, natural disasters, or enforcing
the law at sea.

So, this type of platform, I think, is a great example of what Coast
Guard does in the region. As \[senior administration official\] said,
the demand for our Coast Guard presence from the Pacific Islands really
can’t be stated. But this particular platform and the budget bump we
were able to get to provide it is a great example of where we’re trying
to continue to head in our work with Coast Guard in the Indo-Pacific,
because Pacific Island friends continue to make clear that there are few
programs that they value more.

Q Hi, it’s Trevor here. So, thanks for taking the question. One, I was
just curious if there was any comment from you all around Vanuatu, I
understand, skipping this event because of some domestic concerns about
them drawing closer to the United States and its allies.

And then I was also curious if you could talk a little bit about the
Marshall Islands and the Compact of Free Association with them. I know,
that’s been underway for some time. You know, what’s the — what’s the
holdup there? And are — do expect that that will address the U.S.
nuclear legacy there? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Look, I’ll just start with some general
comments and let \[senior administration official\] continue, if I can.

So, we have been deeply, intensively engaged in negotiations on the COFA
negotiations between the three North Pacific Island countries. And I
think we will be able to indicate on Monday, both at the White House and
the State Department, that very substantial progress has been made. And
we are prepared to take forward these critical compacts with strong
partners in the Northern Pacific. And we’re confident that we’re going
to be able to get this done.

And it — the agreements will deal with a very broad range of both the
current and legacy issues that are present in the Northern Pacific
Island nations — each different, but each important.

I think my understanding of why the prime minister of Vanuatu is not
coming is that there is a vote of no confidence that is scheduled for
next week, exactly when he would be in the United States. And I think,
in the past, those actions have often led to the government falling. And
so, I think, you know, there are probably very good reasons why they
were determined to — the PM was determined to remain.

It is also the case that other members of their delegation will be with
us in Baltimore and Washington next week.

\[Senior administration official.\]

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. Not a whole lot to add your answer. My understanding of the
Vanuatu schedule is very much the same.

Thanks, Trevor.

Q Hey, thanks so much for taking my question. \[Senior administration
official\] or \[senior administration official\], can you — just to
follow up on Trevor’s question, are you confident that the COFA deal
with Marshall Islands will be met before the September 30th deadline?

And also, just on logistics: Aside from Vanuatu, how many leaders have
confirmed attendance? Can you confirm whether Kiribati and Marshall
Island will attend?

And also, Solomon Islands. As we recall last year, he refused to sign
the U.S. Pacific Partnership Strategy. If you can update us on that and
whether he will attend.

Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah. So, look, let me just start off by
saying, we’re working around the clock on these negotiations, and we are
working intensively and in good faith. And our intention will be to
close these negotiations in a way that meet the interests of the United
States and our island partners just as soon as possible. And we’ll have
more to say about that next week.

I’ll let \[senior administration official\] tell you — we have very,
very good attendance, and we’re quite pleased. And where prime ministers
have not been able to attend, they’ve, in almost every case, sent a
foreign minister.

I think it’d be fair to say that the United States is disappointed that
Prime Minister Sogavare has — he has been in New York this week but is
returning to the Solomons over the weekend. And I think we’re
disappointed that he has chosen not to come to this very special PIF
Summit between the United States and the Pacific Island nations.

\[Senior administration official\], do you want to go through any other
specifics just to get a sense? I — we’ll also say that we have very
senior participation from both Australia and New Zealand, obviously
given their key role as members of the PIF as well. \[Senior
administration official\]?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. I’ll just say that we are expecting great participation at
the highest levels from at Kiribati and RMI.

Q Thanks for doing this. Another follow-up on the compacts, actually. I
mean, you need Congress — right? — both in the case of Marshall Islands
and in FSM with their deadlines, you know, just a few days after this
summit.

I mean, you said you’re confident, \[senior administration official\],
that you can get this negotiated, but are you actually confident that
there will be no lapse in the compacts (inaudible)?

I don’t know if you’re seeing the same things in Congress right now that
I am, but it doesn’t look like there’s a lot of progress happening at
the moment. I mean, are you worried about the consequences of that — of
those lapsing before they can get through Congress, on the first one?

And second, just big-picture question, can you talk about the degree to
which, you know, this is not all to do with China, but that, you know,
competition with China has motivated this renewed engagement with the
region. I mean, has it been a positive consequence of U.S.-China
competition in the Indo-Pacific?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, I’m going to let \[senior
administration official\] — \[senior administration official\] has got a
very good answer on that second question, and I often use it. Better for
her to kind of give you the larger sense about what animates our purpose
and our engagement.

So, all I would say about the COFA negotiations: We are deeply aware of
the stakes and the challenges. And we’re doing everything possible in
our negotiations with Island nations to conclude a strong deal as
quickly as possible. We are also in close consultation with the relevant
committees on Capitol Hill about the challenges that October 1
potentially poses. And we’re working closely inside the U.S. government
on potential contingency planning.

I don’t think I have, really, anything more to tell you about this. We
are seized with its importance, and we know how important it is for our
continuing partnership with each of these countries.

\[Senior administration official\]?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. On the China question and the Pacific Islands, you know, I
think the way that we like to think about it is that our engagement with
the Pacific Islands is really not about who we are against but what we
are for. And what we are for is kind of what’s on display throughout
this summit on Monday, Tuesday, in all the deliverables you’ll see, in
our direct statement, and so forth.

I think we genuinely believe and feel that our national interests are
tied to a free, open, vibrant, and dynamic Pacific region and that the
United States is a Pacific power that is here to stay. All the
investments we are making, all of the policy we are undertaking are
consistent with those goals.

But there’s also no question that there is some role that the PRC has
played in all this. No question that it’s assertiveness and influence,
including in this region, has been a factor that requires us to sustain
our strategic focus. But what we’re really focused on doing is showing
our Pacific Island friends that the United States, working with
likeminded partners, can provide viable alternatives that will work for
Pacific Island nations.

So, we keep ourselves focused on the affirmative, not only because we
believe that’s what our Pacific Island friends want. We believe that’s
genuinely what underpins these relationships.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: And I would also just point out, just to
build on \[senior administration official’s\] very good answer, guys, is
that I think another element of our approach has been to work much, much
more closely with allies and partners.

And I would just turn your attention to what’s occurring in New York as
we speak. The partners of the Blue Pacific engagement, hosted by
Secretary Blinken — we are working much more closely with Australia, New
Zealand, Japan, now South Korea, Great Britain, Germany, Canada, and
others on efforts to coordinate and step up our engagement across the
region.

And so, our efforts are to support specific initiatives laid out in key
documents of the Pacific Island Forum that are designed to address needs
of the Pacific in climate change, in training, in infrastructure.

And so, our efforts have been to work with likemindeds to support these
initiatives. And we believe that, you know, frankly, it’s possible to do
good and compete at the same time. And that’s what we’re seeking to do.

MODERATOR: Thank you both. That’s all the time we have left for this.
Thank you, \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\], for taking the time. And thanks, everyone
else, for hopping on as well.

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and it’s embargoed until Sunday, September
24th, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.

Thanks, everyone.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: We really appreciate it. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, guys.

4:02 P.M. EDT
