---
date: '2023-09-13'
published_time: 2023-09-13 18:48:40-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-chair-of-the-council-of-economic-advisers-jared-bernstein-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Chair of the Council\
  \ of Economic Advisers Jared Bernstein, and NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications\
  \ John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:10 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And happy Wednesday, especially to all those who
traveled more than 18,000 miles around the world with us over four
days.  The President met with more than 20 le- — 20 world leaders,
visited two countries.  And in the words of my friend, Mr. Peter Doocy,
who’s not here, some of us even pulled some “all-nighters.”   
  
I hope everyone has gotten some rest.  To all those who stayed back here
at home, I hope you had a quieter few days, and it’s good to see all of
you again.   
  
As you’ve seen, the trip was highly successful, and the President was
pleased to once again show America’s leadership on the world stage.   
  
The President is looking forward to a major economic speech tomorrow and
continuing to deliver results for the American people here at home.  But
before I turn it over to Jared Bernstein, our CEA chair, who’s going to
say more about the President’s event tomorrow, I have a couple of things
I want to say at the top.  
  
Earlier this year, President Biden and congressional leaders reached a
bipartisan budget agreement that set a framework to keep the government
open and protect critical priorities for the American people.   
  
A deal is a deal.  The President, House Democrats, Senate Democrats, and
Senate Republicans have stood by that agreement, with bipartisan
movement in the Senate today.  But Speaker McCarthy and House
Republicans have taken a different approach, ignoring the agreement that
a majority of them voted for and advancing extreme partisan bills that
break their promise and gut investments in America.   
  
Now, these bills would be devastating, in- — devastating, increasing
costs for families; hurting students, seniors, and rural communities;
slashing law enforcement; undermining manufacturing; and so, so much
more.  And they are distracting from top priorities that we have, like
fighting the fentanyl crisis, delivering disaster relief, and helping
Ukraine fight Russia’s illegal war.   
  
House Republicans should keep their word and do their job: fund the
government, especially these important — we’re talking about important,
key, vital programs to the American people.   
  
Next up, as I mentioned at the top, we have Jared Bernstein, who has
joined us several times before, but — at the podium, but this is the
first time that he will be doing it in his new role as chair of the
Council of Economic Advisers.  
  
Jared is going to talk about the latest economic data that all of you
have reported on this morning and preview the President’s major economic
speech.   
  
And with that, Jared, over to you.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.   
  
After a brief comment about this morning’s CPI report, I’m going to say
a few words about how Bidenomics is working but also why it’s working
and why, as President Biden will highlight in his speech tomorrow and as
the record shows, trickle-down economics doesn’t work.   
  
Headline CPI rose 0.6 percent last month, driven by a spike in the price
of gas.  Headline inflation has also fallen substantially, down by about
60 percent over the last year, but we know that last month’s increase in
gas prices puts a strain on family budgets.   
  
Core CPI inflation, which omits gas and food prices, was up 0.3 percent
in August.  Over the past three months, core CPI is up at an annualized
rate of 2.4 percent — the lowest rates since March of 2021 and close to
its pre-pandemic level.   
  
This is important progress.   
  
Economists track the core because by omitting highly volatile gas and
food prices, it provides a cleaner signal as to where inflation is
likely headed.   
  
This figure — if you have Figure One here — yeah.  This figure — this
compares the contribution of gas and apparel to monthly inflation.  And
it paints a clearer picture of the relative volatility of the gas prices
— that’s those, I think, yellow bars going up and down; I’m not great
with colors — and then the apparel is — contribution is the red line. 
So, you — you get the — the point about the volatility of gas prices.   
  
Turning to Bidenomics, we start from a position of strength.  The U.S.
economy is in solid shape, with real GDP growth supported by strong
consumer spending that is itself supported by a strong labor market
delivering wage gains accounting for inflation.   
  
And I have a next figure showing that — the extent to which you see
inflation coming down and price- — and wages actually beating prices
there, both for all workers and for middle-wage workers.  
  
This figure includes today’s inflation report.  Not only has inflation
come down, it’s now growing more slowly than the pay of low- and
middle-wage workers, meaning their buying power is increased.   
  
Now, our work isn’t done, for sure.  But wages outpacing inflation is
some of the breathing room that the President talks about.   
  
Now, what does that got to do with Bidenomics?  Well, rising real wages
for middle- and low-wage workers is at the heart of our middle-out,
bottom-up growth agenda.   
  
Our GDP is almost 70 percent consumer spending.  So, when the middle
class is doing well, the overall economy prospers.  That’s also a good
reason why trickle-down doesn’t work.  It disproportionately helps those
who don’t need the help and, thereby, are less likely to spend the
marginal dollar.  Or, as the President says, Bidenomics works because
when the middle class does well, the poor have a ladder up and the
wealthy still do well.   
  
Another sign that Bidenomics is working — you see here in the figure —
both for today and for tomorrow is this — is this other figure showing
investment in building manufacturing facilities.  
  
The incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS Act, the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law are reversing decades of disinvestment in
America through the powerful one-two punch of policy incentives crowding
in private investment.  That creates jobs today in constructing these
facilities and good jobs tomorrow staffing these factories to
manufacture semiconductors, solar panels, and wind turbines on our
soil.   
  
Going forward, we must build on the progress we’ve made.  And that means
maintaining the tight labor market while continuing to ease price
pressures.   
  
As you know, many economists argued that couldn’t be done, that it would
require much higher unemployment to achieve this much disinflation. 
President Biden never accepted the inevitability of that tradeoff, and
he’s been right.   
  
Let me close with a quick word about what you can expect to hear in the
President’s speech tomorrow.   
  
As you’ll remember, the President traveled to Chicago back in June to
outline the core principles of Bidenomics: empowering workers, investing
in America, and boosting competition.  
  
Tomorrow, he’ll travel to Maryland to lay out the very clean contrast
between Bidenomics and the congressional Republicans’ trickle-down
economic plan — a plan that has failed working families every time it’s
been tried.  
  
Instead of investing in the middle class, trickle-down shipped jobs
overseas, hollowed out communities, and produced soaring deficits.   
  
He’ll contrast his agenda with specific policies cong- — congressional
Republicans have proposed and lay out what those policies would mean in
concrete terms for the American people, whether it’s unfair taxes,
Medicare and Social Security, or increased costs for families.  And
he’ll highlight what’s at stake for families as fiscal and budget
debates take center stage in the weeks and months ahead.   
  
Thank you.  And I’ll take questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, Jared.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jared.  You mentioned gasoline prices pushing inflation up
last month.  But there are no good signs when it comes to gasoline
prices in the near term.  Crude oil prices are going up.  Saudi Arabia
has signaled it’s going to continue to throttle oil production.  Are you
worried that inflation is going to go back up over 4 percent?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, let’s talk about gas prices.  As the President
said in his statement this morning, he’s well aware that they put a
strain on family budgets.  And that’s why he’s working with
congressional Democrats to take action to cut energy costs. 

It is correct, as you pointed out, that gas price — the spike in August
— caused nearly all of the increase in inflation last month.  But gas
prices are down from last summer’s high by about $1.20 per gallon. 
Their peak — they peaked at north of $5 in June of ‘22.  And that saves
a family with two drivers about $120 per month. 

Getting more directly to your question, the Energy Department is in
touch with producers and refiners to resolve any issues and to try to
ensure stable supply.  There is some pressure relief coming in September
in — in the switchover from the summer blend to the winter blend.  The
winter blend is a — is a — is a somewhat cheaper blend.  And also, we’re
moving out of peak driving season, so that lower demand also takes some
pressure off. 

But I think the key point to leave you with on that question is that,
again, the President and congressional Democrats are cutting energy
costs by investing in clean energy and reducing our dependence on
foreign countries that often don’t share our values. 

And so, I view the investment agenda that I talked about in my comments
as very closely connected to the — this idea of a transition to clean
energy and more energy independence.

Q    But how closely are you tracking the possibility of a spike in gas
prices?  And are you worried that that could erase some of the gains
that have been made in lowering inflation?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, to answer your first question: One of the first
things I do every morning is click on the AAA gas price.  So, we track
it very closely.

The — I think from a policy — from a policy perspective, again, the
actions that we’re taking working with congressional Democrats to cut
energy costs are at the core of our agenda. 

Now, I think the important point here — and you mentioned gas prices,
you know, climbing and their impact on consumers — the President has
been straight up about that, including in his statement this morning. 
But I also don’t think you can divorce that from all the other efforts
that were taking to reduce prices in other areas that matters so much to
consumers — some of which, by the way, you could see in today’s CPI
report: the price of eggs, the price of dairy, the price of meat.  All
those prices actually came down.  So, not just disinflation but
deflation in those cases. 

And I think the key thing — if you’ll go to that wage graph — I think
probably one of the key points there is that even accounting for — this
was the second graph in my presentation, if you can put that back up, or
we can get it to you if you don’t have it — the key point there is that
when wages are beating prices — there you go — so you have wages beating
prices, wages growing more quickly than inflation — and, by the way,
most quickly for middle- and lower-wage workers.  That’s a direct result
of the persistently tight labor market.

And it also links up closely to one of the first tenets of Bidenomics,
which is empowering workers.  So, a persistently tight labor market has
delivered wage gains that, at this point, are beating prices.  That
means that the buying power of your paycheck is going up, and that’s the
kind of breathing room we’re looking for here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jared.  One potential risk to the economy is a UAW strike. 
Last week, President said he’s not worried about a strike.  Is that
still the case?  And is the White House ready to support those workers
if a deal is not reached and they go on strike?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, the President believes that auto workers deserve a
contract that sustains middle-class jobs.  I’ve worked for President
Biden for a long time.  He’s clearly one of the most pro-union
presidents we’ve had.  He’s encouraged the parties to stay at the table
and to work 24 and 7 to get a win-win agreement that keeps UAW workers
at the heart of our auto future and ensures UAW jobs are good
middle-class jobs.

Let me just say a bit about our work over the years on — on unions.  I
think the President understands that one of the purposes — one of the
things that unions do is they help more fairly distribute the benefits
of growth.  His view is that if you’re helping to bake the pie, if
you’re contributing to American productivity — and manufacturing workers
and union workers and auto workers certainly contribute to that
productivity — then you want to get a fair shake.  And that’s one of the
reasons why he’s always supported unions.

There is a long economic literature showing that unions and these
dynamics that I’m explaining to you are closely associated with a more
equitable distribution of earnings, and I think that’s one of the
reasons why he’s — he’s a pro-union president and why that’s — he’s
always talked about that in the context of Bidenomics. 

Again, pillar one of Bidenomics: empowering workers.  So, I think
there’s a clear —

Q    So, the President would support those —

MR. BERNSTEIN:  — a clear — a clear connection.

Q    — workers?  He would support the workers if they go on strike?  

MR. BERNSTEIN:  I’m going to leave it at: He believes the auto workers
deserve a contract that sustains middle-class jobs, and he wants the
parties to stay at the table to work around the clock to get a win-win
agreement.  And he’s encouraged the parties to do that.  He’s explicitly
encouraged them to do so.  An agreement that keeps the workers at the
heart of our auto future and ensures that those are good middle-class
jobs.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thank you.  Jared, there were some alarming child poverty figures
that came out very recently.  Given the constraints with Congress and
spending, what can the administration do or what is the administration
planning to do to alleviate those?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, the explicit plan that we have talked about ever
since the President got here and implemented it in the rescue plan is,
of course, to extend the enhanced benefits of the Child Tax Credit.  I
mean, one of the things I took from that report yesterday and I think
everyone should take from that report is that your child poverty rate is
a policy decision. 

This President decides to have the lowest child poverty rate in history
— that was his decision.  And others, including, you know, 250 or
something like that, members of the House and 50 — Republicans — and 50
Republicans in the Senate have made a very different decision to
facilitate a more than doubling of child poverty by allowing the Child
Tax Credit — that was doing so much of the lifting to — to achieve that
historically low poverty rate — to allow that to expire.

The President has consistently argued for reinstatement, and he won’t
stop fighting for that until we get it back.

Q    I guess, though, my question is: With those constraints that you’ve
mentioned, in terms of lack of support, is there anything else you can
do or intend to do to address that issue?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  We intend to continue to not only fight for the enhanced
Child Tax Credit but to do so in a fiscally responsible way that is in
our budget.  We have ample resources to offset that cost, and that’s
part of the $2.5 trillion in deficit reduction that’s raised in the
budget that can be devoted to — to that — to that policy.

So, not only are we talking about re-achieving historically low levels
of child poverty, but we’re doing — we’re talking about doing so in the
context of injecting much more fairness into the very top end of the tax
code. 

So, really, two very important values to this President: a much more
fair, progressive tax code hitting only those above $400,000.  And if
we’re talking about some of these measures well above that —
millionaires and billionaires who he often talks about paying an 8
percent tax — effective tax rate.  That’s not okay in a context — in a —
in an economic context where congressional Republicans have allowed
child poverty to double by — by refusing to extend this Child Tax
Credit. 

And Republicans go further.  They more than double down on that deeply
unjust relationship by continuing to — to fight the extension of the
Child Tax Credit while calling for trillions more in high-end tax
cuts.   
  
So, yes, he’s going to continue to fight for the — for those issues.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Franco.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jared.  Can you just talk a little bit more about — on the
UAW strikes or a potential — can you talk about — a little more about
what the economic impacts would be to a strike? 

And considering how significant they are, what plans does the President
have or what recommendations are you giving the President to step in
more to help prevent this, whether bringing them in to ha- — to help
with negotiations, for example?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, I don’t have a readout on this.  We’re
closely monitoring the situation.  You know, the Council of Economic
Advisers — CEA — I sometimes think of us as “Constantly Evaluating
Alternatives.”  So, every day we’re waking up trying to figure out which
way things are going.  So, of course, we’re going to monitor this on a
daily basis; it would be irresponsible not to. 

But I don’t have a readout on — on the situation.  We’re monitoring it
as it develops.  
  
Q    I mean, do you feel, though, that the President should step in
more?  Or does the President have plans to step in more, perhaps
bringing in the negotiators to help prevent this from happening?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  The President has been very much engaged.  Not only
has he always fought for policies to ensure that workers get a fair deal
but that the — he’s explicitly talked about the electric-vehicle future
being made in America by American workers, promoting strong and
good-paying union jobs.  He’s met with President Fain one on one in the
Oval before the UAW briefed senior staff on their negotiating position. 
He called President Fain on Labor Day and called all Big Three
executives before he left for Asia to encourage them to provide more
forward-leaning offers and stay at the table.   
  
So, that’s what the President has done.  And he will continue to press
on that, as will the team that’s monitoring that closely.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Jared.  I want to ask you about PCE
and CPI.  So, we now have two inflation reports in a row where
year-over-year, the headline inflation number has gone up.  You couple
that with real average hourly wages are actually down since the day
President Biden took office about 3 percent.  So, is that Bidenomics?

  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, no, I think we have a disagreement on a fact
there.  So — and we can certainly show you CEA’s data on this. 

Real wages are up relative to before the pandemic.  They’re up for all
private-sector workers, but they’re up even more for production
non-supervisory workers.  That’s a term from the establishment survey
that comes out every month.  It’s 80 percent of the workforce that’s
either blue collar and manufacturing or non-supervis- — non-managers in
— in services.  And, you know, those wages are actually above the
pre-pandemic level in real terms.  So, we just have a factual
disagreement there.   
  
In terms of the trend in inflation, I think we probably have a
disagreement there is well.  The trend in the PCE, the trend in the CPI,
whether you look at headline or core — and, in fact — well, it’s not
here anymore — but that graph that was just there showed a very clear
trend in the year-over-year CPI.   
  
If you take the more timely, say, three-month annualized average, then
you see an even clearer result.   
  
Inflation is easing.  It continues to ease.  There was a gas spike last
month.  No question.  Gas went up almost 11 percent in August in the
CPI.  That’s a little more than it went up in — in the real world
because they seasonally adjust.  It was more like 6 percent.   
  
But in — in the report, it was up.  And, you know, we obviously take
that very seriously.

Q    Right, I think — I think it’s a timeframe issue.  I’m looking at
the day he came into office. 

But I want to ask you about those gas prices.  So, if gas prices are a
large part of the increase we saw in the CPI, then why is the President
then restricting future growth of the oil industry?  He made the
decision in — or the Interior Department made the decision in Alaska
just last week.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, there are American — American oil production now
is at an all-time high; it’s just below 13 million barrels a day.  There
are thousands of available permits — places where oil companies could
drill.  They’ve been highly profitable.  They’ve been highly
productive.  So, I don’t think that’s the problem.   
  
The — as you said, the gas price added 34 basis points to the — you
know, more than half of the inflation increase was the gas price in
August.   
  
I’m not going to predict gas prices for September because that is
folly.  But I will tell you there are various sources, which I mentioned
a minute ago, putting downward pressure on gas prices this September,
including the shift to a less expensive blend and the end of peak
driving season.   
  
And, at the same time, look, along with the fact that American producers
are more productive than they’ve ever been, producing almost 13 million
barrels a year, we’re going to continue to work — largely with anyone
who will work with us, but certainly with the congressional Democrats —
in cutting energy costs by investing in clean energy and reducing our
dependence on foreign countries that don’t share our values.   
  
I mean, I think that is the right agenda.  And that’s the one that we’re
aggressively pursuing.

  
Q    To the back, please?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Jared, a follow-up on the potential auto workers stri-
—  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I’m sorry, could you speak up?  
  
Q    Yeah, sure thing.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  She probably hears better than I do.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On auto workers. 

  
Q    No worries.  I’ll speak up.  On the potential auto workers strike,
I do have a follow-up to what some of my colleagues were saying.   
  
A group that I spoke with — an economic group says that there could be a
$5 billion cost to the economy if there is a 10-day strike.  So, is the
White House preparing for that?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  We’re certainly tracking all of those outside
analysts.  I don’t think there’s one report on this that we haven’t seen
and haven’t read.  And, you know, our job is to be ready for any
contingency that comes our way.   
  
I’m not going to give any readout on our own analysis at this point. 
We’re monitoring the situation.  We’ll continue to do so.  And we’ll
bring — we’ll certainly bring up-to-date information as — as these
things develop.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, last question.   
  
Q    Two quick follow-ups from my colleagues’ questions.  You talked
about how you’re following it closely, you’re looking at contingency
plans.  But can you confirm whether you’ve been asked by the UAW to get
involved more?  Or have you been asked specifically to stay out?

  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I can’t confirm any of that.  I mean, at CEA, what —
what we do is what I’ve said we do.  We — we are asked by the President
to track any development in the domestic and global economy that’s going
to have an impact or that might have an impact.  And, you know, there’s
a long list of things that fit that description.  So, we’re — we’re
tracking this carefully.  
  
Q    And just a follow-up on the child poverty part, too.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Sure.  
  
Q    You talked about prioritizing a push, again, around the Child Tax
Credit and pushing around taxes.  But what about the fact that funds are
going to expire for childcare centers and how that might relate to child
poverty or at least the experience of working mothers?  Is that going to
be a priority and a push from this White House?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, I’m glad you asked that.  It’s something
that we at CEA have written a lot about.  And I encourage you to look at
that.  We have a blog on that.   
  
Just a show of hands, how many people look at the CEA blog? 
(Laughter.)  
  
Oh —  
  
Q    Some honesty there.  (Laughter.)  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Okay.  We have work to do, and you have work to do.  
  
Q    But I’m asking about White House priorities.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, so this is a — this is —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  This is a longtime priority of this White House.  We
have ambitious plans in our budget.  The President recognizes the
linkage between labor force participation for caretakers, most often
women, and — and affordable, accessible childcare.  And that’s why not
only have we, as I said, proposed ambitious plans that are fully paid
for, fully offset in our budget, but we’ve also talked about — used
language in our supplemental to talk about the importance of childcare
in our supplemental request.   
  
So, this is something that we will continue to work towards because we
recognize its importance as a working-family issue.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, Jared.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to have you.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Jared. 

I just wanted to add to the UAW, and just sort of — and I know you all
have been tracking this — right? — which is that one of the President’s
senior advisors, Gene Sperling, has been involved — right? — and also
Acting Secretary Julie Su has been also, clearly, monitoring and having
those conversations.   
  
And I’ll just add what we’ve said many times before, right?  The
President believes in collective bargaining, has encouraged sides to
continue to have that conversation, to continue to be at the table.  And
that’s what the President is going to continue to do.   
  
So, I just wanted to add a little bit of that before I turn it over to
the Admiral.   
  
And so, as you know, John Kirby is here with us today.  And he’s going
to take a few questions on foreign policy and any news of the day,
clearly, on foreign por- — foreign policy.   
  
And with that, John — Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.   
  
Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So, I just want to take a moment or so to clear up some of
the conflicting accounts and information that’s been out there regarding
actions that were taken to secure the release of five Americans who have
been wrongfully detained in Iran.   
  
These Americans have been suffering a terrible ordeal.  I think you all
know that.  They — many of them were held in the Evin Prison under
ghastly conditions.  And that we have been working very, very hard to
bring them home to their families just as soon as possible.  
  
Now, to secure their freedom, the United States is pursuing an
arrangement in which Iranian funds held in South Korea are moved to
restricted accounts in Qatar, where they would be available for
humanitarian trac- — transactions only — things like food, medicine,
medical supplies, medical equipment, agricultural products.  
  
These funds will now be subject to more legal restrictions than they
were when they were in Korea.  They will be monitored by rigorous due
diligence standards required by the U.S. Treasury Department.  The U.S.
will have visibility and will be able engage in oversight about where
the money was going and for what purpose.  
  
If Iran tries to divert the funds, we’ll take action and we’ll lock them
up again.

  
I also want to be clear: This is not a payment of any kind.  It’s not a
ransom.  These aren’t U.S.-taxpayer dollars.  And we haven’t lifted a
single one of our sanctions on Iran.  Iran will be getting no sanctions
relief.  
  
We will continue to counter Ira- — the Iran regime’s human rights
abuses.  We’ll continue to counter their destabilizing actions abroad,
its support for terrorism, its attack on maritime shipping in the Gulf,
and its continued support for Russia’s war against Ukraine.  

  
As you have heard us say before, when we’re trying to bring Americans
home, we often aren’t dealing on a level playing field.  We have to use
the leverage we have to bring them home.  They aren’t going to be
released for nothing in exchange. 

But we — I don’t think we should lose sight of the bottom line here, and
that’s that we’re working to free these innocent Americans who did
nothing wrong, had no reason to be detained — bring them home to their
families, bring them home whole and safe again.  That’s the goal.  
  
With that, I’ll take some questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Admiral Kirby, thank you for being here.  I know that you dispute
that this is a ransom payment.  Obviously, many critics of this
agreement say that it is just that.  So, in effect, they suggest it’s $1
billion por Ameri- — per American individual being released.  So, how is
this not incentivizing bad actors and rogue regime- — regimes like Iran
in the future to detain more Americans?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Bad actors like Iran and like Mr. Putin in Russia don’t need
any incentive to continue to look for ways to wrongfully detain
Americans.  It’s — it’s been happening a long, long time.  And we have
to accept the reality that it could happen again in the future.   
  
It’s one of the reasons why the State Department has a new designation
for countries — a D designation — so that before you travel or you do
business in a foreign country, you ought to look and see is the risk of
detention — wrongful detention high in that country before you go.  We
continue to advise Americans not to travel to — to Iran and to Russia
and other places like that. 

But these — these bad actors don’t need incentives.  And this isn’t
going to — this isn’t going to change the calculus, necessarily, of what
they’re — what they’ve been doing. 

What it is going to do is get our Americans home.  And — and that’s what
we’re focused on.

  
Q    But for clarity, isn’t — why isn’t it a ransom payment?  I get that
it’s not American taxpayer dollars, but it’s still $5 billion that had
been frozen that was not available for use in any form by the Iranians. 
That $5 billion may be for humanitarian aid, but then it frees up $5
billion elsewhere to spend.  So, how is that —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah —

Q    — not ransom payment? 

MR. KIRBY:  So, a couple of points here.  First of all, you’re right,
it’s not U.S. money.  It’s Iranian money.  It’s Iranian money that had
been established in these accounts to allow some trade from foreign
countries on things like Iranian oil, to allow the Iranian oil to stay
on market and for countries who wanted to buy that Iranian oil.  This —
these transactions, largely a- — were conducted in the previous
administration.  All legal.  All fine.  But to allow that — some of our
allies and partners to be able to continue to purchase Iranian oil
without being sanctioned for doing so. 

Several accounts were set up in several countries, South Korea being one
of them.  For many reasons — lots of different reasons, this particular
account was not accessible to the Iranians as others were.  So, it is
Iranian money.  That’s point number one.

Point number two: It’s not a blank check.  They don’t get to spend it
any way they want.  It’s not $6 billion all at once.  They will have to
make a request for withdrawals for humanitarian purposes only.  And
there will be sufficient oversight to make sure that the request is
valid and that it’s going through vendors who we — who we and the
Qataris can trust will actually contract for the goods — the medical
equipment, the food, whatever it is — in an appropriate way and get it
directly to the Iranian people. 

The Iranian people will be the beneficiaries of the — of these funds,
not the regime.  The regime doesn’t get to touch the money, Peter.  It
doesn’t go to them.  They don’t get to — they don’t get to decide the
ultimate destination, and — and they have no direct access to it. 

Now, your second part of your question: “Well, won’t this just free up
funds for them to continue to do bad behavior?”  (Laughs.)  They’ve been
— they’ve been participating in bad behavior for a long, long time.  And
we continue to put pressure on them in ways, I would add, that the
previous administration did not do, particularly in terms of their
nuclear and ballistic missile programs. 

They’re still supporting terrorists, they’re still attacking shipping,
and they’re still supplying drones and drone manufacturing capability to
the Russians.  And for all of those things, we have and we will continue
to hold them accountable. 

We’ve not only added sanctions to them for the way they’ve treated
protesters, for the — for the arms sales that they’ve provided to
Russia, but we have increased our military presence in the Gulf region,
specifically to address the attacks on maritime shipping. 

So, Iran has choices to make.  They’ve — they’ve had choices to make in
the past.  They’ve got choices to make in the future.  And if they
continue to choose to conduct these kinds of destabilizing activities,
we will continue to use all the levers in our power — economic and
military — to counter that and to thwart their efforts. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, you just said that Iran was not going to do
this for nothing.  But didn’t they also get five Iranians? 

MR. KIRBY:  They will get five Iranians as well.  Yeah, Jacqui.

Q    Then why did we need to add $6 billion on top of that to —

MR. KIRBY:  This is the deal that we were able to strike to secure the
release of five Americans.  It would be great, wonderful if we could
just pick up the phone and call the mullahs and say, “Hey, we want our
Americans back.  Send them back on the next plane.”  But you and I both
know that’s not going to happen, particularly with Iran. 

And getting Americans home requires decisions, sometimes really tough
decisions.  It requires compromise.  It requires negotiations.  It
requires negotiations with people you really would rather not be sitting
across the table from, but you got to do it because Americans overseas
in trouble wrongfully detained need to know and their families need to
know that this President and this administration will do what it takes
to bring them home.

We’re comfortable in the parameters of this deal.  I get it.  I’ve heard
the critics that they’re — somehow, they’re getting the better end of
it.  Ask the families of those five Americans who’s getting the better
end of it, and I think you’d get a different answer. 

We’re comfortable with the parameters of this deal.  We’re comfortable
that there’ll be enough restrictions — quite frankly, very rigid
restrictions — on the Iranians ability to use this money.  And we make
no apologies for the fact that we’re going to get these — these five
Americans home just as soon as possible. 

Q    President Raisi says it’s up to them how they use the money. 

MR. KIRBY:  He’s wrong.

Q    How are you going to guarantee that?  Because once the money is —
money is fungible.  So, once —

MR. KIRBY:  No, ma’am.

Q    — it’s released —

MR. KIRBY:  No, ma’am.  No, ma’am.  It’s not fungible.  He’s just
wrong.  He’s just flat-out wrong.  The way this — the way this deal is
arranged is that these — these — the $6 billion, which is Iranian money,
will go to a Qatari bank — Qatari National Bank. 

The Iranians can request withdrawals for it for humanitarian purposes,
and the Qataris — and it will be — and us — we will have oversight —
sufficient oversight into the request itself to validate the request and
then to deliver funds appropriate to that request. 

The money will be then — will then go to qualified vendors to purchase
and deliver the food, the medical supplies into Iran.  So, it will go
directly to aid organizations or appropriate relevant organizations
inside Iran so that the Iranian people can benefit from it.  And that’s
an important point, too. 

While we certainly have issues with the regime, we don’t have issues
with the Iranian people.  And this funding will be a — will be important
to helping them get over some tough times.

Q    What do you say to the criticism that this is only going to go
against all these efforts to deter Iran from getting a nuclear weapon? 

I mean, this came right after the IAEA director said that the
international community is losing interest in holding Iran accountable,
that these violations are routine.  And now we’re making this deal where
they’re going to have money to use for humanitarian purposes but, to
Peter’s point, freeing up $6 billion that they can pull from other
places to use for proxy attacks or building a nuclear weapon.  How do
you argue against that?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I — I think I answered that question before, but
I’ll try it another way: We’ll continue to hold them accountable for
destabilizing activities.  This arrangement to get these Americans home
is separate and distinct from the way we are holding Iran accountable
for all their destabilizing activities, to include their continued
nuclear ambitions and their burgeoning and improving ballistic missile
program, which we have sanctioned and will continue to keep those
sanctions in place.  As I said, no sanctions relief involved in this at
all.  We will continue to hold them and put them under that pressure. 

And now, look, the President has said many, many times, we’re not going
to allow Iran to ever achieve a nuclear weapons capability.  We would
have preferred to deal with that through diplomacy.  Unfortunately, the
previous administration decided to tear up a deal that had actually set
their ambitions back by many, many months.  And now they’ve been allowed
to continue to re-enrich; nothing we could do about that. 

We wanted to solve it through diplomacy.  We’re not able to —

Q    Nothing —

MR. KIRBY:  We’re not able to — we are not able and we’re not focused on
returning to the JCPOA at this time.  That said, we make — we will make
sure we have the appropriate capabilities in the region to defend
ourselves and our national security interests if it comes to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, we got to keep going. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Is there a reaction so far on the Putin-Kim Jong Un
meeting today?  And does the U.S. have a better sense of what the DPRK
can give to the Russians in terms of deliverables out of this meeting
today? 

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we’re watching this very, very closely.  We’ll see
what the two sides say as a result of this. 

As I’ve said before, we continue to urge North Korea to meet its public
commitments not to support Russia’s war in Ukraine. 

No nation on the planet, nobody, should be helping Mr.  Putin kill
innocent Ukrainians.  And if they decide to move forward with some sort
of arms deal, we’ll obviously — we’ll take — we’ll take the measure of
that and we’ll — and we’ll — and we’ll deal with it appropriately.  As
Jake Sullivan said last week, there will certainly be repercussions for
North Korea, both from the United States and from the international
community. 

As for what either side will get out of this, again, I think we have to
watch and see what actually comes out of this discussion.  What we have
said publicly when we had information to share with you about this
budding arms deal was that it was entirely likely that Mr. Putin was
going — at the very least going to seek artillery.

What’s going on in the Donbas and down in the south is — it’s a
gunfight, as you’ve heard me to say before, heavily dependent on
artillery.  So, it’s entirely likely that that’s at least one type of
ammunition that Mr. Putin is seeking. 

I’ve said on the record a week or so ago that we expect it could be
other types of munitions, but we just don’t have perfect visibility on
that.  And so we’re have to see how — how it shakes out. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  I’m going to go back to Iran.  So, with $6 billion and
five Iranians are going to be released, Hostage Aid, which is an
organization that advocates on behalf of hostages, is saying that there
are more American Iranians held in Iran — at least there are two.  So,
why you couldn’t negotiate at least for this amount of money and the
five Iranians who are going to be released in return for every American
citizen, whether it’s a green card holder or American citizen — citizens
who held in (inaudible) —

MR. KIRBY:  I can only speak to the parameters of this arrangement,
which is these five wrongfully detained Americans in an exchange for
five Iranians and, of course, the transfer of these funds.  That’s the
parameters of this deal.  That’s all I can talk about. 

I can just assure you that, as I said at the top, we’re always going to
take seriously the case of wrongfully detained Americans anywhere they
are in the world and do everything we can to get them home.

Q    Can you confirm that the administration policy is never to pay
ransom to any terrorist organization, i.e. non-state actors, whether
it’s al Qaeda or Daesh or whatever.  In the past, Americans were killed
as a result because the U.S. did not pay money, while Europeans did, to
release their citizens.

MR. KIRBY:  No change to our policy. 

Q    Why — I’m sorry, so, how is this different considering that you
describe Iran as — as the state that sponsored terrorism in the world? 
So, in — in other words, that you differentiate between a state and
non-state actors and, therefore, you deal with them differently?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ve answered that question.  This is not a ransom payment. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Danny, go ahead.  Welcome to the briefing room.

Q    Thank you very much.  Thanks for taking the question.  I wanted to
ask about the U.N. General Assembly next week.  Firstly, is the
President going to be meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu of Israel
there?  And —

MR. KIRBY:  No meetings to speak to at this point. 

Q    And also, I just wondered if you know — if you know if he’s going
to be — that the President will be attending the Security Council
meeting on Ukraine. 

MR. KIRBY:  Again, we’ll have more towards the end of the week in terms
of laying out the — the calendar or the President’s agenda at the U.N.
General Assembly next week.  I think on Friday we’ll have a lot more
detail for you. 

The President is looking forward to it.  This is a terrific opportunity
to start to reinforce some of the things that you saw him reinforce on
this trip in terms of improved infrastructure and investment in the
Global South and developing nations, looking towards human rights,
solving climate change. 

There is an awful lot on the President’s agenda up there in New York,
and he’s very much looking forward to it.  We’ll have more detail at the
end of the week. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  We got to wrap it up.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks.  Just to follow up on Tarini’s question on Russia and North
Korea.  I’m wondering if you could speak to what the administration’s
concerns on what North Korea could get out of this.  Putin seemed to
suggest that Russia would help North Korea build spy satellites.  I’m
wondering if there is concern around that or missile technology. 

MR. KIRBY:  Look, again, we got to see what actually shakes out of this
meeting and the degree to which any kind of an arms deal is consummated
and what that looks like.  It’s just — I don’t want to speculate. 

But in a similar fashion to the concern we already expressed about the
burgeoning defense relationship between Iran and Russia, we obviously
have concerns about any burgeoning defense relationship between North
Korea and Russia.  Again, it remains to be seen what either side, A,
wants out of this and, B, will get out of it. 

These are not two countries that work well with others.  And they don’t
really have all that much trust and confidence in each other.  So we’ll
have to see. 

But certainly, any arrangement that would improve North Korea’s military
capabilities would be of — certainly would be of significant concern to
us. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Hi.  So do you have a timeframe for when Americans are coming
back?  And what is your — the administration’s message to the people,
because this is happening on their first anniversary of Mahsa’s killing,
when the administration said that they are going to be standing by the
side of the Iranian people? 

And they are very critical of this money being transferred to Iran. 
They’re actually calling it “appeasement.”  So, what is the message of
administration to those people who lost their lives in the aftermath of
Mahsa’s killing?  And also, do you have a timeframe for it?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we continue to mourn with the Iranian people for her
loss.  We held the morality police accountable for it, and others in —
in Iran.  We continue to stand with the Iranian people and — and for
their human and civil rights.  That’s not going to change. 

The timing here is the timing.  And it — it wasn’t tied to any
anniversary or any date.  It was tied to an arrangement that we made
with Iran to try to get these Americans home.  And this — the
notification of the movement of these funds was the next critical step
in this process — a process, I would remind you, is not over. 

They are still in Tehran — our Americans.  They are not home.  And so,
we’re going to be a little bit careful about how much detail we’re going
to provide here publicly. 

And your first question about timeline, I — I don’t have a timeframe
that I’m at liberty to speak to right now.  But we hope to get them home
as soon as possible. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  In front of you.  Go.

Q    Yeah, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — go ahead.

Q    Me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Okay.  I — I hear you really emphasizing and belaboring the point
that getting American’s home is the priority of the administration.  I
wondered if there was any movement on the Pennsylvania-native teacher,
Marc Fogel, who’s been held in Russia, imprisoned for, I believe, going
on two years now.  Has there been any movement on getting that American
home?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything with respect to his case to speak to
today. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks.  What can you tell us about the five Iranian prisoners who
are being traded?  What were they convicted for here in the U.S.?  And
how were they chosen?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have — I’m not at liberty right now, again, because
this is an ongoing process and we don’t have our Americans home yet. 
So, I will be careful about how much detail I put out there.  I don’t
have a lot that I can say about these five individuals at this time.  We
will certainly have more information to share when it’s appropriate to
share it.

In general, without getting into each specific case, just generally
speaking, you’re looking at offenses such as sanctions evasion, that
kind of level.  But I think that’s as far as I can go today.

Q    So, not serious, hardened criminals?

MR. KIRBY:  Largely in the realm of sanctions evasions.  And I — I think
I’m just going to have to leave it at that right now. 

Q    The Iranians have shared the names with us.  Are you prepared to
release the names?

MR. KIRBY:  We will at the appropriate time, and this is not the
appropriate time. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jenny.

Q    Hey, John.  I’ve got two for you on China.  We reported last week
about China trying to ban iPhones for certain government agencies.  Now
they’re saying they are seeing security threats with these phones. 
They’re stopping short of issuing laws.  But we have reported on the
internal guidance, and the President even mentioned it in Hanoi, saying,
you know, they’re changing the rules of the game. 

Should we expect the administration to respond and there to be
repercussions for China if they do go through with that?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t want to get ahead of where we are right now.  We’re
watching this with concern.  Clearly, it seems to be of a piece of the
kinds of aggressive and inappropriate retaliation to U.S. companies that
we’ve seen from the PRC in the past.  That’s what this appears to be. 

The truth is, we don’t have perfect visibility on exactly what they’re
doing and why.  And we certainly would call on them to be more
transparent about what they’re seeing and what they’re doing. 

Q    So, you are — it’s — it’s accurate to say that you are trying to
seek that information from the Chinese —

MR. KIRBY:  We are — we’re watching this as closely as we can.  I’m not
going to — I’m not going to get into diplomatic conversations, but it’s
concerning.

Q    Okay.  And separately but related, the U.S. ambassador to Japan,
Rahm Emanuel, has been pretty candid on Twitter talking about China and
Xi Jinping’s policy of disappearing officials in his Cabinet.  Is this
something that you guys are aware of or, you know, endorsing his message
to be as forthright?  I mean, the White House has been pretty careful in
how you do diplomacy with China, which is not really poking Xi Jinping
the way the ambassador is.

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the ambassador speak to his social media account. 

We’ve long been clear about our concerns about a full range of worrisome
PRC activities in — in the region there.  And I think I’d leave it at
that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re just going to talk a couple more.  Go ahead.

Q    John, in the past couple of weeks, the President has lied about
being at Ground Zero the day after the September 11th attacks, falsely
claimed he saw the Pittsburgh bridge collapse, claimed his grandfather
died in the hospital days before his birth.  What is going on with the
President?  Is he just believing things that didn’t happen did happen,
or is he just randomly making stuff up?

MR. KIRBY:  The President was deeply touched and honored to be able to
spend 9/11 with the military members there in Alaska and some families. 
And was — was — was honored by their presence and the chance to make an
important set of remarks about why we need to continue to remember that
day.  And he did that. 

And he spoke about a visit to Ground Zero, which he did participate in
about a week or so after the — the event, and what that looked and what
that smelled and what like — that felt like.  And it had a visceral
impact on him, as it did so many other Americans on that terrible day. 

And he’s focused on making sure that an attack like that never happens
again, which is why we’ve improved our over-the-horizon counterterrorism
capability and why we continue to hold terrorist networks accountable. 
And it’s why he spent so much time last week shoring up our national
security interests in a vital part of the world on issues that aren’t
necessarily tied to terrorism, but very much tied to our ability to
secure peace and prosperity there and around the world.

Q    But he’s had a string of saying things that happened — didn’t
happen — things that are easily debunked.  Why does he keep doing that?

MR. KIRBY:  The President was grateful to spend that time with those
family members and those troops.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead. 

Q    Has the Moroccan government accepted any earthquake assistance yet
from the United States?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I — I can tell you that we have been in constant touch
with Moroccan officials and that USAID has — has allocated a million
dollars to assist in response relief.  I’ll let USAID and the Moroccan
government speak to how they intend to — to use that.

I would — I’ll also just, as the President did, reiterate that we stand
ready to — to provide even more assistance should it be required and
needed.  But we are in direct contact with them about their needs, and,
obviously, you want to do the best you can to meet those needs as they
see them.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I’m just going to do two more. 

Way in the back, go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Admiral, what — why wouldn’t the
administration reengage, if it would be possible, with the JCPOA?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we wanted it to be possible.  I mean, my goodness, the
first couple of years of this administration, we worked hard to try to
get us back into the JCPOA.  And Iran kept larding up the negotiations
with — with things that had nothing to do with their nuclear program. 
And we realized the futility of the effort, so we stopped putting energy
and effort into it, all around the time that they were whipping and
beaten female protesters.  So we held them accountable for that.  That
was — that was a significant moment as well. 

Look, the President has been very consistent that we want to make sure
they never achieve a nuclear weapons capability.  He would prefer —
vastly prefer to do that through diplomacy, but that’s just not a viable
option right now. 

Q    On Ukraine, what — what is the administration’s goal?  Is it to
defeat Russia?  Or is it ultimately to seek some sort of negotiated
settlement?

MR. KIRBY:  Man, I don’t know how many times I’ve answered this question
in the last year and a half.  And we have been, again, very, very
consistent.  We want to see Ukraine succeed on the battlefield.  We want
to see them get all their territory back.  We want to see their
sovereignty respected.  We want to see no Russian troops inside
Ukraine.  We want to see the war end. 

And it could end today, obviously, if Mr. Putin would do the right thing
and just get the hell out.  That’s clearly not going to happen right
now. 

So, we’re going to continue to provide Ukraine with the capabilities
that they need to be successful.

Q    And on the holdup of military appointments from Tommy Tuberville,
what is the tangible damage being done to the military by a holdup on
appointments of military officers?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t say any better than the — than the leaders of the
DOD have been able to say.  You’ve got more than 300, now, generals and
admirals who are frozen, can’t move, which means that in many cases —
literally, hundreds of cases — you’ve got officers that are doing two
jobs — two big jobs — while they’re — while they’re still trying to
maintain readiness.  And readiness is starting to get affected by this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Kayla.  You have the last question.

Q    Thank you.  CNN is reporting that Elizabeth Whelan, the sister of
Paul Whelan, who was arrested in Russia in 2018, is in Washington for
meetings this week and she’s been seeking a meeting with the President. 
Does the President plan to meet with her?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any meetings with the President to speak to,
but she is in town and she is going to be meeting with the — with White
House officials.  It’ll be a good opportunity for us to — to update her
on our efforts to get Paul back.  And those efforts are very active and
they’re very ongoing. 

Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks.  Thanks, Admiral.  Appreciate it. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Thank you, John.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Darlene, it’s good to see you. 

Q    It’s good to see you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like it’s been a while.  Maybe?

Q    Maybe. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  All right, go for it.

Q    Will the President cooperate fully now that Speaker McCarthy has
pulled the trigger on an impeachment inquiry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to refer you to — to my colleagues over
at the Counsel’s Office on any specifics to — to the inquiry.  I’m
certainly not going to — going to speculate on — on what has been a
baseless inquiry that the House Republicans can’t even really defend
themselves and that many House Republicans have said — they have said
they couldn’t support their own votes.  So, again — again, I’m going to
refer you to my White House Counsel on any specifics.

Q    On — sorry —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    And on his speech tomorrow, he’s going to Maryland.  Why is he
going to Maryland, a blue state, instead of maybe a red state to talk
about his economic policies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get — you heard — you heard
Jared, the chair of CEA, talk — talk specifically about the economy,
speak — speak specifically about a major speech — a major speech that
the President is going to do tomorrow on Bidenomics. 

You’ve heard us talk about Bidenomics and how we believe has turned the
economy around and just — not from us, but from the data that we
certainly have seen. 

And this is a President who has been very clear: He wants to see an
economy that come — that build — that’s built from the bottom up, middle
out and not the trickle-down economy that we see that — that
congressional Republicans want to continue to do. 

What I’m not going to get into — well, I’ll say this: The President bel-
— it doesn’t matter where the President decides to give a speech,
right?  For him, it is an opportunity to speak directly to the American
people, and that’s what you’re going to see him do. 

And, you know, whether it’s in Maryland, whether it’s in a red state,
the President always takes those opportunities — incredibly important
not just to speak in front of all of you who report on what he’s going
to say and how he’s engaging with the American people, but directly to
them as well. 

And so, you know, in this case, location is not — doesn’t matter.  He
wants to give a — a really important speech, a “major speech,” as you
heard us coin it, on Bidenomics.  And I think it’s important — what’s
important is that the American people are going to hear from the
President about an issue that matters to them, which is the economy and
how he continues to make sure he’s doing everything he can to lower
costs for the American people and to continue to build an economy that
leaves no one behind.  And I think that’s what matters for tomorrow.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  On impeachment, you just mentioned House
Republicans’ “baseless claims.”  How confident are you that there will
be no evidence that incriminates President Biden in Hunter’s business
dealings as this goes forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just give a little bit of a — a laydown
here, because I think it’s important: Any specifics to — to the inquiry
— certainly, I — I want to say this at the top, as I said to Darlene —
I’m going to refer you to my colleagues at the Counsel’s Office. 

But I want to — also want to be clear about a couple of things.  You
know, I just talked about Bidenomics.  I just talked about what the
President’s going to do tomorrow: really deliver a major speech —
something that the American people want to hear about: what are we doing
to improve their lives, work on the economy.  And these are real — real
issues, real priorities for Americans — and like I said, like lowering
costs.

But what you see Republicans in Congress — right? — they have spent all
year investigating the President.  That’s what they’ve spent all year
doing, and have turned up with no evidence — none — he — that he did
anything wrong. 

I mean, that is what we’ve heard over and over again from their almost
lear — year-long investigation.  And — and that’s because the President
didn’t do anything wrong.  Even — even —

Q    Is lying to the public wrong?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — even House — even House Republicans have said — have
said the evidence does not exist.  House Republicans have said that, to
my friend in the back who just yelled out, which is incredibly
inappropriate.  But House Republicans have said that there doesn’t —

Q    Do you dispute that he lied?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — there doesn’t — it doesn’t exist.

Their own investigation have actually debunked their ridiculous
attacks.  And the only reason Speaker McCarthy is doing this — is doing
this political stunt — and we have seen it; you all have reported — is
because Majorie — <s>Majorie</s> \[Marjorie\] Taylor Greene has said she
threatened to shut down the government.  Can you imagine shutting down
the government over a political stunt?  And we’re talking about vital
programs that American families need.  And — and she said that because
she wanted him to — to actually do this.  And if he didn’t, she would
shut down the government. 

And you have — Matt Gaetz as well threatened to oust him as Speaker if
he didn’t do it. 

So, he didn’t even put up for a vote, as you all know, because he knows
that even his own members weren’t going to support this. 

So, you know, that’s why we call it baseless.  That’s why I just called
it baseless, because they have said themselves that there is no
evidence.  There does not — the evidence does not exist, and this is a
political stunt

But here’s the thing, and I say this all the time: We look forward to
working with Republicans in a bipartisan way to actually deal with
issues that matter to — to Americans — real issues that meri- — matter
to Americans, not this baseless effort that they have continuing to do
that shows no evidence.

Q    What — given that, will the President still be able to work with
House Republicans, including Speaker McCarthy —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — to avert a shutdown in a couple of weeks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the shutdown should not happen.  That is
Congress’s job: to avoid a shutdown.  I’ve said over and over again here
at this podium just — for the past couple of minutes that these are
vital programs that American families need.   
  
So, that’s their basic duty.  Their basic duty is to keep the government
open.   
  
We’ve already agreed — we’ve agreed.  There was a bipartisan agreement
on how to move forward with the budget that they voted on.   
  
And so, look, they should — a deal is a deal.  They should keep their
word, and they should keep the government open.   
  
Go ahead, Nancy.  
  
Q    You just brought up the lack of a vote.  Does the White House view
this impeachment inquiry as legitimate, given that there has not been a
vote to open it?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Nancy, I appreciate the question, but I actually —
from what I just laid out, Republicans have been — made it pretty clear
just how illegitimate this is.  They’ve made that very clear.  This is a
— this is an entire exercise of how to do this in an illegitimate
way.   
  
And, again, it’s a politi- — political stunt.  And it is going after the
President politically — not about the truth.  There is no truth here. 
And so, we think they should — they should work with us on legitimate
issues — things that actually matter to the American people.  And that’s
what they want to see.  That’s what the American people want to see.   
  
We’re going to talk about Bidenomics.  You’re going to hear from the
President — speak to that directly. 

In a few minutes, the President is convening his Cabinet — his Cancer
Cabinet to talk about an issue that matters to the American people,
about saving lives, what else we can do to deal with cancer across the
country.   
  
And, you know, that’s what we believe.

  
Q    So, if you don’t view it as legitimate, does that mean that the
White House doesn’t believe it needs to comply with requests that come
as — as a result of this inquiry?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to let the Counsel’s Office — my
colleagues there speak to this directly as to what — when it comes to
cooperating.  I’m going to let them speak to that. 

But I’ve been very clear: We believe this is — this — we’re certainly
not going to speculate on any bas- — you know, on baseless accusations —
right? — as we have seen from — from the Republicans in the House.   
  
And so, you know, again, they could not even support their own votes. 
They couldn’t.  Speaker McCarthy could not even get support for this
vote.  And so, I’m going to just leave it there.  
  
Q    Has the President had an opportunity to speak with Speaker McCarthy
about the looming shutdown and potential ways out of this mess?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any conversations the President has
had with the Speaker.  I can say, definitely, that our — our OMB
director here, Shalanda Young, and also — also the Leg Affairs Office
has been in direct communications for the past several weeks, even
months, with — with members in Congress.  That’s going to continue.  I
just don’t have anything to read out.   
  
As you know, the President is — you know, continues to have
conversations with members in the House and the Sen- — and Senate
regularly.  I just don’t have a specific conversation to read out.  
  
Q    Would the White House consider renegotiating

the agreement it struck with Speaker McCarthy earlier this year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But here’s the thing: A deal is a deal.  Like, they
voted on this.  They voted on this.  It was a bipartisan deal.  And, you
know, they should move o- — move forward with what they agreed on.   
  
It was voted in the House, in the Senate.  And Republicans voted for
this.  Dem- — Democrats voted for this.   
  
So, I don’t see the issue here.  They should move forward with this.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Karine, can you describe how President Biden reacted to the
impeachment decision by the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything —  
  
Q    — Speaker?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share about the President’s
reaction to this. 

All I can tell you is the President is focused on the American people —
hardworking American people.  You’ll see him in a few minutes when he
talks about — when he speaks to his Cancer Cabinet.  And then you’ll
certainly hear from him tomorrow with the Bidenomics.  
  
Q    You listed a couple of things — the — the deal that the Republicans
are now not supporting, the — obviously, the impeachment.  You say you
look forward — or the White House looks forward to working with the
Republicans.  How do you see that happening?  How does President Biden
plan to work with Speaker McCarthy?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, for the past two years, we’ve gotten — this
President has gotten a lot of criticism in not being able to work in a
bipartisan way with — with Republicans on the other side of
Pennsylvania.  I mean, we’ve heard that over and over and over again. 
And he has been able to do that.  And as you know, this — the political
climate is tough.  We’re in a different political climate — probably one
that we haven’t seen in this — in this fashion for some time.  And the
President has been able to do that.   
  
He’s been able to push incredibly key, historic pieces of legislation
that’s going to change the lives of Americans: when you think about the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, you think about the CHIPS and Science
Act, when you think about the PACT Act — all important pieces of
legislation.  And that’s just a few.  There’s been hundreds and hundreds
and hundreds of pieces of legislation that has been done in a bipartisan
way that the President has signed these past two years.   
  
So, it can still be done.  It really, truly can. 

We’re talking about this moment in time — right? — that we’re seeing
from — from Congress.  Of course, we’re going to call it out.  Of
course, we’re going to as- — as it relates to, certainly, the budget, of
course we’re going to say to them that they need to do their jobs.   
  
And so, we’ve seen it over and over again — what this President has been
able to do things in a bipartisan way.  And let’s not forget, one of the
things that we saw from the midterm results in 2022 is that Americans
want to see us do this: working in a bipartisan way so that we deal with
their — with their key issues that they’re having. 

Bidenomics is going to be so important tomorrow.  The President is going
to speak, certainly, fully about that and lay out what his
administration has done and going to continue to do.  And that’s what
we’re going to focus on.  
  
Q    Just really briefly, on another topic, I saw the President’s
statement about Libya, expressing condolences.  Does the United States
have plans to send more money, more help to the people there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I do want to share our — you
know, as you mentioned, there was a — I think, a tweet that went out.   
  
So, our deepest condolences to all the families who have lost loved ones
in the devastating floods in Libya and, certainly, the earthquake in
Morocco.  These are difficult times, and the United States sent
emergency funds to relief organizations in Libya, and we will also send
disaster assistance response to the region and an initial $1 million to
support Libyan efforts.   
  
In the hours following the earthquake, we deployed a small as- —
assessment team to Morocco.  And we are making available up to $1
million in initial humanitarian assistance to support people in the
areas most affected by the earthquake and its aftershocks.   
  
Obviously and certainly, the United States stands by the Libyan and
Moroccan people.  And we are wishing them a speedy recovery to those
injured and, certainly, sending our hope to all those who are missing
loved ones.  It is certainly a difficult time in that region, and we are
here to help.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On impeachment.  Does the President or the White House
more broadly plan to comply with requests for

information from House Republicans as part of the impeachment inquiry?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I’ve stated a couple of times, just in the
past few minutes, that any — any specifics, inquiries or anything like
that, that is something that my Cou- — the Counsel — my — the — my
colleagues at the White House Counsel certainly will — will deal with. 
And they’ll — any specifics, I would refer you to them.  
  
Q    But you suggested that there’s no evidence to back up the
Republicans’ effort —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which is true.  
  
Q    — here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not suggesting it.  That’s actually a fact.  
  
Q    If they are seeking information —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, that is —  
  
Q    — would you provide the information?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — something that the White House Counsel is going to
deal with.  And it’s not a suggestion.  It’s actually an actual fact.  
  
When you have Republicans saying that there is no — no evidence, it
doesn’t exist.  They have said that. 

I mean, again, they couldn’t even put it up for a vote because they
didn’t have the vote. 

So, it’s not a suggestion; it’s actually the fact.  That’s their own
words that I’m repeating back.   
  
I’m just going to try and go to — go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The L.A. Times reported that the Biden
administration is considering forcing some migrant families who enter
the country without authorization to remain near the border in Texas
while awaiting asylum screa- — screening.  Governor Abbott has
threatened to sue if the administration goes through with this.  Can you
confirm whether this is under active consideration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me — I have to go back to the team.  I want to
get the right information to you.  So, let me talk to the team about
that specific — that specific reporting.  And then we’re, certainly —
will have that information for you.

Q    Can you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, the President has done everything that he
can to work on the issue at — at the border that has existed for
decades, worked to improve the immigration system.  He’s done that
alone, without the help of Republicans.  And, certainly, you see the
governor constantly doing political stunts.  And the President is going
to do everything that he can.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
MS. SIMONS:  Time for one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, one more time.  I’ll try and call — I haven’t
called on you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the memo that was sent out to news
organizations about covering this impeachment inquiry, can you give us
some background into the decision-making of why you thought sending that
was necessary?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to leave that to the White House Counsel —
from my colleagues who sent that — that memo.  It just laid out, really,
kind of specifically as to how we see this process has moved forward,
how there is no evidence.  It’s not even coming from us.  It’s coming
from Republicans in — in Congress.  We’ve been very clear about that.  
  
I actually think that memo lays out pretty — pretty — in pretty good
detail of why we felt it was important to put that out.  I’m just not
going to get beyond what my colleague has shared with all of you.   
  
And with that, folks —  
  
Q    Can you explain why the President interacted with so many of his
son’s foreign business associates?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Have a great day, guys.  Thank you so much.

  
2:17 P.M. EDT
