---
date: '2023-09-21'
published_time: 2023-09-21 20:48:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/09/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-8/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:19 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you can see, we have the National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan joining us today to talk about — give a little bit of a
preview and talk about the President’s visit with President Zelenskyy
today.  As you know, he’s all in tow- — he’s in town, and he’ll take
some of your foreign policy questions as well.  
  
With that, Jake, the podium is yours.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, Karine.  And thanks for letting me come back here
just a few days after I was last before you at this podium.  
  
President Biden returned from New York last night, where he held a
series of engagements and meetings at the U.N. General Assembly.  He
launched important initiatives, he engaged with heads of state from
around the world, and he laid out a substantive agenda for effective
American leadership at a pivotal moment in the world.   
  
In his remarks to the General Assembly, President Biden highlighted all
that is at stake as we continue to rally the world to support Ukraine,
including the fate of core principles of the United Nations Charter:
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and human rights, which are the
pillars of peaceful relations among nations.   
  
As you all know, President Biden underscored that it’s not just the
future of the people of Ukraine that hangs in the balance as they
bravely fight every day to defend their rights and their sovereign
territory from a brutal Russian invasion.  The President spoke about how
critical it is that the U.S. and the world send the unmistakable message
that in the 21st century, a dictator cannot be allowed to conquer or
carve up his neighbor’s territory by force and threaten the fundamental
values of freedom and independence that matter to every American.   
  
If we allow that here, it will happen elsewhere in ways that will
undermine the fundamental security, not to mention the values that the
American people hold so dear.   
  
Following up on that speech at the U.N. earlier this week, today
President Biden is hosting President Zelenskyy of Ukraine here at the
White House, where he will emphasize the continued need for the American
people to step up and support Ukraine as they battle on the frontlines
of the free world.   
  
Today’s meeting will be the sixth in-person meeting between President
Biden and President Zelenskyy.  And it’s President Zelenskyy’s third
visit to the White House during the Biden administration.   
  
Of course, they have talked many times over the course of the past year
and a half by phone, on video, and our teams are in constant, daily
communication.   
  
This meeting comes at a significant moment, as Ukrainian forces continue
to make progress in their counteroffensive, and just after Russia
launched yet another brutal wave of airstrikes against five cities —
five cities in Ukraine that hit critical civilian infrastructure and
knocked out power for many people in many different parts of the
country.   
  
To help defend against assaults like this one — assaults from the air —
President Biden will announce a new package of military assistance today
that includes significant air defense capabilities to help Ukraine
protect its people.  These capabilities will help Ukraine harden its
defenses ahead of what is likely to be a tough winter filled with
renewed Russian attacks on Ukrainian critical infrastructure to try to
deprive innocent people of necessities like heat and electricity.   
  
Because President Putin cannot achieve his objectives on the
battlefield, he has re- — reduced to and is resorting to attacks that
are intended to plunge ordinary people’s lives into cold and darkness. 
And we are going to do everything wor- –working with Ukrainians to make
that task more and more difficult for Russia to be able to pull off.   
  
The package the President will announce today will also include weapons
and equipment to help Ukraine maintain its momentum in the
counteroffensive.  That includes additional ammunition for U.S.-provided
HIMARS systems, anti-armor capabilities, artillery, ammunition, and more
DPICMs, which have helped Ukraine make gains and crucially also helped
Ukraine defend against counterattacks.   
  
President Biden and President Zelenskyy will also discuss our joint
efforts to support Ukraine’s economic recovery.  And he will introduce a
special representative for Ukraine’s economic recovery, Penny Pritzker,
who will focus on engaging the private sector, partner countries, and
Ukrainian counterparts to generate international investment in Ukraine
and work with Ukraine to make the reforms necessary to improve Ukraine’s
business climate.   
  
President Biden, of course, is also looking forward to hear directly
from President Zelenskyy in person — his perspective on the war and the
road ahead and all of the more specific operational issues that have
been a feature of all of their conversations over the course of the past
year and a half.   
  
Above all, though, President Biden wants to use today to reaffirm his
commitment, this administration’s commitment, this country’s commitment
to continuing to lead the world in support of Ukraine for as long as it
takes, and that’s what he intends to do today.   
  
And with that, I look forward to taking your questions.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you.  (Inaudible) Canada and India’s relationship?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Actually, I was calling on her.  But go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  You can go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Can you give us a sense — your sense of what’s
happening between Canada and India?  India is fuming at a Canadian
allegation that India was involved in the death of a Canadian citizen
(inaudible) in India.  Canada is saying that they have informed you
about the proof they have about those allegations.  What’s your sense of
it?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  As soon as we heard from the Canadian Prime Minister
publicly about the allegations, we went out publicly ourselves and
expressed our deep concern about them, our support for a law enforcement
process to get to the bottom of exactly what happened and to ensure that
the perpetrators are held accountable.   
  
I’m not going to get into the substance of private diplomatic
conversations, but we are in constant contact with our Canadian
counterparts.  We are consulting with them closely, we support the
efforts that they are undertaking in this investigation, and we have
also been in touch with the Indian government as well.   
  
And I will leave it at that for today, only to say that I have seen in
the press some efforts to try to drive a wedge between the United States
and Canada on this issue.  And I firmly reject the idea that there is a
wedge between the U.S. and Canada.  We have deep concerns about the
allegations, and we would like to see this investigation carried forward
and the perpetrators held to account.   
  
That is what the United States has stood for from the moment this
emerged in public, and we will continue to stand for that until this
fully plays its way out.   
  
So, you can go ahead, sorry.   
  
Q    Hi.  So, I know that ATACMS have been on the table, been in
consideration by President Biden.  I’m wondering if you can talk about
what those consideration factors are.  Is it a stocks/money issue?  Is
it a — we’re not ready — they’re not ready at this point in the war to
start longer-range fires?  Can you tell us about that?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I can only tell you so much from this podium, because
operational considerations about any given weapons system — some of that
is quite sensitive.   
  
What I would say is that the President is constantly speaking both to
his own military and to his counterparts in Europe and to the Ukrainians
themselves about what is needed on the battlefield at any given phase of
the war and then what the United States can provide while also ensuring
that we are able to provide for our own defer- — deterrence and defense
needs.   
  
As he’s weighed all that up, to date, he has determined that he would
not provide ATACMS, but he has also not taken it off the table in the
future.  I don’t have anything to announce about that today.   
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  House Republican leaders are heavily laying the
blame at President Biden’s feet today for the fact that the House has
not passed that additional package of Ukraine aid.  House Speaker
McCarthy saying today that President Biden hasn’t made the case to the
American public — what is victory, what does it take to be able to
win.   
  
You met with Speaker McCarthy and other Republicans recently.  What was
your message to them?  And then, what is your response to Speaker
McCarthy today?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to get into a debate with Speaker McCarthy
from the podium.  I would say that Speaker McCarthy has himself been an
advocate for the supply of military assistance to Ukraine, has voted for
previous packages, and that Republicans in both the House and Senate in
very large numbers have been strong advocates and supporters for this. 
Haven’t just wanted to hear the case from us — they’ve been going out
and themselves making the case to their constituents and to the world
for why this is so important.   
  
And it is that level of bipartisan support that we’ve seen to date that
has sustained the immense and impressive levels of assistance that we’ve
been able to provide to Ukraine.   
  
We believe that that will continue because we believe that there is
strong majorities on a bipartisan basis in both the House and Senate to
provide this aid.  That’s what we look forward to seeing.  
  
Now, I did have the opportunity to see the — the Democratic and
Republican leadership in the Senate and the House and the chairs and
ranking members of the key national security committees in two separate
sessions.   
  
I thought they were incredibly constructive sessions.  They were deeply
substantive.  The members had excellent questions.  They also had a lot
of constructive suggestions for how we most effectively pursue continued
assistance to Ukraine and rally the world to help Ukraine defend its
territory.   
  
So, on the basis of those conversations and further consultation we’ve
had since then, I continue to remain of the view that when all is said
and done — after all the back-and-forth, and the to-ing and fro-ing, and
all the other elements going into these negotiations that have nothing
to do with Ukraine — that there will be strong bipartisan support to
continue funding Ukraine to the extent that we believe is necessary to
get Ukraine what it needs.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  Go back to India for a minute.  Does the U.S. have
any intelligence or investigative evidence to support Canada’s claims?  
  
And then secondly, Ambassador Garcetti had suggested that President
Biden was going to return to India in January to celebrate Republic
Day.  And I’m wondering if that trip is now in question, given this
diplomatic row between two U.S. partners.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to speak to either intelligence or law
enforcement matters from this podium.  I will let that process play
out.  
  
We are in, as I said before, continuous communication and consultation
with the Canadian government.  And we will remain so as we go
forward.   
  
And I do not have anything to announce about travel by the President to
India in January or at any other time today.   
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Jake, you’ve expressed your confidence that Congress will, in the
not-too-distant future, pass the necessary $24 billion in funds that you
say is — are necessary going forward in Ukraine.  By what date does that
need to occur to not have any impact?  What is the urgency?  And how
soon does that need to happen to make sure that there is no let-up in
the effort to help support the Ukrainians?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, just to be clear, the supplemental funding package
that we put forward to the Hill was for the period from the end of the
fiscal year to the end of the calendar year — basically, September 30th
to the end of the year.   
  
So, there’s not a single dar- — dollar amount that is necessary for all
time.  We need funding to keep going, meaning that if, for example, the
Congress passed a shorter package, you could have a proportional amount
or a longer package, et cetera.  
  
Q    But at what point does that package — new package need to be
passed?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We will want to see additional funding for Ukraine after
the end of the fiscal year — so, after September 30th — meaning that we
would like additional resources from the Congress on October 1st to be
able to ensure that there’s no disruption in the supply of funding to
Ukraine.  
  
Q    And at what point would there be a disruption if we passed — what
date would there be a disruption, given the fears about this not
passing?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I mean, there’s a sliding scale of disruption.  But
the day after the funds lapse or run out at the end of the fiscal year,
there would be a break if we do not get the funding starting October
1st.  
  
That’s why we are making the case to the Congress that we should see
additional funding at that time.  
  
Q    Quick follow-up on the Congress.  Speaker McCarthy, as has now been
reported, turned down President Zelenskyy’s desire to speak for a joint
session of Congress.  Obviously, they control Congress; you don’t.  But
what do you think that says to the American people if Zelenskyy was not
given that opportunity, given the stakes that you say exist right now?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve read the reports of that.  I haven’t heard it
directly.  So, it’s hard for me to comment or speculate on it.   
  
What I will say is that President Zelenskyy just spent hours up on the
Hill with Democrats and Republicans — and not just behind closed doors,
but out in public — to be able to explain his case and to stand,
frankly, with members who want to also make the case that this should
continue.   
  
So, I keep saying basically the same thing, standing up here, that I
genuinely believe, which is: There is a vocal, quite small minority of
members who are raising questions.  There is a very strong, overwhelming
majority of members, both Democrats and Republicans, who want to see aid
continue.  And I believe that’s where the American people are as well. 
So, I believe that will shine through in the end.   
  
Yes.   
  
Q    Is the U.S. concerned about Poland’s decision to stop sending arms
to Ukraine and whether that signals any sort of broad waning of Western
support for Ukraine?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  When I read the headlines this morning, I was, of course,
concerned and had questions.  But I’ve subsequently seen the Polish
government spokesman come out to clarify that, in fact, Poland’s
provision of equipment, including things like Polish manufactured
howitzers, is continuing and that Poland continues to stand behind
Ukraine.   
  
So, we will stay in consultation with them to ensure that we understand
fully what the nature of Poland’s stance is on these issues, but I
believe that Poland will continue to be a supporter of Ukraine.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  What are you telling congressional leaders about
how much more aid is needed to ensure Ukraine can win the war, not just
sustain the war?  And what timeline are you sharing with them?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, we’ve put forward a proposal.  We’ve actually laid
out in some detail every element of assistance that we believe is
necessary to get us to the end of this year, and then we have begun
talking to them about what next year looks like as well.  But that’s in
military support, economic support, humanitarian, energy assistance, and
so forth.   
  
War is inherently unpredictable, of course.  So, I can’t look you in the
eye and I certainly can’t look them in the eye and predict exactly
what’s going to happen on exactly what timetable.  And therefore, we
need to have a degree of flexibility and adaptability in our approach,
as we have since the beginning of this conflict.  That will continue.   
  
But what we know is that there is core capabilities — in ammunition, in
air defense systems, and in other critical military elements — that
Ukraine will continue to need from its partners in NATO and other
countries around the world.  And we, the United States, are committed to
making sure they get those.   
  
In fact, Secretary Austin had the opportunity to host another round of
the Ramstein Group, the Ukrainian Defense Contact Group, this week in
Germany.  And we continue to see a level of urgency and intensity in the
support to — for this kind of assistance to go to Ukraine from dozens of
countries around the world.  The United States has got to step up and do
its part.  
  
Q    And you talk about the bipartisan support, but the issue here is
just how does this even get to the floor for a vote.  So, what is the
path forward here?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  In a way, that’s above my paygrade because that involves
questions related to the entire budget, much of which goes well beyond
the national security remit.   
  
So, I will not handicap, kind of, overall budget negotiations.  What I’m
laser-focused on is: When all is said and done, will there be the
support and the resources necessary for Ukraine?  
  
I believe, based on my consultations on the Hill with both Republicans
and Democrats, that there will be.  
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you, again, for being here.  You are — you expressed
confidence that ultimately there will be money provided as requested, if
not more or whatever.  And that’s the understanding here at the White
House.   
  
How do you explain, then, all of this to Zelenskyy or to other world
leaders who might be watching this domestic fight and thinking, “Should
we really believe that the United States is on board with Ukraine and
with this effort?”  I mean, how do you explain congressional
dysfunction, I guess, to your counterparts?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, one thing you definitely do not need to explain
to democratically elected leaders in Europe — frankly, even to autocrats
— is politics.  Okay?  Leaders know politics.  And President Biden’s
counterparts understand that budget negotiations take place and there’s
difficult give-and-take in them.  And that’s in the nature of a
democratic system.   
  
So, President Zelenskyy is not coming here like a babe in the woods not
having any understanding that, you know, we have to work through, as we
approach the end of the fiscal year, funding for the government going
forward.  He recognizes that that’s going to be contested, that there
are different perspectives.   
  
What he wants to hear from the President is kind of similar to what you
are trying to elicit from me, which is what is the degree of confidence
we have that we can deliver in the end.  And we believe that we can,
which doesn’t mean that the road ahead is entirely straight or I can
predict to you exactly how this is all going to play out.  What I
believe is that when all is said and done, the support will be there.   
  
Q    One — one real quick on — when we talk about Canada, there’s an
issue with Mexico today because AMLO suggested he’s not coming to APEC
in November amid concerns with its relationship with Peru.  Have they
given formal notice they’re not coming?  And what do you make of this
dispute between the two?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I actually had not seen him go out publicly and say
that.  But without going deep into our diplomatic conversations with
them, they had raised the possibility that that might happen.  We’ll
have to talk to them.  And I don’t want to comment on it at the podium
before I’ve had the chance to talk to them directly.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I would like to ask you a question about Saudi
Arabia.  Yesterday, the Crown Prince said that if Iran gets nuclear
weapons, then Saudi Arabia would get them too.  How do you react to
that?  And is it a way to put pressure on the administration at a time
when the President is trying to broker a deal with Israel?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No, I don’t think so.  This has been a longstanding
position of Saudi Arabia.  And, frankly, one of the major reasons that
we are working overtime with partners and allies to ensure that Iran
never gets a nuclear weapon is that if they did, not only would they be
a direct threat to the region and beyond, but it likely would trigger a
regional arms race.   
  
So, it has been core to the American principle and policy with respect
to ensuring Iran does not get a nuclear weapon, this risk that
potentially other countries in the region would seek nuclear weapons. 
That’s not something that emerged yesterday in an interview.  That has
been a feature of the landscape going back many years.  
  
Now, from our perspective, we will do all that is necessary — and we
have said this repeatedly; the President himself has said it — to ensure
that Iran never gets a nuclear weapon so this hypothetical never comes
to pass.  And that’s the stance that we take, and nothing about the
comments made yesterday change or alter that.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you so much, Jake.  Is it me here or Steve?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Just first of all, does the administration support
every part of the 10-part peace formulation that President Zelenskyy is
promoting?  And if the answer to that is no, which parts might you
edit?   
  
And then, secondly, when President Xi hosts President Putin in Beijing
next month, what does the White House hope he will communicate to
President Putin about the need for peace in Ukraine?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Each of the individual elements of the peace plan, if you
sat one of them down — sovereignty and territorial integrity, food
security, ecological security, nuclear safety — to us, it’s not even a
question of whether we agree.  Of course, we do.  These are just basic
principles of the international system.  They’re consistent with the
U.N. Charter.   
  
And we have said that President Zelenskyy’s vision for a just peace is
fully consistent with the United Nations Charter and with, kind of,
decency and common humanity.  So, we have no concerns about any of
that.   
  
What President Biden has said is that at the end of the day, the
baseline for peace are the core principles of the U.N. Charter,
particularly sovereignty and territorial integrity and human rights. 
That’s what we’re going to continue to drive at.  That’s what President
Biden and President Zelenskyy will speak about today.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    And on Xi — sorry.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Oh, sorry.  What was your question?  
  
Q    What do you hope that President Xi will communicate to Putin when
they meet in Beijing about the need for peace in Ukraine?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The number-one point in — I can’t remember if it’s 10 or
12 points in the principles that the PRC has laid out with respect to
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is respect for sovereignty, respect for
every nation’s sovereignty.   
  
So, I would like to see every leader who goes and speaks to President
Putin reinforce that that basic proposition is inviolable and that every
country, including countries that have better relationships <s>than</s>
\[with\] Russia than we do, are going to stand by that principle as we
go forward.  That’s fundamentally their responsibility.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    I had two quick follow-ups.  First, with regards to the United
States’ commitment to Ukraine, there are 26 Republican lawmakers,
including 6 senators — a small minority, as you mentioned before — who
sent a letter to the OMB director saying that they were unaware of just
how much the administration has spent thus far in support of Ukraine. 
They know how much was appropriated, obviously; they don’t know how much
has been spent thus far.  Do you have a general figure you can give
us?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to stand here and give a precise figure. 
What I will tell you is that we have supplied to the Congress every
dollar that has been obligated.  So, if they are unaware, it’s because
they are not looking at the reports that we are submitting to the
Hill.   
  
In fact, when I was up on the Hill just a few days ago, I walked through
in some detail — and I don’t have the notes in front of me — exactly
what we had spent in the military space.   
  
We’ve done 47 presidential drawdown packages.  We give the dollar figure
for every one of them.   
  
We’ve done USAI packages.  We give the dollar figure for every one of
them.   
  
We obligate money under economic support funds.  That money is notified
to the Hill in a public way.   
  
So, you all have access to exactly how much we’ve spent.  The Congress
has access to exactly how much we’ve spent.  We have not hidden a single
thing on this, and I find the claim in that letter somewhat bizarre.  
  
Q    And then, you reiterated the importance of territorial sovereignty
and you noted that in the 21st century, one neighbor cannot be allowed
to conquer another.  And I think that you — you got to — the point you
seemed to say that if we were to allow this to happen in Ukraine, it
could happen elsewhere.  Were you referring, by chance, to any other
particular threat in any other theater towards one of our allies?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not referring to a particular threat.  I’m referring
to the fact that history has taught us this lesson painfully many times
that aggression unchecked can be aggression unleashed.  That could mean
further aggression by Russia or it could be aggression by another
autocratic power against its neighbor somewhere else in the world, not
specifically zeroing in on a particular threat or conflict.   
  
But we have to be prepared for that if we do not stand up and help
defend this — the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Jake.  I appreciate you doing this.  So, you’ve laid
out how the President is standing up to Russia through action, but
largely giving China and India a pass on their aggressions, as well as
economic support for Russia.  Why is that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Can — can you repeat the question?  
  
Q    Yeah, sure.  You’ve laid out how — how the President has been
standing for Russia through action.  But when it comes to India and
China, the President has largely given them a pass for their aggressions
as well as the economic support they’re giving to Russia.  Why is
that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  What — what do you mean by “aggression”?  
  
Q    Well, so, for instance, India — they’ve made a deal with — well,
economic aggression, I guess — eight- — they made a deal with 18
countries to not use dollars to trade in.  India has — is on a U.S.
watchlist for intellectual property theft of U.S. companies.  India has
been — is part of BRICS.  And so, that’s what I’m talking about with
India.  
  
With China, the aggressions — the hacking that they’ve done, the spy
balloons, as well as their intellectual property issues.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, first of all, we’ve stood up over — I — I’m not
sure if your question is about Ukraine or just about other things
generically —  
  
Q    It’s about China and India.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  — and so forth.   
  
Q    I mean, why — why aren’t we seeing the same kind of actions
standing up against China and India?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, we’ve taken a variety of actions to protect
America’s national security vis-à-vis threats from the PRC.  You know,
we have an entire strategy with respect to our technology export
controls to make sure that American technology cannot be used against
us.   
  
President Biden, in fact, is the first person to take some of those
steps.  No previous administration has done so.   
  
And where we have concerns with India, whether it comes to issues
related to the very watchlist that you’re describing or otherwise, we
make those concerns clear.  And we defend U.S. interests, as we do with
every country in the world.   
  
Now, India is not Russia, and China has its own set of challenges that
we deal with in its own context.  So, of course, there is going to be
differences in how we deal with countries one by one.   
  
But the idea — the North Star of this administration is: If you
represent a threat to the American people’s security, prosperity, or
basic sense of fairness, we will take action to defend that.  I think
our record on that — across multiple countries, including the ones
you’ve mentioned — is quite clear over the last two and a half years.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you.  You — you’re talking about the $24 billion being
through the end of this calendar year.  You mentioned that you are
looking ahead to what comes next.  Do you have any projections for how
much more will be needed?  And is there — yeah — do you have projections
and can you share them?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I will tell you, standing here right now, I’d let the OMB
director lay out our budget request to the Congress — our supplemental
request to Congress.  I do not do that.   
  
We are working through that and, in fact, trying to have an open and
transparent conversation with the Congress on it as well.  But I’m going
to leave it to the people whose remit it is to — to lay out our resource
requests to Congress to do that.  I won’t do that for them.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Just back on India quickly.  Do you — do you know whether President
Biden intends to speak to Modi about this — these allegations from the
Canadians?  And do you see that this incident and — and that this
concern could drive a wedge between the United States and India at this
very moment when you’re trying to sort of rebuild that relationship?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m — I’m not going to get into private diplomatic
conversations that have either already happened or are going to happen
on this topic, only to say that we have been and will be in contact with
the Indians at high levels on this issue.   
  
It — it is a matter of concern for us.  It is something we take
seriously.  It’s something we will keep working on, and we will do that
regardless of the country.  There is not some special exemption you get
for actions like this.  Regardless of the country, we will stand up and
defend our basic principles.  And we will also consult closely with
allies like Canada as they pursue their law enforcement and diplomatic
process.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    On — on Ukraine — I’m sorry, just on Ukraine.  You — you’ve talked
about the, sort of, need for, you know, kind of, discussions about what
weapons will go and what — when they will go.  There are some members of
— of Congress, some senators who say that there is some sort of
equivalency, like, you know, you’re not sending ATAC- — you shouldn’t
send ATACMS, for instance, or weapons to Ukraine because you should
preserve them to send them to Taiwan.   
  
Can you unpack that for us in terms of what the store of weapons that
are available, the weapons that can be produced, and whether there are
sufficient weapons to respond to eventual needs in other places besides
Ukraine?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, when we think about our obligations under the Taiwan
Relations Act to continue to provide defensive articles to Taiwan, we
take a look at our — what we have in our inventory and what they put on
contract to purchase.  Most of what they acquire, of course, is through
foreign military sales, which they put on contract to purchase and don’t
take out of our stocks.  So, we look at that.  
  
We obviously look at both what we provide through drawdown to Ukraine
and also what we put on contract for purchase to Ukraine through the
Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.   
  
And then we look at what we need — what we need for any contingency
anywhere in the world.  And not just in the Indo-Pacific, but in Europe
and the Middle East, elsewhere.   
  
And we lay those three considerations out on the table, and we make a
determination about whether there are, in fact, trade-offs that — that
would make our life difficult in some way or whether we feel we can
manage and balance everything while doing the needful for all of the
major contingencies we might face.   
  
We do not think right now that the notion of one-for-one trade-offs in
any context is really a rate limiter on us being able to provide support
for Ukraine.  We think we can provide support for Ukraine and also be in
a position to deter aggression elsewhere or respond to it if it takes
place.   
  
Q    Does the U.S. —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we have confidence in that.  
  
Q    Does the U.S. industry need to increase production?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.  Our view — just for example, I’ve stood at this
podium before and talked about artillery ammunition.  We want to see a
dramatic increase in artillery ammunition production.  That is
underway.  It will take some time.  We think there are other munitions
where additional production, additional capability, and — and not just
for munitions, but critical platforms as well.   
  
We inherited a defense industrial base that — from a supply chain and
workforce and overall capacity perspective — was not operating at the
level we believe it should be operating at.  President Biden has given
direction, Secretary Austin has given direction to remedy that, and we
are actively doing so.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  CNN asked Zelenskyy earlier this week if a
military breakthrough is possible this year, and his answer was, “I
think nobody knows, really.”  What is the U.S.’s assessment of whether
the provision of all of this aid can actually ensure success on the
battlefield?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, let’s define “success,” kind of stepping back for a
moment.  Number one: Kyiv stands, Kharkiv stands, Kherson stands.  Major
cities of Ukraine are not under Russian dom- — domination and occupation
today because, first and foremost, of the bravery of the Ukrainian
soldiers on the frontlines and the people — the Ukrainian people who are
supporting them but also, in no small part, because of the material
assistance we have provided.  And that is a significant fact.   
  
Second, Ukraine is, in fact, taking back territory.  It is doing so
methodically, step by step.  And the weapons that we have provided have
allowed them to de-occupy more territory in the last three months than
the Russians were able to take in eight months over the course of its
fall and winter offensive last year.   
  
So, we will keep at this.  And we believe that the weapons we are
providing are helping Ukraine not only make forward progress, but also
critically defend the territory that they continue to hold against
Russian efforts to overrun it and occupy it, because Putin has not given
up on his fundamental goal, which is to subjugate the country of
Ukraine.   
  
And we will not permit that to happen, and the Ukrainian people will not
permit that to happen.   
  
I’ll do one more.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  When President Zelenskyy was here last December, he
and President Biden had a joint press conference after their meetings. 
That’s not on the agenda for today.  Why was that not scheduled for this
visit?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, President Zelenskyy came in from New York.  He’s
going off to other destinations tonight.  He has a limited number of
hours here.  We wanted to make sure that he spent plenty of time on the
Hill engaging with Democratic and Republican members, answering their
questions, making his case.   
  
And then, President Biden wants plenty of time to sit with him
one-on-one in a small group and then with his Cabinet to be able to work
through everything.  They will have the opportunity to make, I think,
two statements to the press during that time.   
  
But we chose how to allocate the time based on what we think is going to
generate the best possible results for Ukraine.  And — and President
Biden is looking forward to the set of engagements this afternoon.   
  
I’ll just say one more thing back to the — the question of how much
assistance that we’ve provided lest anyone say, “Oh, Jake doesn’t know
how much assistance we’ve provided.”   
  
This is just off the top of my head, so you can confirm these numbers,
but roughly $47 billion in military assistance between PDA and USAI;
roughly $1- to $1.5 billion per month in direct budget support that is
sent not directly to Ukraine, but to the World Bank so that the World
Bank can ensure every amount — all of the amounts of that aid, those
dollars are being appropriately spent; and then in the range of 10-or-so
billion dollars being spent for a range of humanitarian, energy, and
other purposes to ensure that the basic livelihoods of Ukrainians, their
humanitarian needs, basic food security needs, and otherwise are being
taken care of.   
  
That’s not a precise estimate, because I didn’t come bringing this.  But
I spend my days making sure that we know that every dollar that we’re
spending is being accounted for effectively and is being shared very
much with the Hill and is bearing — being shared with you all.   
  
And, of course, we will make sure that the members that you’ve referred
to who don’t seem to know what we’re doing with the aid to Ukraine get
the same information that has long been available to everybody else.   
  
And, with that, I’ll let you guys have a good day.   
  
Q    Jake, one on the (inaudible) —  
  
Q    Thank you, sir.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Jake.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Jake.  Okay.   
  
Just one thing at the top, and then we’ll continue.  
  
Today, extreme House Republicans showed yet again that their chaos is
marching us toward a reckless and damaging government shutdown.  Extreme
House Republicans can’t even get an agreement among themselves to keep
the government running or to fund the military.  They keep demanding
more extreme policies as a condition to do their job and keep the
government open — from a fact-free impeachment that their own members —
their own members say isn’t supported by the evidence, to severe cuts to
food safety, Meals on Wheels, Head Start, education, law enforcement,
and much more.  
  
And they’re failing to deliver needed funding for communities recovering
from disasters, to countering fentanyl trafficking, for food assistance
for pregnant mothers and babies, and to support Ukraine.   
  
All this while pushing for more trickle-down tax cuts for billionaires
and big corporations, which they did again yesterday in their budget
markup.   
  
The solution is very, very simple.  Extreme House Republicans need to
stop playing political games with people’s lives.  There’s so much at
stake here.  They should abide by the par- — bipartisan deal we made in
May, which two thirds — two thirds of House Republicans voted for.  
  
A deal is a deal.  House Republicans need to do their job, keep the
government open, and work with us to deliver — to deliver for the
American people.  
  
With that, Seung Min.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Two quick topics.  Has OMB given guidance yet to federal
agencies on what they can and can’t do in case of a government
shutdown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have any specific — what that — what that
would look like.  But certainly, agencies are looking at how to move
forward in case there is a shutdown.   
  
But I will say this, I mean, very plainly: The best plan — the best plan
right now is to not have one — is to not have a shutdown.  House
Republicans know exactly what they need to do, which is do their
jobs.   
  
Q    Will OMB be sending like guidance this week?  I think typically
it’s sent seven or so days before a shutdown.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, again, I told you that, as I mentioned, agencies
are looking at how to move forward in case there is one, but we want to
be very clear — we want to be very clear here — the ble- — the best plan
is for there to not be a shutdown.  This is something that can be
avoided here.  This is something that House Republicans know very well —
that they have to do their jobs.  They’re the ones — they’re the ones to
fix this problem.   
  
Q    And will the White House send an administration official to the
picket lines with those striking UAW workers or would President Biden
himself go?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have anything to — to lay out on — on any —
as regards to the President’s schedule.  What I can say is the President
is — is very, I guess — seeing — seeing them continue to be at the
negotiating table.  All parties continuing to be at the negotiating
table is a positive.  That is important.  They’ve been certainly doing
that for the past 24/7.  
  
It is important to have that collective bargaining.  The President has
been very clear about that.  And — and so, we are going to assist — the
White House, along with the Department of Labor with the — with the
leadership of Acting Secretary Su — to make sure that they — we provide
assistance or any guidance as it is requested to all parties.   
  
But certainly, we appreciate the fact that they are still at the
negotiating table having this this conversation.  It is important that
we result in a win-win agreement.  It is important that UAW workers are
certainly being able to have a deal where they could take care of their
family, raise their family.  
  
The President is, as you know, pro-union.  The President is pro-workers,
pro-UAW workers, and that’s what we’re going to continue to make
clear.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Let me just ask you: On the UAW strike, what — to what extent do
you have any kind of leverage to, sort of, lean in with companies?  Is
the President picking up the phone and speaking with the company
executives?  And, you know, is there a limit to how much he can — he can
do on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you heard from the President — Andrea, you heard
from the President last Friday, where he said — he said that record
corporate profits should lead to record UAW contracts.  He was very
clear about that.  You’ve heard that from me and you’ve heard that from
others here in the administration.  And he’s going to obviously continue
to get daily briefings from his — from his team on what is going — where
— what’s going on or where the negotiations are.   
  
And the President has spoken to all parties in the past couple of
weeks.  And so, he has stayed in touch.  He’s had those conversation.   
  
But again, the parties are negotiating at the table.  That is a positive
thing.  That is important.  They are working 24/7 to get a win-win
agreement.   
  
And so, look, I’ll just add this.  The President fought and won the type
of major investment needed — really, truly needed to ensure that we have
a EV future with — with EVs that are made in America.  That is something
that the President was able to do.   
  
And let’s not forget: The folks who want to repeal this or what we saw
in the last administration was certainly not about investments.  They —
if anything, they tried to — to push sending American jobs to China. 
That’s what we’ve seen them do.   
  
The President is a pro-union president.  That’s what labor — labor and —
labor and union have called him and called — called him as a — the most
pro-union president in this — ever in this — in any administration.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to — continue to be helpful in any way
possible as these negotiations continue.   
  
Q    And could you just say a word about the, kind of, negotiations on
that to stop the shutdown or, you know, prevent a shutdown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking about the government shutdown?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look —  
  
Q    Yeah, I was going to ask you — I know you’ve got people working on
this, but, you know, how severe, how significant do you think the impact
would be if there is a shutdown?  You know, in the past, these things
have been resolved in a few days.  So, you know, do you expect that it
would have a significant impact or do you think it would be something
that could be rolled over?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate this question.  Because what House
Republicans are doing is — would hurt Americans, American families.  And
we’ve been very clear: Here are a couple of things that we think that
might hurt American families and hurt military families:  
  
Force active-duty military personnel, law enforcement officers to work
without pay.  
  
Endanger disaster response, as I said at the top, which will risk FEMA’s
Disaster Relief Fund and complicate new emergency responses.  As we
know, FEMA has been very busy these past couple of months dealing with
extreme weather, dealing with responses.  
  
Undermine cancer and Alzheimer’s research that will delay new clinical
trials.  That’s what we’ll see.   
  
If you think about eliminated Head Start slots for 10,000 kids.  
  
Risk significant delays for travelers that we — that we’ll see across
the country with air traffic controllers and TSA officers, who would
have to work without pay.  
  
Undermine public health.  Most EPA hazardous waste and drinking water
inspections would stop.  
  
Hurt small businesses.  We’re talking about SBA would not be able to
approve new loans.  
  
And undermine food safety.   
  
So, this is what we think the impacts of the shutdown might be.  And
look, again, this is something that they can fix.  This is something
that House Republicans — these extreme House Republicans, they can fix
this.  All they have to do is do their jobs.   
  
And let’s not forget, we had a deal.  We had a bipartisan deal the
President led on back in May.  A deal is a deal.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Speaker McCarthy said today he would be, quote,
“more than willing” to look at the $24 billion request for Ukraine aid
if the President first looks at their Republican border bill that they
put forward.  What’s your response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, there is no conversation to be had because
the deal was made already back in May, as I just stated to Andrea. 
There was a deal that the — that the Speaker and the President came
together on to move forward on behalf of the American people, that
Republicans voted on, that Democrats voted on.   
  
You know, a deal is a deal.  There is no discussion to be had.  There’s
no discussion to be had.  And I just am not going to negotiate from
here, obviously.  But we made a deal in May.  We did.  Something that
American people want to see — they want to see both sides coming
together, actually — actually delivering on matters that — that are
important to them.  So, this could be fixed by them — by them, not by
us.  We made a deal already, and that was back in May.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Maybe you can tell us about tomorrow’s schedule?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have — I don’t have anything to share at this
moment on tomorrow’s schedule.  Certainly, we’ll have that out for all
of you later today.   
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Karine, the —  
  
Q    Thank —  
  
Q    — the administration said yesterday it was granting temporary legal
status to hundreds of thousands of Venezuelans.  At the same time, the
city of Eagle Pass in the Rio Grande has announced a state of emergency
because of immigrants surge.  Is there any concern that the timing of
this Venezuelan TPS announcement might exacerbate what’s happening in
Eagle Pass right now?  And — and, you know, essentially, is this going
to make the situation in Eagle Pass worse?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we have worked very hard — the President
have worked very — very hard to pleme- — implement a strategy, when it
comes to the border, that is humane, safe, and has orderly enforcement. 
That is something that we have tried to do and worked really hard to do
these last two years.   
  
I do want to add a couple of things that we also announced yesterday, as
you — just to note — I’m sure you know — which is escalating the fight
against smuggling and trafficking by prosecuting an increasing number of
smugglers as well as non-citizens who are violating our laws.  Right? 
This is an announcement we made yesterday.   
  
Also, in deploying 800 new active-duty military personnel to support
border efforts and get CBP agents and officer out in the field.  This is
up to — up to — this on top of the 2,500 National Guard personnel also
deployed.   
  
And expanding the <s>Fentanyl</s> \[Family\] Expedited Removal
Management.   
  
So, those are three other pieces that we announced, as well as the
Venezuela TPS yesterday.   
  
Let’s not forget the 24,000 CBP agents and officers along the southwest
border.  
  
So, we have taken steps without the help of — of Republicans in Congress
to do everything that we can to deal with this issue.   
  
And let’s not forget what the Republicans proposed.  Their continuing
resolution would lead 800 CBP agents and officers being fired and
(inaudible) 50,000 pounds of cocaine, more than 300 pounds of fentanyl,
more than 700 pounds of heroin, and more than 6,000 pounds of — of other
drugs to — to enter the country.   
  
That is what they proposed just a day — a day ago.  And that’s what that
would do to the — to the border; it would hurt and harm and not deal
with the issue.   
  
So, they are doing the opposite of what the President is trying to do —
is actually move forward in a way that is humane, safe, and has an
orderly enforcement pathway process here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, what do you call it here at the White House
when 10,000 people illegally cross the border in a single day?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what do you call it, Peter, when GOP puts forth a
— wait, no —  
  
Q    Asking are you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no, no, no, you can’t —  
  
Q    Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m answering.   
  
Okay, we’re going to move on.   
  
Q    You’re answering a question —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no —  
  
Q    — with a question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no — no, no, no.  We’re moving on.    
  
Q    Karine, please —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re moving.  In the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    You said he was stopping the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, in the back.   
  
Q    — flow at the border.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no —  
  
Q    Ten thousand migrants —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I tried to answer.  Peter —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I tried to answer the question, and you stopped
me.  
  
Let’s go.  Go ahead, (inaudible).  
  
Q    So, there was footage yesterday of Border Patrol cutting some of
the razor wire that Texas had installed.  Governor Abbott has vowed to
reinstall it.  They have pic- — his border czar has pictures of people
taking fresh razor wire out to the border to reinstall it.   
  
Is there now a federal policy of removing the barriers that Texas is
installing?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s — here’s —  
  
Q    And why?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I — I’ll say: I would have to look into
that.  I did so — see those reports yesterday.   
  
But as it relates to Governor Abbott, we know what he has done this past
— these past couple of years while this President has been in office. 
He’s — he’s turned this — when it comes to the border, he’s turned this
into a political stunt.  And that’s what he’s done over and over again. 
That’s what I can speak to.   
  
I did see those reports.  I would have to go back and get a sense from
the team and give you a bett- — an answer on that.  
  
Q    And there’s an enormous amount of concern.  The mayor of Eagle Pass
tells us at least 5,000 people crossed probably yesterday or in the last
two days — maybe a lot more.   
  
What — I mean, you’ve already talked a little bit, but what —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — resources, specific to this surge, are being —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just laid out —  
  
Q    — kind of, (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just laid out three additional announcement that we
did to deal with — to deal with the border that we announced yesterday. 
We announced the TPS Venezuela announcement as well, yesterday.   
  
And so, this is a president, again, that has taken — that has taken
action without the help of — of Republicans in Congress.  He has taken
action over and over again to deal with this issue.   
  
But let’s not forget — and you know this very well, having — having — as
you’re covering that region — that this is an issue that’s been around
for decades.  This is a broken immigration system.  This is why the
President, on his first day, put forth a comprehensive piece of
legislation to try to deal with this immigration system.   
  
We’ve put more — we’ve put CBP 25- — 24-, 25,000 CBP agents out there. 
We try to make sure that we deal with the smuggling that’s happening. 
We’ve tried to make sure that we continue to deal with this in a humane,
orderly way, and that’s what we’re going to continue to promise to
do.   
  
Again, we just announced three more additional enforcement pathways or
ways to move forward on this.   
  
And so, the President is going to continue to do what he can from — from
the — from — from this administration.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m going to stay, actually, with the border.  How
many people coming into this country illegally is enough for President
Biden?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that last part.  
  
Q    How many people come — how many people illegally coming into the
United States is enough for President Biden’s administra- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t what that — what do you —  
  
Q    Well, five point —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Enough for what?  
  
Q    Five point nine million people have — have been encountered —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know —  
  
Q    — illegally at —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know the numbers, but enough for what?  
  
Q    Enough — just to stop the flood.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As I mentioned, this is a problem that’s been around
for some time now — for decades — a broken system.  The President has
done everything and is going to continue what — to do what he can,
without the help of some Republicans on — in — in Congress to deal with
this issue.   
  
And I just laid out what he has done over the past two years — right? —
24,000 CBP agents and officers along the southwest border.  This is more
— a historic number — more than any other — any other president has been
able to do.  We’re — and that’s 26- — 2,600 additional civilian
personnel, those are going to be helpful in dealing with the issue —
increase border-holding capacity by 3,750 to 22,700.   
  
And so, we’re going to deal — we’re trying to deal with the smuggling
issues that we’re seeing as well at — on the border.  So, the President
is going to continue to do the work.  He made some announcement on — as
well yesterday, as I just mentioned.  
  
And so, look, we’re going to continue to implement a strategy that is
humane, that is safe, and that is orderly as it relates to enforcement. 
And so, that is a promise that you can see from this president.  
  
Again, GOP — the Republicans put up a continuing resolution that
actually reverses the work that the President is trying to do — makes it
— the situation worse.  That’s what they were trying to push.   
  
And so, look, we would love to do it in a bipartisan way and really fix
this issue that’s been around for some time now.  But right now, the
President is doing it on his own.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Will we see the President try and get directly
involved in trying to avert this possible government shutdown?  And will
he be speaking with Speaker McCarthy?  And if so, what’s his message?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President talks often to members of
Congress.  That is something that he does pretty regularly — that is —
and something that he will continue to do.  I don’t have any
conversations to lay out.   
  
But I said this moments ago — right? — which is the President and the
Speaker came to a deal in May.  This is not for us to fix.  This is for
House Republicans to fix — the extreme House Republicans.  This is on
them.   
  
There is a deal — a deal is a deal — that they voted on in a bipartisan
way.  It is up to them to fix this.   
  
The message is very clear.  What he says in private is certainly what —
what he says in private is the same as what he says publicly, which is
there is no reason for Republicans to shut down the government.  House
Republicans should stop their partisan games and keep their promises and
also do their jobs.  That’s the message that the President is
sending.   
  
Q    Given everything you’ve laid out, why is there so much confidence
from Jake Sullivan and other members of the Biden administration that
this additional funding to Ukraine will get approved?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I mean, you’ve heard us say this before:
We truly appreciate the — the strong bipartisan support that we have
seen over the — over the past several months for — for Ukraine.   
  
And it’s not just us.  It’s coming — it came from our allies and our
partners — right? — which has been able to give Ukrainian — the
Ukrainian people the — the opportunity to fight and — and be successful
in the battlefield.   
  
And so, it is important — we think it’s incredibly important that we
continue to give them the support that they need.  You heard from the
President in the halls of the U.N., at UNGA, just a day or two ago,
speaking about the stakes, the importance of making sure that we
continue to help the Ukrainians as they fight for their democracy.   
  
That hasn’t changed; the stakes are still very high.  It’s important to
continue that support.  We’ve made that very clear.  Again, you heard
directly from the President on — just a day or so ago.  And so, we’re
going to continue to make that very clear.  
  
  And so, look, there was strong bipartisan support.  Jake actually laid
out some of his conversation and what he — the feedback that he was
getting when he was on the Hill.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to be optimistic about this, because it
is incredibly important.  We’re talking about democracy here.   
  
I’ll call on — go ahead, Gabe.  Welcome to the briefing room.  
  
Q    Good to be here, Karine.  Thanks so much.  I want to go back to
immigration.  In addition to Eagle Pass, El Paso is also seeing a new
influx as well.  I understand your comments about being a broken
immigration system, but the administration also took credit following
the end of Title 42 for the drop in border crossing numbers.  Is it now
taking responsibility for the rise in numbers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So, here —  
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m sorry.   
  
Q    Go —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Gabe.  I’m so sorry.  Finish — finish your —
finish your —  
  
Q    Yeah, and then, secondly, you mentioned those 800 new troops that
are going down to the border.  Do you think that’ll be enough?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s on top of what we have done already in the
past two years under this administration.  
  
Look, every year, as you know, Gabe — I know you follow this very
closely — U.S. sees ebbs and flows of migrants arriving, fueled by
seasonal trends, as you know, and efforts of smugglers to encourage —
encourage migration.  That is something that we see over and over
again.  And — and so, certainly that plays into this.   
  
And so — and I — and I understand your question, but here’s the thing:
As you know, the President has taken action upon action to try and deal
with what is happening at the border — historic action, without the help
of Congress.   
  
And so, we have asked over and over again to do this in a bipartisan
way, which is why the President — his first piece of legislation was to
deal with the immigration system and he want — and understanding how
critical that is — it was to do that.   
  
And so, we have taken actions.  We have taken multiple actions.   
  
But again, this happens.  It ebbs and flows.  That’s what we see at the
border, for different trends, for different reasons.   
  
And so, we made — I think — we think, three important enforcement —
enforcement announcement yesterday.  It’s on top of what we’ve been able
to do.   
  
And, you know — you know, and then you see — and you see it for yourself
what Congress has tried to do: put forth a piece of legislation — a CR,
a resolution — that does the opposite of what we’re trying to do when
we’re trying to fight fentanyl — right? — when we’re trying to deal with
smugglers, when we’re trying to put more — more legal — legal
enforcement at the border.  They’re trying to reverse that.  And so,
that is the reality that we’re dealing with.   
  
And so, the President is going to continue to be committed, make sure we
do this in a humane way, make sure that we do this in a safe and orderly
fashion.  And that’s the commitment that the President has to the
American people.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    You — there’s a lot of focus in here about what’s happening at the
border and what the White House can do with Congress to solve that
problem.  The one thing the White House can do on its own is foreign
policy.   
  
Who’s talking to Venezuela about why these people are still coming? 
Who’s talking to Panama about the Darién Gap and who’s allowing them to
come in?   
  
And whatever happened to those State Department and Spain and Canada
centers that were going to be set up along the route —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So on the last —  
  
Q    — to make sure that people would have options?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All very good questions.  Clearly, the centers, I
would — we would get more information for you on that.   
  
But, look, these diplomatic conversations are incredibly important.  You
heard from the National Security Advisor.  These are conversation that
Blinken is having — the Secretary of State is having.   
  
The President, let’s not forget, just last fall, brought — brought 20,
21 — 22 countries together to talk about what’s — how migration is
affecting the region.  And remember, they signed a declaration.   
  
Look, these diplomatic conversations will continue.  It is not an easy —
easy issue to deal with.  Right?  But they’re going to continue what —
the point that I’m making and the point that I think you all have — some
of you have reported on: This is a president that has taken historic
action on an issue, on a system that has been broken for some time.   
  
And we have been very clear: We would like to do this in a bipartisan
way.  We’d like to do it with the help of Republicans.  But right now we
are doing it in the best way that we can: diplomatic — taking diplomatic
actions, as you just laid out, right?; having those conversations;
seeing how we can work with this issue.  Because it’s a regional issue. 
This is a West Hemisphere issue, right?   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to do tho- — to do that, and also make
announcements like we did yesterday to deal with what’s going on at the
border.   
  
All right.  I’ll get —  
  
AIDE:  (Inaudible.)  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  I’ll take one more question for
some — go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President is expected to announce a new Office
for Gun Violence Prevention to coordinate the administration’s efforts. 
This obviously has been a proposal that’s been on the table for years
from advocates.  And this White House has always maintained that this
falls under the Domestic Policy Council.   
  
I’m wondering if you could just tell us why the White House has agreed
to accept this proposal now since advocates have been pushing for it
since the transition.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m going to be very careful here.  And certainly,
as you know, we are going to give — the President and the Vice President
are going to give remarks on gun safety tomorrow.  So I’m going to let
them speak to this.  So, don’t have anything to share on this at this
time.  So, I would tell you to stay tuned.   
  
But, you know, look, in a much broader sense here, the President has
said, “Gun violence is an epidemic.”  There are many people who are
sitting around their kitchen table every night who are missing their
loved ones because of gun violence, because of what it’s doing to their
community.   
  
It is — you know, when you hear stats of guns being the number-one
killer of kids, that is something that we should really be mindful to
and do something about that.  That’s why the President has taken the
actions that he has — historical executive actions — to deal with this
issue.  That’s why it was important that we saw bipartisan support to
deal with gun violence.   
  
But that’s the reality.  That’s the reality that communities are dealing
with.  And the President is going to try to do everything that he can to
deal with this epidemic.   
  
I’m certainly not going to get ahead of the President.  You all will
hear from the President and the Vice President tomorrow on their gun —
on their gun safety announcement, and we’ll see you all tomorrow.   
  
Thanks, everybody.   
  
2:17 P.M. EDT
