---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-03'
modified_time: 2021-12-03 10:07:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/03/a-proclamation-on-national-pearl-harbor-remembrance-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-03 10:06:59-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day,\_2021"
---
 
On December 7, 1941, the Imperial Japanese Navy attacked our forces at
Pearl Harbor and other locations in Hawaii, taking the lives of 2,403
service members and civilians and leading the United States to declare
its entrance into World War II.  It was a day that still lives in infamy
80 years later.  As we mark National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, we
honor the patriots who perished, commemorate the valor of all those who
defended our Nation, and recommit ourselves to carrying forth the
ensuing peace and reconciliation that brought a better future for our
world.  Today, we give thanks to the Greatest Generation, who guided our
Nation through some of our darkest moments and laid the foundations of
an international system that has transformed former adversaries into
allies.

A decade ago, I paid my respects at the USS Arizona Memorial — where
1,177 crewmen lost their lives on that terrible December day.  To this
day, beads of oil still rise to the surface of the water — metaphorical
“Black Tears” shed for those lost in the attack.  Reading those names
etched in marble was a mournful reminder of the sacrifices and the human
cost of protecting our Nation and the ideals this great country
represents.  Our Nation remains forever indebted to all those who gave
their last full measure of devotion eight decades ago.  We will never
forget those who perished, and we will always honor our sacred
obligation to care for our service members, veterans, and their
families, caregivers, and survivors. 

The Congress, by Public Law 103-308, as amended, has designated December
7 of each year as “National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim December 7, 2021, as National Pearl
Harbor Remembrance Day.  I encourage all Americans to reflect on the
courage shown by our brave warriors that day and remember their
sacrifices.  I ask us all to give sincere thanks and appreciation to the
survivors of that unthinkable day.  I urge all Federal agencies,
interested organizations, groups, and individuals to fly the flag of the
United States at half-staff on December 7, 2021, in honor of those
American patriots who died as a result of their service at Pearl Harbor.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
