---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-30'
modified_time: 2021-12-30 15:37:24-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-human-trafficking-prevention-month-2022/
published_time: 2021-12-30 15:37:23-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Human Trafficking Prevention Month,\_2022"
---
 
Human trafficking — whether in the form of forced labor, sex
trafficking, or other offenses — is an abhorrent abuse of power and a
profoundly immoral crime that strikes at the safety, health, and dignity
of millions of people worldwide.  During National Human Trafficking
Prevention Month, we reaffirm our commitment to protect and empower
survivors of all forms of human trafficking, to prosecute traffickers,
and to bring an end to human trafficking in the United States and around
the world.

My Administration is committed to stopping human trafficking wherever it
occurs.  This month, we released the updated *National Action Plan to
Combat Human Trafficking —* a whole-of-government approach to combating
human trafficking in the United States and abroad.  The plan links
anti-trafficking initiatives to our wider efforts to counter illicit
financing; advance gender and racial equity; expand the rights and
dignity of working people; and promote safe, orderly, and humane
migration.

My Administration is also dedicated to ensuring that our justice system
holds accountable any individuals or entities engaged in this horrendous
crime — and that our domestic and global economic systems offer no safe
harbor to forced labor or other abuses.  In addition to helping
survivors on their road to recovery, we must also learn from their
expertise in order to better detect trafficking crimes that are often
hidden in plain sight, bring perpetrators to justice, and improve our
prevention efforts.  Since human trafficking disproportionately impacts
racial and ethnic minorities, women and girls, LGBTQI+ individuals,
vulnerable migrants, and other historically marginalized and underserved
communities, our mission to combat human trafficking must always be
connected to our broader efforts to advance equity and justice across
our society.

During National Human Trafficking Prevention Month, let us resolve to
counter injustice and fortify our commitment to pursue dignity and
freedom for all people.  The National Human Trafficking Hotline
(1-888-373-7888) is an important resource to report a tip or ask for
help.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2022 as
National Human Trafficking Prevention Month.  I call upon businesses,
civil society organizations, communities of faith, families, and all
Americans to recognize the vital role we play in combating human
trafficking, and to observe this month with appropriate programs and
activities aimed at preventing all forms of human trafficking.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
