---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-27'
modified_time: 2021-12-27 17:13:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/27/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states/
published_time: 2021-12-27 17:13:09-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Steel into the United\_States"
---
 
1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation
9705, as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of those steel articles by imposing a 25
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further stated that any
country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss
with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened
impairment of the national security caused by imports from that country,
and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at
a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national
security such that the President determines that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, the
President may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports
from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to
other countries, as the national security interests of the United States
require.    

3.  In Proclamation 9711, the President noted the continuing discussions
with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member countries on
satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened impairment to
the national security by imports of steel articles from these countries.
 Recognizing that the member countries of the EU have an important
security relationship with the United States, the President determined
that the necessary and appropriate means to address the threat to the
national security posed by imports of steel articles from these
countries was to continue the ongoing discussions and to exempt steel
articles imports from these countries from the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 until May 1, 2018.  In Proclamation 9740 of April 30,
2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), the President
noted that, unless the President determines by further proclamation that
the United States has reached a satisfactory alternative means to remove
the threatened impairment to the national security by imports of steel
articles from the member countries of the EU, the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 shall be effective June 1, 2018, for these countries.

4.  The United States has successfully concluded discussions with the EU
on behalf of its member countries on satisfactory alternative means to
address the threatened impairment of the national security posed by
steel articles imports from the EU.  The United States and the EU have
agreed to expand coordination involving trade remedies and customs
matters, monitor bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on
addressing non-market excess capacity, and annually review their
arrangement for alternative means and their ongoing cooperation.  In
addition, the United States and the EU will seek to conclude, by October
31, 2023, negotiations on global steel and aluminum arrangements to
restore market-oriented conditions and support the reduction of carbon
intensity of steel and aluminum across modes of production.

5.  The United States will implement a number of actions, including a
tariff-rate quota that restricts the quantity of steel articles imported
into the United States from the EU without the application of the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9705.  Under the arrangement, steel articles
that are melted and poured in the EU are eligible for in-quota
treatment.  In my judgment, these measures will provide an effective,
long-term alternative means to address any contribution by EU steel
articles imports to the threatened impairment of the national security
by restraining steel articles imports to the United States from the EU,
limiting transshipment, discouraging excess steel capacity and
production, and strengthening the United States-EU partnership in a
fashion that will better enable future arrangements.  In light of this
agreement, I have determined that specified volumes of eligible steel
articles imports from the EU will no longer threaten to impair the
national security and have decided to exclude such imports from the EU
up to a designated quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705
through December 31, 2023.  The United States will monitor the
implementation and effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other
measures agreed upon with the EU in addressing our national security
needs, and I may revisit this determination, as appropriate.

6.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota, advance the
recommendations contained in the Secretary’s January 2018 report.  The
agreed-upon aggregate tariff-rate quota volume specified in the
agreement between the United States and the EU, totaling 3.3 million
metric tons, is consistent with the objective of reaching and
maintaining a sufficient capacity utilization rate in the domestic steel
industry.

7.  The United States also agreed to renew for 2 calendar years all
exclusions that were granted and utilized to import steel products
tariff-free from the EU in Fiscal Year 2021.  These exclusions were
granted by the Department of Commerce due to a lack of domestic
availability of the specified products in the United States.

8.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 as applied to eligible steel articles imported from
the EU, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate in
light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.

9.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

10.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN jr., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

\(1\)  To establish a tariff-rate quota on imports of steel articles
from member countries of the EU as set forth in paragraph 5 of this
proclamation, U.S. Note 16 of subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is amended as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation.  Imports
of steel articles from member countries of the EU in excess of the
tariff-rate quota quantities shall remain subject to the duties imposed
by clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended.  The Secretary, in
consultation with the United States Trade Representative and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall recommend to the President, as
warranted, updates to the in-quota volumes contained in the Annex to
this proclamation.

(2)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read as
follows: 

     “(2)(a)  In order to establish certain modifications to the duty
rate on imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the
HTSUS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation and any
subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles.

     (b)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in
notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel
articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 23, 2018, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and
the member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019, from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South
Korea; and (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January
1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive.  Further, except as otherwise provided in notices published
pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel articles imports
from Turkey covered by heading 9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter
99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of
duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time
on August 13, 2018, and prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May
21, 2019.  All steel articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.61, in
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to the
additional 25 percent ad valorem rate of duty established herein with
respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse
for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the date
specified in a determination by the Secretary granting relief.  These
rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees,
exactions, and charges applicable to such imported steel articles, shall
apply to imports of steel articles from each country as specified in the
preceding three sentences”.

(3)  The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 of January
24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), are revised to read
as follows:

     “In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of
certain derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this proclamation.
 Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this proclamation
shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem rate of duty,
and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in Annex II to
this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows: (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on February 8, 2020, these rates of
duty, which are in addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such imported derivative aluminum articles or
steel articles, shall apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles
described in Annex I to this proclamation from all countries except
Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia (Australia), Canada, and the
United Mexican States (Mexico) and to imports of derivative steel
articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South Korea
and; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union and Mexico and to imports of derivative
steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, Mexico, and South Korea.”  

(4)  Steel eligible for treatment under clause 1 of this proclamation
must be melted and poured in a member country of the EU in order to
receive such treatment.  The Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security and the United States Trade
Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are necessary to
ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply could result
in applicable remedies such as the collection of the tariff set forth in
clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, or penalties under United States law.

(5)  Steel articles from a member country of the EU imported under an
exclusion granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as amended,
shall not count against the in-quota volume of the tariff-rate quota
established in clause 1 of this proclamation.

(6)  The Secretary is directed to renew all utilized exclusions granted
pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, in Fiscal Year
2021 (October 1, 2020, through September 30, 2021), for the import of
steel articles from one or more member countries of the EU for a period
of 2 years from the date of this proclamation.  The renewed exclusions
shall be for an annual volume equal to that volume imported from a
member country of the EU pursuant to the exclusion in Fiscal Year 2021. 
The Secretary shall communicate to U.S. Customs and Border Protection of
the Department of Homeland Security the exclusions and the volumes of
steel articles from member countries of the EU that are allowed under
this provision.  The Secretary shall, by publication on the Internet, or
by other means, inform importers of the availability and volume of
exclusions renewed by this provision.  This provision does not alter or
modify in any way the ability of importers to seek additional exclusions
in accordance with clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, and as
implemented by the Department of Commerce, for the import of steel
articles from a member country of the EU.

(7)  The Secretary shall, within 45 days of the issuance of this
proclamation, publish in the *Federal Register* a notice seeking
comments from interested parties on the exclusion process as set forth
in Supplement No. 1 to part 705 of title 15 of the Code of Federal
Regulations.  Issues to be included for comment should include the
responsiveness of the exclusion process to market demand and enhanced
consultation with United States firms and labor organizations.  Within
60 days of the close of the comment period of the notice, the Secretary
shall issue a proposed regulation revising the exclusion process as
deemed appropriate following consideration of such comments.  In
carrying out the review of the exclusion process, the Secretary shall
review whether the criteria for review of exclusion requests in clause 3
of Proclamation 9705 that the “steel article determined not to be
produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably available
amount or of a satisfactory quality and is also authorized to provide
such relief based upon specific national security considerations” and
clause 3 of Proclamation 9704 that the “aluminum article determined not
to be produced in the United States in a sufficient and reasonably
available amount or of a satisfactory quality and is also authorized to
provide such relief based upon specific national security
considerations” continues to be the appropriate criterion for making
determinations.  The Secretary is authorized to make such changes to the
criteria as the Secretary deems necessary and shall issue a final rule
implementing such changes within 60 days of the comment period on the
proposed regulation.  

\(8\)  The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State and
the heads of other executive departments and agencies as necessary,
shall establish a process to assist United States steel and aluminum
consumers in identifying suppliers in those trading partners with which
the United States has negotiated an arrangement under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, that can provide the relevant
product.

(9)  On a regular basis, the Department of Commerce shall publish on its
website the volume of steel articles imported under exclusions issued
pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as amended.

(10)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022, and shall continue
in effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.

(11)  Any imports of steel articles from the member countries of the EU
that were admitted into a United States foreign trade zone under
“privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01
a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022, shall be subject upon
entry for consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2022, to the provisions of the tariff-rate quota in effect
at the time of the entry for consumption.

(12)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
