---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-14'
modified_time: 2021-12-14 11:23:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/14/a-proclamation-on-bill-of-rights-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-14 11:23:16-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Bill of Rights Day,\_2021"
---
 
More than two centuries ago, our Founders drafted the Constitution in
order to create an American Government that could act with urgency on
national issues without compromising individual rights and freedoms. 
They had the genius not only to craft such a Government but to foresee
their own fallibility as well.  In their foresight, they made the
charter at the heart of our Nation a *living* document — including
within it a process by which it could be amended to evolve and keep pace
with the wisdom of passing time.

Opportunities to improve our Constitution have been contemplated since
its inception.  On December 15, 1791, three-fourths of the existing
State legislatures ratified the first 10 Amendments of the Constitution
— the Bill of Rights.  These Amendments protect some of the most
indispensable rights and liberties that define us as Americans.  Though
we have often struggled to live up to the promises they contain, 230
years after the ratification of the Bill of Rights, respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms remains at the center of our democracy.

The Bill of Rights is important not only in the freedoms it protects but
in its demonstration of America’s enduring commitment to
self-improvement and striving to continuously form a “more perfect
union.”  Since 1791, 17 additional Amendments have been ratified for a
total of 27 Amendments to the Constitution.  From the 13th Amendment,
which abolished slavery; to the 14th Amendment, which guaranteed
birthright citizenship, promised “equal protection under the laws,” and
safeguarded fundamental rights and fair process; to the several
Amendments devoted to prohibiting electoral discrimination based on
race, sex, age, and the inability to afford a tax; to the most recent
amendment ratified in 1992 to keep members of Congress more responsive
to their voters — our history of amending the Constitution illustrates
that improving our democracy is the shared and constant duty of all
Americans.  Democracy’s greatest strength is the ability it provides its
citizens to improve their system of governance, which is why democracy
is uniquely suited to face the challenges of a changing world.

Just as our Founders overcame their differences to form the democracy we
know today, our country continues to confront its problems head-on and
work together to fix them, even in the face of disagreements. 
Respectful disagreement is healthy and American — indeed, it is
protected by the Bill of Rights itself — but there is no place in a
democracy for threats or violence. 

Earlier this month, the United States hosted the first ever Summit for
Democracy, where Governmental and non-governmental leaders from around
the world came together to set forth an affirmative agenda for
democratic renewal and to tackle the greatest threats faced by
democracies today through collective action.  By working with our
democratic partners, we can meet the challenges of today and tomorrow.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 15, 2021,
as Bill of Rights Day.  I call upon the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
