---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-23'
modified_time: 2021-12-23 09:38:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/23/a-proclamation-to-modify-the-harmonized-tariff-schedule-of-the-united-states-and-for-other-purposes/
published_time: 2021-12-23 09:38:45-05:00
title: "A Proclamation to Modify the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United\_States\
  \ and for Other\_Purposes"
---
 
1\.  Section 1205(a) of the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of
1988 (the “1988 Act”) (Public Law 100-418, 102 Stat. 1107, 1150 (19
U.S.C. 3005(a))) directs the United States International Trade
Commission (the “Commission”) to keep the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTS) under continuous review and periodically to
recommend to the President such modifications to the HTS as the
Commission considers necessary or appropriate to accomplish the purposes
set forth in that subsection.  Pursuant to sections 1205(c) and (d) of
the 1988 Act (19 U.S.C. 3005(c) and (d)), the Commission has recommended
modifications to the HTS to conform the HTS to amendments made to the
International Convention on the Harmonized Commodity Description and
Coding System and the Protocol thereto (the “Convention”) and to promote
uniform application of the Convention.  

2\.  Section 1206(a) of the 1988 Act (19 U.S.C. 3006(a)) authorizes the
President to proclaim modifications to the HTS based on the
recommendations of the Commission under section 1205 of the 1988 Act, if
the President determines that the modifications are in conformity with
United States obligations under the Convention and do not run counter to
the national economic interest of the United States.  I have determined
that the modifications to the HTS proclaimed in this proclamation
pursuant to section 1206(a) of the 1988 Act are in conformity with
United States obligations under the Convention and do not run counter to
the national economic interest of the United States.

3\.  Presidential Proclamation 6763 of December 23, 1994, implemented,
with respect to the United States, the trade agreements resulting from
the Uruguay Round of multilateral trade negotiations, including Schedule
XX-United States of America, annexed to the Marrakesh Protocol to the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade 1994 (Schedule XX), that were
entered into pursuant to sections 1102(a) and (e) of the 1988 Act (19
U.S.C. 2902(a) and (e)), and approved in section 101(a) of the Uruguay
Round Agreements Act (the “URAA”) (Public Law 103-465, 108 Stat. 4809,
4814 (19 U.S.C. 3511(a))). 

4\.  Pursuant to the authority provided in section 111 of the URAA (19
U.S.C. 3521) and sections 1102(a) and (e) of the 1988 Act (19 U.S.C.
2902(a) and (e)), Proclamation 6763 included the staged reductions in
rates of duty that the President determined to be necessary or
appropriate to carry out the terms of Schedule XX.  In order to ensure
the continuation of such rates of duty for imported goods under tariff
categories that are being modified to reflect the amendments to the
Convention, I have determined that additional modifications to the HTS
are necessary or appropriate to carry out the duty reductions previously
proclaimed, including certain technical or conforming changes within the
tariff schedule.

5\.  Presidential Proclamations 7987 of February 28, 2006; 7991 of March
24, 2006; 7996 of March 31, 2006; 8034 of June 30, 2006; 8111 of
February 28, 2007; 8331 of December 23, 2008; and 8536 of June 12, 2010,
implemented the Dominican Republic-Central America-United States Free
Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR) with respect to the United States and,
pursuant to section 201 of the Dominican Republic-Central America-United
States Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the “CAFTA-DR
Implementation Act”) (Public Law 109-53, 119 Stat. 462, 467 (19 U.S.C.
4031)), the staged reductions in rates of duty that the President
determined to be necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles
3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.21, 3.26, 3.27, and 3.28, and Annexes 3.3 (including
the schedule of the United States duty reductions with respect to
originating goods), 3.27, and 3.28 of the CAFTA-DR.  In order to ensure
the continuation of such staged reductions in rates of duty for
originating goods under tariff categories that are being modified to
reflect the amendments to the Convention, I have determined that
additional modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to
carry out the duty reductions previously proclaimed.

6\.  Presidential Proclamation 8341 of January 16, 2009, implemented the
United States-Peru Trade Promotion Agreement (USPTPA) with respect to
the United States and, pursuant to section 201 of the United States-Peru
Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (the “USPTPA Implementation
Act”) (Public Law 110-138, 121 Stat. 1455, 1459-1460 (19 U.S.C. 3805
note)), the staged reductions in duty that the President determined to
be necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles 2.3, 2.5,
2.6, 3.3.13, and Annex 2.3 of the USPTPA.  In order to ensure the
continuation of such staged reductions in rates of duty for originating
goods under tariff categories that are being modified to reflect the
amendments to the Convention, I have determined that additional
modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to carry out the
duty reductions previously proclaimed.

7\.  Presidential Proclamation 8783 of March 6, 2012, implemented the
United States-Korea Free Trade Agreement (USKFTA) with respect to the
United States and, pursuant to section 201 of the United States-Korea
Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the “USKFTA Implementation
Act”) (Public Law 112-41, 125 Stat. 428, 432-433 (19 U.S.C. 3805 note)),
the staged reductions in duty that the President determined to be
necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles 2.3, 2.5, 2.6,
and the schedule of duty reductions with respect to Korea set forth in
Annex 2–B, Annex 4–B, and Annex 22–A of the USKFTA. Presidential
Proclamation 9834 of December 21, 2018, modified the staging of duty
treatment for specific goods of Korea, pursuant to section 201(b) of the
USKFTA Act, in order to maintain the general level of reciprocal and
mutually advantageous concessions with respect to Korea provided for by
the USKFTA and to carry out an agreement with Korea modifying the
staging of duty treatment for those goods.  In order to ensure the
continuation of such staged reductions in rates of duty for originating
goods under tariff categories that are being modified to reflect the
amendments to the Convention, I have determined that additional
modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to carry out the
duty reductions previously proclaimed.

8\.  Presidential Proclamation 8818 of May 14, 2012, implemented the
United States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement (USCTPA) with respect
to the United States and, pursuant to section 201 of the United
States-Colombia Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (the
“USCTPA Implementation Act”) (Public Law 112-42, 125 Stat. 462, 466–67
(19 U.S.C. 3805 note)), the staged reductions in duty that the President
determined to be necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles
2.3, 2.5, 2.6, 3.3.13, and Annex 2.3 of the USCTPA.  In order to ensure
the continuation of such staged reductions in rates of duty for
originating goods under tariff categories that are being modified to
reflect the amendments to the Convention, I have determined that
additional modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to
carry out the duty reductions previously proclaimed.  I have also
determined that a technical correction to general note 34(o) to the HTS
is necessary to provide for the intended tariff treatment accorded under
the USCTPA to originating goods of Colombia.

9\.  Presidential Proclamation 8894 of October 29, 2012, implemented the
United States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement (PTPA) with respect to
the United States and, pursuant to section 201 of the United
States-Panama Trade Promotion Agreement Implementation Act (the “PTPA
Implementation Act”) (Public Law 112-43, 125 Stat. 497, 501-502 (19
U.S.C. 3805 note)), the staged reductions in duty that the President
determined to be necessary or appropriate to carry out or apply articles
3.3, 3.5, 3.6, 3.26, 3.27, 3.28, and 3.29, and the schedule of duty
reductions with respect to Panama set forth in Annex 3.3 of the PTPA.
 In order to ensure the continuation of such staged reductions in rates
of duty for originating goods under tariff categories that are being
modified to reflect the amendments to the Convention, I have determined
that additional modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to
carry out the duty reductions previously proclaimed.

10\.  Presidential Proclamation 10053 of June 29, 2020, implemented the
Agreement between the United States of America, the United Mexican
States, and Canada (USMCA) with respect to the United States and,
pursuant to section 103(c)(1) of the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement Implementation Act (the “USMCA Implementation Act”) (Public
Law 116-113, 134 Stat. 11, 16 (19 U.S.C. 4513(c)(1))), it provided for
the continuation of duty-free or excise treatment and staged reductions
in duties as the President determined to be necessary or appropriate to
carry out or apply articles 2.4, 2.5, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, 2.10, 6.2, and 6.3,
the Schedule of the United States to Annex 2–B, including the appendices
to that Annex, Annex 2–C, and Annex 6–A of the USMCA.  In order to
ensure the continuation of such staged reductions in rates of duty for
originating goods under tariff categories that are being modified to
reflect the amendments to the Convention, I have determined that
additional modifications to the HTS are necessary or appropriate to
carry out the duty reductions previously proclaimed.

11\.  The United States Trade Representative, in a Federal Register
notice of August 23, 2017 (82 FR 40213), announced the initiation of an
investigation into certain acts, policies, and practices of China
related to technology transfer, intellectual property, and innovation,
pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (the “Trade Act”)
(Public Law 93-618, 88 Stat. 1978, 2041 (19 U.S.C 2411)).  The United
States Trade Representative announced in a Federal Register notice of
April 6, 2018 (83 FR 14906), the determination that China’s acts,
policies, and practices related to technology transfer, intellectual
property, and innovation are actionable under section 301(b) of the
Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b)).  The United States Trade Representative
announced the determinations, pursuant to sections 301(b), 301(c), and
304(a) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2411(b), 2411(c), and 2414(a)), that
appropriate and feasible action in this investigation includes the
imposition of an additional ad valorem duty on products of China in
Federal Register notices of June 20, 2018 (83 FR 28711), and August 16,
2018 (83 FR 40823).  The United States Trade Representative announced
the determinations, pursuant to section 307(a)(1) of the Trade Act (19
U.S.C. 2417(a)(1)), to modify the prior action in this investigation by
imposing additional duties on products of China, in a Federal Register
notice of September 21, 2018 (83 FR 47974, as modified by notices of
September 28, 2018 (83 FR 49153), May 9, 2019 (84 FR 20459), and June
10, 2019 (84 FR 26930), and in a Federal Register notice of August 20,
2019 (84 FR 43304, as modified by notices of August 30, 2019 (84 FR
45821), and January 22, 2020 (85 FR 3741)).  In order to ensure the
maintenance of such duty rates for goods under tariff categories that
are being modified to reflect the amendments to the Convention, I have
determined that additional conforming modifications to the HTS are
necessary.

12\.  On April 22, 1985, the United States and Israel entered into the
Agreement on the Establishment of a Free Trade Area between the
Government of the United States of America and the Government of Israel
(USIFTA), which the Congress approved in section 3 of the United
States–Israel Free Trade Area Implementation Act of 1985 (the “USIFTA
Implementation Act”) (Public Law 99-47, 99 Stat. 82 (19 U.S.C. 2112
note)).  Section 4(b) of the USIFTA Implementation Act provides that,
whenever the President determines that it is necessary to maintain the
general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions with
respect to Israel provided for by the USIFTA, the President may proclaim
such withdrawal, suspension, modification, or continuance of any duty,
or such continuance of existing duty-free or excise treatment, or such
additional duties, as the President determines to be required or
appropriate to carry out the USIFTA.  In order to maintain the general
level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous concessions with respect
to agricultural trade with Israel, on July 27, 2004, the United States
entered into an agreement with Israel concerning certain aspects of
trade in agricultural products during the period January 1, 2004,
through December 31, 2008 (United States-Israel Agreement Concerning
Certain Aspects of Trade in Agricultural Products (the “2004
Agreement”)). 

13\.  In Presidential Proclamation 7826 of October 4, 2004, the
President determined, pursuant to section 4(b) of the USIFTA
Implementation Act and consistent with the 2004 Agreement, that, in
order to maintain the general level of reciprocal and mutually
advantageous concessions with respect to Israel provided for by the
USIFTA, it was necessary to provide duty-free access into the United
States through December 31, 2008, for specified quantities of certain
agricultural products of Israel.  Each year from 2008 through 2020, the
United States and Israel entered into agreements to extend the period
that the 2004 Agreement was in force for 1-year periods to allow
additional time for the two governments to conclude an agreement to
replace the 2004 Agreement.  To carry out the extension agreements, the
President in Proclamation 8334 of December 31, 2008; 8467 of December
23, 2009; 8618 of December 21, 2010; 8770 of December 29, 2011; 8921 of
December 20, 2012; 9072 of December 23, 2013; 9223 of December 23, 2014;
9383 of December 21, 2015; 9555 of December 15, 2016; 9687 of December
22, 2017; 9834 of December 21, 2018; 9974 of December 26, 2019; and
10128 of December 22, 2020; modified the HTS to provide duty-free access
into the United States for specified quantities of certain agricultural
products of Israel, each time for an additional 1-year period.  On
November 22, 2021, the United States entered into an agreement with
Israel to extend the period that the 2004 Agreement is in force through
December 31, 2022, and to allow for further negotiations on an agreement
to replace the 2004 Agreement.  Pursuant to section 4(b) of the USIFTA
Implementation Act, I have determined that it is necessary, in order to
maintain the general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous
concessions with respect to Israel provided for by the USIFTA, to
provide duty-free access into the United States through the close of
December 31, 2022, for specified quantities of certain agricultural
products of Israel.

14\.  Presidential Proclamation 7747 of December 30, 2003, implemented
the United States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement (USSFTA) with respect
to the United States and, pursuant to section 201 of the United
States-Singapore Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (the “USSFTA
Implementation Act”) (Public Law 108-78, 117 Stat. 948, 952 (19 U.S.C.
3805 note)), incorporated in the HTS the tariff modifications and rules
of origin necessary or appropriate to carry out the USSFTA.  A technical
error was made in the modifications to general note 25 to the HTS.  I
have determined that a technical correction to general note 25 to the
HTS is necessary to provide for the intended tariff treatment accorded
under the USSFTA to originating goods of Singapore.

15\.  In Presidential Proclamation 7350 of October 2, 2000, the
President designated Ethiopia, the Republic of Guinea (Guinea), and the
Republic of Mali (Mali) as beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries for
purposes of section 506A(a)(1) of the Trade Act, as added by section
111(a) of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (the “AGOA”) (title I
of Public Law 106-200, 114 Stat. 251, 257-58 (19 U.S.C. 2466a(a)(1))).

16\.  Section 506A(a)(3) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2466a(a)(3))
provides that the President shall terminate the designation of a country
as a beneficiary sub-Saharan African country for purposes of section
506A if the President determines that the country is not making
continual progress in meeting the requirements described in section
506A(a)(1) of the Trade Act.

17\.  Pursuant to section 506A(a)(3) of the Trade Act, I have determined
that Ethiopia, Guinea, and Mali do not meet the requirements described
in section 506A(a)(1) of that Act.  Accordingly, I have decided to
terminate the designation of Ethiopia, Guinea, and Mali as beneficiary
sub-Saharan African countries for purposes of section 506A of the Trade
Act, effective January 1, 2022.

18\.  Section 604 of the Trade Act, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the HTS the substance of the
relevant provisions of that Act, and of other acts affecting import
treatment, and actions taken thereunder, including the removal,
modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other
import restriction.  Section 1206(c) of the 1988 Act, as amended (19
U.S.C. 3006(c)), provides that any modifications proclaimed by the
President under section 1206(a) of that Act may not take effect before
the thirtieth day after the date on which the text of the proclamation
is published in the Federal Register.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States of America, including but not limited
to sections 1102, 1205, and 1206 of the 1988 Act, section 111 of the
URAA, section 201 of the CAFTA-DR Implementation Act, section 201 of the
USPTPA Implementation Act, section 201 of the USKFTA Implementation Act,
section 201 of the USCTPA Implementation Act, section 201 of the PTPA
Implementation Act, section 201 of the USSFTA Implementation Act,
section 103(c) of the USMCA Implementation Act, section 301 of the Trade
Act, section 4(b) of the USIFTA Implementation Act, section 111(a) of
the AGOA, and sections 506A(a)(1), 506A(a)(3), and 604 of the Trade Act,
as amended, do proclaim that:

\(1\)  In order to modify the HTS to conform it to the Convention or any
amendment thereto recommended for adoption, to promote the uniform
application of the Convention, to establish additional subordinate
tariff categories, to make technical and conforming changes to existing
provisions, and to maintain the duty treatment with respect to actions
pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act, the HTS is modified as set
forth in Annexes I, II.A, and II.B of Publication 5240 of the United
States International Trade Commission, entitled, “Modifications to the
Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States under Section 1206 of
the Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988 and for Other
Purposes” (Publication 5240).  Publication 5240 is incorporated by
reference into this proclamation.

\(2\)  In order to make a technical correction necessary to provide for
the intended tariff treatment accorded under the USCTPA to originating
goods under the USCTPA, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex II.C
of Publication 5240.

\(3\)  In order to make a technical correction necessary to provide for
the intended tariff treatment accorded under the USSFTA to originating
goods under the USSFTA, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex II.D
of Publication 5240.

\(4\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of parties to the CAFTA-DR under the CAFTA-DR that are
classifiable in the provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to
conform it to the Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex
III of Publication 5240.

\(5\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of Peru under the USPTPA that are classifiable in the
provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to conform it to the
Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex IV of Publication
5240.

\(6\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of Korea under the USKFTA that are classifiable in the
provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to conform it to the
Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex V of Publication
5240.

\(7\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of Colombia under the USCTPA that are classifiable in
the provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to conform it to
the Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex VI of
Publication 5240.

\(8\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of Panama under the PTPA that are classifiable in the
provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to conform it to the
Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex VII of Publication
5240.

\(9\)  In order to provide for the continuation of previously proclaimed
staged duty reductions in the Rates of Duty 1–Special subcolumn for
originating goods of Canada and Mexico under the USMCA that are
classifiable in the provisions modified by the amendments to the HTS to
conform it to the Convention, the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex
VIII of Publication 5240.

\(10\)  In order to implement tariff commitments under the 2004
Agreement through December 31, 2022, the HTS is modified as set forth in
Annex IX of Publication 5240.

\(11\)  The modifications and technical rectifications to the HTS made
by paragraphs (1) through (10) of this proclamation shall enter into
effect on the applicable dates set forth in Annexes I through IX of
Publication 5240. 

\(12\)  The designation of Ethiopia, Guinea, and Mali as beneficiary
sub-Saharan African countries for purposes of section 506A of the Trade
Act is terminated, effective January 1, 2022.

\(13\)  In order to reflect in the HTS that beginning January 1, 2022,
Ethiopia, Guinea, and Mali shall no longer be designated as beneficiary
sub-Saharan African countries, general note 16(a) to the HTS is modified
by deleting “Ethiopia”, “Republic of Guinea”, and “Republic of Mali
(Mali)” from the list of beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries.
 Note 7(a) to subchapter II and note 1 to subchapter XIX of chapter 98
of the HTS are each modified by deleting “Ethiopia,”, “Guinea,”, and
“Mali,” from the list of beneficiary countries.  Further, note 2(d) to
subchapter XIX of chapter 98 of the HTS is modified by deleting
“Ethiopia;”, “Guinea;”, and “Republic of Mali;” from the list of lesser
developed beneficiary sub-Saharan African countries.

\(14\)  The modifications to the HTS set forth in paragraph (13) of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
January 1, 2022.

\(15\)  Any provisions of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that are inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation are
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
