---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-21'
modified_time: 2021-12-21 18:21:54-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/21/memorandum-on-the-presidential-determination-with-respect-to-the-efforts-of-foreign-governments-regarding-trafficking-in-persons/
published_time: 2021-12-21 18:21:53-05:00
title: Memorandum on the Presidential Determination with Respect to the Efforts of
  Foreign Governments Regarding Trafficking in Persons
---
 
Presidential Determination  
No.        2022-06

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination with Respect to the Efforts of
Foreign Governments Regarding Trafficking in Persons 

Consistent with section 110 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of
2000 (22 U.S.C. 7107) (the “Act”), as amended, I hereby determine as
follows:

As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act, I determine that
the United States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related
assistance to the Governments of Afghanistan, Burma, China, Comoros,
Guinea-Bissau, Iran, and South Sudan for Fiscal Year (FY) 2022 until
such governments comply with the Act’s minimum standards or make
significant efforts to bring themselves into compliance with the minimum
standards.

As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act, I determine that
the United States will not provide nonhumanitarian, nontrade-related
assistance to, or allow funding for participation in educational and
cultural exchange programs by officials or employees of, the Governments
of Cuba, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK), Eritrea,
Nicaragua, Russia, and Syria for FY 2022 until such governments comply
with the Act’s minimum standards or make significant efforts to bring
themselves into compliance with the minimum standards.

As provided for in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act, I hereby instruct
the United States Executive Director of each multilateral development
bank, as defined in the Act, and of the International Monetary Fund to
vote against and use best efforts to deny any loan or other utilization
of the funds of the respective institution (other than for humanitarian
assistance; for trade-related assistance; or for development assistance
that directly addresses basic human needs, is not administered by the
government of such country, and confers no benefit to that government)
for the Governments of Afghanistan, Burma, China, Cuba, DPRK, Eritrea,
Iran, Nicaragua, Russia, and Syria for FY 2022 until such governments
comply with the Act’s minimum standards or make significant efforts to
bring themselves into compliance with the minimum standards.

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that the
provision of all programs, projects, and activities described in
sections 110(d)(1)(A)(i) and 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act with respect to
Algeria, Malaysia, Turkmenistan, and Venezuela would promote the
purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest of the
United States;

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that providing
the assistance described in section 110(d)(1)(B) of the Act to Comoros,
Guinea-Bissau, and South Sudan would promote the purposes of the Act or
is otherwise in the national interest of the United States;

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, I determine that a partial
waiver with respect to Eritrea and Russia to allow funding for
educational and cultural exchange programs described in section
110(d)(1)(A)(ii) of the Act would promote the purposes of the Act or is
otherwise in the national interest of the United States;

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to Comoros, I
determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in section
110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for International Military Education
and Training (IMET); Nonproliferation, Anti-terrorism, Demining, and
Related Programs (NADR)-Global Threat Reduction; Development Assistance
(DA); Economic Support Fund (ESF); and Global Health Programs (GHP)
assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the
national interest of the United States;

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to
Guinea-Bissau, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction
described in section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for IMET,
NADR-Conventional Weapons Destruction, DA, ESF, and GHP assistance would
promote the purposes of the Act or is otherwise in the national interest
of the United States; and

Consistent with section 110(d)(4) of the Act, with respect to South
Sudan, I determine that a partial waiver of the restriction described in
section 110(d)(1)(A)(i) of the Act to allow for Peacekeeping Operations,
DA, ESF, and GHP assistance would promote the purposes of the Act or is
otherwise in the national interest of the United States.

You are authorized and directed to submit this determination, the
certification required by section 110(e) of the Act, and the Memorandum
of Justification, on which I have relied, to the Congress, and to
publish the determination in the *Federal Register*.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
