---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-16'
modified_time: 2021-12-16 11:17:22-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/16/a-proclamation-on-wright-brothers-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-16 11:17:21-05:00
title: A Proclamation on Wright Brothers Day, 2021
---
 
On December 17, 1903, Wilbur and Orville Wright achieved a feat that
humankind had dreamed of since time immemorial — a sustained,
controlled, powered flight that opened the skies to all humanity. Today,
we honor the extraordinary achievements of the Wright Brothers and
celebrate their enduring contributions to America’s unparalleled
leadership in flight.

Many intrepid souls had tried and failed at what the two brothers from
Dayton, Ohio — inventors, engineers, dreamers — were able to achieve.
 After years of designing, testing, and building the Wright Flyer in
their hometown workshop, they launched it into flight from the sand
dunes and wind of Kitty Hawk, North Carolina on that historic day —
covering 120 feet in 12 seconds and taking humankind into a new era.

The first flight made history, but it was only the beginning.  The
Wright Brothers kept innovating.  With every flight, they learned how to
improve their techniques and their flying machine.  As the flights
lengthened, their acclaim grew, and they drew interest from people
across our Nation and around the world.  The Wright Brothers’ unyielding
dedication, creativity, and bravery gave birth to modern aviation
–skyrocketing our Nation’s leadership in flight, and inspiring
generations of Americans to take to the skies.

From Amelia Earhart’s daring solo flights across the Atlantic and
Pacific Oceans, to the Tuskegee Airmen’s heroic defense of our country
in World War II, to brave astronauts who ventured to the Moon and beyond
— America’s ingenuity and innovation has continued to soar to new
heights.  We were the first to break the sound barrier.  The first to
fly non-stop around the world.  Today, we are developing more
sustainable fuels and energy sources for the planet, technologies to
coordinate increases in air traffic, and satellite systems that can
clean up manmade debris in space — and we are harnessing our resources
and knowledge from decades of flight missions to take on the existential
threat of climate change.

And 118 years after the Wright Brothers’ flight into history, earlier
this year the National Aeronautics and Space Administration’s (NASA)
historic Perseverance mission launched the Ingenuity rotorcraft — a
small helicopter — 10 feet above the surface of Mars.  It was the first
powered, controlled takeoff and landing on another celestial body.
 Tucked beneath the propellers was a small cloth taken from the wing of
the original Wright Flyer, which now resides at the Smithsonian National
Air and Space Museum in Washington, D.C.  The ground over which
Ingenuity hovered is now called Wright Brothers field — an everlasting
reminder of America as the Nation of possibilities.

As we continue to build our progress in flight and space technology, we
honor our hard-working pilots, aircrews, astronauts, and aviation
scientists that make flying possible across the globe.  They represent
some of the best of who we are as Americans — restless, bold, and
optimistic.  Thanks to the tenacity and uniquely American spirit of the
Wright Brothers and the pioneers who followed them, the skies are open
and connecting people and communities around the world.

The Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 17, 1963, as
amended (77 Stat. 402; 36 U.S.C. 143), has designated December 17 of
each year as “Wright Brothers Day,” and has authorized and requested the
President to issue annually a proclamation inviting the people of the
United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim December 17, 2021, as Wright Brothers
Day.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
