---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-30'
modified_time: 2021-12-30 15:50:16-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-stalking-awareness-month-2022/
published_time: 2021-12-30 15:50:15-05:00
title: A Proclamation on National Stalking Awareness Month, 2022
---
 
All people deserve to feel safe and protected — whether in their home,
at work or school, online, or in any other public or private spaces.
 During National Stalking Awareness Month, we support all those who are
threatened and harmed by the pervasive crime of stalking, recognize
those who raise awareness and advocate for survivors, and recommit to
eradicating stalking nationwide.

Stalkers employ multiple tactics to instill fear, intimidate, surveil,
and exert control over the people they target.  Studies show that 1 in 6
women and 1 in 17 men have been subjected to stalking in their lifetime,
the majority of whom were threatened by someone they know — often a
current or former intimate partner.  Survivors often suffer physical,
psychological, and social harms, such as higher than average rates of
depression, anxiety, and insomnia.  Stalking also can take a serious
economic toll, as those who are stalked may have to uproot their lives
at their own expense to evade their stalkers, or take unpaid time off
from work in order to protect themselves and their families.

In recent years, the most prevalent form of stalking crimes has involved
the use of smartphones, computers, and other devices.  With schools,
workplaces, and social interactions relying on virtual platforms, the
risk of stalking has grown considerably.  As technology continues to
advance, we must ensure that all people — especially women, girls, and
LGBTQI+ individuals who are at greatest risk — can engage in online
spaces freely and safely.  We must also seek accountability for
individuals or systems that perpetrate or enable stalking.

Given the disproportionate impact of stalking and other forms of digital
abuse on women and girls, my Administration’s National Strategy on
Gender Equity and Equality includes a commitment to launch a task force
to address online harassment and abuse.  This task force will be
specifically focused on technology-facilitated, gender-based violence
and will be charged with developing concrete recommendations to improve
prevention, response, and protection efforts domestically and worldwide.

The task force will seek input from survivors, advocates, law
enforcement professionals, civil and human rights groups, technology
platforms, and other experts to ensure that those with expertise and
lived experiences are able to directly inform these recommendations.  My
Administration has also committed to developing the first-ever National
Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, which will further our efforts
to prevent and respond to stalking and other forms of gender-based
violence.

This effort has been one of the central causes of my career.  To address
these abuses of power — stalking, domestic violence, dating violence,
and sexual assault — I wrote and championed the Violence Against Women
Act nearly three decades ago to begin to change our culture and ensure
that survivors of these appalling crimes receive the services and
support they need.  Through the years, I have worked to reauthorize the
Act several times — each time expanding its protections.  Now, I am
calling on the Congress to once again reauthorize and modernize this
landmark legislation with enhanced provisions to expand the way our
country responds to and prevents stalking and other forms of
gender-based violence.

Stalking operates in the shadows and is fueled by silence and inaction. 
As we begin this new year, let us commit to shining a brighter light on
this insidious crime, to broadening our support for those affected, and
to ensuring that all people can live in a world free from violence and
fear.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 2022 as
National Stalking Awareness Month.  I call on all Americans to speak out
against stalking and to support the efforts of advocates, courts,
service providers, and law enforcement to help those who are targeted
and send the message to perpetrators that this crime will not go
unpunished.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
