---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-02'
modified_time: 2021-12-02 10:11:12-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/02/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-02 10:11:11-05:00
title: A Proclamation on International Day Of Persons With Disabilities, 2021
---
 
Thirty-one years ago, the bipartisan passage of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) enshrined our commitment to building a better
Nation for all of us.  In the years since, we have made profound
progress to advance the rights, opportunities, full participation, and
economic self-sufficiency of people with disabilities — both here at
home and in nations around the world.  On the International Day of
Persons with Disabilities, we reaffirm the full promise of dignity,
equity, and respect due to all disabled people and recognize the work
that still remains to fully deliver on that promise.

I was proud to co-sponsor the ADA as a member of the United States
Senate.  Today, that law remains a vital source of opportunity and
dignity — a defense against discrimination and a path to independence. 
My Administration continues to build on the legacy of the ADA here at
home and lead efforts for disability-inclusive democracies around the
world.  Earlier this year, I signed Executive Orders to recruit and
retain a workforce that truly reflects the American people — including
Americans with disabilities — and to help ensure that people with
disabilities can exercise their sacred right to vote on a full and equal
basis.

We know that — both here in America and around the world — women and
girls with disabilities are disproportionately impacted by gender
inequality.  That is why my Administration developed the first-ever
National Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality, which aims to address
discrimination rooted in the nexus of both gender and disability.  The
American Rescue Plan included landmark support for people with
disabilities — including historic funding to expand home- and
community-based services under Medicaid, which is enabling more
Americans than ever to live safely and independently in their own
homes.  My Administration’s Build Back Better plan will further that
commitment by making the most transformative investment in access to
home care in 40 years — providing life-changing support to people with
disabilities and the dedicated workers who help care for them. 

To uphold and advance the human rights of people with disabilities
worldwide, I reestablished the role of Special Advisor on International
Disability Rights at the Department of State.  My Administration will
continue to take domestic and international actions to make democracy
more accessible around the world.  The Summit for Democracy on December
9-10 will affirm that a government of, by, and for the people —
including those with disabilities — remains humanity’s most enduring
means to advance peace, prosperity, and security.  

Today and every day, we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring dignity,
equity, and respect for all people with disabilities.  As we continue to
build back better and address the challenges of the 21st century, we
will ensure that we deal everybody in and bring everyone along. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 3, 2021,
as International Day of Persons with Disabilities.  I call on all
Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, activities,
and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
