---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-09'
modified_time: 2021-12-09 13:28:09-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/09/a-proclamation-on-human-rights-day-and-human-rights-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-12-09 13:28:08-05:00
title: A Proclamation on Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week, 2021
---
 
In the wake of the devastation of the Second World War, leaders from
around the world came together with a shared vision to promote a safer
future for all nations by securing and advancing the human rights of
everyone, everywhere.  On December 10, 1948, thanks to the moral
leadership and service of Eleanor Roosevelt as the first Chairperson of
the Commission on Human Rights, the world took an enormous step forward
with the creation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).

The UDHR enshrines the human rights and fundamental freedoms inherent in
all people — no matter who they are, where they come from, or whom they
love.  It is a foundational document that proclaims a truth too often
overlooked or ignored — that “all human beings are born free and equal
in dignity and rights.”  From the root of this universal ideal
has sprung transformational human rights treaties and a global
commitment to advance equality and dignity for all as the foundation of
freedom, peace, and justice.  As a world, we have yet to achieve this
goal, and we must continue our efforts to bend the arc of history closer
to justice and the shared values that the UDHR enshrines.  Just as we
advocated for the recognition of universal human rights following World
War II, the United States today remains steadfast in our commitment to
advancing the human rights of all people — and to leading not by the
example of our power but by the power of our example.

Since taking office, my Administration has put human rights at the
center of our domestic and foreign policy priorities.  We immediately
declared our intention to rejoin the United Nations Human Rights
Council, and with the widespread support of the international community,
our Nation was elected to a new term beginning on January 1, 2022.  As a
member of the Council, we will highlight the vital importance of
democracy as we work to protect human rights and hold accountable those
who would violate these rights and freedoms.  We will continue to call
out human rights violations wherever they occur, support brave activists
on the front lines of protecting fundamental freedoms, and invest in
strengthening the rule of law.

As a global champion for democracy, we must also continue the unceasing
work of strengthening our own democracy and building a more perfect
union.  Leading by example is one of the most powerful and persuasive
foreign policy tools at our disposal.  From day one of my
Administration, we have taken concrete steps to reassert our moral
leadership on the global stage.  On my first day in office, I signed an
Executive Order to advance racial equity and support for underserved
communities.  As part of our once-in-a-generation investment in our
Nation’s physical infrastructure, we are also strengthening equitable
access to our shared resources and environment, including providing
additional support for historically underserved communities.

Unfortunately, discrimination and violence are challenges that too many
Americans still face in their own communities.  Throughout our Nation’s
history, generations of Black and Brown Americans, Indigenous
persons, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ Americans, immigrants, women
and girls, and members of religious, ethnic, and other historically
marginalized groups have faced heightened threats to their human rights
and dignity.  Today, we know that our efforts to defend human rights
around the world are stronger because we acknowledge and seek to remedy
our own historical challenges as part of that same fight.  Leading by
example means speaking honestly about the past, upholding the truth, and
striving constantly to improve.

This year, as we commemorate Human Rights Day, my Administration will
bring together global leaders, civil society organizations, and
representatives from the private sector for the first Summit for
Democracy.  Working together, we will recommit ourselves to
promoting respect for human rights and combating growing threats to
democracy, including authoritarianism and corruption.  We will speak
honestly about the challenges we face, and we will identify meaningful
new actions and commitments to advance our shared goals.

I call upon all Americans to keep the words of the Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr. in their hearts:  “injustice anywhere is a threat to
justice everywhere.”  Let us all dedicate ourselves to bringing our
Nation and our world closer to a future in which every human being is
free to pursue their highest dreams and unleash their full potential.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim December 10, 2021,
as Human Rights Day and the week beginning December 10, 2021, as Human
Rights Week.  I call upon the people of the United States to mark these
observances with appropriate ceremonies and activities. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
ninth day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
