---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-08'
modified_time: 2021-12-08 13:51:40-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/
published_time: 2021-12-08 13:51:39-05:00
title: Executive Order on Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal
  Sustainability
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to reestablish the
Federal Government as a leader in sustainability, it is hereby ordered
as follows:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 101.  Policy.</span>
 The Federal Government faces broad exposure to the mounting risks and
costs already posed by the climate crisis.  In responding to this
crisis, we have a once-in-a-generation economic opportunity to create
and sustain jobs, including well-paying union jobs; support a just
transition to a more sustainable economy for American workers;
strengthen America’s communities; protect public health; and advance
environmental justice. As the single largest land owner, energy
consumer, and employer in the Nation, the Federal Government can
catalyze private sector investment and expand the economy and American
industry by transforming how we build, buy, and manage electricity,
vehicles, buildings, and other operations to be clean and sustainable.

We also must build on past progress and pursue new strategies to improve
the Nation’s preparedness and resilience to the effects of a changing
climate, including advancing the Federal Government’s strategic
planning, governance, financial management, and procurement to ensure
climate resilient operations.

It is therefore the policy of my Administration for the Federal
Government to lead by example in order to achieve a carbon
pollution-free electricity sector by 2035 and net-zero emissions
economy-wide by no later than 2050.  Through a whole-of-government
approach, we will demonstrate how innovation and environmental
stewardship can protect our planet, safeguard Federal investments
against the effects of climate change, respond to the needs of all of
America’s communities, and expand American technologies, industries, and
jobs.

 <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 102. Government-wide
Goals.</span> (a) Leading the Nation on a firm path to net-zero
emissions by 2050 and achieving the policy set forth in section 101 of
this order will require bold action to transform Federal procurement and
operations and secure a transition to clean, zero-emission technologies.
Through a coordinated whole-of-government approach, the Federal
Government shall use its scale and procurement power to achieve:  
          (i)    100 percent carbon pollution-free electricity on a net
annual basis by 2030, including 50 percent 24/7 carbon pollution-free
electricity, as defined in section 603(a) of this order;  
          (ii)   100 percent zero-emission vehicle acquisitions by 2035,
including 100 percent zero-emission light-duty vehicle acquisitions by
2027;  
          (iii)  a net-zero emissions building portfolio by 2045,
including a 50 percent emissions reduction by 2032;  
          (iv)   a 65 percent reduction in scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas
emissions, as defined by the Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and
Reporting Guidance, from Federal operations by 2030 from 2008 levels;  
          (v) net-zero emissions from Federal procurement, including a
Buy Clean policy to promote use of construction materials with lower
embodied emissions;  
          (vi)   climate resilient infrastructure and operations; and  
          (vii)  a climate- and sustainability-focused Federal
workforce.  
     (b)  The actions and investment required to achieve these goals
will protect the environment, drive innovation, spur private sector
investment, improve public infrastructure, and create new economic
opportunity.  Pursuant to section 511 of this order, agencies shall
implement this order in accordance with my Administration’s policies to
combat the climate crisis; help American businesses compete in strategic
industries; create and sustain well-paying union jobs that allow workers
to thrive; maximize the use of American goods, products, materials, and
services; and promote a secure, just, and equitable future for all
Americans.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 201. Agency Goals and
Targets.</span> (a) In implementing the policy set forth in section 101
of this order and to support the achievement of the government-wide
goals of section 102 of this order, the head of each agency shall
propose targets, including annual progress targets as applicable, to
meet the requirements of sections 202 through 206 of this order.  
     (b)  The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) and
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall review
the targets, and agencies shall incorporate such targets into the
performance management systems described under section 503 of this
order, as appropriate.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 202.  Reducing Agency
Greenhouse Gas Emissions.</span>  Each agency shall reduce its scope 1,
2, and 3 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by the Federal Greenhouse
Gas Accounting and Reporting Guidance, by setting and meeting targets
for fiscal year 2030 measured from a fiscal year 2008 baseline.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 203.  Transitioning to
100 Percent Carbon Pollution-Free Electricity. </span> Each agency shall
increase its percentage use of carbon pollution-free electricity, so
that it constitutes 100 percent of facility electrical energy use on an
annual basis, and seek to match use on an hourly basis to achieve
50 percent 24/7 carbon pollution-free electricity, by fiscal year 2030.
 In addition, agencies shall facilitate new carbon pollution-free
electricity generation and energy storage capacity by authorizing use of
their real property assets, such as rooftops, parking structures, and
adjoining land, for the development of new carbon pollution-free
electricity generation and energy storage through leases, grants,
permits, or other mechanisms, to the extent permitted by law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 204.  Transitioning to a
Zero-Emission Fleet.</span>  Each agency’s light-duty vehicle
acquisitions shall be zero-emission vehicles by the end of fiscal year
2027.  Each agency with a fleet comprising at least 20 vehicles shall
develop and annually update a zero-emission fleet strategy that shall
include optimizing fleet size and composition; deploying zero-emission
vehicle re-fueling infrastructure; and maximizing acquisition and
deployment of zero-emission light-, medium-, and heavy-duty vehicles
where the General Services Administration (GSA) offers one or more
zero-emission vehicle options for that vehicle class. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 205. Achieving Net-Zero
Emissions Buildings, Campuses, and Installations.</span> (a) Each agency
shall achieve net-zero emissions across its portfolio of buildings,
campuses, and installations by 2045 and reduce greenhouse gas emissions
by 50 percent from buildings, campuses, and installations by 2032 from
2008 levels, prioritizing improvement of energy efficiency and the
elimination of onsite fossil fuel use.  
     (b)  To prioritize reductions in scope 1 greenhouse gas emissions,
as defined by the Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting
Guidance, agencies should use the Federal building performance standards
issued pursuant to section 510 of this order.  
     (c)  To reduce scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, as defined
by the Federal Greenhouse Gas Accounting and Reporting Guidance, to
achieve net-zero emissions buildings, agencies shall:  
          (i)    pursue building electrification strategies in
conjunction with carbon pollution-free energy use, deep-energy
retrofits, whole-building commissioning, energy and water conservation
measures, and space reduction and consolidation;  
          (ii)   design new construction and modernization projects
greater than 25,000 gross square feet to be net-zero emissions by
2030;  
          (iii)  implement CEQ’s Guiding Principles for Sustainable
Federal Buildings in building design, construction, and operation of all
new Federal buildings and renovated existing buildings; and  
          (iv)   use performance contracting, in accordance with the
provisions of section 1002 of the Energy Act of 2020 (Public Law
116-133, division Z), to improve efficiency and resilience of Federal
facilities, deploy clean and innovative technologies, and reduce
greenhouse gas emissions from building operations.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 206. Increasing Energy and
Water Efficiency.</span> Each agency shall increase facility energy
efficiency and water efficiency and shall establish targets for fiscal
year 2030 for agency-wide facility energy use intensity and potable
water use intensity, with consideration of performance benchmarks for
categories of building types (e.g., hospitals, office buildings) and the
composition of the agency’s building portfolio.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 207.  Reducing Waste and
Pollution.</span>  Each agency shall minimize waste, including the
generation of wastes requiring treatment and disposal; advance pollution
prevention; support markets for recycled products; and promote a
transition to a circular economy, as defined in section 2 of the Save
Our Seas 2.0 Act (Public Law 116-224), by annually diverting from
landfills at least 50 percent of non-hazardous solid waste, including
food and compostable material, and construction and demolition waste and
debris by fiscal year 2025; and 75 percent by fiscal year 2030.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 208.  Sustainable
Acquisition and Procurement.</span> (a) Agencies shall reduce emissions,
promote environmental stewardship, support resilient supply chains,
drive innovation, and incentivize markets for sustainable products and
services by prioritizing products that can be reused, refurbished, or
recycled; maximizing environmental benefits and cost savings through use
of full lifecycle cost methodologies; purchasing products that contain
recycled content, are biobased, or are energy and water efficient, in
accordance with relevant statutory requirements; and, to the maximum
extent practicable, purchasing sustainable products and services
identified or recommended by the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA).  
     (b)  The Chair of CEQ shall consider establishing Federal food
procurement policies to reduce associated greenhouse gas emissions and
drive sustainability in the Federal food supply chain.  
     Sec. 209. Adapting the Federal Government to the Impacts of Climate
Change.  Consistent with its mission, each agency shall:  
     (a) develop or revise polices and processes to promote climate
resilient investment that advances adaptation to climate change and
protects public health and the environment;  
     (b)  conduct climate adaptation analysis and planning for
climate-informed financial and management decisions and program
implementation;  
     (c) reform agency policies and funding programs that are
maladaptive to climate change and increase the vulnerability of
communities, natural or built systems, economic sectors, and natural
resources to climate impacts, or related risks; and  
     (d)  develop and enhance tools that assess climate change impacts
and support climate adaptation planning and implementation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 301.  Federal Supply Chain
Sustainability.</span>  Federal supply chains should support a
Government and economy that serves all Americans by creating and
sustaining well-paying union jobs, protecting public health, advancing
environmental justice, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and building
resilience to climate change.  Consistent with applicable law, agencies
shall pursue procurement strategies to reduce contractor emissions and
embodied emissions in products acquired or used in Federal projects.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 302.  Supplier Emissions
Tracking. </span> The Administrator of GSA shall track disclosure of
greenhouse gas emissions, emissions reduction targets, climate risk, and
other sustainability-related actions by major Federal suppliers, based
on information and data collected through supplier disclosure pursuant
to the requirements of section 5(b)(i) of Executive Order 14030 of
May 20, 2021 (Climate-Related Financial Risk), and shall assist the
Chair of CEQ in assessing the results of efforts to reduce Federal
supply chain emissions.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 303.  Buy Clean.</span>
 The Buy Clean Task Force established pursuant to section 508 of this
order shall provide recommendations to the Chair of CEQ and the Director
of OMB, through the Administrator of the Office of Federal Procurement
Policy, on policies and procedures to expand consideration of embodied
emissions and pollutants of construction materials in Federal
procurement and federally funded projects, to include:  
     (a)  identifying and prioritizing pollutants and materials, such as
concrete and steel, to be covered under a Buy Clean policy, taking into
account the availability of relevant data, including from environmental
product declarations, and consistency with existing environmental
reporting requirements;  
     (b)  providing recommendations to increase transparency of embodied
emissions, including supplier reporting; procedures for auditing
environmental product declarations and verifying accuracy of reported
emissions data; and recommendations for grants, loans, technical
assistance, or alternative mechanisms to support domestic manufacturers
in enhancing capabilities to report and reduce embodied emissions in
priority materials they produce; and  
     (c)  recommending pilot programs that incentivize Federal
procurement of construction materials with lower embodied emissions.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 401.  Engaging, Educating,
and Training the Federal Workforce.</span>  Meeting the challenges of
climate change and achieving the goals of this order requires an
investment in the Federal Government’s employees and a workforce with
the knowledge and skills to effectively apply sustainability, climate
adaptation, and environmental stewardship across disciplines and
functions. Agencies shall foster a culture of sustainability and climate
action; build employees’ skills and knowledge through engagement,
education, and training; and incorporate environmental stewardship
values and, where appropriate, sustainability goals and objectives into
performance plans of executives, managers, and staff. The Director of
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), within 90 days of the date of
this order, shall prepare a report for the Chair of CEQ that outlines
opportunities for including or expanding environmental sustainability
and climate adaptation training content in existing Federal training
programs, including OPM leadership training programs, and strategies for
incorporating sustainability into performance plans. In developing this
report, the Director of OPM shall coordinate with the Secretary of
Energy, the Administrator of the EPA, the Administrator of GSA, and, as
appropriate, the heads of other agencies, as well as Federal employee
unions.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 402.  Incorporating
Environmental Justice.</span>  Environmental justice can only be
achieved by ensuring that all those affected by agency operations enjoy
the same degree of protection from environmental and health hazards.
 Accordingly, it is critical that the Federal Government incorporate
environmental justice considerations into sustainability and climate
adaptation planning, programs, and operations. Consistent with
applicable law, agencies shall consider incorporating recommendations of
the Justice40 Initiative, required by section 223 of Executive
Order 14008 of January 27, 2021 (Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and
Abroad), on how Federal investments might be made toward a goal that
40 percent of the overall benefits flow to disadvantaged communities
that have been historically marginalized and overburdened by pollution
and underinvestment in housing, transportation, energy, water,
wastewater infrastructure, and health care, into operational planning
and decision-making regarding Federal facilities, fleets, and
operations.  Agencies shall address actions taken to advance
environmental justice as part of sustainable operations within the
annual Sustainability Plans and Climate Adaptation and Resilience Plans
required under section 503 of this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 403. Accelerating Progress
Through Public, Private, and Non-profit Sector Engagement.</span> (a)
Through strong partnerships with the public, private, and non-profit
sectors and labor unions and worker organizations, we can more
effectively catalyze the growth of clean energy industries and jobs. The
Federal Chief Sustainability Officer, reestablished in section 501 of
this order, and the heads of agencies shall seek to engage with
stakeholders and partners in achieving the goals of this order.  
     (b) In coordination with the Chair of CEQ and the heads of other
agencies, as appropriate, the Director of OPM shall facilitate
establishment of a Presidential Sustainability Executives Program to
place senior leaders from the private and non-profit sectors into
term-limited appointments to bring innovative perspectives and expertise
to Federal Government and assist agencies in efforts related to climate
action and sustainability.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 501.  Establishment of the
Office of the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer.</span> The Office of
the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer is reestablished within CEQ.
 The EPA shall provide funding and administrative support for the
Office.  
     (a)  The Office shall be headed by a Federal Chief Sustainability
Officer, who shall be appointed by the President.  The Federal Chief
Sustainability Officer shall lead the development of policies, programs,
and partnerships to achieve the policies set forth in this order,
advance sustainability and climate resilient Federal operations, and
ensure the Federal Government leads by example in combating the climate
crisis.  
     (b)  The heads of all agencies shall cooperate with the Federal
Chief Sustainability Officer and provide such information, support, and
assistance as the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer may request, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 502. Designation and
Duties of Agency Chief Sustainability Officers. </span> Within 30 days
of the date of this order or 30 days of an Agency Chief Sustainability
Officer leaving that position, heads of agencies shall designate an
Agency Chief Sustainability Officer, and assign to the designated
official the responsibility for leading agency planning, implementation,
and related actions, to include establishment of internal metrics and
performance management systems, to achieve the policy in section 101 and
the goals set forth in and targets established under sections 201 – 209
of this order.  Agency Chief Sustainability Officers shall provide to
the Director of OMB, the Chair of CEQ, and the Federal Chief
Sustainability Officer any information and assistance necessary to
implement this order, consistent with applicable law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 503.  Agency Planning and
Performance Management.</span>  (a)  The heads of principal agencies
shall develop and implement annual Sustainability Plans, based on annual
guidance provided by CEQ, describing actions and progress toward the
goals and requirements of this order.  
     (b)  The heads of principal agencies shall develop, implement, and
update Climate Adaptation and Resilience Plans that build on the
agency’s plan submitted pursuant to section 211 of Executive
Order 14008.  
     (c)  The Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB shall conduct
management reviews with each principal agency, at least annually or more
frequently as appropriate, to assess implementation and progress on
agency plans developed pursuant to this order, the goals set forth in
this order, and targets established under this order.  
     (d)  The heads of agencies other than principal agencies are
encouraged to develop, implement, or update plans and participate in
management reviews under this section.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 504.  Duties of the Chair
of the Council on Environmental Quality.</span>  In coordination with
the Director of OMB, the Chair of CEQ shall:  
     (a)  issue guidance, including the guidance required by
section 510(b) of this order, or revise existing guidance, as necessary,
for agency implementation of this order,  
     (b)  establish a Chief Sustainability Officer Council that shall
advise the Director of OMB and the Chair of CEQ on the performance of
agency responsibilities under this order.  The Federal Chief
Sustainability Officer shall chair the Council.  Members of the Council
shall include those Agency Chief Sustainability Officers invited by the
Chair of CEQ, as well as representatives designated by the heads of
other agencies at the invitation of CEQ, including representatives from
OMB, the Federal Energy Management Program within the Department of
Energy, the Office of Federal High-Performance Green Buildings within
GSA, and a Federal expert on environmental justice.  
     (c)  establish, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
committees, interagency groups, or task forces to provide information,
recommendations, and assistance to CEQ and OMB in implementing this
order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 505. Duties of the
Director of OMB.</span> The Director of OMB shall coordinate with the
Chair of CEQ on implementation of the duties contained in section 504 of
this order and, after consultation with the Chair of CEQ and the
National Climate Advisor, issue instructions to the heads of agencies
concerning periodic performance evaluation of agency implementation of
this order and prepare scorecards providing periodic evaluation of
principal agency performance in implementing this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 506. Duties of the
National Climate Advisor. </span>The National Climate Advisor shall
monitor and evaluate progress toward the government-wide goals set forth
in section 102 of this order in coordination with the National Climate
Task Force established pursuant to section 203 of Executive Order 14008.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 507. Duties of Heads of
Agencies.</span> (a) To ensure successful implementation of the policy
established in section 101 of this order and the goals set forth in
section 102 of this order, the head of each agency shall:  
          (i)   develop an agency-wide strategic process that
coordinates appropriate agency functions and programs to ensure that
those functions and programs consider and address the goals of this
order; and  
          (ii)  issue or revise existing agency policies, directives,
and guidance, as appropriate.  
     (b)  To support a whole-of-government approach to achieve the
policy in section 101 of this order, independent agencies are encouraged
to implement the policy, goals, and provisions of this order, consistent
with applicable law.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 508. Establishment of
Federal Leaders Working Groups.</span> The following Federal Leaders
working groups are hereby established, to be housed within CEQ: 100
Percent 24/7 Carbon Pollution-Free Electricity; Zero-Emission Vehicle
Fleets; Net-Zero Emissions Buildings; Net-Zero Emissions Procurement,
including a Buy Clean Task Force; and Climate Adaptation and Resilience.
The Chair of CEQ shall designate the chair or co-chairs for each working
group and provide guidance on their membership and responsibilities. The
working groups shall provide semiannual reports to the National Climate
Task Force on actions, findings, and progress toward government-wide
goals.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 509.  Government-wide
Support and Collaboration.</span>  Achieving the government-wide goals
of section 102 and the agency goals of sections 201 through 209 of this
order requires transforming how we build, buy, and manage across the
Federal Government.  To support a whole-of-government approach:  
     (a)  Consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Defense, the
Secretary of Energy, and the Administrator of GSA shall use the scale of
the Federal Government’s electricity use to aggregate and accelerate new
carbon pollution-free electricity generation capacity to meet Federal
energy needs.  
     (b)  The Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of GSA
shall coordinate with States, Tribes, and local governments to
facilitate wider adoption of zero-emission vehicles and, where
appropriate, use the Federal Government’s acquisition programs for
non-Federal Government purchasers.  
     (c)  In coordination with the Chair of CEQ and the Director of OMB,
the Secretary of Energy shall provide tools and technical support to
agencies to develop targets for greenhouse gas emissions, zero-emission
vehicle fleets, energy, and water required under section 201 of this
order; and shall collect, analyze, and report agency data for the
purposes of monitoring and evaluating performance toward the goals of
this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 510. Additional Guidance
and Instructions for Agencies. </span> (a) The Director of OMB, in
coordination with the Chair of CEQ and the National Climate Advisor,
shall issue a memorandum for agencies that provides direction on
immediate actions and further requirements to meet the policies and
goals of this order.  
     (b)  To assist agencies in complying with this order, the Chair of
CEQ, in consultation with the Director of OMB, shall:  
          (i) within 120 days of the date of this order, issue and, as
needed, update implementing guidance for agencies that provide
directions, strategies, and recommended actions to meet the policies and
goals of this order;  
          (ii)   issue building performance standards to support
achievement of net-zero emissions in the Federal building portfolio
under section 205 of this order; and  
          (iii)  consider issuing guidance for agencies to promote
sustainable locations for Federal facilities and strengthen the vitality
and livability of the communities in which Federal facilities are
located.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 511.  Coordination of
Administration Priorities.</span>  The heads of agencies shall implement
this order consistent with my Administration’s policies to spur growth
of domestic industry and well-paying union jobs, address the climate
crisis, and deliver equity and environmental justice.  These policies
include those contained in Executive Order 13990 of January 20, 2021
(Protecting Public Health and the Environment and Restoring Science To
Tackle the Climate Crisis), Executive Order 14008, and Executive
Order 14030, which have placed our public health, the environment, and
the climate crisis at the forefront of national policy and planning,
along with environmental justice, expanding the economy, and the
creation of the well-paying union jobs critical to delivering on those
goals; Executive Order 14005 of January 25, 2021 (Ensuring the Future Is
Made in All of America by All of America’s Workers), which establishes
that Federal agencies shall maximize the use of goods, products, and
materials that are made in America; Executive Order 13985 of January 20,
2021 (Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities
Through the Federal Government), which directs action with the goal of
making Government contracting and procurement opportunities available on
an equal basis; and Executive Order 14017 of February 24, 2021
(America’s Supply Chains), which establishes the policy to strengthen
the resilience of America’s supply chains to fight climate change,
create well-paying jobs, and secure our economic prosperity and national
security.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 601.  Limitations.</span>
 (a)  This order applies to an agency’s activities, personnel,
resources, and facilities located within the United States. The head of
an agency may apply this order, in whole or in part, to the activities,
personnel, resources, and facilities of the agency located outside the
United States if the head of the agency determines that such application
is in the interest of the United States.  
     (b)  To the extent the head of an agency does not apply this order
to activities, personnel, resources, and facilities outside of the
United States, the head of the agency shall manage, to the extent
practicable, such activities, personnel, resources, and facilities in a
manner consistent with the policy set forth in section 101 of this
order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 602. Exemption
Authority.</span>  (a)  The head of an agency may exempt particular
agency activities and related personnel, resources, and facilities from
the provisions of this order when it is in the interest of national
security, to protect intelligence sources and methods from unauthorized
disclosure, or where necessary to protect undercover law enforcement
operations from unauthorized disclosure.  If the head of an agency
issues an exemption under this section, the agency shall notify the
Chair of CEQ in writing within 30 days of issuance of the exemption
under this section.  To the maximum extent practicable and without
compromising national security, each agency shall strive to comply with
the purposes, goals, and implementation steps in this order.  
     (b)  The head of an agency may exempt from the provisions of this
order any vehicle, vessel, aircraft, or non-road equipment that is used
in combat support, combat service support, military tactical or relief
operations, or training for such operations or spaceflight vehicles,
including associated ground-support equipment.  
     (c)  The head of an agency may submit to the President, through the
Chair of CEQ, a request for an exemption of an agency activity and
related personnel, resources, and facilities from this order for any
reason not otherwise addressed by subsections (a) and (b) of this
section.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 603. Definitions.</span>
As used in this order:  
     (a)  “24/7 carbon pollution-free electricity” means carbon
pollution-free electricity procured to match actual electricity
consumption on an hourly basis and produced within the same regional
grid where the energy is consumed;  
     (b)  “Agency” means an executive agency as defined in section 105
of title 5, United States Code, excluding the Government Accountability
Office and independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C.
3502(5);  
     (c)  “Buy clean” means a policy to promote purchase of construction
materials with lower embodied emissions, taking into account the
life-cycle emissions associated with the production of those
materials;  
     (d)  “Carbon pollution-free electricity” means electrical energy
produced from resources that generate no carbon emissions, including
marine energy, solar, wind, hydrokinetic (including tidal, wave,
current, and thermal), geothermal, hydroelectric, nuclear, renewably
sourced hydrogen, and electrical energy generation from fossil resources
to the extent there is active capture and storage of carbon dioxide
emissions that meets EPA requirements;  
     (e)  “Embodied emissions” means the quantity of emissions,
accounting for all stages of production including upstream processing
and extraction of fuels and feedstocks, emitted to the atmosphere due to
the production of a product per unit of such product;  
     (f)  “Federal Leaders working group” means a working group,
composed of Deputy Secretaries or equivalents, that provides
recommendations to the Federal Chief Sustainability Officer and National
Climate Task Force on implementation and reports on actions and progress
toward the goals of this order;  
     (g)  “National Climate Task Force” means the National Climate Task
Force established pursuant to section 203 of Executive Order 14008;  
     (h)  “Principal agencies” means the Departments of State, the
Treasury, Defense (including the United States Army Corps of Engineers),
Justice, the Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, Labor, Health and Human
Services, Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Energy,
Education, Veterans Affairs, and Homeland Security; the Environmental
Protection Agency; the Small Business Administration; the Social
Security Administration; the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration; the Office of Personnel Management; the General Services
Administration; and the National Archives and Records Administration.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 604. Revocation.
</span>Executive Order 13834 of May 17, 2018 (Efficient Federal
Operations), is revoked.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 605.
 Determination.</span>  Pursuant to section 742(b) of Public
Law 111–117, I have determined that this order will achieve equal or
better environmental or energy efficiency results than Executive
Order 13423 of January 24, 2007 (Strengthening Federal Environmental,
Energy, and Transportation Management).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 606.  General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department,
agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

   
   
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    December 8, 2021.
