---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-12-27'
modified_time: 2021-12-27 17:12:04-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/27/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states-2/
published_time: 2021-12-27 17:12:03-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Aluminum into the United\_States"
---
 
1.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security
of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary found and advised the
President of his opinion that aluminum articles are being imported into
the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

2.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that aluminum articles are being imported into the United States
in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair
the national security of the United States, and decided to adjust the
imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10 percent ad valorem tariff
on such articles imported from all countries except Canada and Mexico.
 Proclamation 9704 further stated that any country with which we have a
security relationship is welcome to discuss with the United States
alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the national
security caused by imports from that country, and noted that, should the
United States and any such country arrive at a satisfactory alternative
means to address the threat to the national security such that the
President determines that imports from that country no longer threaten
to impair the national security, the President may remove or modify the
restriction on aluminum articles imports from that country and, if
necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries, as the
national security interests of the United States require.    

3.  In Proclamation 9710 of March 22, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President noted the continuing
discussions with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member
countries on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened
impairment to the national security by aluminum articles imported from
the EU.  Recognizing that the EU has an important security relationship
with the United States, the President determined that the necessary and
appropriate means to address the threat to the national security posed
by imports of aluminum articles from the member countries of the EU was
to continue the ongoing discussions and to exempt aluminum articles
imports from these countries from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9704 until May 1, 2018.  In Proclamation 9739 of April 30, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), the President
noted that, unless the President determines by further proclamation that
the United States has reached a satisfactory alternative means to remove
the threatened impairment to the national security by imports of
aluminum articles from the member countries of the EU, the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 shall be effective June 1, 2018, for
these countries.   

4.  The United States has successfully concluded discussions with the EU
on behalf of its member countries on satisfactory alternative means to
address the threatened impairment of the national security posed by
aluminum articles imports from the EU.  The United States and the EU
have agreed to expand coordination involving trade remedies and customs
matters, monitor bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on
addressing non-market excess capacity, and annually review their
arrangement and their ongoing cooperation.  In addition, the United
States and the EU will seek to conclude, by October 31, 2023,
negotiations on global steel and aluminum arrangements to restore
market-oriented conditions and support the reduction of carbon intensity
of steel and aluminum across modes of production.

5.  The United States will implement a number of actions, including a
tariff-rate quota that restricts the quantity of aluminum articles
imported into the United States from the EU without the application of
the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704.  Under the arrangement,
aluminum articles that are accompanied by a certificate of analysis are
eligible for in-quota treatment.  In my judgment, these measures will
provide an effective, long-term alternative means to address any
contribution by EU aluminum articles imports to the threatened
impairment to the national security by restraining aluminum articles
imports to the United States from the EU, limiting transshipment, and
discouraging excess aluminum capacity and production.  In light of this
agreement, I have determined that specified volumes of eligible aluminum
articles imports from the EU will no longer threaten to impair the
national security and have decided to exclude such imports from the EU
up to a designated quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704
through December 31, 2023.  The United States will monitor the
implementation and effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other
measures agreed upon with the EU in addressing our national security
needs, and I may revisit this determination, as appropriate.

6.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota, align with
the recommendations specified in the Secretary’s report assessing the
effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security of the
United States under section 232.  The agreed-upon aggregate tariff-rate
quota volume, totaling 18,000 metric tons of unwrought aluminum and
366,040 metric tons of semi-finished wrought aluminum, is consistent
with the objective of reaching and sustaining a sufficient capacity
utilization rate in the domestic aluminum industry.

7\.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9704 as applied to eligible aluminum articles imports from
the EU, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate in
light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.

8.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

9.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN jr., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

\(1\)  To establish a tariff-rate quota on imports of aluminum articles
from member countries of the EU as described in paragraph 5 of this
proclamation, U.S. note 19 to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is amended as provided for in the Annex to this proclamation.  Imports
of aluminum articles from member countries of the EU in excess of the
tariff-rate quota quantities shall remain subject to the duties imposed
by clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended.  The Secretary, in
consultation with the United States Trade Representative and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall recommend to the President, as
warranted, updates to the in-quota volumes contained in the Annex to
this proclamation.  Aluminum articles from a member country of the EU
imported under an exclusion granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation
9704, as amended, shall count against the in-quota volume of the
tariff-rate quota established in clause 1 of this proclamation.

(2)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further amended in
the second sentence by deleting “and” before “(g)” and inserting before
the period at the end:  “, and (h) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
standard time on January 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Mexico, and except the member countries of the
European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31,
2023, for aluminum articles covered by headings 9903.85.25 through
9903.85.44, inclusive.”

(3)  Aluminum articles eligible for treatment under clause 1 of this
proclamation must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis in order
to receive such treatment.  The Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security and the United States Trade
Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are necessary to
ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply could result
in applicable remedies or penalties under United States law.

(4)  The modifications made by clauses 1 through 3 of this proclamation
and the Annex to this proclamation shall be effective with respect to
goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for
consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, and shall continue in effect, unless such actions are expressly
reduced, modified, or terminated.

(5)  Any imports of aluminum articles from the member countries of the
EU that were admitted into a United States foreign trade zone in
“privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01
a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2022, shall be subject upon
entry for consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2022, to the provisions of the tariff-rate quota in effect
at the time of the entry for consumption.

(6)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
