---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 12:07:18-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/01/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-cybersecurity-awareness-month/
published_time: 2021-10-01 12:07:17-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Cybersecurity Awareness\_Month"
---
 
Cyber threats can affect every American, every business regardless of
size, and every community. That’s why my administration is marshalling a
whole-of-nation effort to confront cyber threats.  
  
I am committed to strengthening our cybersecurity by hardening our
critical infrastructure against cyberattacks, disrupting ransomware
networks, working to establish and promote clear rules of the road for
all nations in cyberspace, and making clear we will hold accountable
those that threaten our security. In May, I issued an [executive
order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/05/12/fact-sheet-president-signs-executive-order-charting-new-course-to-improve-the-nations-cybersecurity-and-protect-federal-government-networks/)
to modernize our defenses and position the Federal government to lead,
rather than lag, in its own cybersecurity. By using the power of Federal
technology spending, we are improving the software available for use to
all Americans. Our 100-day action plan to improve cybersecurity across
the electricity sector has already resulted in more than 150 utilities
serving 90 million Americans committing to deploy cybersecurity
technologies, and we are working to deploy action plans for additional
critical infrastructure sectors. Both the public and private sectors
have a role to play in strengthening cybersecurity, which is why we also
[issued a National Security
Memorandum](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/28/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-further-actions-to-protect-u-s-critical-infrastructure/)
outlining the cybersecurity practices that responsible owners and
operators of critical infrastructure should put in place and [brought
together leading American
executives](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/25/fact-sheet-biden-administration-and-private-sector-leaders-announce-ambitious-initiatives-to-bolster-the-nations-cybersecurity/)
to expand public-private cooperation on cybersecurity.  
  
We are also partnering closely with nations around the world on these
shared threats, including our NATO allies and G7 partners. This month,
the United States will bring together 30 countries to accelerate our
cooperation in combatting cybercrime, improving law enforcement
collaboration, stemming the illicit use of cryptocurrency, and engaging
on these issues diplomatically. We are building a coalition of nations
to advocate for and invest in trusted 5G technology and to better secure
our supply chains. And, we are bringing the full strength of our
capabilities to disrupt malicious cyber activity, including managing
both the risks and opportunities of emerging technologies like quantum
computing and artificial intelligence. The Federal government needs the
partnership of every American and every American company in these
efforts. We must lock [our digital
doors](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/06/Memo-What-We-Urge-You-To-Do-To-Protect-Against-The-Threat-of-Ransomware.pdf)
— by encrypting our data and using multifactor authentication, for
example—and we must build technology securely by design, enabling
consumers to understand the risks in the technologies they buy. Because
people – from those who build technology to those to deploy technology –
are at the heart of our success.  
  
This October, even as we recognize how much work remains to be done and
that maintaining strong cybersecurity practices is ongoing work, I am
confident that the advancements we have put in place during the first
months of my Administration will enable us to build back better –
modernizing our defenses and securing the technology on which our
enduring prosperity and our security rely.

\###
