---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-21'
modified_time: 2021-10-21 11:25:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/21/fact-sheet-prioritizing-climate-in-foreign-policy-and-national-security/
published_time: 2021-10-21 09:14:03-04:00
title: 'Fact Sheet: Prioritizing Climate in Foreign Policy and National Security'
---
 
From Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has prioritized addressing
the climate crisis both at home and as a core element of our national
security and foreign policy.  The climate crisis is reshaping our
physical world, with the Earth’s climate changing faster than at any
point in modern history and extreme weather events becoming more
frequent and severe.  In just 2021, wildfires raged across the western
United States, throughout the Mediterranean region, and eastern Russia;
Europe, China, and India experienced extreme flooding, and the world has
suffered unprecedented levels of drought.  The scientific community is
clear: human activities have directly contributed to climate change. We
are already experiencing the devastating impacts that climate has
wreaked on almost every aspect of our lives, from food and water
insecurity to infrastructure and public health, this crisis is
exacerbating inequalities that intersect with gender, race, ethnicity,
and economic security.  We have reached a point where we cannot reverse
some of the changes to the climate system.  
  
Today the Biden-Harris Administration released a suite of analyses from
core national security and foreign policy components of the U.S.
Government, in coordination with the National Security Council staff,
that will serve as a foundation for our critical work on climate and
security moving forward. Today’s announcements fulfill key requirements
of both the January 27 Executive Order (EO) 14008 on Tackling the
Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad to put the climate crisis at the
center of U.S. foreign policy and national security and the February 29
Executive Order (EO) 14013 on Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs to
Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on
Migration.  
  
Today’s announcements also reinforce the President’s commitment to
evidence-based decisions guided by the best available science and data.
While national security agencies led the development of these analyses,
the nation’s premier science agencies played a central role in ensuring
the best available science and data were included in each product.  
  
**ODNI National Intelligence Estimate on Climate Change.** The Office of
the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) oversaw the development of
the first-ever National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Climate Change.
The NIE is the most authoritative assessment from the Intelligence
Community (IC) and represents the consensus view of all 18 IC elements.
 The U.S. Federal Science Agencies provided the baseline observational
data and climate modeling that enabled the IC to conduct the
geopolitical analysis of the implications and risks to the United
States. Signed by Director Haines on \[October 20, 2021\], the NIE meets
the requirements of Executive Order (EO) 14008, Section 103 (b).   
  
Climate change will increasingly exacerbate a number of risks to U.S.
national security interests, from physical impacts that could cascade
into security challenges, to how countries respond to the climate
challenge. While the IC judges that all of these risks will increase and
that no country will be spared from challenges directly related to
climate change.

The three broad category of risks are: 1) increased geopolitical tension
as countries argue over who should be doing more, and how quickly, and
compete in the ensuing energy transition; 2) cross-border geopolitical
flashpoints from the physical effects of climate change as countries
take steps to secure their interests; and 3) climate effects straining
country-level stability in select countries and regions of concern.

The full unclassified findings of the National Intelligence Council’s
National Intelligence Estimate on Climate Change are available
[here](https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/NIE_Climate_Change_and_National_Security.pdf):
https://www.dni.gov/files/ODNI/documents/assessments/NIE\_Climate\_Change\_and\_National\_Security.pdf  
  
**Department of Defense Climate Risk Analysis.** Both climate change
threats and the global efforts to address climate change will influence
U.S. defense strategic interests, relationships, competition, and
priorities. The Department of Defense (DOD) Climate Risk Analysis
(DCRA)—the first Pentagon report focused on the strategic risks of
climate change—provides a starting point for a shared understanding of
these risks and lays out a path forward. The DCRA describes how DOD will
integrate climate considerations into strategic, planning, budget, and
other key documents, as well as engagements with allies and partners.
Inclusion of climate considerations across these documents will ensure
that DOD considers the effects of climate change at every level, which
will be essential to train, fight, and win in an increasingly complex
environment.  
  
Signed by Secretary Austin on October 8, 2021, the DCRA meets the
requirements of Executive Order (EO) 14008, Section 103(c). As the
global and cross-cutting consequences of climate change increase demands
on the Department of Defense, the DCRA provides a starting point for a
shared understanding of the strategic and mission risks of climate
change and lays out a path forward. Climate considerations will be
included in key DOD documents, such as the forthcoming National Defense
Strategy, which guides the ways DOD meets national security challenges.
Additionally, the DCRA will inform how the Department incorporates
climate considerations into its engagements with allies and partners.
For example, DOD worked closely with NATO Allies to develop a Climate
Change and Security Agenda and subsequent Action Plan in June of this
year.  
  
With a focus on strategic and mission risk, the DCRA is complementary to
the recently released Climate Adaption Plan (CAP), which is focused on
ensuring that DOD can operate under changing climate conditions. DOD
will also work in coordination with allies and partners, to prevent,
mitigate, account for, and respond to defense and security risks
associated with climate change.

The full unclassified version of DOD’s Climate Risk Analysis is
available here.
  <https://media.defense.gov/2021/Oct/21/2002877353/-1/-1/0/DOD-CLIMATE-RISK-ANALYSIS-FINAL.PDF>  
  
**Department of Homeland Security Strategic Framework to Address Climate
Change**. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is on the frontlines
of the climate crisis, with a duty to safeguard the homeland from
today’s increasingly severe, frequent, and destructive climate change
related emergencies, forecasting and preparing for future risks and
opportunities created by tomorrow’s challenges. DHS supports all
communities by leading through acute crises and envisioning the actions
needed to increase our future resilience. As part of that mandate, today
DHS is releasing the Strategic Framework for Addressing Climate Change,
signed by Secretary Mayorkas on \[October 20, 2021\], to lead adaptation
to changes in the climate risk landscape resulting from strategic
competition, demographic trends, aging infrastructure, and emerging
technology.  
  
The Strategic Framework will guide DHS’s implementation of President
Biden’s Executive Order on addressing the impacts of climate change at
home and abroad, and includes the five lines of effort: empowering
individuals and communities to develop climate resilience; building
readiness to respond to increases in climate-driven emergencies;
incorporating climate science into strategy, policy, programs, and
budgets; investing in a sustainable and resilient DHS; and ensuring the
DHS workforce is informed on climate change. The need to achieve equity
will be a guiding principle throughout each line of effort described in
the Strategic Framework.  
  
The Framework was developed through the first-ever DHS Climate Change
Action Group (CCAG), comprised of senior officials from across the
Department and focused on promoting resilience and addressing multiple
risks, including flooding, extreme heat, drought, and wildfires.  
  
The Strategic Framework can be found here: [DHS Strategic Framework for
Addressing Climate Change | Homeland
Security](https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhs-strategic-framework-addressing-climate-change)  
  
**Report on the Impact of Climate Change on Migration.** In Executive
Order 14013, President Biden called for an assessment of the impact
climate change is having on migration.  This assessment marks the first
time the U.S. Government is officially recognizing and reporting on this
linkage. The report identifies migration as an important form of
adaptation to the impacts of climate change and in some cases, an
essential response to climate threats**,** to livelihoods and wellbeing;
therefore it requires careful management to ensure it is safe, orderly,
and humane. Development and humanitarian assistance programs help
address underlying causes of forced migration and displacement in the
face of insecurity. Addressing individuals’ human security can decrease
the likelihood of migration and the second-order implications for
international security. It is critical to approach these efforts in a
way that acknowledges that in almost all cases climate change is not the
sole driver of migration.  
  
The National Security Council staff is also establishing a standing
interagency working group on climate change and migration to coordinate
U.S. Government efforts to mitigate and respond to migration resulting
from the impacts of climate change. Through this working group,
representatives from across the scientific, development, humanitarian,
democracy and human rights, and peace and security elements of the U.S.
Government will work together to coordinate U.S. policy, strategy, and
budgeting affecting populations vulnerable to climate impacts. Given
that climate-induced weather extremes will grow in severity in
unexpected ways, this working group will provide a venue for developing
long-term strategies consistent with the evolving scientific
understanding of climate impacts, such as those communicated through the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the U.S. National Climate
Assessment.  
  
The Report on the Impact of Climate Change on Migration can be found
here:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Report-on-the-Impact-of-Climate-Change-on-Migration.pdf>

\###
