---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-18'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 10:50:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/18/white-house-appoints-2021-2022-class-of-white-house-fellows/
published_time: 2021-10-18 16:00:00-04:00
title: "White\_House Appoints 2021-2022 Class of White\_House\_Fellows"
---
 
Today, the President’s Commission on White House Fellows announced the
appointment of the 2021-2022 class of White House Fellows, the most
diverse class in the history of the program. The prestigious White House
Fellowship program embeds professionals from diverse backgrounds for a
year of working as a full-time, paid fellow for White House staff,
Cabinet Secretaries, and other senior government officials.  
  
President Lyndon B. Johnson created the White House Fellows Program in
1964 with the purpose of “give\[ing\] the Fellows first hand, high-level
experience with the workings of the Federal Government and to increase
their sense of participation in national affairs.” The Fellowship
functions as a non-partisan program maintained throughout both
Republican and Democratic administrations. Throughout the year, Fellows
actively participate in an education program that expands their
knowledge of leadership, policy-making, and contemporary issues. The
mission of the White House Fellows Program is to encourage active
citizenship and service to the country.  
  
Selection into the program is based on a record of professional
accomplishment, evidence of leadership skills, the potential for further
growth, and a commitment to service. This year’s White House Fellows
advanced through a highly competitive selection process, and they are a
remarkably gifted, passionate, and accomplished group. Over half of the
fellows are women and overall reflect the diversity of America.  These
fellows bring experience from a broad cross-section of professions, from
the private sector, local government, academia, medicine, law, and the
military.  
  
Applications for the 2022-2023 Fellowship year will be accepted from
November 1, 2021 – January 7, 2022, at 5:00 p.m. ET. The application
link and additional information is available at:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/get-involved/fellows/>.  
  
**2021-2022 Class of White House Fellows:**  
**Etsemaye Agonafer is from San Francisco, California and is placed at
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development.**
Etsemaye is a physician, educator, and researcher committed to advancing
health equity for all. She was a National Clinician Scholar and
completed a Masters of Science in Health Policy & Management at UCLA.
 She served as Chief Resident of Quality & Patient Safety at the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center where she completed her internal
medicine residency. She passionately focuses on amplifying the voices of
vulnerable communities through multi-sector partnership. Her work spans
creating a clothing line inspired by her heritage that raised funds for
disparities in Ethiopia and Eritrea, to co-founding a foot-health clinic
serving the homeless in Greater Los Angeles, to producing a compilation
of videos of veteran narratives, and spearheading an academic-community
coalition in South Los Angeles. She conducts stakeholder-engaged
investigations of innovative healthcare solutions for health-related
social needs that are aimed at improving health outcomes and reducing
costs. Throughout her career, Etsemaye participated in numerous quality
improvement efforts in diverse healthcare systems, trained and mentored
students, developed novel medical education curricula, and disseminated
her work in national presentations and peer-reviewed publications.
Etsemaye earned a B.S. in Biochemistry from the University of Southern
California, a M.P.H. and M.D. from the UCLA/CDU PRIME-LA dual-degree
program.  
  
**Tom Barron is from Houston, Texas and is placed at the White House
Domestic Policy Council.** Tom worked most recently as a management
consultant at McKinsey & Company. In this role, he advised private and
social sector clients across a range of industries on strategy and
operations challenges. Prior to his work at McKinsey, he served for over
nine years in the U.S. Army as both a Special Forces and infantry
officer. He commanded a Special Forces team focused on operations across
the African continent, deploying to Niger and the Horn of Africa, and
served as the Deputy Director of Operations for Special Operations
Command Forward North and West Africa. As an infantry officer, he led an
airborne infantry platoon in combat in Kandahar Province, Afghanistan.
Outside of his professional activities, Tom was a 2018 Shawn Brimley
Next Generation National Security Fellow at the Center for a New
American Security, is a Term Member at the Council on Foreign Relations,
and actively volunteers in support of several veteran- and
education-focused initiatives. His writing and research have appeared in
both academic and policy publications. Tom graduated from Harvard
College with an A.B. in Social Studies, and from the University of
Cambridge with an M.Phil. in African Studies, where he was a Gates
Cambridge Scholar.  
  
**Joy Basu is from Naperville, IL and is placed at the White House
Gender Policy Council.** Joy has served as a senior advisor to
innovative businesses seeking authentic, impact-integrated growth. She
was the first Chief of Staff at TPG Growth, where she worked as a key
architect and builder of The Rise Fund, a groundbreaking impact
investment platform. She also served as The Rise Fund’s global Sector
Lead for Food and Agriculture. Prior to joining TPG, Joy was a
consultant at McKinsey & Company, where she focused on agricultural
development, working with businesses, governments, and donors to improve
food systems in emerging markets. Joy also served as project manager to
the World Economic Forum’s New Vision for Agriculture, and has supported
strategic projects for the Ethiopian Agricultural Transformation Agency
and Starbucks Coffee Company. Joy earned her J.D. and M.B.A. from
Stanford University with a certificate in public management and social
innovation. While at Stanford, she served as Co-President of the Women
of Stanford Law, as an Arbuckle Fellow and as a leader of the
Afghanistan Legal Education Project. Joy holds a B.A.  in Public Policy
and Economics from Duke University. She currently serves as a Trustee
for the Heifer International Foundation and a Term Member of the Council
on Foreign Relations.  
  
**Arlene Crews is from Alameda, California and is placed at the Office
of the Second Gentleman.** Arlene is a Lieutenant Commander in the
United States Navy and a command-screened Surface Warfare Officer. She
has served aboard USS MONTEREY (CG 61), USS GONZALEZ (DDG 102), and USS
SAMPSON (DDG 102) conducting missions in Operation Enduring Freedom,
Oceania Maritime Security Initiative, and Operation Inherent Resolve.
Her last operational tour was as the Staff Director of Destroyer
Squadron NINE. She has previously served as a Resource and Requirements
Officer in the Surface Warfare Division on the Office of the Chief of
Naval Operations staff at the Pentagon.  She is a certified yoga
instructor with advanced certification in mental health and wellness.
Her passion is making yoga more accessible to diverse communities.
Arlene earned her commission through the Naval Reserve Officer’s
Training Corps at the University of Southern California where she earned
her BA in International Relations and Italian. She is an Olmsted Scholar
and earned her M.A. in National Security from the Jagiellonian
University in Krakow, Poland.  
  
**Zachary Griffiths is from Lexington, Massachusetts and is placed at
the National Security Council.** Zach is a Major in the United States
Army Special Forces with three combat deployments. For outstanding
performance as a Special Forces Detachment Commander in combat, Zach’s
detachment was recognized with the Larry Thorne Award; and, the
Hungarian Minister of Defense awarded Zach the Service Medal for Merit
in Bronze Grade decorated with Swords. Zach most recently returned from
Iraq, where he served as the Special Assistant for the Special
Operations Joint Task Force Commander. During the COVID-19 pandemic,
Zach assisted his local hospital with crisis planning. Between
operational tours, Zach taught American Politics in the Department of
Social Sciences at West Point and mentored cadets to pass the rigorous
combat diver qualification course. Additionally, Zach has published more
than 25 articles, edits for *Military Review* and the *Irregular Warfare
Initiative*, and is a term member at the Council on Foreign Relations.
Zach also volunteers as a Cub Scout leader and with the Army Rowing
Association. Zach earned a B.S. in Operations Research from the United
States Military Academy at West Point and a M.P.P. from the Harvard
Kennedy School of Government.  
  
**SaMee Harden is from Paducah, Kentucky and is placed at the Office of
Personnel Management.** SaMee Harden is from Paducah, Kentucky and is
placed at the Office of Personnel Management. SaMee is a seasoned
attorney, with experience in both litigation and policy work. She
previously served as an attorney working as a Privacy and Data Policy
Manager at Facebook. She led a team that coordinates legal, policy, and
technological responses to protect Facebook user data from bad actors
and collaborates with cross-functional partners to investigate data
policy violations. Prior to Facebook, SaMee was a federal criminal
prosecutor, managing a robust docket, which included narcotics, public
corruption, white-collar, and firearms offenses. She specialized in
prosecuting child exploitation crimes. SaMee received several *SPOT
Awards* for “making a significant contribution” during her work as a
federal prosecutor. Previously, SaMee was a Senior Associate focusing on
white collar investigations at the law firm of WilmerHale. She also
served as a judicial law clerk on both the federal trial and appellate
courts. SaMee is a founding member of the James M. Nabrit Clerkship
Scholarship, which encourages diverse law school students to apply to
clerkships, and the Northwestern Law Social Justice Impact Alumni Award.
She is a Fulbright and Boren Scholar and Department of Justice Honors
Selectee. SaMee received a J.D. from Northwestern Pritzker School of
Law, an M.A. from American University, and a B.A. from the University of
Louisville; she is currently pursuing an M.B.A. from the University of
Michigan.  
  
**Claire Henly is from Somerville, Massachusetts and is placed at the
Special Presidential Envoy on Climate.** Claire is an energy technology
and policy expert with a decade of experience advancing solutions to
climate change. Claire recently served on the executive team of the
Energy Web Foundation where she helped build a consortium of over 30 of
the world’s largest energy companies to accelerate renewable energy
adoption with blockchain technology. Prior to that, Claire advised
international governments on climate policy at the Rocky Mountain
Institute. In this role, she led a project with Rwanda’s Ministry of
Infrastructure that identified over $30 million in utility savings while
improving energy access and partnered with the China’s Energy Research
Institute on a multi-year carbon reduction study that informed the
13<sup>th</sup> Five Year Plan. In 2018, Claire provided expert
testimony before the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
on blockchain in the energy sector. She has authored papers on subjects
ranging from solar geoengineering to energy access in emerging economies
and has spoken at over 20 climate-related forums worldwide. Claire
recently graduated with a M.A. from Harvard’s Kennedy School where she
was awarded two prestigious environmental fellowships and co-led a
successful effort to de-bias faculty hiring. Claire holds a B.S. in
Environmental Engineering from Yale University.  
  
**Victoria Herrmann is from Paramus, New Jersey and is placed at the
United States Coast Guard.** Victoria is on sabbatical from her
positions as an Assistant Research Professor at Georgetown University
and the Managing Director of The Arctic Institute, a nonprofit with a
mission to inform policy for a just, sustainable, and secure Arctic.
Victoria directs strategic planning and oversees the implementation of
global research partnerships by a 45-person team. Her research focuses
on Arctic climate change and resilience. As a recognized expert in the
field, Victoria has testified before the House and Senate, served as the
Alaska Review Editor for the National Climate Assessment, and
contributed to national and international media. At Georgetown, she
serves as the Principal Investigator of a National Science
Foundation-funded Research Coordination Network on Arctic migrations.
The three-year initiative aims to build a lasting, policy-oriented
network of Arctic scientists to strengthen communication between nations
and scientific disciplines. Victoria was a Junior Fellow at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, a Fulbright Awardee to Canada, and a
Mirzayan Science and Technology Policy Graduate Fellow at the National
Academies of Sciences. She received her Ph.D. from the University of
Cambridge as a Gates Scholar, a M.A. in International Affairs from
Carleton University, and a B.A. from Lehigh University.  
  
**Margaret Jackson is from Washington, D.C. and is placed at the United
States Department of Commerce.** Margaret Jackson is an energy and
climate policy expert and a former US Navy Surface Warfare Officer.
Prior to her White House Fellowship, she was the Deputy Director for
Climate and Advanced Energy at the Atlantic Council, a nonpartisan,
foreign policy think tank, where she led engagement with stakeholders
across government, industry, and civil society to develop policy
solutions that advance a clean and just energy transition. Margaret was
a Fulbright scholar at Tsinghua University in Beijing, China, a Council
on Foreign Relations-Hitachi International Affairs Fellow at the
Institute of Energy Economics, Japan, and is a Term Member of the
Council on Foreign Relations. Her research and publications focus on the
proliferation of renewable energy and advanced energy technologies,
international climate cooperation, and the role of energy and climate in
foreign policy. Throughout her career, she has advocated for
organizational changes to better support women and veterans in the
workplace. Margaret earned a Master of Arts from Georgetown University
and a Bachelor of Science from the United States Naval Academy.  
  
**Andrew Kim is from San Francisco, California and is placed at the
Office of Management and Budget.** Andrew is a physician passionate
about health diplomacy and peacebuilding. His current research explores
vaccine diplomacy and humanitarian aid to North Korea. During his health
equity residency program at the University of California, San Francisco,
he worked with the Institute for Global Health Sciences on a report for
the WHO on the U.S. COVID response, and with the Center for Health
Diplomacy on reports informing the COVID Transition Taskforce. As a
Rappaport Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School, Andrew led a national
landscape assessment of advanced directive digitalization efforts. His
prior work on the nexus between peace and health spans projects in
Liberia during the 2014 Ebola outbreak, eastern Uganda, and South Sudan.
Andrew has studied social justice at the Center for Action and
Contemplation, co-founded an interfaith youth service program, and
devoted time to clinical care in Guatemala, Brazil, Tanzania, Uganda,
and Taiwan. His writing has been awarded with the Henry Knowles Beecher
Prize and SF Medical Society writing contest. He earned his M.D.  from
Harvard Medical School through the Presidential Public Service
Scholarship, his M.Phil. in International Development at the University
of Cambridge as a Baker Fellow, and B.A. from Brown University.  
  
**Hila Levy is from Guaynabo, Puerto Rico and is placed at the Office of
Science and Technology Policy.** Hila is a Major in the U.S. Air Force
Reserve, serving as a Senior Intelligence Officer and Foreign Area
Officer in Air Force Special Operations Command, supporting combat
operations, contingencies, and partnership-building exercises in Europe,
Africa, and the Middle East. She has led teams at tactical, operational,
and joint headquarters-level assignments in South Korea, Japan, and the
United Kingdom, earning Air Force-level awards for leadership and
performance. In parallel military and civilian careers, Hila has worked
in national security, international relations, science, and
environmental management on every continent. She is a published
scientific researcher, undergraduate educator, translator in six
languages, and fellow at New America. She is active in Arctic and
Antarctic affairs, climate change advocacy, infectious disease, and STEM
education for underrepresented youth. In 2020, she advised the federal
COVID-19 Joint Acquisition Task Force on viral diagnostics procurement
to safeguard public health. She received a B.S. as the top graduate of
the U.S. Air Force Academy and holds a M.Phil. from the School of
Advanced Air and Space Studies, M.S. from Johns Hopkins University, and
M.St., M.Sc. with Distinction, and D.Phil. from the University of
Oxford, where she was the first Rhodes Scholar from Puerto Rico.  
  
**Alister Martin is from Neptune, New Jersey and is placed at the Office
of the Vice President and the White House Office of Public Engagement.**
Alister is a practicing emergency physician and former Chief Resident at
Massachusetts General Hospital. He served as a former Health Policy Aide
to Governor Peter Shumlin of Vermont and Congressman Raul Ruiz of
California. He works at the intersection of public policy and medicine
as research faculty at the Harvard Kennedy School Behavioral Insights
Group and as clinical faculty at Harvard Medical School in the Center
for Social Justice and Health Equity. He leverages his background in
politics, policy, and the field of behavioral economics to use the ER as
a place to build programs that serve the needs of vulnerable patients.
He is the founder of Vot-ER, a nonpartisan voter registration
organization that has organized over 26,000 healthcare providers and 300
hospitals to help non-urgent patients register to vote. He is the
founder of Get Waivered, a program that is converting our nation’s ERs
into the front door for opioid addiction treatment. He also co-founded
GOTVax, an initiative aimed at leveraging a get out the vote framework
to deliver vaccines directly to vulnerable communities throughout Boston
via hyper-targeted vaccine pop up clinics. Alister earned his MD from
Harvard Medical School as a Presidential Scholar, his Masters in Public
Policy from the Harvard Kennedy School as a fellow in the Center for
Public Leadership, and graduated Summa Cum Laude from Rutgers University
where he was a Division 1 tennis player.  
  
**Tara Murray is from Los Angeles, California and is placed at the White
House Office of Cabinet Affairs.** Tara is a civil and human rights
lawyer with her own practice in Washington, D.C. She is committed to
bringing accountability and transparency in the justice system through
advocacy and litigation on behalf of persons most vulnerable to unfair
treatment. Previously, Tara served as Deputy Director of London-based
human rights NGO Reprieve. There, she represented 30 men imprisoned at
Guantánamo Bay in federal court proceedings and spearheaded the first
investigations into the community impact of drone strikes in Pakistan,
which expanded to include Yemen and the horn of Africa. Tara has spent
her career developing and maintaining strategic partnerships in the
public, nonprofit, and government sectors to champion the rights of
inequitably treated people and has mobilized diverse teams around the
world towards common goals. Her work has been profiled by news and media
outlets worldwide. Tara received an LL.M. in Advocacy from Georgetown
University Law Center, where she was an E. Barrett Prettyman Fellow and
taught law students in the Criminal Justice Clinic while representing
indigent clients; a J.D. from Harvard Law School;  and a B.A. *summa cum
laude* from Howard University. Tara enjoys a rich home life with her
husband and their three young children.  
  
**Jennifer Onofrio is from Jersey City, New Jersey and is placed at the
United States Navy.** Jenn was the Director of Resource Management &
Planning for security and policing at the Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey, where she was responsible for providing financial,
analytical, and logistical support to almost 2,400 employees (including
over 2,000 police officers) protecting critical transportation assets in
the New York City area. She led a team of 75 employees and controlled an
annual budget of more than $700 million. She joined the Port Authority
in 2011 as a Leadership Fellow and rose through the ranks in positions
of increasing responsibility within the Office of the Chief Security
Officer, transforming the department into a data-driven operation. Prior
to her career at the Port Authority, Jenn worked in criminal justice
reform on improving reentry outcomes for incarcerated men and women,
evaluating policies and practices in dozens of states across the
country. She also taught job readiness and life skills to inmates at
Rikers Island. She is a member of the Port Authority’s Ethics Board,
their Diversity & Inclusion Steering Committee, and the PAPD Civilian
Complaint Review Board. Jenn is a Truman Scholar who received a B.S. in
Liberal Arts from The New School and an M.P.A. from Princeton
University.  
  
**Sunny Patel is from Burbank, California and is placed at the United
States Department of Homeland Security.** Sunny is a child and
adolescent psychiatrist and public health physician with interests in
building equitable health systems that serve children and families. He
recently completed his fellowship at NYU, where he created a model
embedding mental health services in the pediatric oncology clinic. He
also launched a comprehensive mental health response for thousands of
frontline workers during the COVID-19 pandemic and volunteered as a
palliative care physician at Bellevue Hospital. Sunny has spearheaded
health interventions for vulnerable populations in the United States and
abroad, including in India, Thailand, and Dominican Republic. He has
spent the past decade working with refugee populations and has conducted
forensic psychological examinations for asylum seekers with NYU and
Physicians for Human Rights. Sunny’s research has been published in
numerous journals and informed policy initiatives, including work
presented at the United Nations General Assembly. He has also served as
a resident tutor in medicine at Adams House of Harvard College. Sunny
completed his adult psychiatry residency at Cambridge Health Alliance
and Harvard Medical School. He has an M.D. from the Mayo Clinic, an
M.P.H. from Harvard, and bachelor’s and master’s degrees in biology and
physiology, respectively, from UCLA with college and departmental
honors.  
  
**Kenyatta Ruffin is from Maywood, Illinois and is placed at the Office
of the National Cyber Director.** Kenyatta is a Lieutenant Colonel in
the U.S. Air Force and a career fighter pilot. He has 155 combat
missions in the F-16 and MC-12 during deployments to Iraq and
Afghanistan, including his appointment as the intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance mission commander for the largest
special operations raid in Operation Enduring Freedom’s history. He
began his flying career at 13 years old and became one of the nation’s
youngest FAA-certified flight instructors at age 18. He founded the
Legacy Flight Academy, an award-winning non-profit organization that
honors the heroic Tuskegee Airmen and serves minority youth with
character-building, STEM enrichment programs. He was selected by the Air
Force Chief of Staff to lead the Service’s efforts to improve diversity
and inclusion in flying careers, including selection to establish and
command a unique, flight-focused recruiting organization. Most recently,
he was the operations support squadron commander at the Air Force’s
second busiest airfield, responsible for the safety and effectiveness of
flight operations valued at over 1.25 billion dollars. He is a graduate
of the Illinois Mathematics and Science Academy, U.S. Air Force Academy,
and earned Master’s Degrees from Air University and the U.S. Army School
of Advanced Military Studies.  
  
**Aakash Shah is from Cliffside Park, New Jersey and is placed at the
United States Department of Health and Human Services.** Aakash is a
practicing emergency room doctor at Hackensack Meridian Health. He
helped treat some of the earliest confirmed cases of COVID-19 during the
pandemic. Aakash also serves as the Director of Addiction Medicine and
the Medical Director of Project HEAL (a hospital-based violence
intervention program) at Jersey Shore University Medical Center as well
as the Medical Director of New Jersey Reentry Corp. His work in those
roles has resulted in several reforms, including the elimination of
prior authorization requirements for medications for opioid use
disorder, and he received the bipartisan endorsement of five former New
Jersey governors. He previously served as the Founder and Executive
Director of Be Jersey Strong, which represented one of the largest and
most diverse efforts to connect the uninsured to coverage in the nation,
and was honored by President Barack Obama at the White House for its
impact. He has also served as an advisor to several local, state, and
federal campaigns and policymakers. He obtained his M.D. from Harvard
Medical School, M.B.A. and M.Sc. in Comparative Social Policy from
Oxford University as a Rhodes Scholar, and B.A. and B.S. from Ursinus
College. He was awarded an honorary doctorate from Centenary
University.  
  
**Brittany Stich is from Denver, Colorado and is placed at the White
House Domestic Policy Council.** Brittany is Co-Founder of Guild
Education, a company whose mission is to unlock opportunity for
America’s workforce through education and upskilling. Guild partners
with Fortune 1000 companies, including the Walt Disney Company, Walmart,
and Chipotle, to provide education benefits to their frontline
workforce. Through these partnerships, more than 3 million working
Americans have gained access to employer-funded education. Prior to
Guild, Brittany built honors programs in community colleges across the
country. She began her career as a teacher in East Palo Alto through
Teach for America. She has received numerous accolades, including Forbes
30 under 30, Stanford’s Arjay Miller Social Change award, *Fast
Company*’s World Changing Ideas award, and recognition on CNBC’s
Disruptor 50, Forbes’ Cloud 100 list, and B Lab’s Best for World list.
She is a board member of the GALS schools of Denver and a speaker on
higher education, the future of work, entrepreneurship and women in
leadership. Appointed by Governor Polis, she is a Commissioner for the
Colorado Commission on Higher Education. A first-generation college
student, Brittany holds an M.B.A., M.A. in Education, and B.A. from
Stanford University, as well as an Ed.D. in higher education from the
University of Pennsylvania.  
  
**Garth Walker is from Chicago, Illinois and is placed at the Office of
the Surgeon General.** Garth is an academic public health expert and
physician leader working to eliminate structural barriers which limit
marginalized communities’ access to quality healthcare. He is Deputy
Director at the Illinois Department of Public Health (IDPH), Assistant
Professor in Emergency Medicine at Northwestern University, and an
Emergency Physician at Jesse Brown Veteran Affairs Hospital. At IDPH,
Garth leads on key statewide health issues. He drives strategy on men’s
health and co-leads the state’s response to the opioid crisis. During
COVID-19, he developed messaging to address vaccine hesitancy and
established a statewide town hall program, targeting marginalized
communities. To provide public health information about COVID-19, he has
been featured on news networks, including MSNBC, ABC, and Yahoo. Garth
has published for scientific journals addressing gun violence and
opioids. He has also written various op-eds for *The Chicago Sun-Times*,
*Forbes*, and other publications, with a focus on social determinants of
health. Garth is a mayoral appointment for Chicago’s equity advisory
board, an Economic Club of Chicago member, a Leadership Greater Chicago
Fellow, and Urban League IMPACT Fellow. He earned his B.A. in Economics
and M.D. from University of Illinois, his M.P.H. from Northwestern, and
clinical training from University of Chicago.

\###
