---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-18'
modified_time: 2021-10-18 11:14:51-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-plan-to-combat-pfas-pollution/
published_time: 2021-10-18 10:15:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Plan to Combat PFAS\_\
  Pollution"
---
 
*Eight Agencies Announce Steps, including New EPA Roadmap, to Take
Comprehensive Approach to Addressing PFAS & Advancing Clean Air, Water,
and Food*

President Biden believes every American deserves to breathe clean air,
drink clean water, and eat safe food — free of chemicals and pollutants
that harm the health and wellbeing of children, families, and
communities. Today, to advance that commitment, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing accelerated efforts to protect Americans
from per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), which can cause severe
health problems and persist in the environment once released, posing a
serious threat across rural, suburban, and urban areas. To safeguard
public health and protect the environment, the efforts being announced
will help prevent PFAS from being released into the air, drinking
systems, and food supply, and the actions will expand cleanup efforts to
remediate the impacts of these harmful pollutants.  
  
As part of this government-wide approach, EPA Administrator Regan
launched EPA’s [*PFAS
Roadmap*,](https://www.epa.gov/pfas/pfas-strategic-roadmap-epas-commitments-action-2021-2024)
a comprehensive strategy that outlines concrete actions over the next
three years, including steps to control PFAS at its sources, hold
polluters accountable, ensure science-based decision making, and address
the impacts on disadvantaged communities.  
  
The Administration is also continuing work to pass President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda, which both
include dedicated funding to address PFAS contamination in drinking
water. Specifically, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal includes $10
billion in grants to address emerging contaminants, including PFAS,
through the State Revolving Funds and small and disadvantaged community
programs. The President’s Build Back Better Agenda also includes
investments for EPA to conduct monitoring across the country for 29 PFAS
compounds in drinking water through the Unregulated Contaminant
Monitoring Rule program.  
  
To advance critical progress on securing clean air, safe food, and clean
drinking water:

-   **EPA is launching a robust, new PFAS Roadmap** that will guide the
    agency’s current and planned activities in 2021-2024 to research,
    restrict, and remediate harmful PFAS. The Roadmap includes
    regulatory and administrative actions and enforcement approaches
    that EPA intends to take, using existing authorities, to
    comprehensively address PFAS throughout the environment. Actions
    include a new national testing strategy to accelerate research and
    regulatory development, a proposal to designate certain PFAS as
    hazardous substances under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
    Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), and actions to broaden and
    accelerate the cleanup of PFAS. The roadmap is the product of the
    [EPA PFAS Council](https://www.epa.gov/pfas/memo-epa-council-pfas),
    which Administrator Regan established shortly after being confirmed.
    Administrator Regan unveiled the Roadmap today in North Carolina,
    where during his prior service as Secretary of the Department of
    Environmental Quality, he oversaw the state-driven cleanup of PFAS
    contamination into the Cape Fear River.

EPA’s new Roadmap builds on actions that EPA has already taken this year
to confront PFAS, including [updating a PFBS toxicity
assessment](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-releases-updated-pfbs-toxicity-assessment-after-rigorous-scientific-review-0) that
had been marked by error and improper, non-scientific influence and
issuing a new assessment backed by career scientists. Consistent with
President Biden’s commitment to enforce a limit for PFAS in drinking
water, EPA has also begun to [develop a national primary drinking water
regulation](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-takes-action-address-pfas-drinking-water),
improve understanding of 29 PFAS chemicals in the nation’s water
systems, and take actions to stop polluters from discharging PFAS into
America’s waterways and wastewater systems.

-   **The Department of Defense (DOD) is moving swiftly to address PFAS
    at DOD sites throughout the country.** The Department is currently
    conducting PFAS cleanup assessments at the nearly 700 DOD
    installations and National Guard locations where PFAS was used or
    may have been released, and expects to have completed all initial
    assessments by the end of 2023.

Last month, EPA and DOD research efforts also resulted in [expanded
testing
capabilities](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-announces-first-validated-laboratory-method-test-pfas-wastewater-surface-water)
to detect more types of PFAS in a variety of environmental media (soil,
groundwater, etc.), which will dramatically expand DOD’s and the
nation’s ability to detect and ultimately address PFAS. Earlier this
year, DOD also
[initiated](https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Stories/Article/Article/2699103/dod-holds-first-public-outreach-event-to-engage-with-pfas-stakeholders/source/GovDelivery/)
quarterly public outreach by senior officials with stakeholders to
discuss the Department’s PFAS-related work, in an effort to provide
transparency and accountability. DOD manages the largest research and
development program in the nation devoted to PFAS detection, treatment,
and destruction—with over $150 million in investments and another $70
million devoted to a PFAS-free replacement firefighting foam. This
program works closely with the best research academic institutions in
the nation to develop the science to help address PFAS.

-   **The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is continuing to expand its
    testing of the food supply to significantly advance its work to
    estimate dietary exposure to PFAS from food.** Over the next three
    years, FDA will proactively engage with and continue to support
    states when suspected areas of PFAS contamination may impact food
    and expand its [PFAS analysis
    method](https://www.fda.gov/media/131510/download) development. In
    the coming months, this will include announcing additional testing
    results from the general food supply and targeted testing of
    seafood. FDA will also report on the verification process for the
    3-year phase out of sales of certain PFAS from food contact uses,
    following agreements reached with certain manufacturers in 2020.

FDA earlier this year announced the results from its first round of
expanded representative
[testing](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-releases-pfas-testing-results-first-survey-nationally-distributed-processed-foods)
of the [food
supply](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-provides-update-ongoing-efforts-better-understand-occurrence-pfas-food-supply)
to detect potential PFAS contamination, including in processed foods.
The Agency [has
analyzed](https://www.fda.gov/food/chemical-contaminants-food/analytical-results-testing-food-pfas-environmental-contamination)
440 Total Diet Study (TDS) samples for PFAS, in four waves of analysis,
and is currently analyzing additional collections as well as conducting
a targeted survey of the most commonly consumed seafood in the United
States. FDA also continues to support state and local governments in
responding to known and possible contamination events that may impact
human food or animal food. Over the past few years, FDA has provided
technical assistance to approximately seven states and has analyzed over
400 samples as a part of these engagements. The FDA has also broadened
its [outreach to
industry](https://www.fda.gov/food/cfsan-constituent-updates/fda-issues-letter-industry-fluorinated-polyethylene-food-contact-containers)
to ensure that companies are reminded of packaging requirements that are
intended to reduce human exposure to PFAS and is
[monitoring](https://www.fda.gov/cosmetics/cosmetic-ingredients/and-polyfluoroalkyl-substances-pfas-cosmetics)
the presence of and potential exposure to PFAS in cosmetics.

-   **The Department of Agriculture (USDA) is supporting research on
    PFAS in the food system and taking action to prevent and address
    contamination. **USDA’s Agricultural Research Service researchers
    are investigating the causes and implications of PFAS in the food
    system. USDA will also continue to support extramural research on
    environmental contaminants including PFAS, with a focus on PFAS in
    the environment and food supply, as well as animal and human health.
    USDA’s Food Safety and Inspection Service has developed and is
    deploying analytical methods for testing for PFAS in meat and
    poultry products.
-   **The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) is driving forward a set
    of initiatives to investigate and remediate PFAS and protect
    emergency responders.** DHS conducted the first-ever inventory of
    PFAS use and prior releases from its facilities, including uses in
    firefighting foams and other PFAS-containing materials, and possible
    water source contamination. To address the known or suspected
    presence of PFAS at DHS facilities, a recent Policy Directive
    establishes procedures for alerting the Office of the Chief
    Readiness Support Officer, conducting follow-up investigations, and
    taking appropriate response actions. Going forward, a new DHS-wide
    Emerging Contaminants Working Group will coordinate additional steps
    to remediate PFAS and other contaminants of emerging concern.

Also within DHS, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is
addressing PFAS usage in firefighting foams, personal protective
equipment, and other emergency response settings. Through the National
Fire Academy, FEMA is working to better understand and mitigate PFAS
exposure from fire training exercises and equipment use. FEMA also
awarded a $1.5 million grant to the University of Arizona to study the
extent of firefighter exposure to PFAS and resulting health impacts.

-   **The Department of Health and Human Services continues to review
    the rapidly evolving science on human health and PFAS**, including
    through a groundbreaking study by Centers for Disease Prevention and
    Control (CDC) and Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
    (ATSDR) in eight states that will provide information about the
    health effects of PFAS exposure. 

In May 2021, ATSDR released the final version of the Toxicological
Profile on
[Perfluoroalkyls](https://wwwn.cdc.gov/TSP/ToxFAQs/ToxFAQsDetails.aspx?faqid=1116&toxid=237). ATSDR
is currently developing reports for 10 PFAS exposure assessments, which
looked at exposures in more than 2,300 individuals from over 1,400
households. ATSDR is also partnering with EPA to expand on the
environmental measurements gathered as part of the exposure assessments
in order to identify significant non-drinking water sources of exposure.
In partnership with the [National
Academies](https://www.nationalacademies.org/our-work/guidance-on-pfas-testing-and-health-outcomes)
of Science, Engineering, and Medicine, HHS is developing guidance for
clinicians on PFAS testing, how test results should inform clinical
care, and how to advise patients on exposure reduction. CDC’s National
Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) is conducting a
study that will address [PFAS exposures among career
firefighters](https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/topics/pfas/default.html) and
includes measurement of PFAS levels in gear. The National Institute of
Environmental Health Science (NIEHS) is supporting an [aggressive
program of
research](https://www.niehs.nih.gov/health/topics/agents/pfc/index.cfm),
funding [40 active academic research
projects](https://www.niehs.nih.gov/research/supported/exposure/pfas/publications/index.cfm)
to date. Through its Superfund Research Program, NIEHS is funding
research and development of tools to remediate PFAS and better
understand the fate and transport of PFAS chemicals once they are
released into the environment. NIEHS and EPA are collaborating to
develop a chemical class-based approach that would allow a quicker and
more efficient understanding of potential health effects across the
breadth of PFAS chemicals. Also, at EPA’s request, NIEHS is evaluating
the published literature on specific PFAS to determine whether exposure
could have immune effects that would weaken responses to vaccination.
The National Toxicology Program (NTP) has previously completed 4-week
rodent studies to compare the toxicity of short- and long-chain PFAS. 
NTP has also published a two-year rodent [study of
PFOA](https://ntp.niehs.nih.gov/publications/reports/tr/500s/tr598/index.html)
to compare cancer and toxicity outcomes from exposures at different
stages of life.  Additionally, a systematic review was conducted to
assess the immune effects of exposure to PFOA and PFOS.

-   **Key scientific agencies are advancing much-needed innovation**.
    The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is conducting research on
    the use of firefighting foam containing PFAS in emergencies and
    using technology to reduce PFAS discharges in testing of
    firefighting equipment. Additionally, the FAA and DOD are working to
    find a PFAS-free firefighting foam alternative. The National
    Institute of Standards and Technology are working to identify and
    quantify the relative risk to first responders of PFAS in
    firefighting gear, while the National Science Foundation recently
    awarded $4.1 million through its Engineering Research to Advance
    Solutions for Environmental PFAS (ERASE-PFAS) program to nine
    projects, anchored at 13 research institutions, that present an
    innovative approach to tackling the persistent challenge of PFAS
    contamination. In addition, the White House Office of Science and
    Technology Policy is mobilizing the National Science and Technology
    Council to form a team focused exclusively on coordinating and
    further accelerating this federal scientific work on PFAS.
-   **The White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) is kicking
    off a high-level interagency capacity focused on PFAS actions.** To
    facilitate the coordination of PFAS response activities across
    government, Administration officials today convened a first meeting
    of the newly-formed Interagency Policy Committee on PFAS, which is
    being led by White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair
    Brenda Mallory. At the meeting, agency leaders discussed their
    progress and plans for addressing PFAS contamination and reducing
    the risks to American families. The newly-formed Interagency Policy
    Committee on PFAS will work to coordinate and help develop new
    policy strategies to support research, remediation, and removal of
    PFAS in communities across the country.

\###
