---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-21'
modified_time: 2021-10-21 17:38:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/21/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-7/
published_time: 2021-10-21 19:00:00-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Nominations
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Beth Van Schaack, Nominee for Ambassador at Large for Global
    Criminal Justice at the Department of State
-   Michèle Taylor, Nominee for United States Representative to the UN
    Human Rights Council with the rank of Ambassador during her tenure
    of service
-   Martha Williams, Nominee for Director of Fish and Wildlife Services
    at the Department of Interior

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Beth Van Schaack, Nominee for
Ambassador at Large for Global Criminal Justice, Department of
State</span>**  
Beth Van Schaack is the Leah Kaplan Visiting Professor in Human Rights
at Stanford Law School where she teaches in the areas of international
human rights, international criminal law, and human trafficking, among
other subjects, and has been the Acting Director of the Human Rights and
Conflict Resolution Clinic. She is also a Faculty Fellow with Stanford’s
Center for Human Rights and International Justice.  Prior to returning
to academia, she served as Deputy to the Ambassador at Large for War
Crimes Issues in the Office of Global Criminal Justice at the Department
of State. In that capacity, she helped to advise the Secretary of State
and the Under Secretary for Civilian Security, Democracy and Human
Rights on the formulation of U.S. policy regarding the prevention of and
accountability for mass atrocities, such as war crimes, crimes against
humanity, and genocide. She has also spent time in private practice with
Morrison & Foerster LLP and with the Office of the Prosecutor of the
International Criminal Tribunals for the former Yugoslavia and Rwanda.
Van Schaack is a graduate of Stanford University (B.A.); Yale Law School
(J.D.); and University of Leiden School of Law (PhD). Her dissertation,
entitled Imagining Justice for Syria, has been published by Oxford
University Press.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Michèle Taylor, Nominee for
the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as United States
Representative to the UN Human Rights Council</span>**  
Michèle Taylor has served in a number of roles advocating for protection
of fundamental human and political rights. She is a Board Member of the
National Center for Civil and Human Rights and served as its “Power to
Inspire” Chair and Development Chair. Taylor, whose mother was a
Holocaust survivor, has served as a member of the Committee on State
Sponsored Antisemitism and Holocaust Denial, a member of the Committee
on Conscience and a member of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum Council. In addition, she has served for almost two decades in
various roles for the North Carolina Outward Bound School where she has
served on the Board and also as an Instructor and Course Director. 
Taylor earned her B.A. from Mills College and an M.A. from Boston
University.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Martha Williams, Nominee for
Director of Fish and Wildlife Services at the Department of
Interior</span>**  
Williams is currently serving as the Principal Deputy Director of the
U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. Preceding her appointment, Williams
served as the Director of the Montana Department of Fish, Wildlife and
Parks from 2017 to 2020. There, she delivered leadership that embraced
the diversity of Montana’s natural resources and outdoor recreational
values that also incorporated public expectations and values into the
agency’s direction. Previously, Williams was an Assistant Professor of
Law at the Blewett School of Law at the University of Montana and
co-directed the university’s Land Use and Natural Resources Clinic.
William’s appointment to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is a return
to the Department of the Interior, where she served earlier in her
career as Deputy Solicitor Parks and Wildlife, providing counsel to the
National Park Service and the Fish and Wildlife Service.

Growing up on a farm in Maryland, Martha Williams gained an appreciation
for open lands, waters, wildlife, and community. This passion led her to
the wild places of the West and a career spent fostering a love of the
outdoors and stewarding the protection of natural resources. Williams
earned a bachelor’s degree from the University of Virginia and a Juris
Doctor degree from the University of Montana School of Law. Williams is
a hunter, angler, birdwatcher and overall outdoor enthusiast.

\###
