---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-26'
modified_time: 2021-10-26 12:18:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/26/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-8/
published_time: 2021-10-26 11:36:14-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jessica Rosenworcel, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal
    Communications Commission
-   Gigi Sohn, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Communications
    Commission
-   Alan Davidson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Communications
    and Information at the National Telecommunications and Information
    Administration, Department of Commerce
-   Kathi Vidal, Nominee for Under Secretary for Intellectual Property
    and Director of the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office at the
    Department of Commerce
-   Laurel Blatchford, Nominee for Controller of the Office of Federal
    Financial Management at the Office of Management and Budget

President Biden has also designated Rosenworcel as Chair of the Federal
Communications Commission. She is the first woman in history to serve in
this capacity.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Jessica Rosenworcel, Nominee
for Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission</span>**  
Jessica Rosenworcel presently serves as Chair of the Federal
Communications Commission, where she previously served as a Commissioner
since 2012. During her time at the agency, she has worked to promote
greater opportunity, accessibility, and affordability in our
communications services in order to ensure that all Americans get a fair
shot at 21st century success. From fighting to protect an open internet,
to ensuring broadband access for students caught in the Homework Gap
through the FCC’s Emergency Connectivity Fund, to making sure that
households struggling to afford internet service stay connected through
the Emergency Broadband Benefit program, she has been a champion for
connectivity for all. She is a leader in spectrum policy, developing new
ways to support wireless services from Wi-Fi to video and the Internet
of Things. She has fought to combat illegal robocalls and enhance
consumer protections in our telecommunications policies.  
  
Prior to joining the agency, she served as Senior Communications Counsel
for the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and
Transportation, under the leadership of Senator John D. Rockefeller IV
and Senator Daniel Inouye. Before entering public service, Jessica
practiced communications law. She is a native of Hartford, Connecticut
and a graduate of Wesleyan University and New York University School of
Law. She lives with her family in Washington, DC.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Gigi Sohn, Nominee for
Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission</span>**  
Gigi B. Sohn is a Distinguished Fellow at the Georgetown Law Institute
for Technology Law & Policy and a Benton Senior Fellow and Public
Advocate. Gigi is one of the nation’s leading public advocates for open,
affordable, and democratic communications networks. For over thirty
years, Gigi has worked to defend and preserve the fundamental
competition and innovation policies that have made broadband Internet
access more ubiquitous, competitive, affordable, open, and protective of
user privacy. If she is confirmed, Gigi would be the first openly
LGBTIQ+ Commissioner in the history of the FCC.

From 2013-2016, Gigi served as Counselor to Former FCC Chairman Tom
Wheeler, and from 2001-2013 was Co-Founder and CEO of Public Knowledge,
a leading communications and technology policy advocacy organization
serving the interests of consumers. She was previously a Project
Specialist in the Ford Foundation’s Media, Arts and Culture unit and
Executive Director of the Media Access Project, a communications public
interest law firm. Gigi holds a B.S. in Broadcasting and Film, *Summa
Cum Laude*, from the Boston University College of Communication and a
J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania Law School. She resides with
her family in Washington, DC.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Alan Davidson, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary for Communications and Information at the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of
Commerce</span>**  
Alan Davidson is an Internet policy expert with over 20 years of
experience as an executive, public interest advocate, technologist, and
attorney. He is currently a Senior Advisor at the Mozilla Foundation, a
global nonprofit that promotes openness, innovation, and participation
on the Internet. He was previously Mozilla’s Vice President of Global
Policy, Trust and Security, where he led public policy and privacy teams
promoting an open Internet and a healthy web. Alan served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as the first Director of Digital Economy at
the U.S. Department of Commerce. He started Google’s public policy
office in Washington, D.C., leading government relations and policy in
North and South America for seven years until 2012.  
  
Alan has been a long-time leader in the Internet nonprofit community,
serving as Director of New America’s Open Technology Institute where he
worked to promote equitable broadband access and adoption. As Associate
Director of the Center for Democracy and Technology, where he is
currently a Board Member, Alan was an advocate for civil liberties and
human rights online in some of the earliest Internet policy debates.
Alan currently resides with his family in Chevy Chase, Maryland. He is a
graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Yale Law
School, and is a member of the District of Columbia Bar.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Kathi Vidal, Nominee for
Under Secretary for Intellectual Property and Director of the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office at the Department of Commerce</span>**  
Katherine (“Kathi”) Vidal is one of the leading intellectual property
lawyers in the country and has held key leadership and management roles
in international law firms. Currently, she is the managing partner of
Winston & Strawn’s Silicon Valley Office. Nationally recognized for
leading high-profile patent disputes, her experience covers a myriad of
complex technologies from semiconductors and software to medical devices
and consumer products.  Kathi has received numerous accolades for her
work—including being inducted as a Fellow by Litigation Counsel of
America, a trial lawyer honorary society.  Kathi represents both
plaintiffs and defendants in U.S. district courts, the International
Trade Commission, and at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office
(PTO). Kathi is registered to practice before the PTO and prosecuted
many patent applications early in her career. Kathi also advises on IP
policies for standard setting organizations, trademark and copyright
matters, and on strategies for worldwide patent disputes including
advising on national security, policy and related issues.  Kathi is also
a recognized thought leader on difficult issues confronting the legal
profession and intellectual property law, and has been active in the
Sedona Conference, the Leahy Institute of Advanced Patent Studies, and
the Federal Judicial Conference. She is also a Fellow of the Federal
Circuit Bar Association.

Kathi is a recognized leader in diversity and women’s issues. She is one
of four law firm advisory board members for ChIPs, a non-profit
organization committed to advancing women at the intersection of law,
technology, and regulatory policy. She founded the Next Gen initiative
and actively advocates for training and opportunities for junior
lawyers.  She is also a member of Winston & Strawn’s Executive Committee
and Diversity. At her prior firm, Fish & Richardson, Kathi was the
Litigation Chair and sat on the firm’s management committee.  She has a
strong technical background, having practiced in industry for five years
at General Electric and Lockheed Martin in circuit, systems, software
and artificial intelligence. She received her Bachelors and Masters in
Electrical Engineering and completed the GE Edison Engineering
three-year leadership program.  Kathi’s father was a career Navy Senior
Chief Officer and her grandparents were scientists at the National
Institutes of Health after serving in the Navy.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Laurel Blatchford, Nominee
for Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management at the
Office of Management and Budget</span>**  
Laurel currently is a Managing Director at Blue Meridian Partners, a
nonprofit and pioneering philanthropic model that invests in economic
and social mobility nationwide. In this capacity, she sources new
philanthropic investment opportunities, leads due diligence on Blue
Meridian investees, and manages relationships with current investees.
She is also spearheading Blue Meridian’s investments in policy tools,
solutions, and supports that create economic mobility. Prior to joining
Blue Meridian, Laurel was President of Enterprise Community Partners,
Inc., a national affordable housing and community development
intermediary. She was responsible for leading Enterprise’s work in 12
local markets across the United States, and as well as groundbreaking
initiatives focused on addressing housing insecurity, climate change,
and connecting people to opportunity. She also led Enterprise’s advisory
work in local communities in partnership with federal, state and local
government partners.  
  
In the Obama-Biden Administration, Laurel served as Chief of Staff of
the Department of Housing and Urban Development from 2009-2013 and
served as executive director of the Hurricane Sandy Task Force, guiding
the implementation of disaster resilience funding across New York and
New Jersey. Prior to joining the Obama-Biden Administration, she held
several leadership roles in the administration of New York City Mayor
Michael Bloomberg between 2002-2008.  
  
She currently serves the board of the National Housing Conference, as a
member of the Advisory Board for the American Flood Coalition, and was a
member of the agency review team for HUD and the Federal Housing Finance
Agency (FHFA) during the Biden-Harris presidential transition. Laurel
holds an MPP from Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government and
a BA in Anthropology/Sociology from Williams College. She lives with her
family in Washington DC.

\###
