---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-30'
modified_time: 2021-10-30 14:53:40-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/30/readout-of-senior-administration-official-travel-to-djibouti-kenya-niger-and-somalia/
published_time: 2021-10-30 14:53:39-04:00
title: Readout of Senior Administration Official Travel to Djibouti, Kenya, Niger,
  and Somalia
---
 
This week, Assistant to the President for Homeland Security Dr. Liz
Sherwood-Randall, USAFRICOM Commander General Stephen Townsend, and
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity
Conflict Chris Maier traveled to Djibouti, Somalia, Kenya, and Niger.

The trip focused on advancing the Biden Administration’s
counterterrorism policy in an evolving threat landscape: prioritizing
the most dangerous and ascendant threats; empowering local partners to
prevent and counter terrorist threats within their own borders; and
working multilaterally with regional and international allies and
partners to pursue our broader security, governance, and development
goals across the region. In each country they visited, the delegation
had the opportunity to recognize the outstanding contributions of
AFRICOM military personnel.

In East Africa, Dr. Sherwood-Randall, General Townsend, and Mr. Maier
met with U.S. forces in Djibouti, Somalia, and Kenya who are responsible
for executing the counterterrorism campaign against al-Shabaab in
conjunction with local and regional partners.  They also met with U.S.
Embassy officials.  Throughout their visit they discussed the
adaptation of our counterterrorism enterprise in the region to bolster
the detection of emerging threats and enhance coordination with local
partners and the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM).  In
Djibouti, the delegation also met with Special Operations Forces
responsible for U.S. crisis response capabilities on the African
continent.

In West Africa, the delegation travelled to Niger, the primary hub for
U.S. and European counterterrorism efforts in the Sahel region.  They
visited U.S. air bases in Agadez and Niamey where American forces
work with Nigerien partners to disrupt security threats and support
hostage recovery efforts.  In Niamey, they met with Nigerien President
Bazoum to discuss opportunities to strengthen security cooperation to
counter the growing influence of terrorist groups in the Sahel.  They
also met with U.S. Embassy officials and with French Ambassador to Niger
Alexandre Garcia and Barkhane Force Commander Major General Laurent
Michon to enhance U.S.-French counterterrorism cooperation in the
region.
