---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 15:19:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/29/united-states-france-joint-statement/
published_time: 2021-10-29 15:19:52-04:00
title: "United\_States-France Joint\_Statement"
---
 
Today, the President of the United States and the President of the
French Republic met in Rome on the margins of the G20 Summit to reaffirm
their commitment to closer bilateral and transatlantic cooperation in
the pursuit of peace, security, and prosperity around the globe. This
meeting built on the in-depth consultations announced in their September
22 joint statement aimed at creating the conditions for ensuring
confidence. They underscore the strength of the longstanding and
historic relationship between the United States and France, underpinned
by our shared democratic values, economic ties, and defense and security
cooperation. They also reiterate a shared commitment to adapt and
modernize our transatlantic alliance and partnership in light of global
trends and in line with the depth of our bonds, common values, and
shared interests. They resolve to ensure that democracy delivers for
their citizens, to uphold the rule of law and good governance, to defend
the human rights and dignity of all individuals, and to counter
injustice and inequality.  
  
From this foundation, the Presidents intend to work closely together
– bilaterally and with other allies and partners around the world – to
counter enduring and new threats. They share a commitment to systematic
and in-depth consultation and coordination to ensure transparency, both
bilaterally and in multilateral fora, including with NATO Allies and EU
partners, on policies and initiatives that are of respective
interest and have strategic implications. As France assumes the
Presidency of the European Union during the first half of 2022, it will
keep the United States closely informed of its priorities.  
  
The United States and France acknowledge our shared responsibility to
lead the development of global solutions in response to collective
challenges, including continued U.S.-EU cooperation to strengthen the
multi-lateral, rules-based order. Our countries will work to strengthen
global health and health security, including efforts to end the COVID-19
pandemic and to build resilience against future pandemics. We will
continue urgently addressing the climate crisis, including support for
the aims of COP-26 to accelerate the global net-zero transition. The
Presidents welcome plans to launch a “US-France Bilateral Clean Energy
Partnership” by the end of the year. We will pursue a sustainable global
economic recovery, based on a fair, inclusive, and rules-based global
economy. As new technologies emerge, we will seek to ensure that norms
and standards governing their use reflect our shared democratic values,
while respecting our respective regulatory autonomy. In this regard, the
two Presidents welcome the launch of the Trade and Technology Council as
an important forum for enabling the United States and the EU to update
the rules of the road for the 21st century economy. They also support a
bilateral dialogue on the impact of emerging technologies on our
economies and societies. The United States and France intend to
intensify cooperation on space issues, which will be further discussed
during Vice President Harris’ upcoming visit to Paris.  
  
The Presidents resolve to maintain our collective defense and security,
cultivate our resilience, enhance their solidarity,
and ensure international stability in response to the full range
of modern threats. The United States and France share the goal of
continuing to bolster deterrence as a core element of our collective
defense and to contribute to the indivisible security of
the NATO Alliance.   
  
The fundamental purpose of NATO’s nuclear capability is to preserve
peace, prevent coercion, and deter aggression.  Given the deteriorating
security environment in Europe, we reaffirm that a credible and united
nuclear Alliance is essential. In light of this security environment,
allies should continue close consultations on nuclear and arms control
matters, particularly within NATO. We will
work together to strengthen arms control, disarmament, and
non-proliferation, as a key element of Euro-Atlantic security.  
  
As noted in the September 22 Joint Statement between the two Presidents,
the United States recognizes the importance of a stronger and more
capable European defense that contributes positively to global and
transatlantic security and is complementary to NATO. The United
States supports European Allies’ and Partners’ growing investments in
the military capabilities that enable our shared defense, given the
benefit to transatlantic security of stronger European military
capabilities and more committed European partners.  European-led
missions and operations such as in the Sahel and in Bosnia are
positively contributing to transatlantic security.  
  
The Presidents reaffirm their support
for strengthening the NATO-EU strategic partnership, which is unique
and essential for the security and prosperity of our nations and of the
Euro-Atlantic area. They support the invitation of the EU and other
partners to the upcoming NATO Leaders’ Summit in Madrid in 2022. The
Presidents also reaffirm support for a U.S.-EU dialogue
on security and defense and work towards an Administrative Arrangement
for the United States with the European Defense Agency, as decided at
the U.S.-EU Summit in June.   
  
The Presidents affirm the importance of stronger and interoperable
defense industrial bases in Europe and in the United States, which will
deliver better military capabilities, to the benefit of the
Alliance. The Presidents intend to launch a U.S.-France defense trade
strategic dialogue to foster a shared view on defense market access and
export issues. In this context, the two governments will identify steps
to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of defense export
authorizations.   
  
The Presidents recognize the importance of robust collaboration in the
Indo-Pacific, particularly given growing economic and strategic
challenges there. The United States welcomes France’s enduring role as
an Indo-Pacific partner, whose long-standing commitment, geography,
and military capabilities based throughout the region make it
a key contributor and security provider to a free and open Indo-Pacific.
The United States also welcomes the EU strategy on the Indo-Pacific
and intends to continue robust consultations on its own
strategy. They support further dialogue and practical cooperation with
partners in the Indo-Pacific, noting the importance of combined efforts
to support the rules-based international order and determine common
approaches to global challenges. As France and other European nations
increase their air and maritime deployments in the region, the United
States intends to increase its support and material contributions to
these deployments.  
  
As conveyed in the September 22 Joint Statement between the Presidents,
the United States and France will increase their cooperation in
the Sahel. Accordingly, the U.S. has committed additional assets in the
Sahel to support counterterrorism efforts led by France and
other European states. The two Presidents have charged their teams with
intensifying bilateral consultations – complemented by their respective
ongoing collaboration with African states and organizations, as well
as other European partners – with a view toward supporting a holistic
and sustainable approach to the region. In addition, France and the
United States will look for ways to strengthen multilateral support for
the G5 Sahel, its member states, and MINUSMA.  
  
The two Presidents commend the historic efforts of the Global Coalition
to Defeat ISIS. They intend to strengthen coordination and
cooperation bilaterally and with Coalition partners to maintain pressure
on ISIS networks globally, including the continuation of relevant
military efforts in Iraq and Syria to ensure the enduring defeat of
ISIS. The Presidents understand the importance of reducing the ability
of violent extremist groups or any country to threaten our citizens and
our allies. They support essential reforms in Lebanon, concur on the
need to ensure Iran never develops or acquires a nuclear
weapon, underscore the importance of the November 12 Paris international
conference on Libya in view of national elections there on December
24, and support the sovereignty and independence of Iraq while
ensuring it never again provides sanctuary to violent extremist
groups.  
  
Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Emmanuel Macron  
October 29, 2021

\###
