---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-26'
modified_time: 2021-10-26 16:48:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/26/fact-sheet-private-sector-leaders-are-stepping-up-to-welcome-afghans/
published_time: 2021-10-26 16:48:29-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Private Sector Leaders Are Stepping Up to Welcome\_Afghans"
---
 
*Through Operation Allies Welcome, the Biden Administration is
marshaling a whole-of-America approach to safely, securely and
effectively welcoming our Afghan allies and Afghans at-risk. In concert
with Welcome.US, private sector leaders are playing a crucial role in
this effort, stepping up in meaningful ways to welcome individuals who
supported the United States over the past 20 years in Afghanistan and
equip them for success as they rebuild their lives. Companies can get
involved and learn more at Welcome.US.*

**Billion Mile Challenge**  
In an historic cross-divide alliance across the transportation industry,
**United, American, Delta, JetBlue, Alaska, Boeing, Tripadvisor
Foundation, Frontier, and Air Canada** have come together to help ensure
that every Afghan evacuee receives a donated ticket to their new
home—and that limited government resources are allocated to needs that
only the public sector can fund. This morning, Welcome.US and Miles 4
Migrants announced, in that spirit, that more than an unprecedented
40,000+ flights had been donated across these companies and their
customers—bringing the total to 600M+ donated frequent-flier miles and
setting the stage for a Billion Mile Challenge to the American people
now underway.

**Accenture**  
Accenture has committed more than $2.5M in cash and pro-bono services to
support the resettlement of Afghan refugees.  Working in partnership
with Welcome.US, the IRC and other prominent organizations, Accenture is
assisting refugees with housing, critical goods and services as well as
employment opportunities.

**Airbnb**  
Temporary housing is one of the most urgent needs facing Afghan
newcomers. Airbnb.org has committed to providing temporary housing for
20,000 Afghan refugees and is working with the nine resettlement
agencies and other Afghan-led groups to place newcomers into welcoming
homes. As more Afghan refugees move off military bases and into
communities, Airbnb.org is working to recruit more Airbnb hosts in
cities across the country to build the supply of temporary housing.

**American**  
After being among the airlines to take care of evacuees from Afghanistan
through its duties with the Civil Reserve Air Fleet program, American
Airlines is donating 6,000 flights through Welcome.US as another
demonstration of its purpose to help ease the transition for Afghan
evacuees and provide a welcoming experience to those who are beginning
their journeys in the United States.

**Bain Capital**  
Bain Capital and its partners have committed more than $1 million to
causes supporting the resettlement of Afghans.

**Chamber of Commerce**  
Over the last three weeks, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation,
through its Hiring Our Heroes program, has conducted more than 30
employment sessions on seven military installations. Those sessions have
served more than 2,300 Afghan guests providing critical guidance on the
American workforce, employment opportunities and job search techniques.

**Tent Coalition**  
Under the leadership of Chobani CEO and Tent Founder Hamdi Ulukaya, the
Tent Coalition for Afghan Refugees has recruited 50 major companies that
are exploring concrete opportunities to hire, train or help integrate
Afghans into their communities in other important ways. This includes
companies like Amazon, CVS Health, Pfizer, FedEx, and Tyson Foods and
Tent is working with these companies to implement their hiring
commitments across the country.

**CVS**  
CVS Health Foundation is making a financial contribution to help fund
Welcome.us, as well as donating products to meet critical needs for our
Afghan Allies on military bases and participating in the effort to hire
Afghan newcomers.

**Etsy**  
Etsy is using the power of entrepreneurship to welcome Afghan artisans
onto the Etsy platform as a part of its [Uplift
Initiative](https://blog.etsy.com/news/2021/introducing-the-etsy-uplift-initiative-which-aims-to-bring-more-economic-opportunities-to-creative-entrepreneurs-everywhere/).
This pilot program will offer a broad range of business support services
to empower Afghan artisans to earn income and define their financial
future in the U.S.

**Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP**  
Since August 2021, more than 100 Gibson Dunn attorneys have dedicated
over 2,000 pro bono hours, valued at approximately $2 million, in
response to the humanitarian crisis in Afghanistan.  In partnership with
Human Rights First, the Afghan-American Foundation and Welcome.US, the
firm is forming and launching the *Welcome Legal Alliance* to mobilize
law firms, corporate legal teams, and the broader legal community to
ensure that our Afghan neighbors have access to legal services
throughout the entire resettlement process. A growing list of other
organizations and law firms, including The International Refugee
Assistance Project, Kids in Need of Defense, Pars Equality Center,
Tahirih Justice Center, and We the Action have committed to joining the
Alliance. This initiative will amplify the work of – and drive resources
to – the front-line non-profit organizations, pro bono lawyers, and
others already providing a range of legal services to our Afghan allies.

**Goodwill Industries**  
As part of its commitment to giving everyone the opportunity to thrive,
local Goodwill nonprofit organizations are collecting and donating
clothing and toys for Afghans. Goodwill Industries International (GII)
is collaborating with Welcome.US to design and deploy training and
employment services that quickly connect Afghan families with paychecks,
training and wrap-around supports.

**Google**  
Google is supporting the national effort to welcome and assist Afghan
families as they build new lives in communities across America. To help
Americans access information on ways to support their new Afghan
neighbors, Google.org is donating an additional $1 million in ad grants
to Welcome.US, bringing Google.org’s total commitment toward welcoming
Afghan arrivals to $5 million.

**JP Morgan Chase**  
JPMorgan Chase has announced a $1 million commitment in funding to the
International Rescue Committee, which will regrant funding through Blue
Star Families, Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America and the UK-based
Combat Stress to assist with resettlement of Afghans and provide mental
health care and other services for those in military and veterans
communities who have been impacted by the conflict. In addition, the
firm’s legal team will provide pro bono assistance to address Afghan
relocation and immigration issues.

**ManpowerGroup**  
ManpowerGroup is providing a Jobs Exchange portal that will integrate
with the Welcome.US website, enabling employers to easily post relevant
job openings, and allowing resettlement agencies and Afghans to search,
apply and/or be matched to these roles based on their skill sets.

**Procter & Gamble**  
P&G has donated more than $250,000 worth of products and cash donations
to support the Afghan resettlement efforts.  P&G’s contributions include
health & hygiene, personal care and cleaning products to several of the
bases for distribution to the Afghan families and financial support to
relief partners involved in the effort.

**Starbucks**  
As part of Starbucks’ commitment to creating a “Third Place” where
everyone is welcome and support the national effort to welcome Afghan
refugees, Starbucks has committed $450,000 to date in new grants from
The Starbucks Foundation to nonprofit organizations supporting the
resettlement of Afghans in the United States. Starbucks continues to
build towards a goal of hiring 10,000 refugees globally.

**Trip Advisor**  
Since 2015, Tripadvisor and the Tripadvisor Foundation have been
committed to addressing the displacement crisis globally by supporting
efforts to help refugees find a safe home. That commitment has included
direct financial contributions of nearly $10 million dollars, the
creation of strong partnerships with leading support organizations and
engaging Tripadvisor employees and the wider travel community to support
those that have been displaced. To support Afghan resettlement efforts,
Tripadvisor has made donations to World Central Kitchen, Miles4Migrants
and the International Institute of New England to support emergency
relief efforts. In addition, Tripadvisor supports the just-announced
Billion Miles Challenge launched in partnership with Miles4Migrants and
Welcome.US to support the critical transportation needs of Afghans in
search of safer communities.

**United**  
After transporting Afghan allies and at-risk Afghans through the Civil
Reserve Air Fleet program, United Airlines is contributing the mile
equivalent of 7,000 flights to Miles4Migrants, building on an effort
announced in August through its Miles on a Mission platform to collect
donations for three nonprofit organizations and match donations up to 15
million miles. Miles4Migrants received 14.2 million of the 15 million
match and an additional 32.1 million miles from United MileagePlus
members. Together, United and its MileagePlus members have funded nearly
10,000 total flights. United is also encouraging MileagePlus members to
donate by providing a free flight to Miles4Migrants for every 15,000
miles donated.

**Walgreens**  
Walgreens partnered with United Airlines to ensure passengers arriving
on Civil Reserve Air Fleet flights were treated with care and respect by
providing personal hygiene supplies, infant supplies and OCT medication
for United’s CRAF flights to the U.S.

**Walmart**  
Walmart and the Walmart Foundation have committed $1.5 million dollars
to support No One Left Behind, Lutheran Immigration Refugee Services,
The Tragedy Assistance Program for Survivors and Welcome.US. Walmart is
also working closely with nonprofits to stand up registries on its
Registry for Good to enable customers to support needs for Afghan
refugees in their communities and the company is actively working to
hire our Afghan newcomers.

\###
