---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-20'
modified_time: 2021-10-19 22:26:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/20/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-update-on-operational-planning-for-covid-19-vaccinations-for-kids-ages-5-11/
published_time: 2021-10-20 08:30:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Announces Update on Operational Planning\
  \ for COVID-\u206019 Vaccinations for Kids Ages\_5-11"
---
 
*Administration to Make Vaccination Convenient, Easily Accessible, and
Free for Kids Ages 5-11 if Authorized by the FDA and CDC*

Since taking office, President Biden has mobilized a whole-of-government
effort to get Americans vaccinated and end the pandemic. Today, 2 in 3
eligible individuals – 189 million Americans – are fully vaccinated.
That’s an increase from approximately 2 million reported when the
President took office. The potential authorization of the first COVID-19
vaccine for children ages 5-11, which is currently under consideration
by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC), would be another major milestone in our
efforts to build on this historic progress and protect even more
Americans.  
  
In anticipation of the FDA’s independent advisory committee meeting on
October 26 and the CDC’s independent advisory committee meeting on
November 2-3, today the Biden Administration is announcing a plan to
ensure that, if a vaccine is authorized for children ages 5-11, it is
quickly distributed and made conveniently and equitably available to
families across the country. The start of a vaccination program for
children ages 5-11 will depend on the independent FDA and CDC process
and timeline, but our planning efforts mean that we will be ready to
begin getting shots in arms in the days following a final CDC
recommendation. These steps will be critical in ensuring that we are
staying ahead of the virus by keeping kids and families safe, especially
those at highest risk.  
  
Millions of adolescents ages 12-17 have been safely vaccinated, and we
know vaccines work. Fully vaccinated individuals are 10 times less
likely to be hospitalized with COVID-19 and have a high degree of
protection, including against the Delta variant. The consequences of a
pediatric COVID-19 case can be serious and potentially last months.  
  
As with vaccination for those 12 and older, the success of this program
will rely heavily on states, Tribes, and territories to help implement a
smooth rollout. A major component of the Administration’s operational
planning is working closely with state and local leaders to ensure they
are prepared to distribute and administer vaccines. The Administration
is hosting operational readiness calls with every jurisdiction,
encouraging them to help increase enrollment of pediatric providers, and
will be providing resources to support them as critical partners in the
outreach and public education campaign. Thanks to the American Rescue
Plan, states will continue to receive unprecedented levels of federal
support, including full reimbursement from the federal government for
vaccination operations and outreach programs.  
  
The Administration’s plan will mobilize a comprehensive effort across
the public and private sectors to ensure that we have the supply, the
sites, and the support needed to get our nation’s children vaccinated
and protected against the virus.  
  
Today, the Biden Administration is announcing the following steps:  
  
*<span style="text-decoration: underline">Securing vaccine supply for
our nation’s children:</span>*  The Administration has procured enough
vaccine to support vaccination for the country’s 28 million children
ages 5-11 years old. If authorized by the FDA and recommended by the
CDC, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for 5-11 year olds will be a dose and
formula specifically for this age group. The vaccine will have packaging
available in smaller configurations that will make it easier for
physicians’ offices and other smaller, community-based providers to
offer the vaccine to kids and their families. Pending FDA authorization,
the packaging configuration will be 10-dose vials in cartons of 10 vials
each (100 doses total), delivered in a newly updated product shipper,
and the vaccine can be stored for up to 10 weeks at standard
refrigeration temperatures and 6 months at ultracold temperatures. And,
the vaccine will come with all the ancillary supplies that providers
need to serve kids, including smaller needles. The U.S. Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) is working hand-in-hand with states to
make this vaccine supply available in communities across the country as
rapidly as possible.  
  
*Standing Up Vaccination Sites in Settings That Kids and Their Parents
Know and Trust:* The Administration will make vaccination accessible and
conveniently located to families across the country, including
vaccination clinics at doctors’ offices, hospitals, pharmacies,
community health centers, and school- and community-based sites.
Nationwide, more than 25,000 pediatric and primary care provider sites
will provide vaccinations for children, in addition to tens of thousands
of other provider locations that serve children, including pharmacies,
children’s hospitals, and community health centers.

-   *<u>Over 25,000 Pediatricians’ Offices and Other Primary Care
    Sites:</u>* The Administration, in partnership with states and
    localities, will make vaccinations available at doctors’ offices
    across the country — more than 25,000 pediatric offices and other
    primary care sites in total. Pediatricians, and other doctors, are
    some of the most trusted sources for families when it comes to
    COVID-19 vaccines for children. These providers will play a critical
    role in the nationwide effort to get children vaccinated. To
    facilitate this, the Administration is working with states to
    increase the number of pediatric and primary care providers enrolled
    to administer the vaccine and to provide the training and resources
    they need — including the vaccine supply in smaller package size and
    with easier-to-handle storage requirements highlighted above.
-   *<u>Over 100 Children’s Hospitals and Health Systems Across the
    Country</u>*: The Administration is launching a partnership with the
    Children’s Hospital Association to work with over 100 children’s
    hospital systems across the country to set up vaccination sites in
    November and through the end of the calendar year. Parents know and
    trust children’s hospitals to be there for their children’s medical
    needs, and these vaccination efforts will be no different.
    Pediatricians, pediatric specialists, nurses and team members will
    administer the vaccine to kids in trusted, family-friendly settings
    that serve kids every day. Participating hospitals will work to
    partner with community- and faith-based organizations, school
    districts, and other partners to conduct outreach to their local
    communities, and offer vaccinations at convenient hours that work
    for kids and their parents – such as after school, evenings, and on
    weekends. And, pediatric clinicians will be available to parents for
    questions about vaccine safety and effectiveness. Children’s
    hospitals and health systems will be a critical part of our efforts
    to advance equity and ensure access for our nation’s highest-risk
    kids, including those with obesity, diabetes, asthma, or
    immunosuppression.
-   *<u>Tens of Thousands of Pharmacies</u>*: As part of the federal
    government’s pharmacy program, tens of thousands of pharmacies
    across the country will offer the vaccine to their local
    communities. Pharmacists are a trusted source of information for
    parents, and local pharmacies will be a convenient, accessible
    option for many families. Pharmacies will offer family-friendly
    in-store clinics to best meet the needs of local communities. And,
    pharmacies will offer vaccinations at convenient hours for kids and
    their parents – allowing for advanced appointment scheduling and
    walk-ins wherever available. Pharmacy partners will launch
    comprehensive campaigns to reach parents and families, including
    texts, calls and outreach to meet local communities where they are.
-   *<u>Hundreds of School and Community-Based Clinics:</u>* The
    Administration will work with states and local partners to make
    vaccination sites available at schools and other trusted
    community-based sites across the country. The Administration,
    through the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), is providing
    full funding to states to support vaccination operations and
    outreach – including setting up sites, procuring equipment and
    supplies to store and administer the vaccine, providing
    transportation to and from vaccination sites, and communicating with
    the public, such as through in-person community engagement, call
    center support, public service announcements, and translation
    services. And, for those schools who need extra help, the
    Administration will launch a new effort to match school districts
    with vaccine providers who will provide on-site vaccination clinics
    for their students and local communities.
-   *<u>Hundreds of Community Health Centers and Rural Health
    Clinics</u>*: The Administration will work with community health
    centers and rural health clinics across the country to provide
    vaccinations to the children and families they serve. Health centers
    and rural health clinics play a critical role in providing care for
    kids and their families well. Nationwide, over 3 million 5-11 year
    olds get their primary health care from community health centers.
    The Administration – working through states, the federal Health
    Center COVID-19 Vaccine Program, and the Rural Health Clinic
    COVID-19 Vaccine Program –will make vaccine supply available to
    health centers and rural health clinics across the country, and work
    hand-in-hand with providers to ensure they have the resources and
    support they need to serve kids and their families.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">*Supporting Education and
Engagement Efforts to Build Public Trust:* </span>To ensure that parents
have the information they need to make informed choices for their
families, HHS will conduct a national public education campaign to reach
parents and guardians with accurate and culturally-responsive
information about the vaccine and the risks that COVID-19 poses to
children. To achieve this, the campaign will invest heavily in trusted
messengers; work with schools, state and local health departments, faith
leaders, and national and community organizations to increase vaccine
confidence; create forums for parents to ask questions to pediatricians;
and reach out to parents directly through press and social media across
channels and in multiple languages. Central to this work will be close
collaboration with the major national organizations, and their local
affiliates, that reach families across the country – including provider
and parent organizations and other key partners from across the public
and private sectors. And, the over 14,000 members of the COVID-19
Community Corps will play a critical role in mobilizing grassroots
efforts to keep kids and their families safe. Additionally, while many
parents will go to their own pediatrician to get their questions
answered, we know some children do not have a consistent medical
provider and their parents may have questions. To ensure that every
parent can get answers from trusted sources, the Surgeon General will
enlist pediatricians and community leaders to talk to Americans directly
via popular media and social media channels and through visits to
hard-hit and high-risk communities.

\###
