---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-14'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/14/joint-statement-of-the-ministers-and-representatives-from-the-counter-ransomware-initiative-meeting-october-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-14 13:13:45-04:00
title: Joint Statement of the Ministers and Representatives from the Counter Ransomware
  Initiative Meeting October 2021
---
 
Having gathered virtually on October 13 and 14 to discuss the escalating
global security threat from ransomware, we the Ministers and
Representatives of Australia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Czech Republic,
the Dominican Republic, Estonia, European Union, France, Germany, India,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lithuania, Mexico, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Poland, Republic of Korea, Romania,
Singapore, South Africa, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, United Arab
Emirates, the United Kingdom, and the United States recognize that
ransomware is an escalating global security threat with serious economic
and security consequences.  
  
From malign operations against local health providers that endanger
patient care, to those directed at businesses that limit their ability
to provide fuel, groceries, or other goods to the public, ransomware
poses a significant risk to critical infrastructure, essential services,
public safety, consumer protection and privacy, and economic prosperity.
As with other cyber threats, the threat of ransomware is complex and
global in nature and requires a shared response. A nation’s ability to
effectively prevent, detect, mitigate and respond to threats from
ransomware will depend, in part, on the capacity, cooperation, and
resilience of global partners, the private sector, civil society, and
the general public.  
  
Governments recognize the need for urgent action, common priorities, and
complementary efforts to reduce the risk of ransomware. Efforts will
include improving network resilience to prevent incidents when possible
and respond effectively when incidents do occur; addressing the abuse of
financial mechanisms to launder ransom payments or conduct other
activities that make ransomware profitable; and disrupting the
ransomware ecosystem via law enforcement collaboration to investigate
and prosecute ransomware actors, addressing safe havens for ransomware
criminals, and continued diplomatic engagement.  
  
**Resilience **  
  
Network resilience is about more than technical capabilities – it also
requires effective policy frameworks, appropriate resources, clear
governance structures, transparent and well-rehearsed incident response
procedures, a trained and ready workforce, partnership with the private
sector, and consistently enforced legal and regulatory regimes. These
efforts will naturally reflect each nation’s unique domestic context,
and may vary from one nation to the next.  
  
However, several universal cybersecurity best practices can dramatically
reduce the likelihood of a ransomware incident and mitigate the risk
from a host of other cyber threats. These basic steps include
maintaining offline data backups, use of strong passwords and
multi-factor authentication, ensuring software patches are up to date,
and education against clicking suspicious links or opening untrusted
documents. We are committed to working together and with the private
sector to promote improvements in basic cyber hygiene to boost network
resilience and mitigate the risk of ransomware.  
  
Nations should also consider appropriate steps to promote incident
information sharing between ransomware victims and relevant law
enforcement and cyber emergency response teams (CERTs), with protection
for privacy and human rights. Such sharing enables cybercrime
investigations and prosecutions, and facilitates broad distribution of
cyber threat mitigation steps.     
  
Moving forward, we are committed to sharing lessons learned and best
practices for development of policies to address ransom payments, as
appropriate. We will also engage with private sector entities to promote
incident information sharing and to explore other opportunities for
collective buy-down of risk. Further, we note that resilience efforts
are most effective when accountable senior leaders with the ability to
direct resources, balance associated trade-offs, and drive outcomes are
actively involved in cybersecurity decision-making.  
  
**Countering Illicit Finance**  
  
Ransomware is primarily a profit-seeking endeavor, commonly leveraging
money laundering networks to move ransomware proceeds. We recognize the
significant potential for combating ransomware through enhanced
international cooperation to inhibit, trace, and interdict ransomware
payment flows, consistent with national laws and regulations, which will
drive down economic incentives for ransomware actors. Cooperation can
include a wide range of activities, such as efforts intended to
facilitate customer due diligence, suspicious activity reporting, and
transaction monitoring.    
  
Taking action to disrupt the ransomware business model requires
concerted efforts to address illicit finance risks posed by all value
transfer systems, including virtual assets, the primary instrument
criminals use for ransomware payments and subsequent money laundering.
We acknowledge that uneven global implementation of the standards of the
Financial Action Task Force (FATF) to virtual assets and virtual asset
service providers (VASPs) creates an environment permissive to
jurisdictional arbitrage by malicious actors seeking platforms to move
illicit proceeds without being subject to appropriate anti-money
laundering (AML) and other obligations. We also recognize the challenges
some jurisdictions face in developing frameworks and investigative
capabilities to address the constantly evolving and highly distributed
business operations involving virtual assets.  
  
We are dedicated to enhancing our efforts to disrupt the ransomware
business model and associated money-laundering activities, including
through ensuring our national AML frameworks effectively identify and
mitigate risks associated with VASPs and related activities. We will
enhance the capacity of our national authorities, to include regulators,
financial intelligence units, and law enforcement to regulate,
supervise, investigate, and take action against virtual asset
exploitation with appropriate protections for privacy, and recognizing
that specific actions may vary based on domestic contexts.  We will also
seek out ways to cooperate with the virtual asset industry to enhance
ransomware-related information sharing.  
  
**Disruption and other Law Enforcement Efforts**  
  
Beyond implementing measures to improve resilience and harden our
financial system from exploitation, we must also act to degrade and hold
accountable ransomware criminal operators.  Ransomware criminal activity
is often transnational in nature, and requires timely and consistent
collaboration across law enforcement, national security authorities,
cybersecurity agencies, and financial intelligence units. Such
collaboration must be consistent with domestic legal requirements, and
may be pursued alongside diplomatic engagement so that malicious
activity can be identified and addressed, and the actors responsible can
be investigated and prosecuted.  Together, we must take appropriate
steps to counter cybercriminal activity emanating from within our own
territory and impress urgency on others to do the same in order to
eliminate safe havens for the operators who conduct such disruptive and
destabilizing operations.  
  
We intend to cooperate with each other and with other international
partners to enhance the exchange of information and provide requested
assistance where able to combat ransomware activity leveraging
infrastructure and financial institutions within our territories. We
will consider all national tools available in taking action against
those responsible for ransomware operations threatening critical
infrastructure and public safety.  
  
**Diplomacy**  
  
In addition to disruption of the ransomware ecosystem, diplomatic
efforts can promote rules-based behavior and encourage states to take
reasonable steps to address ransomware operations emanating from within
their territory. We will leverage diplomacy through coordination of
action in response to states whenever they do not address the activities
of cybercriminals. Such collaboration will be a critical component to
meaningfully reduce safe havens for ransomware actors.  
  
Noting that law enforcement and cybersecurity capacity can be
significant limiting factors in a state’s ability to address cybercrime,
diplomacy in the form of coordinated capacity building has potential to
serve as a force multiplier in the fight against ransomware. We will
share approaches to capacity building, highlight resources and programs
that are available, and take steps to coordinate such work when
appropriate to ensure capacity building complements other actions to
minimize the ransomware threat. 

\###
