---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-27'
modified_time: 2021-10-27 09:00:14-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/27/statement-by-president-joe-biden-three-years-after-the-tree-of-life-synagogue-shooting/
published_time: 2021-10-27 09:00:13-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden Three Years After the Tree of Life Synagogue\_\
  Shooting"
---
 
Three years ago, on a peaceful *Shabbat* morning, a lone gunman stormed
into the Tree of Life Synagogue in Pittsburgh’s Squirrel Hill
neighborhood and stole the lives of 11 souls in prayer. Eleven others
managed to escape — some with serious physical injuries, others with
indelible scars of grief.

The attack was the deadliest act of antisemitism in our nation’s
history. It was an assault on members of the Tree of Life, New Light,
and Dor Hadash congregations, the American Jewish community, and our
country. And it was a reminder that hate never goes away, it only hides;
and if we give hate oxygen, it can consume.

But the days, weeks, and months that followed also revealed the
unyielding character of a community: The first responders who rushed
into harm’s way. The teenagers who organized a *Havdalah* vigil for a
neighborhood in need. The art teacher who painted hearts and Stars of
David in the windows of a local coffee shop. The designer who formed an
iconic image that defined a city and inspired a nation with three simple
words: stronger than hate.

That day and those that followed remind all of us to embrace the better
angels of our nature – and to turn pain into purpose. We must always
stand up and speak out against antisemitism with clarity and conviction,
and rally against the forces of hate in all its forms, because silence
is complicity. We must recognize in others our shared humanity and
strive to summon unexpected faith in unanticipated moments — in the hope
that we might heal and rebuild.

That continues to be the work of my Administration — laying out our
country’s first-ever comprehensive strategy to address domestic
terrorism, signing legislation aimed at strengthening our efforts to
counter unlawful acts of hate, taking executive actions to protect
houses of worship, and pressing forward with executive and legislative
action to reduce all forms of gun violence.

This *Shabbat*, in synagogues around the country, worshipers will sing
the timeless words from the Book of Proverbs: *Eitz Chayim Hee
La’machazikim Bah.* “It is a tree of life for those who hold fast to
it.” As we mark three years since this heinous attack, we resolve to
remember the lives lost and commit to protecting a future worthy of
their memories. May the survivors and the families of the victims hold
fast to the teachings of their faith and find comfort in the embrace of
their community and their country.

\###
