---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 12:48:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/01/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-deputy-national-security-advisor-daleep-singhs-travel-to-colombia-ecuador-and-panama/
published_time: 2021-10-01 12:48:43-04:00
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on Deputy National Security Advisor\
  \ Daleep Singh\u2019s Travel to Colombia, Ecuador, and\_Panama"
---
 
At the United Nations General Assembly, President Biden spoke about
Build Back Better World (B3W)—an infrastructure partnership he launched
alongside G7 leaders in June—as a signature initiative to meet the
climate, health, and technology needs of the developing world using a
values-driven, high-standards, transparent, and catalytic approach to
investment. This week, Deputy National Security Advisor for
International Economics Daleep Singh led an interagency delegation to
Colombia, Ecuador, and Panama to hear directly from a range of Latin
American stakeholders to better understand the infrastructure needs
within these countries and around the region. Singh was joined by David
Marchick, Chief Operating Officer of the U.S. International Development
Finance Corporation, Ricardo Zúniga, Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs and Special Envoy for
the Northern Triangle, as well as officials from the U.S. Agency for
International Development, the Department of Commerce, the Department of
Treasury, and other Departments and Agencies on the ground.

In Colombia, Singh met with President Iván Duque Márquez and members of
his cabinet and met with Ministry of Health representatives to discuss
the government’s efforts to expand vaccine production capacity. In
Ecuador, Singh met with President Guillermo Lasso and key ministers. In
Panama, Singh met with President Laurentino Cortizo and cabinet
ministers. He also met with representatives from the Panama Canal
Authority and private sector leaders. Throughout his trip, Singh met
with representatives from the private sector as well as key
environmental, labor, and civil society leaders to solicit their views
as to how we can best support local communities in a way that responds
to infrastructure needs and advances the highest standards for
transparency and anticorruption, financial sustainability, labor
protections, and environmental preservation.

This visit demonstrated President Biden’s commitment to strengthening
our ties with Latin America and to narrowing the massive global gaps in
physical, digital, and human infrastructure that has been widened by the
COVID-19 pandemic. The President’s vision for B3W is to work with
partners that share our democratic values to finance and develop
infrastructure in a manner that is transparent, sustainable, adheres to
high standards, and catalyzes the private sector where possible. Given
the challenges of the 21<sup>st</sup> century, B3W has a focus on
strengthening infrastructure in the areas of climate, health and health
security, digital connectivity, and gender equity and equality, but
appreciates that countries’ infrastructure needs are dynamic. As the
United States continues to expand B3W, we will work in partnership with
a wide range of stakeholders to promote transparency, sustainability,
and development impact, including those in other low- and middle-income
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean and key regions such as the
Indo-Pacific, sub-Saharan Africa, central and eastern Europe, and the
Middle East and North Africa.

\###
