---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-14'
modified_time: 2021-10-14 16:55:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/14/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-5/
published_time: 2021-10-14 16:31:53-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Christopher R. Hill, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Serbia
-   Ravi Chaudhary, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
    Installations, Energy, and the Environment
-   Ann Phillips, Nominee for Administrator of the United States
    Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation
-   Glen S. Fukushima, Nominee for Member of the Securities Investor
    Protection Corporation 
-   Enoh T. Ebong, Nominee for Director of the United States Trade and
    Development Agency

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Christopher R. Hill, Nominee
for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic of
Serbia</span>  
**Christopher R. Hill is a career member of the foreign service. Most
recently, he has been the 2021 George Ball Adjunct Professor at Columbia
University’s School of International and Public Affairs.  Before
retiring from the Foreign Service in 2010, Hill served as U.S.
Ambassador to Iraq, Korea, Poland and Macedonia, as Assistant Secretary
of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs, and as Head of the U.S.
delegation to the 6 Party Talks on North Korea.  Earlier in his
diplomatic career, he was a member of the negotiating team whose efforts
led to the Dayton Peace Agreement, ending the Bosnian war.  For ten
years, Hill was Dean of the Josef Korbel School of International
Studies, and then Chief Advisor to the Chancellor for Global Engagement
and Professor of the Practice of Diplomacy, at the University of Denver.
 He earned a B.A. at Bowdoin College and an M.S. at the Naval War
College.  The recipient of numerous honors, including the Robert S.
Frasure Award for Peace Negotiations and the Secretary of State
Distinguished Service Award, Hill speaks Serbian, Polish, Macedonian and
French.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ravi Chaudhary, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Installations, Energy, and the
Environment</span>**  
Dr. Chaudhary previously served as a Senior Executive at the U.S.
Department of Transportation where he was Director of Advanced Programs
and Innovation, Office of Commercial Space, at the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA). In this role, Dr. Chaudhary was responsible for
the execution of advanced development and research programs in support
of the FAA’s Commercial Space Transportation mission. While at DOT, he
also served as the Executive Director, Regions and Center Operations,
where he was responsible for integration and support of aviation
operations in nine regions located nationwide.  
  
Dr. Chaudhary is a former Air Force officer and pilot, serving on active
duty from 1993 to 2015. He has completed a variety of operational,
engineering, and senior staff assignments in the Air Force. As a C-17
pilot, he conducted global flight operations, including numerous combat
missions in Afghanistan and Iraq, as well as a ground deployment as
Director of the Personnel Recovery Center, Multi-National Corps, Iraq.
As a flight test engineer, he was responsible for flight certification
of military avionics and hardware for Air Force modernization programs
supporting flight safety and mishap prevention. Earlier in his career,
he supported space launch operations for the Global Positioning System
(GPS) and led third stage and flight safety activities to ensure
full-operational capability of the first GPS constellation.  
  
As a systems engineer, he supported NASA’s International Space Station
protection activities to ensure safety of NASA Astronauts. Dr. Chaudhary
also served as a member of the President’s Advisory Commission on Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders during the Obama Administration. In this
role, he advised the President on executive branch efforts to improve
veterans support for the AAPI community. Dr. Chaudhary holds a Doctorate
specializing in Executive Leadership and Innovation from the Georgetown
University D.L.S. Program, an M.S. in Industrial Engineering from St.
Mary’s University as a NASA graduate fellow, an M.A. in Operational Arts
and Military Science from Air University, and a B.S. in Aeronautical
Engineering from the U.S. Air Force Academy. He is a graduate of the
Federal Executive Institute, and holds DOD acquisition certifications in
program management, test and evaluation, and systems engineering. Dr.
Chaudhary hails from Virginia, where he lives with his wife of 25 years,
Uma, and their two children.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ann Phillips, Nominee for
Administrator of the United States Maritime Administration at the
Department of Transportation</span>**  
Ann Phillips is a leader in the field of coastal resilience and climate
impact on national security at the regional, national and international
level. In her current appointment as the first Special Assistant to the
Governor of Virginia for Coastal Adaptation and Protection, she is
building a collaborative, whole of government and community approach to
address the impact of coastal flooding across the Commonwealth,
including the development of Virginia’s first Coastal Resilience Master
Plan.  In particular, she coordinates across Federal, State, local and
other partners to create equitable strategies to address rising waters
and climate impact to federal, maritime, and other critical coastal
infrastructure assets in Virginia.  
  
Prior to her current appointment, Ann Phillips served nearly 31 years on
active duty in the United States Navy, retiring as a Rear Admiral.  Her
final Flag command was as Commander, Expeditionary Strike Group TWO,
including 14 ships and 10 subordinate commands – all the Amphibious
Expeditionary Forces on the East Coast of the United States.  Earlier
she served on the Chief of Naval Operations’ Staff as Deputy Director
and then Director of Surface Warfare Division, had the honor to
commission and command USS MUSTIN (DDG 89), and to command Destroyer
Squadron 28.   
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Glen S. Fukushima, Nominee
for Member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation</span>**  
Glen S. Fukushima is a Senior Fellow at the Center for American Progress
(CAP), where his research focuses on U.S. relations with Asia. Before
joining CAP in 2012, he was based in Asia for 22 years as a senior
executive with one European and four American multinational
corporations, including AT&T and NCR, and served on several corporate
boards. During this period, he was elected to one term as Vice President
and two terms as President of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan.
Before his business career, he served as a trade negotiator at the
Office of the United States Trade Representative as Director for
Japanese Affairs and as Deputy Assistant USTR for Japan and China.
During the Clinton Administration, he was appointed  as Vice Chair of
the Japan-United States Friendship Commission.  
  
A native of California and third-generation American of Japanese
ancestry, Fukushima has been active in promoting Asian American
advancement in American society, including co-founding CAPA21 (Coalition
of Asian Pacific Americans for the 21<sup>st</sup> Century). He is a
member of the Council on Foreign Relations, Global Council of the Asia
Society, President’s Leadership Council of the Asia Foundation, Board of
Councilors of the U.S.-Japan Council, and Advisory Committee of Harvard
University’s Asia Center. He has taught as a Visiting Professor at Kyoto
University and at Waseda University in Japan.  He earned his B.A. at
Stanford University, M.A. at Harvard University, and J.D. at the Harvard
Law School. He also studied at the Harvard Business School and was a
Fulbright Fellow at the Faculty of Law, University of Tokyo.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Enoh T. Ebong, Nominee for
Director of the United States Trade and Development Agency</span>**  
In February 2021, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. appointed Enoh T. Ebong
to serve as the Chief Operating Officer of the U.S. Trade and
Development Agency, an independent federal agency that helps companies
create U.S. jobs through the export of U.S. goods and services for
priority infrastructure projects in emerging economies. She has been
serving as the Acting Director of the agency since then. The appointment
meant a return to USTDA where from 2004 to 2019, Ms. Ebong had served in
a variety of roles, most recently as the agency’s General Counsel, and
Deputy Director.   
  
Prior to her return to USTDA, Ms. Ebong served as the Head of Strategic
Partnerships at the Milken Center for Advancing the American Dream,
where she drove the development of strategic partnerships to expand
access to education, health, financial empowerment, and
entrepreneurship. Before joining USTDA in 2004, Ms. Ebong practiced law
at the Boston office of Mintz, Levin, Cohn, Ferris, Glovsky and Popeo,
P.C. representing public and private companies in offerings, financing
transactions, mergers and acquisitions, and corporate governance
issues.  
  
Ms. Ebong earned her JD from the University of Michigan Law School, a
Master of Arts in Communication from the Annenberg School for
Communication at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Master of Arts in
History, with honors, from The University of Edinburgh, Scotland. She is
a member of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts Bar. Ms. Ebong was born in
Nigeria and spent her formative years there. She resides in Washington,
D.C.

\###
