---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-07'
modified_time: 2021-10-07 20:23:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-restores-protections-for-three-national-monuments-and-renews-american-leadership-to-steward-lands-waters-and-cultural-resources/
published_time: 2021-10-07 20:22:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden Restores Protections for Three National Monuments
  and Renews American Leadership to Steward Lands, Waters, and Cultural Resources'
---
 
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s effort to better protect,
conserve, and restore the lands and waters that sustain the health of
communities and power our economy, President Biden will sign three
proclamations restoring protections for Bears Ears, Grand
Staircase-Escalante, and Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National
Monuments. By restoring these national monuments, which were
significantly cut back during the previous administration, President
Biden is fulfilling a key promise and upholding the longstanding
principle that America’s national parks, monuments, and other protected
areas are to be protected for all time and for all people.

The President’s protection of these three national monuments is among a
series of steps the Administration has taken to restore protections to
some of America’s most cherished lands and waters, many of which are
sacred to Tribal Nations. The Administration has halted leasing in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, committed to restore protections for
the Tongass National Forest under the Roadless Rule, and initiated the
process to protect Bristol Bay and the world-class salmon fishery it
supports. The Great Lakes, the Chesapeake Bay, the Everglades, the
Columbia River Basin, and dozens of other special places are also back
on America’s conservation agenda.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s land, water, ocean, and wildlife
conservation efforts are critical to solving the climate crisis,
protecting public health, promoting wildlife and biodiversity, and
rebuilding America’s economy. As part of his Build Back Better Agenda,
the President has proposed the creation of a new Civilian Climate Corps,
which would partner with unions in putting to work a new generation that
looks like America – with good benefits and pay – on the path to
family-supporting careers in fields restoring the health of our public
lands, coasts, waters, and forests, advancing environmental justice, and
helping communities better prepare for the impacts of a changing
climate. The President has also set the first-ever national conservation
goal, which the Administration is pursuing by supporting locally-led and
voluntary conservation efforts across the country and creating more
equitable access to the outdoors, including by investing in [urban
parks](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-announces-150-million-create-public-parks-expand-recreation).

President Biden’s action to restore Bears Ears, Grand
Staircase-Escalante, and Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National
Monuments is consistent with recommendations from Secretary of the
Interior Deb Haaland, who – with the support of the Departments of
Agriculture, Commerce, and Justice, and the White House Council on
Environmental Quality – reviewed the actions of the previous
administration that drastically reduced protections for these places. As
part of this review, Biden-Harris Administration leaders met with
Members of Congress, state and local government officials,
representatives of Tribal Nations, and a wide range of stakeholders.
Secretary Haaland also visited Utah to directly meet with local
residents and tour the area. After gathering information and input, the
Department of the Interior provided the President a report with
recommendations on future protection for the areas.  
  
The specific actions that President Biden is taking today are:

-   **Restoring the Bears Ears National Monument to the boundaries
    established by President Obama on December 28, 2016 and retaining
    protections for an additional 11,200 acres added by President Trump
    in 2017.** Restoring these protections will conserve a multitude of
    sites that are culturally and spiritually important to Tribal
    Nations— including petroglyphs, pictographs, cultural sites,
    dwellings, and areas used for traditional rituals, gatherings, and
    tribal practices — as well as paleontological objects, landscape
    features, historic objects, and plant and animal species. Restoring
    the Monument’s boundaries and conditions restores its integrity,
    upholds efforts to honor the federal trust responsibility to Tribal
    Nations, and conserves these lands and waters for future
    generations. With this action, the total protected area of Bears
    Ears National Monument is 1.36 million acres.  
      
    In restoring the Bears Ears National Monument, the Biden-Harris
    Administration is committed to ensuring that there is adequate
    staffing and resources to appropriately protect the area’s natural
    and cultural resources, to manage the increased visitation that the
    area continues to experience, and to make Bears Ears a model for
    Tribal participation in the management of the Monument. The Bureau
    of Land Management plans to assign additional rangers to the region;
    install appropriate signage and infrastructure to inform and support
    visitors; begin working with local communities, the State of Utah,
    and Tribal leaders on assessing the potential opportunity for a
    Bears Ears visitors center that highlights the monument’s cultural
    resources; and support the Bears Ears Intertribal Commission’s
    participation in management of the National Monument.

<!-- -->

-   **Restoring Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument to the
    boundaries that were in place on January 20, 2017.** Grand
    Staircase-Escalante National Monument was first protected in 1996,
    and as described in Proclamation 6920, the landscape holds
    world-class geological objects of historic or scientific interest,
    including the Grand Staircase, White and Vermilion Cliffs,
    Kaiparowits Plateau, Escalante Natural Bridge, Grosvenor Arch, and
    numerous other enumerated geologic objects. The Monument also
    contains vast paleontological objects including significant fossils
    of marine and brackish water mollusks, turtles, crocodilians,
    lizards, dinosaurs, fishes, and mammals, as well as a host of
    cultural objects associated with both ancient indigenous cultures
    and early Latter-Day Saint pioneers, including, but not limited to,
    petroglyphs and pictographs, occupation sites, campsites, granaries,
    and trails. The Monument also contains hanging gardens, tinajas, and
    rock crevice, canyon bottom, and dunal pocket communities,
    protecting the region’s unusual and diverse soils, endemic plants
    and pollinators, relic vegetation, and diverse wildlife. Restoring
    the Monument’s conditions and boundaries will restore its integrity,
    support the continued scientific exploration as outlined in
    Proclamation 6920, protect our shared lands and waters for future
    generations, and continue this administration’s historic efforts to
    honor the Federal trust responsibility. The total protected area of
    Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument is restored to 1.87
    million acres.   
     
-   **Restoring protections to the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts
    Marine National Monument, as established by President Obama on
    September 15, 2016**. The Monument is composed of two units, the
    Canyons Unit and the Seamounts Unit, each of which showcases unique
    geological features that anchor vulnerable ecological communities
    threatened by varied uses, climate change, and related impacts.
     Under the restored protections, commercial fishing in the National
    Monument will be prohibited, with fishing for red crab and American
    lobster to be phased out by September 15, 2023. Consistent with
    President Obama’s Proclamation 9496, recreational fishing in the
    National Monument may continue.  
      
    The Monument includes Oceanographer, Gilbert, and Lydonia canyons;
    and Bear, Mytilus, Physalia, and Retriever seamounts. Restoring the
    Monument’s conditions will restore its integrity, expand the
    opportunity for unique scientific study and exploration, and protect
    and preserve natural and cultural resources for all Americans. With
    this action, the management conditions directed in Proclamation 9496
    for the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts National Monument, which is
    composed of 4,913 square horizontal miles, vertically encompassing
    the water column above, will resume.
