---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-31'
modified_time: 2021-10-31 14:57:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/31/chairs-statement-on-principles-for-supply-chain-resilience/
published_time: 2021-10-31 14:57:13-04:00
title: "Chair\u2019s Statement on Principles for Supply Chain\_Resilience"
---
 
Today (October 31, 2021) the United States, the European Union,
Australia, Canada, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Germany, Indonesia,
India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Netherlands, Republic of Korea, Singapore,
Spain, and the United Kingdom met to discuss near-term supply chain
disruptions and paths to long-term resilience. Secure, sustainable, and
resilient global supply chains are foundational to our economic
prosperity, national security, and collective interests.  Countries
expressed intent for working together to strengthen the resilience of
our supply chains—the global ecosystem of raw materials, intermediate
goods, manufacturing, logistics, research and development that ensures
our businesses and consumers get the products they need. Secure,
sustainable, and resilient supply chains require that we work in
partnership, not only as governments, but with industry, unions and
workers, civil society, and international organizations alike. Whether
in responding to acute shocks of the kind we are experiencing in global
trade today, or addressing the chronic long-term challenges in sectors
critical to our security, more resilient global supply chains are
fundamental to sustainable economic development for all.

We discussed strengthening four key pillars of global supply chain
resilience:

-   **Transparency:**  Improving transparency and information sharing
    between countries will help all countries mitigate and respond to
    global supply chain shocks; this includes working with businesses to
    understand their own vulnerabilities.  Transparency of supply chains
    with regard to of raw materials, intermediate and finished products
    should be a key industry value.  Transparency in supply chains
    promotes awareness of risks and potential shortages, identifies
    bottlenecks, and assists organizations in determining whether
    alternative sources of critical inputs are needed.  This kind of
    openness and communication can promote a swift response to
    disruptions to supply chains—like those that the globe is facing
    right now—and allow other players within a supply chain to take
    mitigating steps.  Transparency also empowers consumers to make
    informed purchasing decisions and businesses to effectively serve
    their customers.  It is also one condition for sustainable supply
    chain management.

Transparency at the governmental level contributes to sharing
information and insights into supply chain challenges, as well as helps
government envisage measures that could improve our collective supply
chains.  Fostering greater supply chain transparency, compatible
standards and information-sharing—consistent with domestic laws—among
countries can further mitigate and respond to global supply chain
shocks.  In recognizing these principles, our countries express intent
to cooperating to identify additional transparency measures and working
collaboratively with the private sector on such measures.  We also
underscore the importance of transparency regarding government measures
to strengthen supply chain resilience.

-   **Diversity, Openness, and Predictability:**  Open global markets
    are fundamental in supporting resilient supply chains.  Countries
    expressed intent to work together to ensure that we have multiple
    reliable sources of raw materials, intermediate goods, and finished
    goods that are underpinned by resilient supply channels.  We
    recognize that diversity of supply fosters an enduring global
    marketplace, where everyone has a role to play in promoting a shared
    benefit. 

Diverse global suppliers not only promote resilience, they also foster
interconnectedness and shared prosperity.  We should avoid any
unnecessary trade restrictions and maintain free flow of goods and
services, consistent with the principles and objectives of the
rules-based multilateral system, and work together to address existing
restrictions affecting our collective supply chains.  We should also
foster competitive and dynamic supply chains that resist monopolization
and offer alternate choices for materials, goods, and production and
distribution.  Diversity of supply also guards against acute economic
vulnerability arising from concentrated control of a single source, and
protects every country’s ability to make its own sovereign decisions and
enable governments, industry and the community to make their own choices
about the sources and supply of goods. 

Predictability is important to reliable supply chains and we will work
together to promote predictability in our trading relations as they
impact our supply chains. We will reinforce and foster our longstanding
economic partnership and supply chain relationships.

-   **Security:** Countries discussed that security needs to be
    recognized as a high priority for all players within supply chains,
    especially in technology supply chains, at critical infrastructure
    nodes, and other points within the supply chain that must not fail. 
    Addressing security vulnerabilities can prevent damage or
    disruptions that interfere with critical systems or infrastructure,
    or contribute to unnecessary costs, inefficient delivery schedules,
    loss of intellectual property and goods, or delivery of unauthorized
    or compromised products.  It is important that governments work with
    industry to better understand and manage security risks to supply
    chains.

<!-- -->

-   **Sustainability:** Governments, industry, and civil society should
    work together to promote and accelerate global sustainability goals,
    including implementation of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change
    and international labor and worker conventions where applicable. 
    Creating fair, sustainable labor conditions strengthens our supply
    chains, leading to more innovative, productive industry and greater
    shared prosperity.  Harmful practices that violate international
    rules and norms should be eliminated from our supply chains and we
    urge implementation of business practices in line with the UN
    Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights and other relevant
    international guidelines, where applicable. Similarly, investing in
    and mainstreaming climate and environmental sustainability, and
    developing clean energy supply chains is good business, as well as
    good policy, given that one major driver of supply chain disruptions
    is extreme weather events that have become worse and more frequent
    due to climate change, and the reliance of our economies on nature. 

As partners in promoting secure and resilient supply chains, countries
discussed working together and with the private sector to address
critical supply chain challenges:

-   **Improving information sharing and transparency:**  Countries
    expressed intent to expand efforts to sharing information about
    potential, emerging, and systemic supply chain<s>s</s> challenges
    bilaterally and multilaterally, so that we can collectively work to
    address them—including mechanisms to improve early warning of
    disruption. We will endeavor to share best practices to address port
    congestion and current disruptions to supply chains.  This work will
    be undertaken consistent with market principles.

<!-- -->

-   **Sustainable development: ** Countries expressed intent to expand
    cooperation, information sharing, and consider co-investment for the
    responsible access and development of key raw materials and inputs,
    and we will foster and support the sustainable manufacture and trade
    of products necessary for the fight against climate change and other
    international sustainability goals.

<!-- -->

-   **Security of supply: ** Countries expressed intent to consult with
    one another to address potential shortages and to cooperate to
    address shortages that could potentially impact our countries, while
    maintaining open markets.

We welcome all economies that share these principles, companies, and
non-governmental organizations to join us in pursuit of this shared
vision for resilient supply chains, guided by these principles.
Recognizing the need for the participation of industry, unions, workers
and other stakeholders, we expressed interest in relevant ministers from
our governments to convene an inclusive multi-stakeholder meeting on
supply chain security and resilience in 2022.
