---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-14'
modified_time: 2021-10-14 08:15:54-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/14/statement-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-the-global-health-security-agenda-annual-report/
published_time: 2021-10-14 08:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on the Global Health\
  \ Security Agenda Annual\_Report"
---
 
Over the past two years, the world has learned through hardship and
tragedy just how dangerous and disruptive a threat to our global health
security can be. More than 4.5 million people around the world have died
from the COVID-19 pandemic and the global economy is still struggling to
recover. That’s why the Biden-Harris Administration has put global
health security back at the top of our national security agenda—to
defeat this pandemic and to invest in strengthening health systems
globally so that we are better prepared to prevent, detect, and respond
to the next global health threat.

Today, we are releasing the annual report, “[Strengthening Health
Security Across the Globe: Progress and Impact of United States
Government Investments in the Global Health Security
Agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Global-Health-Security-Agenda-Annual-Report.pdf),”
which details our progress and impact helping countries build health
security capacity through the Global Health Security Agenda (GHSA) in
fiscal year 2020. We are bringing a whole-of-government effort to
address global health as a national security imperative, and this report
describes how GHSA investments have been critical in advancing the
COVID-19 response, and outlines our strategic approach for assisting
countries to meet specific targets.

Initially, the GHSA was launched as a 5-year effort that began in 2014,
but the success of the program and the incredible global need resulted
in another 5-year plan, “GHSA 2024.” GHSA 2024 introduced the bold
target of more than 100 countries completing a transparent evaluation of
health security capacity, performing planning and resource mobilization
to address their gaps, and implementing activities to improve their
capacity. This Administration is committed to supporting and
strengthening GHSA in the years ahead, and we will continue to use our
partner country investments and technical expertise to help achieve the
GHSA target.

Improving the capabilities of individual countries and our shared
capacity to take on infectious disease threats has never been more
important. The United States will continue to work expeditiously to end
this pandemic, including by continuing to donate vaccine doses and drive
efforts to vaccinate the world, and rally the world to build back better
to prevent the next pandemic. It’s going to take ambitious actions to
ensure sustained global financing and political leadership, but we can
do it. We can invest in saving lives now and creating a more secure and
healthy future. The GHSA is a vital part of that work.

Read the full report here:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Global-Health-Security-Agenda-Annual-Report.pdf>

\###
