---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-31'
modified_time: 2021-10-31 16:47:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/31/fact-sheet-united-states-advances-shared-interests-with-g20-world-leaders-and-delivers-for-the-american-people/
published_time: 2021-10-31 16:47:45-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States Advances Shared Interests with G20 World Leaders\
  \ and Delivers for the American\_People"
---
 
***For the first time ever, G20 Leaders agree to establish a historic
Global Minimum Corporate Tax***

At the G20 Summit in Rome, President Biden coordinated with fellow
Leaders on shared interests, including the climate crisis, global health
and pandemic preparedness, and the global economic recovery, using the
power of diplomacy to address key issues that matter to the American
people. Together with the European Union, we achieved a major
breakthrough arrangement to negotiate the world’s first carbon-based
sectoral arrangement on steel and aluminum, protecting and creating
American jobs and lowering costs for families while fighting the climate
crisis.  

Throughout the G20 President Biden stressed the need for balanced,
well-supplied, and competitive global energy markets to underpin an
inclusive economic recovery that supports working families at home and
abroad. Leaders committed to guaranteeing just and orderly energy
transitions of our energy systems that ensure affordability, including
for the most vulnerable households and businesses as we recover from the
global pandemic. They expressed their intent to explore among other
things, paths to enhanced energy security and markets stability.

President Biden met with Leaders from France, Germany, and the United
Kingdom to discuss the risks posed to international security by Iran’s
escalating nuclear program, and hosted a supply chain summit with 14
countries and the European Union to discuss how we collectively tackle
the immediate supply chain challenges from this unprecedented economic
recovery and build long-term supply chain reliance for the future.
President Biden also held bilateral meetings on the margins of the G20
with Chancellor Angela Merkel and Vice Chancellor Olaf Scholz of
Germany, President Felix Tshisekedi of the Democratic Republic of the
Congo, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey and Prime Minister Lee
Hsien Loong of Singapore.

After the Summit, the G20 Leaders came to a consensus across a host of
issues, including:

**Historic Global Minimum Tax:** G20 Leaders representing 80% of the
world’s gross domestic product (GDP) endorsed the establishment of a
historic Global Minimum Tax (GMT) to end the race to the bottom, ensure
giant corporations pay their fair share no matter where they are
located, help prevent the offshoring of good American jobs, and invest
in our people at home. One recent independent study found that this
agreement to establish a 15% GMT—up from 0% today—would lead to at least
$60 billion in revenue per year in the United States alone. Today’s
announcement is a testament to American diplomacy and leadership. 

**COVID-19 Pandemic and Health Security**: The Leaders came together in
support of the COVID-19 response and global vaccination targets. The
Leaders also decide to take next steps toward the design and
establishment of an inclusive, sustained, and adequate financing
facility to improve global health security and bolster pandemic
preparedness around the world. The Leaders agreed to establish a G20
Finance and Health Task Force to enhance global cooperation to detect
and response to emerging health threats. The G20 Leaders also came out
in support of a global ambition to channel $100 billion worth of
reallocation of special drawing rights (SDRs) to help the world’s most
vulnerable countries and restructuring debts for low-income countries on
a case by case basis – a major step towards global economic
recovery. The Leaders also supported efforts to shorten the cycle for
the development of safe and effective vaccines, therapeutics, and
diagnostics from 300 to 100 days (following the identification of such
threats) and work to make them equitably and widely available. This work
follows calls for more urgent action and continued focus from the United
States following the President’s [Global COVID-19
Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/fact-sheet-president-bidens-global-covid-19-summit-ending-the-pandemic-and-building-back-better/).

**Climate Change: **G20 Leaders came out in support of ending public
finance for new unabated coal power generation abroad, to contribute to
keeping a 1.5 degrees Celsius limit on global temperature rise with
reach. They stressed the importance of fully meeting, as soon as
possible, the developed country collective goal of mobilizing $100B per
year to help developing countries in the face of climate change. After a
four-year absence of U.S. federal leadership, President Biden’s
commitment to climate finance, alongside strong new pledges from other
donors, are fundamental to achieving this goal no later than 2023. This
is a decisive decade for climate action and the President will continue
to rally the world to tackle the climate crisis together. 

**Anticorruption and Ransomware: **The Leaders also lifted up the global
fight against corruption as a shared priority, which includes
transparency for beneficial ownership and real estate, and they
committed to fight any new and sophisticated forms of corruption. The
Leaders recognized the need for international cooperation to counter
ransomware and other forms of cybercrime. Just this month, the Biden
Administration[held a meeting with more than 30 countries to accelerate
cooperation to counter
ransomware](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/14/joint-statement-of-the-ministers-and-representatives-from-the-counter-ransomware-initiative-meeting-october-2021/),
including to improve collective resilience, address the misuse of
virtual currency to launder ransom payments, and investigate and
prosecute cyber criminals. This work builds on U.S. international
efforts to promote cybersecurity, including our commitment to work with
G7 partners to address criminal ransomware networks, our support for
updating NATO cyber policy for the first time in seven years, and our
continuing efforts to work with allies and partners to attribute
malicious cyber activity, as evidenced by the broad international
support we garnered in our attributions for SolarWinds and Hafnium
malicious cyber activity. 

Leaders also committed to achieving food security and adequate
nutrition, particularly in famine-stricken parts of the world where
armed conflicts have exacerbated these problems—such as Ethiopia.
Leaders will continue to enhance concrete measures to advance gender
equality in national policies. President Biden [issued the first-ever
national gender
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/22/fact-sheet-national-strategy-on-gender-equity-and-equality/) to
advance the full participation of all people – including women and girls
– in the United States and around the world.
