---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-06'
modified_time: 2021-10-19 12:50:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/06/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-3/
published_time: 2021-10-06 17:14:06-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   James O’Brien, Nominee for Coordinator for Sanctions Policy with the
    rank of Ambassador, Department of State
-   Michael Kubayanda, Nominee for Commissioner, Postal Regulatory
    Commission
-   Elizabeth de León Bhargava, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
    Administration, Department of Housing and Urban Development
-   Parisa Salehi, Nominee for Inspector General, Export-Import Bank of
    the United States
-   Brian Tomney, Nominee for Inspector General, Federal Housing Finance
    Agency
-   Ben Wagner, Nominee for Inspector General, Tennessee Valley
    Authority 
-   John Putnam, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of
    Transportation

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**James O’Brien, Nominee for
Coordinator for Sanctions Policy with the rank of Ambassador, Department
of State**  
</span>James O’Brien is currently Principal and Vice Chair of Albright
Stonebridge Group, an international advisory firm. He is a former career
employee of the State Department and recipient of numerous performance
awards, and has previously served two U.S. administrations as a special
Presidential envoy. As the first Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs
between 2015 and 2017, he helped establish the office and worked for the
safe return of one hundred American citizens. From 1989 to 2001, he
served as Senior Advisor to Secretary of State Madeleine Albright,
Principal Deputy Director of Policy Planning, and Presidential Envoy for
the Balkans.   
  
Over the course of his career at the State Department, he has led a
large and successful sanctions program and advised on a range of issues,
including peace negotiations in Europe, scientific and environmental
agreements, and initiatives to investigate and prosecute persons
responsible for war crimes. O’Brien has also negotiated agreements
protecting intellectual property rights for scientific cooperation with
China, promoted environmentally sound international trade regulations
for hazardous and recyclable materials, and worked to make
public-private partnerships and corporate social responsibility an
important element in American foreign policy. O’Brien earned a J.D. from
Yale Law School, an M.A. degree from the University of Pittsburgh, and
a B.A. from Macalester College in St. Paul, Minnesota. He is also a
member of the Council on Foreign Relations.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Michael Kubayanda, Nominee
for Commissioner, Postal Regulatory Commission**  
</span>President Biden designated Michael Kubayanda chairman of the
Postal Regulatory Commission in January 2021. Chairman Kubayanda joined
the Commission in January 2019, and served as its vice chairman from
August 2019 through the end of 2020. Prior to joining the Commission,
Chairman Kubayanda served as a board member and privacy officer for a
digital health startup offering cloud solutions for medical practices in
the United States and emerging markets.  
  
He previously worked in multiple roles with the Office of Inspector
General (OIG) of the U.S. Postal Service, ending as Director of
Government Relations. There, he worked with OIG officials to support the
work of inspectors general in data analytics, and oversaw research
addressing economic regulation, privacy, knowledge management, and
innovation. Prior to his time at the OIG, he served as counsel to the
House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. Chairman Kubayanda
holds degrees from Georgetown University, Northwestern University, and
the Ohio State University. He also studied at the Graduate Institute in
Geneva, Switzerland.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Elizabeth De León Bhargava,
Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Administration, Department of
Housing and Urban Development**  
</span>Elizabeth de León Bhargava has served as an executive in the
public sector for more than 20 years. Most recently, as New York State
Deputy Secretary for Labor & Workforce, the first Latina to hold this
position, she was responsible for labor and workforce policy and
operations, impacting more than 9.6 million working Americans. Elizabeth
managed a portfolio of agencies operating with total budgets of over $5
billion and more than 5,000 employees with the responsibility of
regulating public- and private-sector labor and workforce matters. Her
leadership enabled the growth of a diverse, inclusive, and talented
workforce, including more than 170,000 State workers. In addition,
Elizabeth led the optimization of multibillion-dollar safety net systems
that help businesses stay productive and provide critical benefits to
workers. Notably, she was integral in securing New York’s historic
minimum hourly wage increase to $15, lifting the earnings of about a
quarter of the state’s total workforce and resulting in $15.7 billion of
direct economic gains. Elizabeth also led the establishment of New
York’s Paid Family Leave program.  
  
Previously, as a senior advisor to the Speaker of the New York City
Council, Elizabeth directed activities of the Council, including a team
of more than 300 and a budget in excess of $55 million. As Deputy
Commissioner of the New York City Department of Small Business Services,
she supervised the largest business improvement district network in the
country, with annual investment of more than $100 million. Prior to
that, on behalf of the New York State Office of the Attorney General,
Elizabeth led investigations and prosecutions ensuring the preservation
of civil rights and affordable housing, protecting survivors of human
trafficking, and supporting communities impacted by immigration fraud. A
graduate of Binghamton University and the Buffalo University School of
Law, Elizabeth resides in New York City with her husband.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Parisa Salehi, Nominee for
Inspector General, Export-Import Bank of the United States**  
</span>Parisa Salehi is currently serving as the Chief of Staff at the
Office of the Inspector General at the Department of State. There, she
provides executive leadership by leading a global workforce whose
mission is to detect and deter waste, fraud, abuse, and misconduct and
to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in U.S. Department of
State and U.S. Agency for Global Media programs and operations. Prior to
joining the U.S. Department of State, Ms. Salehi served at the U.S.
Agency for International Development OIG where she was responsible for
coordinating all the operational activities for the OIG. Before joining
USAID, Ms. Salehi was the Acting Inspector General of the Export Import
Bank of the United States (EXIM), a government corporation with the
mission of creating American jobs by providing financing to US
exporters. In this role she provided overall direction to teams of
auditors, investigators, and inspectors responsible for improving the
programs and operations of EXIM Bank. Before becoming the Acting
Inspector General, Ms. Salehi served as Counsel to the Inspector General
at EXIM. Before joining EXIM Bank, Ms. Salehi served at the U.S.
Department of Agriculture for nearly five years.  
  
Ms. Salehi has also worked as an Adjunct Professor of Law at Howard
University School of Law. Ms. Salehi started her career as an attorney
in the District of Columbia working for prominent and large law firms,
specializing in financial industry and white-collar criminal
investigations, prior to joining the Federal Government. Ms. Salehi
holds a bachelor’s degree in international studies from university of
Oregon and as well as a law degree, from Howard University School of
Law. Ms. Salehi is a member of both District of Columbia bar as well as
Arizona state bar.  She resides in Washington DC.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Brian Tomney, Nominee for
Inspector General, Federal Housing Finance Agency**  
</span>Brian M. Tomney serves as the Head of the Office of Corporate
Investigations at Capital One, an American bank holding company. In this
role, Tomney leads a team of researchers and investigators that conducts
independent investigations into allegations of internal fraud and
unethical business practices. Tomney previously served as the Chief of
Staff to the company’s Chief Compliance and Chief Ethics Officer and the
Senior Vice President for Operational Risk and Oversight. He also led
the governance and independent testing functions in the Global Credit
Card Compliance organization. Prior to joining Capital One, Tomney
served in a variety of roles within the U.S. Department of Justice from
2006 to 2017, including: Associate Deputy Attorney General (2016-17);
Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General (2015); Counsel for Rule
of Law (2009-14); and as a Trial Attorney in the Narcotic and Dangerous
Drug Section of the Criminal Division (2006-09). A native of
Massachusetts, Tomney’s public service career began in 1990 as a career
paramedic/firefighter serving the City of Portland, Maine until
2003.     
  
Tomney received his J.D., *magna cum laude*, from the University of
Maine School of Law and his B.S., *summa cum laude*, from the University
of New England.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Ben Wagner, Nominee for the
Inspector General, Tennessee Valley Authority **  
</span>Ben Wagner’s professional career with the Tennessee Valley
Authority (TVA) spanned 38 years of dedicated service. The majority of
his career included 31 years of service to the Office of the Inspector
General (OIG) at TVA. Prior to his retirement in 2017, he served in
several senior executive positions in the TVA OIG including the role of
Senior Advisor, Stakeholder Relations and Deputy Inspector General where
he led the audits, evaluations, investigations, and administrative
functions. In addition to these senior executive roles, Wagner held
several leadership positions in the audits, evaluations, and
administrative functions with the TVA OIG and was integral to the
start-up of the office after it was established at TVA in 1985.   
  
Wagner has extensive experience in developing and managing a
comprehensive risk-based auditing program. He has provided leadership in
the areas of enterprise-wide risk management, fraud risk assessments,
ethics and compliance, and organizational effectiveness assessments. 
During his career, Wagner supported Council of the Inspectors General on
Integrity and Efficiency initiatives and programs. In the prior 7 years
before joining the TVA OIG, Wagner also held various management and
staff positions in TVA, primarily in the nuclear power program.   
  
Wagner received his bachelor’s degree in accounting from the University
of Tennessee.  While born in New Mexico, he has resided in the Tennessee
Valley region for the majority of his life.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**John Putnam, Nominee for
General Counsel, Department of Transportation**  
</span>John E. Putnam, of Boulder, Colorado, has served as the Deputy
General Counsel for the U.S. Department of Transportation, and the
Acting General Counsel since January 2021. In this role, he works
closely with the Department’s senior leadership and nearly 500 attorneys
to manage legal and policy matters concerning all of the Department’s
operating administrations.   
  
Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, John worked most of
his career as a transportation, environment, and energy attorney in
Denver and Washington, DC. He represented State departments of
transportation, local governments, transportation agencies, and private
entities in Colorado and nationwide on a range of transportation,
energy, environmental issues. Most recently, John was the Director of
Environmental Programs for the Colorado Department of Public Health and
Environment (CDPHE), where he was responsible for overseeing the air,
water, waste, and environmental health and sustainability
divisions. John worked closely with the Colorado Department of
Transportation, Colorado Energy Office, Department of Natural Resources,
Department of Agriculture, and other agencies to develop Colorado’s
Roadmap for Greenhouse Gas Pollution Reduction Roadmap, clean truck
plans, oil and gas regulatory reform, critical infrastructure COVID-19
support, and other programs for the State of Colorado.

\###
