---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-08'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/08/joint-statement-u-s-mexico-high-level-security-dialogue/
published_time: 2021-10-08 17:16:47-04:00
title: 'Joint Statement: U.S.-Mexico High-Level Security Dialogue'
---
 
As two nations with an enduring partnership based on sovereignty, mutual
respect, and the extraordinary bond of family and friendship, the United
States and Mexico need and want to face security challenges together. 
Both countries have suffered the effects on our communities of substance
addiction, gun violence, illicit drug, arms, and human trafficking,
human smuggling, and organized crime.  To confront the complex threats
of the 21st century, we need to work in a coordinated manner, with a
regional vision, and a modern approach of public health and development
as part of a holistic cooperation strategy between our countries.  With
full respect for our sovereignties, we each recognize our shared
responsibility and pledge to move forward as partners to find solutions
that are backed by justice, effective cooperation on law enforcement,
and a data-driven approach to develop effective strategies against
organized crime.

Transnational organized crime has taken too many lives in both of our
countries.  We recognize that we have a responsibility to work together
to achieve our shared goals of security and peace.  We need to address
violence, reduce the capacity of and disrupt transnational criminal
organizations, and focus on prevention to create the conditions for a
culture of peace, while working side-by-side to address the root causes
of crime.  We heed the lessons of past efforts and adapt to new
threats.  Our vision of security cooperation must protect all our
people, especially the most vulnerable, and place emphasis on those
communities that need support to change the conditions allowing crime to
take root.  In this framework for security cooperation between the
United States and Mexico, we pledge the utmost respect for human rights
and an intolerance for corruption, and we take a holistic view of
security and a reliance on new methods and tools to address this
challenge.

Together, we pledge to prevent crime by working with our youth to
provide them with options other than joining organized crime.  We pledge
to improve prisons to provide more humane and less discriminatory
treatment.  We pledge to work together to reduce the unlawful
trafficking of weapons and munitions to transnational criminal
organizations. We pledge to address addictions based on science and with
a public health focus.  We pledge to create better education, social
programs, and alternatives for young people.  We plan to share
information to detect money laundering and disrupt its facilitators and
work to prevent corruption from continuing to poison our societies and
injure our citizens.  We pledge to fight organized crime and its new
methods and business models, with shared information and new
technology. 

**The United States-Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public
Health, and Safe Communities**

In the lead-up to 2022, when we celebrate 200 years of bilateral
relations between the United States and Mexico, we propose a new vision
of regional security and collaboration anchored in respect for the
sovereignty of each country.  This new framework establishes a
comprehensive and long-term approach to guide bilateral actions going
forward.  Together, we can build a system of peace, justice, and respect
for the rule of law.

The United States and Mexico pledge to stand together to:

-   **Protect our people** by investing in public health as related to
    the impacts of drug use, supporting safe communities, and reducing
    homicides and high-impact crimes.
-   **Prevent transborder crime** by securing modes of travel and
    commerce, reducing arms trafficking, targeting illicit supply
    chains, and reducing human trafficking and smuggling.
-   **Pursue criminal networks** by disrupting illicit financiers and
    strengthening security and justice sectors.

In support of the goals of the Bicentennial Framework and our current
institutional collaboration, the United States and Mexico pledge to take
concrete actions to strengthen our cooperation on security, including
the following: 

To protect our people, we intend to pursue a Memorandum of Understanding
to reduce substance abuse disorder and associated harms, with the intent
to develop plans to prevent drug consumption, provide evidence-based
treatment, and strengthen early warning systems and ability to track
demand.  The United States intends to expand efforts to identify, treat,
and support those impacted by substance abuse disorder and addiction by
providing financial and technical assistance to U.S. states and local
governments through new grants from the Comprehensive Opioid,
Stimulants, and other Substances Abuse Program (COSSAP).  The United
States also plans to provide grants by the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to support treatment and
prevention of substance abuse disorder for at-risk individuals. 

Both countries pledge to create a Network for Homicide Prevention, in
order to provide a platform for the exchange of best practices in crime
and violence prevention, homicide reduction, work with at-risk youth,
and work toward safe and peaceful communities.  In addition, the Network
plans to consider creating multidisciplinary Homicide Task Forces
focused on high-impact crimes linked to transnational criminal
organizations, with a focus on forensic laboratories and support for
investigation and prosecution.

To prevent transborder crime, Mexico intends to work with the United
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) to sign a Memorandum of
Understanding on the launch of the UNODC Port Container Control Program
in order to strengthen control and management of incoming shipments for
precursor chemicals. 

Both countries affirm our commitment to work together, in full respect
of our sovereignties, to combat arms trafficking by coordinating
bilaterally on detection and interdiction of firearms, considering new
strategies, and strengthening our collective efforts.  We affirm our
support for current initiatives and the need to continue current efforts
to stop firearms sold in the United States from reaching Mexico, and
actions to identify, target, and investigate financing, transportation,
and communication methods employed by smuggling networks in order to
disrupt and dismantle their operations.  We pledge to expand training,
increase personnel, and increase information exchange to strengthen the
security and justice sector actors to combat, investigate, and prosecute
the criminal use of firearms, to pursue extraditions where possible, and
to stand up additional ballistics labs to process over 80,000 seized
weapons in Mexico. 

We affirm our commitment to expand bilateral cooperation to counter
human smuggling and human trafficking by transnational criminal
organizations, and to work to prosecute human smugglers on both sides of
the border.  The United States and Mexico commit to convening our
bilateral cyber working group by 2022, with the goal of promoting
international security and stability in cyberspace, sharing information,
exploring ways to protect critical infrastructure, a focus on preventing
and addressing cybercrime, as well as training and exchange of best
practices and increasing engagement with the private sector.

To pursue criminal networks, the United States and Mexico commit to
increasing bilateral and parallel actions to disrupt illicit actors and
their financial networks, such as the October 6 designation of members
of the Cartel de Jalisco Nueva Generación (CJNG) operating through the
port of Manzanillo and the surrounding areas. CJNG is responsible for
trafficking a significant proportion of the fentanyl and other deadly
drugs that enter the United States.  This action was a result of
collaboration between the Department of Treasury’s Office of Foreign
Assets Control (OFAC), the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), and
Mexico’s Financial Intelligence Unit (UIF). 

We also commit to targeting importers of chemical precursors and their
financial networks, with special focus on import companies suspected of
diverting precursor chemicals for the production of synthetic drugs,
such as fentanyl and methamphetamine, to transnational criminal
organizations, as well as targeting underground laboratories.  We intend
to create a bilateral working group on precursor chemical regulation to
standardize protocols and regulation for dual-use substances to prevent
their use in the production of synthetic drugs.

The United States and Mexico affirm our commitment to human rights, and
to advancing equity, civil rights, racial justice, and equal opportunity
in each of our nations.  Both governments commit to forensic cooperation
to help solve the thousands of cases of disappearances and forced
disappearances in Mexico, for the benefit of victims’ families and in
our fight against impunity.  Following the June visit of Vice President
Kamala Harris, we continue to support the efforts of Mexico’s National
Search Commission.

\###
