---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-22'
modified_time: 2021-10-22 06:01:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/22/fact-sheet-national-strategy-on-gender-equity-and-equality/
published_time: 2021-10-22 06:30:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: National Strategy on Gender Equity and\_Equality"
---
 
*The Biden-Harris Administration issues first-ever national gender
strategy to advance the full participation of all people – including
women and girls – in the United States and around the world.*

*[\[Click here to read the Gender Strategy
Report\]](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/National-Strategy-on-Gender-Equity-and-Equality.pdf)*  
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that advancing gender
equity and equality is fundamental to every individual’s economic
security, safety, health, and ability to exercise their most basic
rights.  It is also essential to economic growth and development,
democracy and political stability, and the security of nations across
the globe.  Ensuring that all people, regardless of gender, have the
opportunity to realize their full potential is, therefore, both a moral
and strategic imperative.  
  
Yet no country in the world has achieved gender equality—and we are at
an inflection point.  The COVID-19 pandemic has fueled a health crisis,
an economic crisis, and a caregiving crisis that have magnified the
challenges that women and girls, especially women and girls of color,
have long faced.  It has also exacerbated a “shadow pandemic” of
gender-based violence in the United States and around the world.  These
overlapping crises have underscored that, for far too long, the status
quo has left too many behind.  
  
This moment demands that we build back better.  It requires that we
acknowledge and address longstanding gender discrimination and the
systemic barriers to full participation that have held back women and
girls.  And it requires that we bring the talent and potential of all
people to bear to face the challenges of our time.  That’s why the
Biden-Harris Administration established the White House Gender Policy
Council, charged with leading the development of the first-ever National
Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality, which sets forth an aspirational
vision and a comprehensive agenda to advance gender equity and equality
in domestic and foreign policy—and demonstrates that families,
communities, and nations around the world stand to benefit.

\*\*\*  

The strategy identifies **ten interconnected priorities:** 1) economic
security; 2) gender-based violence; 3) health; 4) education; 5) justice
and immigration; 6) human rights and equality under the law; 7) security
and humanitarian relief; 8) climate change; 9) science and technology;
and 10) democracy, participation, and leadership.  These priorities are
inherently linked and must be tackled in concert.  
  
The strategy also adopts **an intersectional approach** that considers
the barriers and challenges faced by those who experience intersecting
and compounding forms of discrimination and bias related to gender,
race, and other factors, including sexual orientation, ethnicity,
religion, disability, age, and socioeconomic status.  This includes
addressing discrimination and bias faced by Black, Latino, and
Indigenous and Native American people, Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders, and other people of color.    
  
Strategic priorities include:  
**   
Improving economic security.** As we recover from the pandemic, we have
the opportunity to build an economy that works for women and their
families.  To build back better, we will:

-   Ensure that people have equal access to good jobs, including by
    addressing persistent gender discrimination and systemic barriers to
    full workforce participation. 
-   Invest in care infrastructure and care workers to help rebuild the
    economy and lower costs for working families. 
-   Dismantle the barriers to equal opportunity in education that
    undermine the ability to compete on a level playing field,
    recognizing that education affects future economy security.

**Preventing and responding to gender-based violence. ** Gender-based
violence is endemic in homes, schools, workplaces, the military,
communities, and online—and far too often a hallmark of conflict and
humanitarian crises.  It exacts tremendous costs on the safety, health
and economic security of survivors and their families.  To prevent and
response to gender-based violence, we will:

-   Work to eliminate gender-based violence wherever it occurs by
    developing and strengthening national and global laws and policies,
    investing in comprehensive services for survivors, and increasing
    prevention efforts. 
-   Address sexual violence in conflict settings; the elevated risk of
    violence facing women human rights defenders, activists, and
    politicians; human trafficking both at home and abroad; and the
    crisis of missing and murdered Indigenous people. 
-   Promote the safety and fair treatment of all people in the justice
    and immigration systems.

**Increasing access to health care. ** Health care is a right—not a
privilege.  All people deserve access to high-quality, affordable health
care, regardless of their zip code, income, ethnicity, race, or any
other factor.  To protect, improve, and expand access to health care, we
will:

-   Build on the historic work of the Affordable Care Act and continue
    to expand and improve health care globally. 
-   Defend the constitutional right to safe and legal abortion in the
    United States, established in *Roe v. Wade,* and promote access to
    sexual and reproductive health and rights both at home and abroad. 
-   Address the pernicious effects of health inequity, including by
    addressing the maternal mortality crisis in the United States, which
    has a disproportionate impact on Black and Native American women,
    and by reducing maternal mortality and morbidity abroad.

**Advancing democracy, rights and full participation. ** Supporting
women’s and girls’ full participation in social, economic, civic, and
political life—and ensuring they are represented at the tables where
decisions are made—is essential to progress in every other area and a
precondition to advancing strong and sustainable democracies.  To
advance democracy, rights, and full participation, we will:

-   Work to advance gender equity and equality in the law and ensure
    that rights on paper are fully implemented in practice.  
-   Work towards gender parity and diversity in leadership roles,
    including in peace processes, national security and defense, global
    health and humanitarian efforts, and in the private sector. 
-   Promote the leadership of women and girls in addressing the
    challenge of climate change and seek to close gender gaps in STEM
    fields so that women and girls can shape the workforce of the
    future. 

\*\*\*  

**Realizing this bold vision is a government-wide responsibility** that
cuts across the work of the Biden-Harris Administration in both domestic
and foreign affairs.  Implementing this strategy will require the
leadership of every White House office and executive agency.  This
strategy is not just words on paper; it is a roadmap to deliver results
for the American people and our partners around the world.  
  
And it builds on the work the Biden-Harris Administration has already
done to advance gender equity and equality at home and abroad.  Through
the American Rescue Plan, we have provided immediate relief to women and
families, fully vaccinating over two-thirds of eligible Americans,
reopening schools, providing direct payments to individuals, investing
in domestic violence and sexual assault prevention and services, and
helping child care providers keep their doors open.  The American Rescue
Plan also expanded the Child Tax Credit, distributing monthly payments
to tens of millions of American families covering over 60 million
children.   
  
Building on the American Rescue Plan, the President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda are
once-in-a-generation investments to support America’s working families
to rebuild the economy and support women and families.  Among its many
transformative investments, the budget framework calls for: cutting
taxes for middle class families with children, investing in the care
economy and the care workforce, and lowering health care costs.  To
advance economic security for women and girls globally, we have
established a Gender Equity and Equality Action Fund, which supports
efforts to address the impact that COVID-19, climate change, conflict,
and crisis have on the economic security of women and their families. 
And we have restored America’s leadership on the rights of women and
girls on the world stage.  
  
We have also taken action to prevent and respond to gender-based
violence, including through the Independent Review Commission on Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment in the Military and by directing the
Department of Education to review Title IX regulations, guidance, and
policies to ensure students receive an education free from sexual
violence.  We continue working with Congress on meaningful legislative
action, including through championing the landmark Violence Against
Women Act, which passed the House in March with bipartisan support, and
signing into law the Amendments to the Victims of Crime Act. And we have
committed to updating and strengthening our strategy to combat
gender-based violence around the world.  
  
To advance women’s health around the world, the Biden-Harris
Administration has revoked the Global Gag Rule and reinstated funding to
the UNFPA.  In the United States, the Administration has called for
historic investments to respond to the maternal mortality crisis.  The
President also launched a whole-of-government effort to respond to the
recent Texas law which blatantly violates women’s constitutional right
to a safe and legal abortion under *Roe v. Wade*.  

\*\*\*

To inform our ongoing and future efforts to advance gender equity and
equality at home and abroad, the strategy calls for continued
accountability, consultation, and engagement as we work towards our
collective vision for gender equity and equality at home and abroad. 
Its implementation will guide strategic planning and budgeting, policy
and program development, measurement and data, and management and
training.  We look forward to partnering with Congress, local, state,
Tribal, and territorial governments, civil society, the private sector,
foreign governments, and multilateral institutions to drive progress
towards the objectives outlined in this strategy.  In doing so, we will
advance economic growth, health and safety, and the security of our
nation and the world.

\###
