---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 16:14:49-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/29/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-9/
published_time: 2021-10-29 16:14:48-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Marc Nathanson, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Norway
-   Randi Charno Levine, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Portuguese Republic
-   Monde Muyangwa, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Bureau
    of Africa at the United States Agency for International Development
-   Bidtah Becker, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Arts
-   Gretchen Gonzales Davidson, Nominee for Member of the National
    Council on the Arts
-   Estrellita Brodsky, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Humanities
-   Vanessa Northington Gamble, Nominee for Member of the National
    Council on the Humanities
-   David Hajdu, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   Jerry Kang, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   Kathryn “Kit” Matthew, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Humanities

**<u>Marc Nathanson, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Norway</u>**

Marc Nathanson is one of America’s leading communications entrepreneurs
and a noted environmentalist.  He founded Falcon Cable TV in 1975 and in
1999, he became Vice Chairman of Charter Communications.  Today, he is
Chairman of Mapleton Investments, a holding company, and Chairman
Emeritus of Falcon Water Technologies.  He was Chairman of the United
States Agency for Global Media during the Clinton-Gore and Bush-Cheney
Administrations.  He was appointed by Secretary of State Hillary Clinton
in 2012 as Representative to the Board of Governors of the East-West
Center in Honolulu.  Nathanson is the immediate past Co-Chairman of the
Pacific Council on International Policy and Vice Chairman of the
National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI).  He is a
Trustee of the Aspen Institute and a member of the Council on Foreign
Relations.  Nathanson has been honored by several environmental
organizations for his work on water conservation.  He received his
bachelor’s degree from the University of Denver and a master’s degree
from the University of California, Santa Barbara, where he was a
National Science Foundation Fellow. 

**<u>Randi Charno Levine, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Portuguese Republic</u>**

Randi Charno Levine is an advocate for the arts and cultural diplomacy
leader. Currently, Charno Levine serves as Commissioner and Executive
Committee member for Special Projects at the Smithsonian National
Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C. She has helped curate and expand
the museum’s permanent collection, chaired the 2019 Portrait of a Nation
Gala, and revitalized their corporate partnership program. Charno Levine
also serves as Trustee at the Meridian International Center in
Washington, D.C, where she chairs the Meridian Center for Cultural
Diplomacy, providing guidance and leadership for its international
exchange programs, exhibition development, and strategic and business
partnerships. She is a Trustee at the New Museum in New York City and
member of its Artemis Council, where she has supported diversity and
equality for women in the arts and fostered global dialogues while
traveling to China, Italy, Peru, Portugal, and Turkey. Charno Levine is
a member of the Friends of the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan
Museum of Art, and a board member of FACES at New York University’s
Comprehensive Epilepsy Center. She earned her BA Degree in Journalism
from the University of Missouri-Columbia and is a published author. 

**<u>Monde Muyangwa, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Bureau
of Africa at the United States Agency for International
Development</u>**

Monde Muyangwa currently serves as the Director of the Africa Program at
the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, a position that
she has held since 2014. In this capacity, she leads the Center’s
programs on African democracy and governance; conflict management and
peacebuilding; trade, investment, and sustainable development; and
Africa’s evolving role in the global arena. Dr. Muyangwa has over 23
years of senior-level experience on Africa and U.S-Africa relations.
Prior to joining the Wilson Center, Monde served as Academic Dean at the
Africa Center for Strategic Studies (ACSS) at the National Defense
University from 2002 to 2013 where she led and managed the Center’s
programs on security studies, counter-terrorism and transnational
threats, civil–military relations, defense economics, and conflict
management. From 1997 to 2000, she worked as Director of Research, and
then Vice President for Research and Policy, at the National Summit on
Africa where she led a policy-oriented nation-wide dialogue on Africa
that culminated in a National Policy Plan of Action for US-Africa
Relations.

She holds a Ph.D. in International Relations and a B.A. in Politics,
Philosophy, and Economics from the University of Oxford (England), as
well as a B.A. in Public Administration and Economics from the
University of Zambia. She was a Rhodes Scholar, a Wingate Scholar, and
the University of Zambia Valedictory Speaker for her graduating class.
Monde is a Zambia-born immigrant and long-time resident of Bowie in
Prince George’s County, Maryland.

**<u>Bidtah Becker, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Arts</u>**

Bidtah Becker is an Associate Attorney for the Navajo Tribal Utility
Authority and the immediate past Director of the Navajo Nation Division
of Natural Resources from 2015 to January 2019.  For more than a decade
prior, she served as an attorney for the Nation focusing on water rights
and natural resources.  Passionate about water issues, she serves on the
Leadership Team for the Water and Tribes Initiative in the Colorado
River Basin where she co-chairs the Universal Access to Clean Water
effort, on the New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission, and on the
Navajo Nation Water Rights Commission.

Ms. Becker is equally passionate about the arts and artists, with an
emphasis on supporting Indigenous artists. In 2012, President Obama
appointed Ms. Becker to serve as a Trustee for the Institute of American
Indian Arts and Culture (IAIA).  She and her husband are Sustainers of
gallupARTS, a 501©3 nonprofit arts council serving Northwest New Mexico
and 2021 recipient of the Governor’s Awards for Excellence in the Arts. 
She has also served two separate terms on the board for the Southwestern
Association of Indian Arts, including one year as board chair.  She is a
member of the Navajo Nation and lives on the Navajo Nation in Fort
Defiance with her husband, Paul Spruhan, and two school age children.

**<u>Gretchen Gonzales Davidson, Nominee for Member of the National
Council on the Arts</u>**

Gretchen Gonzales Davidson currently chairs the Michigan Council of Arts
and Cultural Affairs, a state agency dedicated to ensuring that every
citizen and community in Michigan enjoys the civic, economic, and
educational benefits of arts and culture. Gretchen has a production
company, El Studio 444, is Chair of the Michigan Council of Arts and
Cultural Affairs, and serves on numerous boards including the Detroit
Children’s Fund, BasBlue, Cranbrook Academy of Art, Henry Ford Health
System, and REBOOT. She grew up in Flint, MI, and has a Bachelor of Arts
in Social Science from Michigan State University. She moved to the
Detroit area in 1998 as a musician and has played in various bands. She
and her husband Ethan Daniel Davidson reside in Birmingham, Michigan,
with their three boys.

**<u>Estrellita Brodsky, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
the Humanities</u>**

Estrellita B. Brodsky, PhD, is a New York-based curator, collector and
philanthropist, and an advocate for the art from Latin America and
artists of the Latin American diaspora. She has endowed curatorial
positions in Latin American art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Tate
Modern, and MoMA and serves as a member of The Metropolitan Museum’s
Latin American Art Initiative and the Tate Americas Foundation board of
trustees. In 2015 she founded ANOTHER SPACE, a program and
not-for-profit exhibition gallery established by the Daniel and
Estrellita B. Brodsky Foundation to broaden international awareness and
appreciation of art from Latin America. Dr. Brodsky holds a doctorate in
art history from the Institute of Fine Arts, New York University and a
Master’s Degree from Hunter College. A former co-chair of the board of
trustees of El Museo del Barrio, a New York museum specializing in art
from Latin America and its diaspora, Dr. Brodsky has taught at Hunter
College, and lectured and written extensively on Post-War Latin American
art.

**<u>Vanessa Northington Gamble, Nominee for Member of the National
Council on the Humanities</u>**

Vanessa Northington Gamble, MD, PhD is University Professor of Medical
Humanities, Professor of Medicine, and Professor of Health Policy and
American Studies at the George Washington University.  She is also
Adjunct Professor of Nursing at the University of Pennsylvania School of
Nursing. She previously served as the Director of the Tuskegee
University National Center for Bioethics in Research and Health Care.
Dr. Gamble has spent her career working to promote equity and justice in
medicine and public health. Dr. Gamble’s honors include election to the
National Academy of Medicine, the Hastings Center, and the Alpha Omega
Alpha Honor Medical Society. She was the 2021 recipient of the
Distinguished Graduate Award from the Perelman School of Medicine at the
University of Pennsylvania – the highest honor bestowed by the
institution. A proud native of West Philadelphia, Dr. Gamble received
her B.A. from Hampshire College and her MD and PhD in the history and
sociology of science from the University of Pennsylvania.

**<u>David Hajdu, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

David Hajdu has been an important cultural historian, critic, and
educator for more than 30 years. Long recognized as “one of our sharpest
music critics” (The Wall Street Journal), Hajdu has written extensively
on music in every style as Music Critic for The New Republic for more
than 10 years and, more recently, as Music Critic for The Nation. His
essays and commentary on a varied range of cultural subjects appear
regularly in The New York Times, The Atlantic Monthly, The New Yorker,
The New York Review of Books, and other publications. As an educator,
Hajdu taught at the New School University, Syracuse University, and the
University of Chicago before joining the faculty of Columbia University,
where he specializes in arts and culture as a professor at the Graduate
School of Journalism. He has served on juries for the PEN/Faulkner
Awards, the Pulitzer Prizes, and the National Magazine Awards. An
accomplished songwriter and librettist for concert music, he has had
original works performed in Carnegie Hall, Disney Hall, and many other
venues. Born and raised in rural New Jersey, he has lived in New York
since his undergraduate years at New York University.

**<u>Jerry Kang, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

Jerry Kang is Distinguished Professor of Law and Distinguished Professor
of Asian American Studies at the UCLA School of Law. From 2010 – 2020,
he served as the inaugural Korea Times–Hankook Ilbo Endowed Chair for
Law and Korean American Studies, also at UCLA. He graduated magna cum
laude from both Harvard College and Harvard Law School, where he was a
supervising editor of the Harvard Law Review. After clerking for the
Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, he started his professorship at UCLA in
1995. A leading scholar on implicit bias, Professor Kang collaborates
broadly across disciplines and industries on scholarly, educational, and
advocacy projects. He has also received UCLA’s highest recognition: the
Eby Art of Teaching Distinguished Teaching Award. In 2020, he stepped
down as UCLA’s Founding Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and
Inclusion after completing a five-year mission to “build equity for
all.”

**<u>Kathryn “Kit” Matthew, Nominee for Member of the National Council
on the Humanities</u>**

Dr. Kathryn “Kit” Matthew brings cross-sector expertise to her work
focused on strengthening cultural organizations so that they can
effectively contribute to vibrant and resilient communities. During the
Obama-Biden administration, she served as the Director of the Institute
of Museum and Library Services. This executive-level agency provides
nationwide funding for museums, libraries, and archives including tribal
and African American institutions. During her tenure within two
Presidential Administrations, Dr. Matthew prioritized investments in
cultural stewardship, information access, lifelong learning, digital
inclusion, and community wellbeing.

Over the course of her career, she has demonstrated a record of success
including: developing science and cultural programs for Hispanic and
Native American communities while heading the New Mexico Museum of
Natural History and Science; leading teams at several museum expansion
projects; and providing product leadership to develop constituent
engagement software tailored for Arts and Cultural organizations. Her
previous corporate experiences in business planning, innovation
management, and new product development skills have been adapted to both
the nonprofit and grantmaking sectors. Trained as a research ecologist
(PhD, University of Pennsylvania) she also earned an MBA from the
Carlson School of Management, University of Minnesota. A native of South
Carolina, she currently resides in Charleston with her husband Dr.
George Stevens.

\###
