---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-28'
modified_time: 2021-10-28 18:01:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/28/president-biden-announces-sara-minkara-as-united-states-special-advisor-on-international-disability-rights/
published_time: 2021-10-28 18:01:48-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Sara Minkara as United\_States Special Advisor\
  \ on International Disability\_Rights"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joseph R. Biden announced the appointment
of Sara Minkara to be the U.S. Special Advisor on International
Disability Rights – a role critical to ensuring that U.S. diplomacy and
foreign assistance promote and protect the human rights of persons with
disabilities around the world. The COVID-19 pandemic, climate change,
and political unrest disproportionately impact persons with
disabilities, making the appointment of Sara Minkara more necessary than
ever. Discrimination against persons with disabilities hinders economic
development, limits democracy, and erodes societies. With Sara’s
leadership, the United States can play an important role in meeting
these challenges and mitigating their harmful impacts on persons with
disabilities globally.

As the senior-level disability human rights position at the State
Department, the Special Advisor leads the U.S. comprehensive strategy to
promote and protect the rights of persons with disabilities
internationally and across the Department. 

This announcement comes today, during National Disability Employment
Awareness Month, as we celebrate the progress made toward economic
empowerment of persons with disabilities and refocus our efforts on the
work yet to come. 

**<u>Sara Minkara, United States Special Advisor on International
Disability Rights, Department of State</u>**

Sara Minkara is an advocate, expert, and facilitator in the fields of
disability, inclusion, authentic leadership, and social
entrepreneurship. She is the founder and a Board Member of Empowerment
Through Integration (ETI), a nonprofit organization she established
while still an undergraduate student. ETI’s mission is to disrupt the
narrative surrounding disability through both empowering youth with
disabilities individually and accelerating authentic inclusion globally.
More than a decade later, ETI and the programs Sara designed are still
active in the Middle East & North Africa (MENA) region, providing social
and life skills development for refugees and other children with
disabilities. As an internationally recognized champion for disability
inclusion, leadership, individual empowerment and social enterprise,
Sara promotes adaptive approaches to social and workplace challenges.

Sara is a graduate of Wellesley College and the Harvard Kennedy School.
She advises numerous academic, government, and policy groups on issues
related to disability, gender, interpersonal dynamics, inclusion, and
entrepreneurship, including the United Nations and the Harvard Kennedy
School’s Executive Education program. She has been recognized for her
many contributions through appointments and awards, including Forbes 30
Under 30, the Clinton Global Initiative, the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology IDEAS Global Challenge, and the Vital Voices “100 Women Using
Their Power to Empower” program.

\###
