---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-19'
modified_time: 2021-10-18 23:41:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/19/fact-sheet-improving-access-and-care-for-youth-mental-health-and-substance-use-conditions/
published_time: 2021-10-19 07:15:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: Improving Access and Care for Youth Mental Health and Substance
  Use Conditions'
---
 
Even before the pandemic, demand for mental health and substance use
services was increasing, especially for our nation’s young people. The
COVID-19 pandemic has only made the situation more challenging,
subjecting many young Americans to social isolation, loss of routines,
and traumatic grief. Epidemiological data now show alarming rates of
[behavioral health needs among school-age
youth](https://aspe.hhs.gov/reports/child-adolescent-mental-health-during-covid-19),
with significant increases in the number experiencing moderate to severe
anxiety and depression. Even more concerning, suicide remains the
[second leading cause of
death](https://www.cdc.gov/suicide/facts/index.html) among young people
between the ages of 10 and 24. Mental health emergencies among young
people have increased across the board. In 2020, there was a 24 percent
increase in [emergency room visits for mental
health](https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6945a3.htm) reasons for
children ages 5 through 11, and a more than a 30 percent increase in
visits for those between 12 and 17 years old.  
  
Unfortunately, a significant proportion of our nation’s youth still lack
access to affordable health care coverage. Even for those with coverage,
gaps in access to behavioral health care services remain. Significant
disparities also exist for young people of color, Indigenous youth, and
LGBTQ+ youth, denying many young people the behavioral health services
and supports they need to thrive.   
  
Eliminating these barriers and expanding the full continuum of
prevention, treatment, and recovery services, as well as prioritizing
integration of these services into settings where young people and their
families can access them, are key priorities for the Biden-Harris
Administration. This is why, today, on the heels of World Mental Health
Day, the Department of Education is announcing a [new
resource](https://www2.ed.gov/documents/students/supporting-child-student-social-emotional-behavioral-mental-health.pdf),
“Supporting Child and Student Social, Emotional, Behavioral and Mental
Health,” that outlines key challenges in providing and accessing mental
health supports in schools and provides evidence-based recommendations
for educators, staff, and providers to create a system of supports for
students with behavioral health needs and their families.  
  
The release of this new resource builds on the Administration’s emphasis
on youth mental health and substance use since taking office,
including:  
  
**Ensuring Access to Quality, Affordable Health Care**  
  
***Connecting Children to Coverage.*** Access to coverage is the first
step to improving care for mental health and substance use conditions.
Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program (CHIP) serve as
critical sources of coverage for children and youth, covering nearly [39
million](https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/program-information/medicaid-and-chip-enrollment-data/report-highlights/index.html)
children nationwide and providing robust coverage for mental health and
substance use conditions, including services provided at
[school](https://www.medicaid.gov/federal-policy-guidance/downloads/cib20190701.pdf).
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to continuing the progress
made in children’s coverage rates since the enactment of the Affordable
Care Act (ACA) by making sure children are connected to coverage. In
[May](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-data-shows-vulnerable-americans-forgoing-mental-health-care-during-covid-19-pandemic),
Connecting Kids to Coverage, a national outreach and enrollment
initiative that reaches out to families with children and teens eligible
for Medicaid and CHIP, launched a campaign with a particular emphasis on
mental health. This Administration is also committed to ensuring
children, youth, and their families have access to quality and
affordable coverage through HealthCare.gov and state-based Marketplaces,
[quadrupling](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-quadruples-number-health-care-navigators-ahead-healthcaregov-open)
the number of Navigator organizations available to help young people and
their families enroll in coverage through HealthCare.gov, Medicaid and
CHIP.  
  
***Strengthening Quality of Care.*** The Biden-Harris Administration is
also committed to strengthening the quality of care provided to – and
health outcomes of – children enrolled in Medicaid and CHIP. This
commitment includes supporting state reporting on a range of quality of
care measures that encompass both physical and behavioral health. All
measures on the Medicaid and CHIP Child Core Set will become mandatory
for states to report starting in 2024.  
  
**Investing in Community-based Youth Mental Health and Substance Use
Care**  
  
***Dedicating American Rescue Plan Funds to Youth Mental Health.*** The
American Rescue Plan provided $80 million for the Pediatric Mental
Health Care Access program, which promotes integrating care for
behavioral health needs into pediatric primary care settings, and
directed $20 million to support youth suicide prevention programs to
help reduce risks and deliver crisis services. In addition, the American
Rescue Plan provides $10 million to support the National Child Traumatic
Stress Network, which raises the standard of care and improves access to
services for traumatized children, their families, and their
communities; $50 million for community-based funding for local
behavioral health needs worsened by the pandemic; and $30 million for
community-based funding for local substance use services. The American
Rescue Plan also invested $420 million in the Certified Community
Behavioral Health Clinics (CCBHC) expansion grant program, which
increases access to and improves the quality of community mental health
and substance use disorder treatment services. CCBHCs provide person-
and family-centered integrated services, including 24/7 crisis
intervention services for individuals with serious mental illness or
substance use disorders, including opioid use disorders; children and
adolescents with serious emotional disturbance; and individuals with
co-occurring mental and substance disorders.  
  
***Enhancing Access to Youth Behavioral Health Services Across the
Continuum***. The Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has
invested approximately $190 million in supporting initiatives to advance
access to behavioral health services for youth. This includes:

-   *Project LAUNCH* (Linking Actions for Unmet Needs in Children’s
    Health): Makes grants to promote the wellness of young children,
    from birth to 8 years of age, by addressing social, emotional,
    cognitive, physical, and behavioral aspects of their development.  
-   *The Children’s Mental Health Initiative*: Improves the mental
    health outcomes for children and youth, birth through age 21, with
    serious emotional disturbance, and their families. This program
    supports the implementation, expansion, and integration of the
    Systems of Care approach by creating sustainable infrastructure and
    services that are required as part of the Comprehensive Community
    Mental Health Services for Children and their Families Program.  
-   *The Infant and Early Childhood Mental Health Grant Program*:
    Improves outcomes for young children by increasing access to high
    quality infant and early childhood mental health promotion,
    prevention, early intervention, and treatment services.  
-   *The Native Connections Grant Program*: Helps American Indian and
    Alaska Native communities identify and address the behavioral health
    needs of Native youth.  
-   *The Statewide Family Network*: Supports statewide, nonprofit,
    family-run organizations supporting families with children with
    serious emotional disturbance.  
-   *The Youth and Family TREE Grant Program*: Enhances and expands
    comprehensive treatment, early intervention, and recovery support
    services for adolescents), transitional aged youth, and their
    families/primary caregivers with SUDs and/or co-occurring substance
    use and mental disorders.

***Preventing Youth Substance Use*.** In September, the Office of
National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) announced $13.2 million in grants
for [106 Drug-Free
Communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2021/09/21/ondcp-announces-funding-for-106-community-programs-working-to-prevent-youth-substance-use-across-the-country/)
Support Programs across the country. The grants provide funding to
community coalitions working to prevent youth substance use through
evidence-based prevention strategies. In June, ONDCP announced $3.2
million for [65 communities
nationwide ](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/briefing-room/2021/06/30/ondcp-announces-3-25-million-for-local-coalitions-across-the-country-working-to-reduce-youth-substance-use/)for
its Community-Based Coalition Enhancement Grants to Address Local Drug
Crises Program to reduce youth use of opioids or methamphetamines and
misuse of prescription drugs. All these programs support the
Biden-Harris Administration’s [Drug Policy Priorities for Year
One](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/BidenHarris-Statement-of-Drug-Policy-Priorities-April-1.pdf),
which include evidence-based efforts to prevent and reduce youth
substance use.  
  
**Increasing School-Based Behavioral Health Supports**  
  
As students have returned to school this fall, supporting their mental
health is a top priority for the Biden-Harris Administration. Research
shows that students are more likely to receive behavioral health
supports if they are offered at school. This summer, the Department of
Education launched its [Return to School
Roadmap](https://sites.ed.gov/roadmap/), which highlights as one of
three landmark priorities supporting students’ social, emotional, and
mental health needs.  
  
***Supporting Student Mental Health with American Rescue Plan
Resources.*** To support our students hit hard by the pandemic, the
American Rescue Plan provided [$122
billion](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/american-rescue-plan/american-rescue-plan-elementary-and-secondary-school-emergency-relief/)
in relief funds for schools to help them reopen safely and address the
mental health, social, emotional, and academic needs of students. The
Department has strongly encouraged school districts to use these funds
to hire school psychologists, counselors, social workers, nurses and
other health professionals to address the behavioral health needs of
students and fund other strategies to support students’ mental health.
States and school districts are using these and previous rounds of
relief funding to expand access to services for students and their
families. For example:

-   The Oklahoma State Department of Education is creating the Oklahoma
    School Counselor Corps grant program, which will provide funds for
    school districts to hire school counselors and other school-based
    mental health professionals.  
-   The Iowa Department of Education is providing grants to school
    districts to help them meet mental health needs and provide
    wraparound services for students and families. In addition, the Iowa
    Department of Education is partnering with the University of Iowa’s
    Baker Teacher Leader Center to establish a new Center for School
    Mental Health that will provide training and professional
    development to both student teachers and practicing teachers.  
-   The New Hampshire Department of Education has teamed with the
    Community Behavioral Health Association to use relief funding for
    mental health training for summer camp counselors and enable mental
    health staff to be on-site at camps.  
-   The Arizona Department of Education is investing federal recovery
    dollars to hire school counselors and social workers.  
-   The Cleveland Teachers Union and Cleveland Metropolitan School
    District are working together to increase student access to highly
    qualified school health professionals. The District has announced
    plans to hire 50 school nurses and 45 licensed practical nurses for
    94 campuses in the 2021-2022 school year.  
-   The New York City Department of Education plans to hire 500 social
    workers this year and has already hired more than 90 percent of
    them. City officials say the infusion of new mental health support
    staff — which includes school psychologists — will ensure every
    school has at least one full-time social worker or mental health
    clinic.

The American Rescue Plan also included $30 million for Project AWARE, an
HHS grant program for state and tribal education agencies to advance
wellness and resiliency for children and youth in school-based settings.
This program funds school-based activities designed to increase
awareness of mental health issues among school-aged youth, provide
training for school professionals to help them identify and respond to
mental health issues, and to connect school-aged youth to services.
Project AWARE sites have been established in Indiana, Montana, North
Carolina, and Washington, as well as the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe
of Michigan, among others.  
  
***Creating mental health resources for schools.*** The Department of
Education has provided multiple resources that highlight evidence-based
practices to support students’ social, emotional, and mental health
needs that the American Rescue Plan can fund, including the [COVID-19
Handbook, Volume 2: Roadmap to Reopening Safely and Meeting All
Students’
Needs](https://www2.ed.gov/documents/coronavirus/reopening-2.pdf), the
[Safer Schools and Campuses Best Practices
Clearinghouse](https://bestpracticesclearinghouse.ed.gov/index.html),
[COVID-19 Handbook, Volume 3: Strategies for Safe Operation and
Addressing the Impact of COVID-19 on Higher Education Students, Faculty,
and Staff](https://www2.ed.gov/documents/coronavirus/reopening-3.pdf);
and [other guidance](https://www.ed.gov/coronavirus/). The Department
also featured approaches to supporting student mental health in the
Lessons from the Field webinar series and the Summer Learning and
Enrichment Collaborative, which brought together and supported state,
district, and community leaders in using American Rescue Plan funds to
implement meaningful summer learning and enrichment opportunities,
particularly for students most impacted by the pandemic. In addition,
the Department’s technical assistance centers—the Comprehensive Centers,
the Center to Improve Social and Emotional Learning and Improve School
Safety, the Center on Positive Behavioral Interventions and Supports,
and the National Center on Safe and Supportive Learning
Environments—provide resources and support on addressing trauma and
supporting students’ mental health. Last week, the Department released a
Dear Educator Letter, and, along with the Department of Justice,
released a fact sheet and Dear Colleague Letter that provide information
on Federal civil rights laws that protect students with mental health
disabilities and grant an equal opportunity to learn.  
  
***Developing K-12 mental health promotion toolkit.*** The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention has also funded a project to synthesize
the best available research and practice into a toolkit that describes
how to develop, implement, evaluate, and sustain a comprehensive,
developmentally and culturally appropriate, mental health promotion
program in K-12 schools. This guide for K-12 schools will help them
identify and prioritize a comprehensive and integrated set of strategies
to promote equitable mental health and resilience, and reduce symptoms
associated with poor mental health, such as depression and anxiety. The
primary end users of this technical package are school district and
school-level administrators.  
  
***Establishing interagency working group.*** In addition, the
Departments of Health and Human Services and Education have established
an interagency working group to improve the delivery of health care
services in schools, including mental health and substance use
services.  The interagency working group will primarily focus on
school-based health services reimbursed by Medicaid, and will work to
strengthen the interagency coordination for these vital services, and
identify more actions the federal government can take to support this
work.  
  
**Laying the Groundwork for Future Improvements in Youth Mental Health
and Substance Use Prevention and Treatment**  
  
***Engaging Youth in Solution Setting.*** The Department of Health and
Human Services recently
[announced](https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20211012005767/en/MTV-Entertainment-Hosts-Mental-Health-Youth-Action-Forum-in-Coordination-With-the-Biden-Harris-Administration-Leading-Non-Profits-and-Other-To-Be-Announced-Speakers)
a collaboration with MTV Entertainment Group to host a Youth Mental
Health Forum in early 2022. The forum will focus on inspiring and
encouraging young people to take steps to improve their own mental
health and to check in on each other.

***Enhancing coordination across HHS.*** In May, HHS formed a new
Behavioral Health Coordinating Council (BHCC) to serve as a coordinating
body across the Department. One of the five BHCC focus areas includes
child and youth behavioral health. Led by the Administration for
Children and Families and the Center for Medicare & Medicaid Services,
this work will help to drive improvements and integration of child,
youth and family-centered behavioral health programs and activities
across HHS. Over the coming months, the youth work of the BHCC will
include a focus on improving the coordination and access to behavioral
health services for children, youth, and parents involved or at risk of
entering the child welfare system; ensuring that children and youth are
accessing behavioral health services and supports in the most integrated
setting possible; and identifying opportunities to support resilience in
children and youth affected by trauma and disasters.

***Highlighting the Pandemic’s Impact on Youth Mental Health***. The
Office of the U.S. Surgeon General is launching an effort to highlight
the pandemic’s impact on youth mental health and promote recommendations
to support the mental health of young people. In the coming months, this
will include convening stakeholders, engaging in school visits, and
developing resources to better understand the unique challenges that
young people face and ways the federal government can further address
these challenges.

***FY 2022 Budget.***  President Biden’s FY22 discretionary budget calls
for more than doubling the funding to address mental health and
substance use. These additional resources would be used to support youth
with behavioral health needs and their families, partner mental health
providers with law enforcement, expand suicide prevention, and support
the hiring of school-based health professionals. This includes:

-   $1 billion for a new School-Based Health Professionals program that
    will help build the pipeline and support the hiring of school
    counselors, nurses, social workers, and school psychologists,
    working towards the President’s goal to double the number of these
    staff.  
-   $443 million for community schools, an increase of more than $400
    million, to establish schools that offer wraparound services for
    students and their families, including supporting mental health,
    through partnerships with community-based organizations.  
-   $1.6 billion for the Community Mental Health Service Block Grant,
    which doubles the funding over the prior fiscal years. This funding
    serves as a critical safety net for mental health services for the
    nation’s most vulnerable populations, including children with
    serious emotional disturbances.  
-   $191.5 million for Project AWARE, an increase of more than $60
    million.  
-   $375 million for Certified Community Based Behavioral Health Centers
    (CCBHCs) an increase of $125 million over prior years. This funding
    will support a new cohort of 158 grants and 22 continuation grants,
    and serve to increase access to and improve the quality of community
    mental and substance use disorder treatment services, including for
    children and adolescents with serious emotional disturbance.  
-   $36.9 million for Youth Suicide Early Intervention and Prevention
    Strategies, which includes funding to support the Garrett Lee Smith
    Youth Suicide Prevention Grant programs. These programs deliver
    critical early intervention and suicide prevention services through
    State/Tribal grants as well as Campus grants.  
-   $10 million for the Pediatric Mental Health Care Access Program,
    which will continue to support the development or improvement of
    statewide or regional pediatric mental health care telehealth access
    programs. These programs provide tele-consultations, training,
    technical assistance and care coordination for pediatric primary
    care providers to assist their work in managing children with
    behavioral health conditions.  

This is only the beginning. The Biden-Harris Administration will
continue its work to improve youth mental health, expanding access to
affordable, quality services across the continuum of prevention,
treatment, and recovery, and eliminating the stigmatization of those who
need help.  
  
For more information, see [Fact Sheet: Efforts Across HHS to Promote
Behavioral Health for Children and Youth | HHS.gov  
](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/10/08/fact-sheet-efforts-across-hhs-promote-behavioral-health-for-children-and-youth.html)

\###
