---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-12'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/12/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-emily-horne-on-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivans-meeting-with-israeli-foreign-minister-and-alternate-prime-minister-yair-lapid/
published_time: 2021-10-12 16:27:12-04:00
title: "Statement by NSC Spokesperson Emily Horne on National Security Advisor Jake\
  \ Sullivan\u2019s Meeting with Israeli Foreign Minister and Alternate Prime Minister\
  \ Yair\_Lapid"
---
 
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met today in Washington with
Israeli Foreign Minister and Alternate Prime Minister Yair Lapid to
discuss regional and global issues of strategic importance to the United
States and Israel. Mr. Sullivan highlighted the unwavering support of
the United States for Israel’s security and emphasized the U.S.
commitment to strengthening all aspects of the partnership between the
two countries. They discussed deepening Israel’s relationships with the
United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Morocco. They agreed that the United
States and Israel would continue to work closely together to strengthen
and expand peaceful relations between Israel and countries in the Arab
and Muslim world. They discussed the current situation in Gaza, and Mr.
Sullivan emphasized the importance of practical steps to improve the
lives of the Palestinians. The officials also shared their perspectives
on the threat posed by Iran. Mr. Sullivan reaffirmed President Biden’s
commitment to ensuring that Iran never gets a nuclear weapon. The
officials agreed that the United States and Israel will continue to
consult closely on Iran and other critical matters impacting the
security and stability of the region.

\###
