---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-09 10:25:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/08/fact-sheet-u-s-mexico-high-level-security-dialogue/
published_time: 2021-10-08 17:17:36-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S.-Mexico High-Level Security\_Dialogue"
---
 
*“From the earliest days of our nations, the people of Mexico and the
United States have shared a strong bond, united by our shared values and
our shared aspirations. And throughout our history, we have learned that
we are stronger when we stand together as neighbors, partners, and
friends.”*

President Joe Biden  
September 27, 2021

Today, the United States and Mexico opened a new era in security
cooperation based on partnership, guided by shared responsibility, and
driven by a national security interest in both countries to stop
criminal groups from smuggling the illicit drugs and weapons that
threaten the health and safety of our citizens, and engage in human
smuggling and human trafficking. **The U.S.-Mexico Bicentennial
Framework for Security, Public Heath, and Safe Communities** establishes
a comprehensive, long-term approach for binational actions to pursue the
safety and security of our societies. The framework is informed by the
drug policy priorities of the Biden-Harris Administration, which promote
an evidence-based public health and public safety approach to reducing
drug demand, overdoses, and saving lives, as well as a focus on ensuring
racial equity, community based crime prevention, and the promotion of
harm-reduction efforts.  

The United States and Mexico are committed to transforming our
cooperation to better **<u>protect</u>** the health and safety of our
citizens and promote the development of the most vulnerable communities
in both countries, **<u>prevent</u>** criminal organizations from
harming our countries, and **<u>pursue</u>** and bring criminals to
justice. 

Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Homeland Security
Alejandro Mayorkas, Attorney General Merrick Garland, and Deputy
Secretary of Treasury Wally Adeyemo discussed the bilateral framework
and security priorities with Mexican counterparts today, after meeting
with President Andrés Manuel Lopez Obrador.  They confirmed cabinet
officials from the United States and Mexico will meet annually to
advance implementation of the new framework, while sub-cabinet officials
work toward these goals year-round.  

Across all areas, we commit to work together to protect human rights
consistent with our international obligations, share information and
best practices, prosecute those who violate our laws, and regularly and
transparently evaluate the impact of our efforts.

**<u>GOAL 1:  PROTECT OUR PEOPLE</u>**

The United States and Mexico seek to build sustainable, healthy, and
secure communities to benefit citizens of both nations.

-   **Public Health –** Prevent and reduce substance abuse, while
    limiting harms associated with addiction; improve access to
    substance abuse treatment and recovery support; share best practices
    and lessons learned to better understand substance abuse patterns;
    explore alternatives to incarceration for substance abuse cases.

<!-- -->

-   **Support Safe Communities –** Reduce exploitation of vulnerable
    people by criminal groups through education and economic
    opportunity, and address the root causes of violence while promoting
    human rights and responding to the needs of victims and
    communities.   

<!-- -->

-   **Homicide and High-Impact Crime Reduction–** Reduce the number of
    homicides in Mexico by targeting the actors and enablers of violence
    and effectively and consistently conducting homicide investigations,
    professionalize the criminal justice and law enforcement systems,
    and expand knowledge to implement best practices to combat
    gender-based violence.

**<u>GOAL 2:  PREVENT TRANSBORDER CRIME</u>** **–** The United States
and Mexico seek to diminish the capacity of Transnational Criminal
Organizations (TCOs) and prevent trafficking of drugs, arms, wildlife,
and people, as well as human smuggling.

-   **Secure Modes of Travel and Commerce –** Strengthen oversight and
    coordination at air, land, sea, and rail ports of entry; foster the
    collaborative, efficient, and secure management of all aspects of
    the U.S.-Mexico border; improve container control and detection of
    chemical precursors, bulk cash, and counterfeit goods; and expand
    regulatory and enforcement capacity to control synthetic drugs and
    precursors.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduce Arms Trafficking –** Increase binational efforts to reduce
    illicit arms trafficking through expansion of tracing cooperation,
    collaboration on investigations, and investments in ballistics
    technology.  Share information to maximize law enforcement,
    investigative, and prosecutorial impact of finding and seizing
    firearms; and share post-seizure information with law enforcement.

<!-- -->

-   **Disrupt the Capacity of TCOs and their Illicit Supply Chains –**
    Reduce TCO drug sales capacity and prosecute corruption cases and
    TCO-related crimes, with a focus on drug laboratories and precursor
    chemicals.

<!-- -->

-   **Reduce Human Smuggling and Trafficking** – Identify, target, and
    dismantle human smuggling and trafficking organizations while
    protecting the human rights and safety of vulnerable populations,
    and expand targeted prosecutions of smuggling and trafficking
    networks.

**<u>GOAL 3:  PURSUE CRIMINAL NETWORKS</u>** **–** Disrupt TCO financial
networks and reduce their ability to profit from illicit activities both
transnationally and in cyberspace.

-   **Disrupt Illicit Financiers** – Enhance information-sharing to
    combat money laundering related to illicit activities; identify,
    freeze, and seize assets of criminal actors involved in corrupt
    activities; indict, arrest, and extradite key financial
    facilitators.
-   **Strengthen Capacity of Security and Justice Sector Actors to
    Investigate and Prosecute Organized Crime –** Collaborate on
    investigations and prosecutions of organized crime across all areas
    and in both countries by building capabilities and accountability,
    and promoting cooperation between police, investigators, analysts,
    and prosecutors; ensure courts support victims and preserve human
    and civil rights, and increase the number of dedicated personnel
    focused on TCO cases; and ensure robust, fully functioning justice
    systems through partnership and capacity building. 

<!-- -->

-   **Increase Cooperation on Extraditions** – Increase bilateral
    cooperation to facilitate the extradition of TCO members and related
    actors under each nation’s laws.

\###
