---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-30'
modified_time: 2021-10-30 11:23:31-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/30/joint-statement-by-the-president-of-france-emmanuel-macron-chancellor-of-germany-angela-merkel-prime-minister-of-the-united-kingdom-and-northern-ireland-boris-johnson-and-president-of-the-united-st/
published_time: 2021-10-30 11:23:30-04:00
title: "Joint Statement by the President of France Emmanuel Macron, Chancellor of\
  \ Germany Angela Merkel, Prime Minister of the United Kingdom and Northern Ireland\
  \ Boris Johnson, and President of the United\_States Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on\_Iran"
---
 
We, the President of France, Chancellor of Germany, Prime Minister of
the United Kingdom, and President of the United States, met in Rome
today to discuss the risks posed to international security by
Iran’s escalating nuclear program.  We expressed our determination to
ensure that Iran can never develop or acquire a nuclear weapon and
shared our grave and growing concern that, while
Iran halted negotiations on a return to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of
Action (JCPOA) since June, it has accelerated the pace
of provocative nuclear steps, such as the production of highly enriched
uranium and enriched uranium metal. Iran has no credible civilian need
for either measure, but both are important to nuclear weapons programs.
 

These steps have only been made more alarming by Iran’s simultaneously
decreased cooperation and transparency with the International Atomic
Energy Agency (IAEA). We agreed that continued Iranian nuclear advances
and obstacles to the IAEA’s work will jeopardize the possibility of a
return to the JCPOA. 

The current situation underscores the importance of a negotiated
solution that provides for the return of Iran and the U.S. to full
compliance with the JCPOA and provides the basis for
continued diplomatic engagement to resolve remaining points of
contention – both our concerns and Iran’s. In this spirit, we welcome
President Biden’s clearly demonstrated commitment to return the U.S. to
full compliance with the JCPOA and to stay in full compliance, so long
as Iran does the same.

We are convinced that it is possible to quickly reach and implement an
understanding on return to full compliance and to ensure for the long
term that Iran’s nuclear program is exclusively for peaceful purposes.  

Return to JCPOA compliance will provide sanctions
lifting with long-lasting implications for Iran’s economic growth.  This
will only be possible if Iran changes course. We call upon President
Raisi to seize this opportunity and return to a good faith effort to
conclude our negotiations as a matter of urgency.  That is the only sure
way to avoid a dangerous escalation, which is not in any country’s
interest.

We welcome our Gulf partners’ regional diplomatic efforts to deescalate
tensions and note that return to the JCPOA would result both in
sanctions lifting allowing for enhanced regional partnerships and a
reduced risk of a nuclear crisis that would derail regional
diplomacy. We also affirm our shared determination to address broader
security concerns raised by Iran’s actions in the region.  

We are committed to continuing to work closely with the
Russian Federation, the People’s Republic of China, and the European
Union High Representative, as Coordinator, in resolving this critical
issue. 
