---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-05'
modified_time: 2021-10-05 15:38:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/05/president-biden-announces-intent-to-nominate-chairs-of-national-endowments-for-the-humanities-and-arts/
published_time: 2021-10-05 16:15:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Intent to Nominate Chairs of National Endowments\
  \ for the Humanities and\_Arts"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Shelly Lowe as Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH)
and Dr. Maria Rosario Jackson as Chair of the National Endowment for the
Arts (NEA). Both are esteemed leaders in their respective fields and
dedicated public servants committed to advancing the development of and
access to the arts and humanities across America.  
  
If confirmed, Shelly Lowe will be the nation’s first Native American to
serve as Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities and Dr.
Maria Rosario Jackson will be the first African American and Mexican
American to serve as Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts.  
  
Both established by Congress in 1965, the National Endowment for the
Arts and National Endowment for the Humanities are independent federal
agencies that support research, education, and development across the
arts and humanities through partnerships with state and local leaders,
other federal agencies, and the philanthropic sector. They work to
affirm and celebrate America’s rich and diverse cultural heritage and
promote equal access to art and humanities resources and programs in
communities across the nation.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Shelly Lowe, Nominee for
Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities</span>**  
Shelly C. Lowe is a citizen of the Navajo Nation and grew up on the
Navajo Reservation in Ganado, Arizona. Ms. Lowe is currently a member of
the National Council on the Humanities, an appointment she received from
President Obama. Her career in higher education has included
administrative roles such as Executive Director of the Harvard
University Native American Program, Assistant Dean in the Yale College
Deans Office, and Director of the Native American Cultural Center at
Yale University. Prior to these positions, she spent six years as the
Graduate Education Program Facilitator for the American Indian Studies
Programs at The University of Arizona.    
  
Ms. Lowe has served in a variety of leadership roles nationally, most
recently as a member of the University of Arizona Alumni Association
Governing Board and as a member of the Challenge Leadership Group for
the MIT Solve Indigenous Communities Fellowship. She has served on the
board of the National Indian Education Association and as a Board of
Trustee for the National Museum of the American Indian. She holds a
Bachelor of Arts in Sociology, a Master of Arts in American Indian
Studies, and has completed doctoral coursework in Higher Education from
the University of Arizona.   
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Dr. Maria Rosario Jackson,
Nominee for Chair of the National Endowment for the Arts</span>**  
Dr. Maria Rosario Jackson has had a long career in strategic planning,
policy research and evaluation with philanthropy, government and
nonprofit organizations. Her work appears in a wide range of
professional and academic publications and she has been a speaker at
scores of national and international conferences. She has served as an
advisor on philanthropic programs and investments at national, regional
and local foundations. Dr. Jackson is a tenured Institute Professor in
the Herberger Institute for Design and the Arts (HIDA) at Arizona State
University where she also holds an appointment in the Watts College of
Public Service and Community Solutions.  
  
In 2013, President Obama appointed Dr. Jackson to the National Council
on the Arts. Dr. Jackson was co-chair of the County of Los Angeles
Cultural Equity and Inclusion Initiative and continues to serve as an
advisory board member. She is currently on the advisory boards of the
Smithsonian Center for Folklife and Cultural Heritage, the Equity Center
at the University of Virginia, the Strong, Prosperous and Resilient
Communities Challenge (SPARCC) and L.A. Commons, an arts intermediary
organization focused on bridging communities through stories and
creative practice. She serves on the board of directors of the
Performing Arts Center of Los Angeles County (The Music Center), the
Association of Arts Administration Educators and the Alliance for
California Traditional Arts. For 18 years, Dr. Jackson was at the Urban
Institute, a Washington, D.C.-based national public policy research
organization, and founding director of UI’s Culture, Creativity and
Communities Program. Dr. Jackson earned a PhD in urban planning from the
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) and a Master of Public
Administration degree from the University of Southern California.

\###
