---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-10-13'
modified_time: 2021-10-13 08:26:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/13/fact-sheet-biden-administration-efforts-to-address-bottlenecks-at-ports-of-los-angeles-and-long-beach-moving-goods-from-ship-to-shelf/
published_time: 2021-10-13 05:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Efforts to Address Bottlenecks at Ports of\
  \ Los Angeles and Long Beach, Moving Goods from Ship to\_Shelf"
---
 
President Biden knew that there would be massive economic challenges
emerging from the pandemic. The Biden Administration acted quickly to
get the economy moving again – passing and implementing the American
Rescue Plan to get checks in bank accounts and get Americans
vaccinated.  
  
But as the country recovers from a once in a century pandemic and
economic crisis, the private businesses that make up our supply chains,
which get goods to businesses and the American people, have struggled to
keep up. The pandemic has led to a surge in e-commerce, with sales
increasing 39 percent [in the first quarter of
2021](https://www2.census.gov/retail/releases/historical/ecomm/21q1.pdf)
compared to the first quarter of 2020. At the same time, COVID has
disrupted workers in key transportation and logistics nodes – the jobs
of [1,800 Southern California port
workers](https://www.latimes.com/business/story/2021-01-20/covid-surge-hits-la-ports-increasing-need-for-vaccines)
were disrupted because of COVID earlier this year.  
  
These disruptions are not just happening here at home, but all around
the world as COVID has led to global shut downs and disruptions. The
Chinese ports of Yantian (Shenzhen) and Ningbo-Zhoushan—two of the top 5
largest ports in the world—each experienced multi-week partial-terminal
closures aimed at curbing COVID outbreaks, slowing global supply chains
due to increased dwell times and cancelled sailings. In September,
[hundreds of factories closed under lockdown
restrictions](https://asia.nikkei.com/Business/Companies/Vietnam-s-COVID-battered-supply-chains-on-shaky-road-to-recovery)
in Vietnam, halting production that supports thousands of retailers
worldwide. They have been slowly reopening in early October but must
still contend with mounting supply chain issues. These disruptions have
made the transportation supply chain more unstable and difficult to
predict.  
  
The President [launched the Supply Chain Disruptions Task
Force](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/)
in June, which included a focus on transportation and logistics
bottlenecks to the U.S. economic recovery. After meeting with local
government leaders and companies to diagnose the problems and identify
solutions, [Port Envoy John Porcari was
appointed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/27/white-house-announces-john-d-porcari-as-port-envoy-to-the-biden-harris-administration-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force/)
in August to help drive coordination between the many private firms who
control the transportation and logistics supply chain.  
  
Today, the Administration is convening business leaders, port leaders,
and union leaders to discuss the challenges at ports across the country
and actions each partner can take to address the delays and congestion
across the transportation supply chain. And the President will meet with
the leadership from the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach and the
International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) to discuss the
actions they are each taking to address these challenges in Southern
California.  
  
**These leaders are announcing a series of public and private
commitments to move more goods faster, and strengthen the resiliency of
our supply chains, by moving towards 24/7 operations at the Ports of Los
Angeles and Long Beach.** These two ports are the point of entry for 40
percent of containers to the U.S., and are on track to reach new highs
in container traffic this year. Through August, Los Angeles has moved
30% more and Long Beach over 20% more containers to help U.S. exporters
reach customers around the world and U.S families and factories get the
goods they need.  
  
These commitments will speed up shipments of goods throughout the
country and include:  
  
**The Port of Los Angeles is expanding to 24/7 operation.** The [Port of
Long Beach expanded operations in
mid-September](https://www.portoflosangeles.org/references/2021-news-releases/news_091721_speedcargo).
The Port of Los Angeles is now joining them by adding new off-peak night
time shifts and weekend hours. This expansion means the Port of Los
Angeles has nearly doubled the hours that cargo will be able to move out
of its docks and on highways.  

**The International Longshore and Warehouse Union (ILWU) has announced
its members are willing to work those extra shifts.** This will add
needed capacity to put towards clearing existing backlogs. This is an
important first step, now the private businesses along the supply chain
need to move their operations to 24/7.

**Large companies are announcing they will use expanded hours to move
more cargo off the docks, so ships can come to shore faster.** Unlike
leading ports around the world, U.S. ports have failed to realize the
full possibility offered by operation on nights and weekends. Moving
goods during off-peak hours can help move goods out of ports faster. For
example, at the Port of LA, goods move 25 percent faster at night than
during the day. These commitments will help unlock capacity in the rest
of the system—including highways, railroads and warehouses—by reducing
congestion during the day.

The commitments being announced today include:

-   The nation’s largest retailer, **Walmart**, is committing to
    increase its use of night-time hours significantly and projects they
    could increase throughput by as much as 50% over the next several
    weeks. 
-   **UPS** is committing to an increased use of 24/7 operations and
    enhanced data sharing with the ports, which could allow it to move
    up to 20 percent more containers from the ports.
-   **FedEx** is committing to work to combine an increase in night time
    hours with changes to trucking and rail use to increase the volume
    of containers it will move from the ports. Once these changes are in
    place, they could double the volume of cargo they can move out of
    the ports at night.
-   **Samsung** is committing to move nearly 60% more containers out of
    these ports by operating 24/7 through the next 90 days. 72% of U.S.
    homes have at least one Samsung product, from appliances to consumer
    electronics.
-   **The Home Depot** is committing to move up to 10% additional
    containers per week during the newly available off-peak port hours
    at the Ports of L.A. and Long Beach.
-   **Target**, which is currently moving about 50 percent of its
    containers at night, has committed to increasing that amount by 10
    percent during the next 90 days to help ease congestion at the
    ports.

Across these six companies over 3,500 additional containers per week
will move at night through the end of the year.

Those boxes contain toys, appliances, bicycles, and furniture that
Americans purchased online or at their local small business, and pieces
and parts that are sent to U.S. factories for our workers to assemble
into products. And this is just a start—these commitments provide a
clear market signal to the other businesses along the transportation
supply chain—rails, trucks, and warehouses—that there is demand to move
additional cargo at off-peak hours.

Secretary Buttigieg and Port Envoy Porcari will continue to work with
all stakeholders to help more businesses access these expanded hours,
and move the rest of the supply chain towards 24/7 operations.

This effort is part of the [ongoing work of the Biden-Harris Supply
Chain Disruptions Task
Force](https://mailchi.mp/mail.whitehouse.gov/icymi-6170248) to continue
to identify emerging bottlenecks to the economic recovery and take
action to clear them to help families, workers, and businesses get the
goods they need.

\###
