---
date: '2023-06-23'
published_time: 2023-06-23 15:15:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-at-state-luncheon/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of\
  \ India at State\_Luncheon"
---
 
*Harry S. Truman Building   
Washington, D.C.*

12:56 P.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you. 
Thank you very much.  Please have a seat.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank
you.  
  
Mr. Secretary, Madam Ryan, thank you for hosting us here yet again.  It
is the honor of Doug and mine to be with you, honoring the friendship
and the importance of the relationship between India and the United
States.  
  
Prime Minister Modi, we are honored to welcome you.  
  
We also welcome the members of the President’s Cabinet who are here and
all of the members of Congress who are here, including Speaker Emerita
Pelosi, Chairman McCaul, and Ranking Member Meeks.  (Applause.)  
  
And welcome to all of our distinguished guests.  
  
As I look around this room, I am struck by the extraordinary impact
Indian Americans have had on our country in every facet of life.   
  
Take, for example, the historic number of members of the United States
Congress with Indian heritage: Representatives Ami Bera — if you’re
here, please stand — (applause) — Pramila Jayapal, Ro Khanna, Raja
Krishnamoorthi, and Shri Thanedar.  And they’re known as the “Samosa
Caucus,” for those of you who did not know.  (Laughter.)  
  
And around our country, we see the impact of Indian Americans, from the
C suites of American companies to neighborhood businesses, from the
studios of Hollywood to university research labs across our country.  
  
So, as many of you know, India is a very important part of my life. 
When my sister Maya and I were growing up, our mother would take us from
the Bay Area to India pretty much every other year.  And the purpose of
those trips were many, including that we would well understand where she
came from, what produced her; so that we could spend time with our
grandparents, with my uncle and our *chittis*; and to really understand
the love of good idli.  (Laughter.)  
  
And we traveled to visit my grandparents in what was then called
Madras.  And I will tell you, my grandfather was one of the most
favorite people in my life, truly.  We were pen pals, in fact,
throughout my childhood.  
  
And I was the eldest grandchild.  And so, as I’m sure many of you know,
culturally, to be the eldest has a certain significance.  And so, I took
full advantage of that status in our family.  (Laughter.)  And my
grandfather, of course, convinced me — as he did, I think, every one of
his grandchildren — that we were his favorite.  (Laughter.)  
  
Yet, on those visits, I was the only member of our family that my
grandfather allowed to join him for his morning routine.  You see, by
the time that we were going there as children, my grandfather was
retired from his career as a civil servant.  And his morning routine,
every morning, consisted of taking long walks on the beach with his
retired buddies.  And they, as retired civil servants, would debate the
issues of the day.   
  
So, I would hold my grandfather’s hand on these walks and listen
intently to him and his friends.  And I will tell you, as a young girl,
I don’t think I fully appreciated the essence and the import of the
debates that they would have.  But I did clearly understand and do
recall stories about the freedom fighters and the nation’s founding
heroes and about the independence of India.  I remember them talking
about the importance of fighting corruption and fighting for equality,
regardless of one’s belief or caste.   
  
Throughout these walks, I recall my grandfather teaching me lessons
about not just what it means to have a democracy but to keep a
democracy.   
  
And I do believe it is these lessons that I learned at a very young age
that first inspired my interest in public service.  And I look back now
and I do fully realize how much these conversations influenced me and my
thinking, and how they have guided me ever since.   
  
In fact, it is a large part of who I am today — these lessons I learned
from my grandfather, P.V. Gopalan, and from the dedication,
determination, and courage of his daughter, my mother, Shyamala.  And it
is that being the reason that I stand before you today as vice president
of the United States.  (Applause.)  
  
The history and teachings in India and of India have not only influenced
me, they, of course, have shaped the entire globe, as Secretary Blinken
just described.   
  
Throughout history, India has inspired millions of people around the
world, whether through philosophy and theology, the power of civil
disobedience, or the commitment to democracy.   
  
Indeed, as I travel the world as vice president, I have seen India’s
global impact firsthand.  In Southeast Asia, Indian-made vaccines have
saved lives and livelihoods.  On the continent of Africa, India’s
longstanding partnerships support prosperity and security.  And
throughout the Indo-Pacific, India helps promote a free and open
region.   
  
I also know of India’s extraordinary impact with regard to innovation,
medicine, and science.  I know this as a daughter of California.  I know
this as a former district attorney, attorney general, and senator who
has worked on technology with leaders in Silicon Valley.  And I know
this, of course, as a daughter of a scientist.   
  
My mother, at the age of 19, arrived in the United States by herself as
part of the first wave of Indian students to travel here.  She chose UC
Berkeley because it was known as being one of the best universities in
the world.  And growing up, I remember my mother — our mother spending
day and night and weekends in the lab.   
  
She always asked the big questions and searched for the answers that
would be a clue to improving the condition of life.  She understood what
was possible, unburdened by what has been.  
  
And since then, I think about it in the context of the work she did and
her studies that have led to advances in breast cancer research.  And I
think about it in the context of the millions of Indian students who
have come to the United States since to collaborate with American
researchers, to solve the challenges of our time, and to reach new
frontiers.  
  
Indian innovators have made great strides in engineering and computer
programming.  They’ve sent a mission to Mars.  And they have launched
and led technology companies that are global leaders in the areas of
autonomous vehicles, robotics, cybersecurity, climate data, and digital
finance — all of which can serve to improve the human condition and
uplift the people.  
  
The point here being: India’s global engagement has not only been to the
benefit of the people of India but also to the benefit of the people of
the United States and people around the world.  
  
So, Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for your role of leadership to help
India emerge as a global power in the 21st century.  You have helped to
reinvigorate the Quad.  Your leadership of the G20 is making new strides
on climate finance.  And you have been a proponent of international
institutions and global solutions to global challenges.  
  
And as a point of personal privilege, as chair of the National Space
Council, I thank you for your leadership in space and for our joint work
on an Earth science satellite, which will help us address the climate
crisis.  
  
And I will also thank you because when you and I first met at the White
House, I asked you to join the Artemis Accords: a commitment to the safe
and transparent use of space.  And today, I am happy to report, as you
have, that you have joined the Artemis Accords.  (Applause.)  
  
So, Prime Minister Modi, President Joe Biden and I are grateful for your
commitment to strengthen the ties and the relationships between the
United States and India.  And we share that commitment.  Under your
leadership and that of President Biden, our partnership has become more
expansive than it has ever been.  
  
Over the past two and a half years, you and I have advanced cooperation
on climate, on clean energy, terrorism, cybercrime, public health, and
vaccine production.  
  
And during this trip, our countries have launched new areas of
cooperation from artificial intelligence to semiconductors.  
  
As we look toward the future, the United States and India, the world’s
oldest and largest democracies, instinctively turn to each other and are
increasingly aligned.  
  
So, I will con- — close with this, which is a memory, again, of my
grandfather and what he taught me on those long walks and, in
particular, what he taught me about the nobility of public service.   
  
Prime Minister Modi, you and I have both dedicated our careers to the
noble work of public service.  And so, to everyone here today, I say: It
is incumbent on each of us, inside of government and outside of
government, to continue the fight for progress and to serve the greater
good.  
  
So, I raise a glass.  To the enduring bonds between our nations and our
people.  And to our continued work together, all in the service of the
greater good.   
  
Prime Minister.  Cheers.  
  
(Vice President Harris offers a toast.)  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Vice President Kamala Harris;
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff; Secretary of State and my friend,
Antony Blinken; White House Cabinet Secretary Evan Ryan; all
distinguished guests and representatives: Friends, first and foremost, I
would like to thank Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary Blinken
for this grand welcome.  Thank you so much.  I am also truly grateful to
you both for your warm and kind words.   
  
Today, to be among all of you at the State Department once again is a
matter of great pleasure for me.  In the last three days, I have taken
part in several meetings and discussed numerous topics.  In all of these
meetings, there was one thing that was common: In all of these meetings,
everyone was of the view that the friendship and cooperation between the
people of India and America needs to become even deeper.   
  
The sweet melody of the India-U.S. relations is composed of the notes of
our people-to-people ties.  Examples of these relations can be seen at
every step.   
  
Vice President Kamala Harris’s mother, Dr. Shyamala Gopalan, came to
America from India in 1958.  At that time, most people did not have
phones.  And so, her mother, she would send handwritten letters to her
family back home.   
  
And at any time, she did not let her relation with India break.  She
kept the relation alive with whatever ways and means she could find. 
She made maximum use of it.  For India and her life in America, she kept
them both linked.  Despite thousands of miles of physical distance,
India always remained close to her heart.   
  
And, Madam Vice President, you have taken this inspiration today to
newer heights.  Your achievements are an inspiration to not only the
women in America, but to women in India and women all across the world. 
This is really inspiring.  (Applause.)   
  
Secretary Blinken, when I, in the beginning, mentioned the words like
“music” and “notes,” I actually had you in mind.  You know, the entire
world knows about your diplomatic skills, and I now know it very well. 
There is also a lot of buzz about your musical talent.  Even when
covering thousands of miles of traveling, dealing with the most serious
of issues, you always find time for music.   
  
This is extremely inspiring for all of us.  Your contribution in
strengthening our strategic partnership has been incredible, and I thank
you for it.  Really, thank you, Secretary Blinken.  (Applause.)   
  
Friends, during my visit in 2014, my dear friend President Biden was
also here with me at the State Department.  At that time, he had
referred to India-America partnership as a promise over the horizon.   
  
In this period of nine years since then, we have been on a very long and
beautiful journey.  We have added and expanded the scope of mutual
cooperation in defense and strategic areas.  We are working with renewed
trust in areas of new and emerging technologies.  We are resolving
long-pending and difficult issues in trade.   
  
We are together in these new frameworks, such as Quad and I2U2, and we
have made a lot of progress in these.  Whether it is on ground or in the
skies, in the deep seas or way up in space, India and America can be
seen working together.   
  
Indeed, in the true sense, the promise over the horizon today is not
merely a promise but a reality.  And neither is it far over the
horizon.   
  
Where we stand today, the achievements that we take pride in are all the
result of your dreams and your tireless hard work.  I commend you all
for it, and I thank you for it.   
  
(Speaks English.)  Friends, on this note, I would like to raise a
toast.  To your good health and well-being.  To our friendship.  And to
the peace and prosperity of all of our citizens.  Thank you.  
  
(Prime Minister Modi offers a toast.)  

END                  1:17 P.M. EDT
