---
date: '2023-06-29'
published_time: 2023-06-29 22:30:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/29/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-new-york-ny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | New York,\_NY"
---
 
Private Residence  
New York, New York

5:30 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Thanks. Thank you very much. I’m not the
essential man, but I represent the essential company — country.

You know, remember Madeleine Albright talked about America being the
essential country, the — America having to lead the world? I — I spent a
lot of my time in foreign policy as a senator and then as vice
president. And she was more right than I thought she was — that, you
know, when I walk into a room, it’s not Joe Biden walking into a room.
It’s the United States of America walking into a room.

And it has — no, I — I mean this sincerely. It — it surprised me how the
rest of the world, in particular our allies — and not even our allies —
look at the United States. They look at it like: We’re in the house.

By the way, I got to tell you, I had lunch with Barack the other day.
And I was kidding him; I said, “Every time I hear…” — he’s helping out a
lot — I said, “Every time I hear ‘Hail to the Chief,’ I turn around and
look for you, wondering where the hell you are.” (Laughter.) No, you
think I’m kidding. I’m not.

Secret Service looks at me sometimes like, “That’s you. Come on out.”
(Laughter.)

But, folks, there’s — there’s so much at stake, and I want to start by
saying — it’s not hyperbole — you’re the reason why I’ve been able to
get anything done on climate. Not a joke. Not a joke. You’ve held the
country together in ways that we were ready to walk —

The first thing I did when I got elected was rejoin the Paris Accord.
First act we’ve — we took.

And the impact it had on other nations was like, “Whoa.” Not “Joe Biden
is back.” “America’s back in the deal.”

But you all have invested so much of your fortune, so much of your — of
this — of the foundation you have in making sure that everybody
understands this is the existential threat to humanity. It is the
existential threat. Not a joke. 1.5 degrees Celsius, 19- — fi- — 205.
We’re in trouble if we get it — I mean, we’re in real trouble. It’s not
going to turn this —

For example, I was telling a couple of you earlier in the rope line —
I’m sorry I spent so much time talking in the rope line, holding people
up. But, you know, I was talking about how two years now — it’ll be
three years this Christmas — I was in Geneva trying to work out
something with Putin, before he invaded Ukraine, on space-based weapons
and trying to get a new — a new negotiation going.

And — and he said — and I said, “There’s a lot we can work on. We can
work on climate.” He said, “We don’t have a problem with…” — he
essentially said, “We don’t have a problem with climate in — in Russia.”
I said, “You got eight time zones. The permafrost along the — along the
Arctic Circle is melting. More methane is coming out of there than
anywhere in the world. And guess what? It’s not going to refreeze. You
got a real problem.”

The point is that just getting people to realize that — what is at
stake. And you’ve done it.

And you’ve done it — the reason I’m standing here is in large part
because of you all. Not a joke. I’m not being solicitous. I got a lot of
help. I got a lot of help to get elected — a lot of people. But no group
of people have been more engaged with me in terms of providing me the
means and the judgment and the insight, like we were talking about what
you’re about to do.

I mean, it — there’s just enormous possibilities, and I’m optimistic.
I’m genuinely optimistic.

I just want to tick off a few things, and then I’ll go to questions,
because I don’t want to take — take too much time talking about things
you may not be interested in.

You know, first of all, you know, I — when I said — when I ran, I said I
wanted to — I was running for three reasons. One, to restore the soul of
this country. By that, I mean the value system we had, the decency,
honor. I mean, think of the way we talk about — to each other now. I
mean, it’s embarrassing, in front of our children and our grandchildren.
Not “we” — the public dialogue. The things that are said. I mean, the
language used. It’s just — it just — it’s degrading. And the rest of the
world looks at us and goes, “Whoa, what’s going on?”

The first meeting I had after I became pre- — elected president, I went
to — the G7 was meeting in — outside of London, along the coast. And I
sat down. And with the press here, I’m not going to say who the people
were. But I sat down with the other major leaders of NATO and Europe.
And when — I said, “America is back.” And one of the leading me- — CEO —
not CEOs — presidents of a country looked at me, and he said, “For how
long? For how long?” Not a joke.

And I looked at him. And before I could answer, another leader from one
of the major four countries in Amer- — in the world looked to me and
said, “Mr. President, what would you say if tomorrow we picked up the
London Times and you’ve read that there was a circumstance where a
thousand people broke down the doors of the House of Commons, killed two
bobbies, and went in and tried to stop the election of a prime minister?
What would you think?” And it made me realize how profound what’s
happening here in the United States is to the rest of the world, how the
— and what — what would we think? What the hell would we think?

And so one of the things that I was able to — I don’t want to say “I” —
we were able to do was up the ante on climate across the board from all
these — with all these countries and increase the number of countries
participating.

Matter of fact, I have a — I don’t want to get her in trouble — but a
granddaughter working on this full time — working for one of the major
institutions, traveling the world dealing with the G- — these meetings
on climate.

And there is an awakening. Let me put it this way: Since I got elected
president, I’ve been in more helicopter rides with governors from around
the country — from Arizona, New Mexico, up to Washington State, to
Idaho, all the way into Montana and down into — and more — more timber
has burned to the ground because of climate change, because of the — of
the winds and the storms knocking down high-tension wires and many other
things than makes up the entire square feet of the state of Maryland.
That’s how much has burned to the ground — to the ground.

And so, you know, all of a sudden, when you look out here and you can
barely see a building across the lake — you know, sometimes it’s going
to — people are beginning to — there’s no longer a debate, “Is there
global warming?” “Is there global warming?”

There’s a selfishness saying, “I don’t — notwithstanding global warming,
we still want to pollute.”

I mean, take a look at Texas. Texas has the highest percentage — I think
it still does — of wind and solar. I think it may — I won’t — I won’t —
I don’t want to misstate, but a significant percentage of their energy
is produced by wind and solar. But guess what? The governor is trying to
cut it back because the oil industry doesn’t like it.

I mean — anyway. So I want to just quickly list the things we’ve been
working on and then talk about whatever you want to talk about.

First of all, when I ran, I said we can — you know, we can get
bipartisan things done. The press understandably said, “You used to be
able to do that, Joe. You were known for that.”

George Mitchell’s friend is here. And George may — he gave me an award
when I was a senator, saying I got more done because I could have
relations across the aisle with people and get things done. But they
were the good old days. That’s gone.

Yet we were able to get some bipartisan things done. Not with a big
number, but just enough Republicans to join us. Some, we had to do it
all ourselves.

But as I said, in addition to rejoining the Paris climate treaty, we
passed the Inflation Reform \[Reduction\] Act, the largest investment in
the history of the world — $369 billion for climate. $369 billion. And
remember they got mad I didn’t get $500 billion?

Well, it cuts pollution by 1 billion tons, cuts emissions by 50 percent
by 2030, and — and tax credits for EVs, solar, wind, and batteries, heat
pumps, hydrogen. A lot of new — and there’s a lot of research going on.
A lot of you are funding the research. There are so many possibilities
we have.

We passed the infrastructure law with 500,000 EV chargers. And they’re
going to — 500,000. They can — and guess what? It’s going to create a —
we’re capping 100,000 wells in the United Sta- — 100,000.

Remember all the heat about what was going on in West Virginia and — and
south — west — Western Pennsylvania? Well, these same guys who dug those
wells — guess what? — they’re getting paid to cap them. And it’s
working.

And we’re rebuilding. And we’re putting a new environmental plant where
that old steel plant used to be in — in Wharton, West Virginia.

Fuel economy rules. We cut emissions in half by 30 — by 2032.

Brought unions — envir- — and enviros together. Thi- — did you ever
think that would happen?

But I know some — some of you got worried about me after — when — about
two months, when I hadn’t announced my environmental stuff. You’re
calling, “Joe, what the hell is going on?” I said, “I’m meeting with the
union guys.” Because — no, I’m ser- — I’m serious, because I was
convinced that if they knew what was coming, their future lay with the
environmental issues. That’s how it — and, by the way, the IBEW was the
first one to stand up when I said, “Hey, look, what are you doing?
You’re — you’re going to be out of work. You’re not — you’re going to
have trouble.”

But guess what? And we also — a couple of you were down on the South
Lawn when I had all the automobile manufacturers together.

I remember the General Motors chairman had — was suing the state of
California for having a higher standard than the federal standards,
saying that was unconstitutional and you couldn’t have a higher
standard.

Well, guess what? A week and a half later, I got a call. She said, “I’m
dropping the suit in California, and I’m going to go all electric. All
electric.”

And we started — and everybody started that route. And it worked. It’s
beginning to work. I mean, it’s not finished yet by a long shot. But the
point is: It’s working. It’s moving.

And guess what? They all of a sudden figured out that’s going to create
all these jobs for them.

And, by the way, these EV stations are going to be — these — you know,
all across America. Electric vehi- — they’re going to — they’re going to
put in 500,000 of these across the cou- — across the country. So you can
get in your car, your electric vehicle, and go, just like an old gas
station.

And that — and it’s generating thousands of jobs. It’ll generate
thousands more jobs in those communities. When you have a — when you —
when they were building gas stations originally, no one wanted one in
their neighborhood because they had thousand-gallon tanks in — back in
the ‘20s and ‘30s.

Guess what? What happens when you build a gas station? You end up
building a drugstore. You end up building a hotdog stand. I mean, it
generates economic growth. And a lot of — and a lot of communities have
been left behind big time and — because of what — shipping jobs overseas
and — anyway.

So the third thing is — the last thing is that solar panel manufacturing
is up eight times. You — a lot of you funded it. Solar energy and wind
energy is now — now cheaper — cheaper — cheaper than fossil fuels.
Cheaper to man- — no — and, by the way, no one is going to bid on a
coal-fired plant again. You know why? It’s not — it makes no sense.
Economically makes no sense anymore.

The biggest problem we had — and I need your help on this continually —
is when I went up in — I guess it was Rhode Island — closing down the
largest coal-fired plant in the country. Because what we found out was —
and with the help of a lot of my staff — and they are good staff and
environmentally conscious and smart — is that we — when Barack and I
came up with the economic plan on — on the environment and energy and
electric and — and dealing with wind and solar, we thought we could
transmit it on the high power lines.

Well, not in my neighborhood. Even people that lived in your
neighborhood didn’t like it, and whether it was in — out in the — sound
or wherever it was, because — and Trump didn’t like it because it killed
— it “caused cancer.”

(Makes the sign of the cross.) (Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, think about it. Think about what has happened
since then. We figured out that if you close down those plants, you
don’t take down high-tension wires, you put the wind — you connect the
wind or the solar to that facility.

So — and now what you’re — a lot of you are helping doing: If we put
these wires underground, it makes a — it costs six times as much, but it
also is environmentally a hell of a lot more sound. Costs more. We’re
trying to figure out how to fund that as well.

But the point is we’re making significant progress. And the — and the EV
sales are three times — up three times. And we’ve conserved — I — I
announced when I got elected — and I’ll stop with this — that my goal
was to conserve 30 percent of all the land and all the waters within the
jurisdiction of the United States of America and to do that by 2035 —
excuse me — by — by 2030.

So far, we’re on our way. Now, we got more to do in Alaska, and I need
your help there. But we’ve — 25 million acres is now in conservation in
Alaska. Spirit Mountain, 500,000 acres — 500,000 acres. The Pacific
Islands, I’m going to — we’re going to make sure that 770,000 square
miles around Hawaii, off limits. Cut back on drilling in many pla- —

But the generic point is: There’s a lot going on, and a lot going on in
hydrogen. A lot going on in other alternatives. And it’s because of you
guys. And I’m not being solicitous. It really genuinely is.

You think it — I know you don’t like to think about this way, but think
if you all dropped out. Where the hell would we be? Not a joke.

You’re funding the private enterprises you do in terms of environment,
as well as making sure that you not only elect somebody like me, who
cares about the environment, but a Congress — a Congress — a Congress. I
need the Congress. I need the Senate. And we’re going to do it. We’re
going to win back the House with your help. And we’re going to — it’s
going to be hard to keep it in the Senate, but we’re going to do that as
well.

So, I’m — I’m going on too much. I apologize. But there’s an enormous —
enormous, enormous poss- —

And the one reason why I am so optimistic is because of the people
between the ages of 17 and 30. They get it. They understand. They are
the impetus — the political impetus: the kids, the young people, the
young voters.

I go into a grade school or high school; what do they want to talk
about? The environment. They get it. They get it.

So there’s a lot — a lot we can do, and I’m optimistic we’re going to
continue to do it with your help.

I’m — I’m going to hush up, as my mother would say, and take — take any
questions you have. (Applause.)

5:46 P.M. EDT
