---
date: '2023-06-13'
published_time: 2023-06-13 22:49:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/13/remarks-by-president-biden-at-chiefs-of-mission-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Chiefs of Mission\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

5:17 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  Please.  I look around this room
and think, “What the hell happened to my administration?  Why aren’t you
here permanently in Washington?”  (Laughter.)  I need help.  
  
All kidding aside, you are — I don’t know if you fully understand how
much you’ve done.  Seriously, think about it.  I got to tell you one
story before I begin.  
  
The first meeting I had — and some of you know this — was at the G7 in
England right after I was elected.  And I sat down, and — I guess I can
tell this.  (Laughter.)  I sat down with the other heads of state, and I
turned to Macron — who was on my left, I believe it was — and said,
“Well, America is back.”  Know what the response was?  I wasn’t being
facetious either.  “For how long?  For how long?”  
  
And then the Chancellor of Germany said, “What would you think, Mr.
President, if tomorrow you picked up the paper here in England, and the
London paper had a headline, ‘A Thousand People Storm the Parliament,
Break Down the Doors of the House Of Commons to Protest the Investiture
of the Next Secretary” — or “the Next Prime Minister of England’?  What
would you think?”  
  
And I started to think about it.  Imagine what we would have thought
here in America.  And imagine what the rest of the world thought.  It’s
not a political statement, just a factual statement.  What the rest of
the world thought when, as Madeleine Albright used to say, “the
essential nation” had something even more consequential happen.  
  
And so you are incredibly consequential to everything — everything —
everything that this nation is able to do or not do to rebuild our
confidence around the world.  
  
And, you know, I was talking to this with our Ambassador to Mexico when
I — we talked about this being an inflection point.  Remember?  And I
said that, “You know, we have enormous opportunity.  We’re at a real
inflection point in American history.”  
  
An inflection point, my physics professor would say, was a point where
you’re going down the highway at 60 miles an hour, you take a rapid turn
at a right angle or at a 30-degree angle going in an opposite
direction.  You can never get back on the track.  And your destiny has
changed, at least for a couple of generations.  And we’re at one of
those inflection points.  
  
And so, it’s important.  We really did, Tony and I and others, and some
of you in this room sat with me during the period.  We had to put things
back together.  I’m not talking about an individual man.  I’m talking
about the state of the world at the time.  We’re at one of those
inflection points.  
  
And what we do — what we do over the next couple years and the last
several years are going to determine what the country looks like.  And
it’s presumptuous to say, and it’s going to sound like an egotistical
thing for an American president to say, but what America does, how well
we do our job, is going to determine what the next four or five
generations are going to look like.  I really mean that.  
  
The post-war period is over.  We’re building a whole new international
system in effect, in terms of relationships with one another.   
  
And so, Secretary Blinken, thank you for your incredible — and I mean it
sincerely — leadership and your dedication to the women — men and women
of the State Department.  It’s real.  This guy feels it in his bones. 
And our ambassadors and chargés, welcome to the White House — a second
time in two days.  (Laughter and applause.)  Thanks for coming back.  
  
I said I had a root canal, and the press said, “Well, is he — well, was
he unconscious?”  (Laughter.)  Unfortunately, no, I was wide awake. 
(Laughter.)  
  
I’m sorry to push this reception back by a day, but I’m glad to be able
to host all of you.  I really mean it.   
  
Usually, it’s the other way around.  I know the worst phrase in English
language is, for all of you, “The President is coming.”  (Laughter.) 
You’re all shaking your heads.  You know I’m telling the truth.  Because
when I show up, it’s all hands on deck.  It’s like, “Oh, God, where are
we going?”  But we’re going to create a lot of work here along the
way.   
  
And every country I’ve visited, with the single exception of Ireland — I
mean, Ireland is different.  (Laughter.)  That was even a more difficult
job for Claire.  “What the hell are we going to do with all these
people, Mr. President?”   
  
But at any rate, I wanted to take this chance to say, from the bottom of
my heart: Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  You’re not only
changing America’s image, you’re in the process of changing the world,
moving in the right direction.  Think of the fundamental things that
have already — you’ve already accomplished.   
  
Thank you for the work representing our country overseas, protecting
America’s interest all around the world.  Thank you for the leadership
you provide to the Foreign Service officers, to the Civil Service, to
the developmental pro- — professionals, to locally employed people you
have in your mission, and for everyone at your mission who bring
diplomacy to life.  And you really do.   
  
You’d be amazed — parenthetically — you’d be amazed how many heads of
state — Tony has been in the meetings and some of our folks here in the
foreign — and who do foreign policy in the White House.  The number of
heads of state who come and say “thank you,” for you, not to me — “thank
you” for you.  And thank him for the persons he sent.  I picked a couple
of you, but, you know.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all — all kidding aside, thank you for helping put diplomacy back at
the center — the center of American foreign policy.  It used to be that,
and then once it just seemed to start to evaporate a little bit.   
  
Each time — and each of you and each of the teams of the — each of the
teams of diplomats you lead have made a promise a reality.  We’ve begun
to rebuild the global network of alliances, for real, so that today
they’re stronger than ever.   
  
We formed innovative ways to partnership like AUKUS, elevated the Quad,
taking on the challenges of what will be a — define our — literally
define our future.   
  
We’re building a more stable, integrated, more peaceful, Middle East. 
Long haul, but it’s hard, but we’re making some progress.   
  
We’ve strengthened our leadership at the United Nations, in no small
part to our gifted ambassador.  Thank you, Ambassador.  (Applause.)  
  
And other international organizations — even, you know, Gitenstein. 
(Laughter.)  Everybody knows how everything — everybody thinks we’re
brothers.  You better keep doing a good job.  You’re going to reflect on
me a lot.  You know what I mean?  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, we’ve elevated our regional engagement across the
board, from our work with NATO and the EU, to the ASEAN and Pacific
Islands Forum, to the Gulf Cooperation Council, to the U.S. African
Leader- — excuse me — Leaders Summit, to the Summit of the Americas. 
Because of all the work you’ve put in, we’ve been able to rally the
world to take on the greatest challenges of our time.   
  
What are they?  I’ve been standing against the brutal war that Putin is
waging against the people of Ukraine, helping them defend themselves. 
Because if we didn’t, imagine what happens.  Think about it.  Not a
joke.   
  
If I told any of you — and I would have been mildly prophetic if I had
said it — before we were elected, when we were running, that there would
be 138- to 140,000 people in Europe invading another country, I think
you would have looked at me like I was crazy.  Maybe some of you
wouldn’t, but most would.  
  
Managing the competition with China so that it doesn’t turn into
conflict — tip into a conflict.  It need not do that.   
  
Addressing the existential threat of climate change in a real way for
the first time.  It is *the* existential threat to humanity.  It
is *the* existential threat to humanity.  I hope I have no climate
doubters out there, because it’s real.  
  
Investing in global health to address today’s challenges and to ensure
we’re better prepared for the next pandemic, for there will be another
pandemic.  There will be another pandemic.  
  
Tracking food insecurity for people around the world to feed their
children.  The Global South is in real trouble because of what Russia is
doing and what’s happening in terms of exports from Ukraine.  
  
Driving inclusive economic growth so no one is left behind.  That’s —
that’s a bold statement, saying “no one is left behind.”  But that
should be our goal: that no one is left behind.  
  
Advancing democracy and human rights so that we can live in freedom.  I
just met with the president of — anyway, I won’t get into that.  I guess
I shouldn’t start down the line.  (Laughter.)  I’ll leave somebody
out.   
  
But I’m grateful for the work you and your teams do every single day and
your incredible skill and your professionalism.  And that includes our
Ambassador to Japan.  Where is he?  (Laughter.)  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s hosting Jake.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He’s hosting Jake?  Oh, that’s right.  (Laughter.)  Oh,
my God.  Jake and — oh.  (Laughter.)   
  
He’s doing a hell of a job, and he’s liking it.  (Laughter.)  
  
And guess what?  I had the prime minister pull me aside, “I like your
ambassador.”  I said, “You ain’t seen nothing yet.”  (Laughter.)    
  
No, all kidding aside — but all — look, we’re in a situation where, you
know, the combination of political appointees and the professional State
Department personnel, you- — you know, you got to take a message of
thanks back to your teams.  I really mean it.  I mean it sincerely.  I
visited some of your embassies.  You know I mean it when I speak to
them.   
  
And, by the way, I might add, to your spouses and their spouses — if
they have a significant other with them.  Because when you appoint
someone ambassador, you appoint two people ambassador if they’re
married, if they have a significant other with them.   
  
The second part of my message is this: We’ve got to keep it up.  We’ve
got to double down right now.  It’s only going to get harder from here. 
But it’s closer, but it’s going get harder.   
  
The word is, as I said again, the inflection point.  The decisions we
made today — I used to have a physics professor talk about: An
inflection point, you’re going down the highway at 60 miles an hour, and
all of a sudden, you take a hard right turn.  You’re never going to get
back on the path you were for at least another couple decades.  That’s
where we are.   
  
But we have such an opportunity to make things even better than you’ve
begun to make them.  We can’t pick and choose between addressing
geopolitical crises and transnational threats.  We’ve got to sustain
America’s core advantage to outcom- — outcompete China, to defend the
principles of the U.N. Charter against Russia’s brazen attacks, while
also leading the world to address the issues that impact all nations. 
(Coughs.)  Excuse me.   
  
We’ve got to work with our partners to shape and update the rules of the
road on issues like trade and technology and, shortly, artificial
intelligence — which is going to become a gigantic issue for all of us
to be better informed on.   
  
So the international system is equipped to meet the challenge of this
new age.  And it is a new age.  
  
And to do this work, we need to harness the strength and talents of our
country’s full diversity.  We have to protect the values and ideals we
hold most dear, and drive 21st century diplomacy and effectively pursue
our interests abroad.  That’s where y’all come in, as you know.  
  
You’re on the frontlines of this effort, literally — not joking —
literally leading intense diplomacy alongside intense competition. 
They’re not easy to do at the same time.   
  
We need to make sure people around the world know the United States
stands for not just what we’re against, but American values.  The way we
do business has always been a part of our world, what we — what we
think.  
  
You know, again, parenthetically, I — and the press has heard me say
this before, so I apologize for the repetition.  You know, I — I’ve,
allegedly, met more face-to-face with Xi Jinping than any world leader
has.  They keep — as you guys who are in the — in the intelligence side,
you know they keep meticulous hours and times.  And I think we’re up to
85 hours, just he and I — 68 of them alone over a 10-year period. 
Because when he was vice president and Barack was president, he knew who
— who was going to succeed, but it wasn’t appropriate for the President
to be with him a lot.  So we traveled 17-, 18- — 17-, 18,000 miles
together in China and the United States.   
  
And I had a lot of personal — just one-on-one conversations.  And we had
— each had a simultaneous interpreter.  I turned all my notes in. 
(Laughter and applause.)  But — and that — and that’s not a reference to
the President — the former President.  
  
But look — (laugher) — no, it really isn’t.  (Laughter.)   
  
Because, look — so we want to share a positive vision of the future.  We
want to build with our partners — not against anybody, but with people. 
Engage with them in the interests that we share and help developing
nations deliver the biggest priorities for their people.   
  
That’s why the new appointee to the World Bank is someone who is — one
who’s going to try like hell to make sure that me- — middle-income
countries can qualify for concessional aid.  We have to — we have an
opportunity not only to help our diplomacy, but to help people around
the world.   
  
When we were at the G7, we talked about — one of the meetings was — they
used to call the Build Back Better World.  It’s not that now.  It’s
the <s>PIII</s> \[PGII\] — P-triple-I \[sic\].  
  
And what it is is — you know, you have an awful lot of African nation —
well, the Belt and Road Initiative of the Chinese — it’s ended up being
a — a — a noose and debt instead of belt and road, because it’s not
working very well for them.  And so there’s a hell of a lot of debt and
a lot of demands that are being made.   
  
We have an opportunity to take everything from — moving back to debt
relief, moving back to making sure we have — we deal with the climate
issues.   
  
We — you know, our investments in Africa, for example — there are going
to be a billion people in Africa very shortly.  And the idea — I know
our infrastructure people are working on the possibility of a railroad
from the Atlantic all the way across the continent so they have a means
of transporting goods and materials all the way to the Indian Ocean. 
We’re in a situation where we’re talking about Angola having one of the
largest solar facilities in the world.  It’s in our interest that that
happen, in addition to helping other countries.  
  
How are we going to deal with climate change as we engage the rest of
the world and it’s beneficial to everybody?  Nations around the world
choose to work with us not because of our force or threats of coercion,
but because we understand what they can do better and what we can do
better as well.   
  
We know when our partners are stronger and more capable, and when
there’s an opportunity to make America — it’s an opportunity to make the
American people safer and better, when everybody does better.  For
real.   
  
Make no mistake: The challenges we face are great.  But our capacity to
meet the moment is real.   
  
And I’ve heard — they’ve heard me say this before, and I mean it: I’ve
been around — I know I don’t — I know I look like I’m only still 29, but
— (laughter) — I’ve been around a long time.  And as one of my friends
said, “Just try — try to connect age and wisdom.”   
  
But I’ve been around a long time.  And I’ve — but I’ve never been more
optimistic — not because I’m president.  I’ve never been more optimistic
about America’s future.  The opportunities are immense in this moment of
change.   
  
And we’re investing in our strengths at home.  We’re investing in our
strengths abroad.  The alliances and partnerships that you maintain and
deepen every day are the heart of our strategic advantage in the world. 
And that’s truth.  No other nation comes close to matching us — not
because I’m president, because of you and the policies you’re
pursuing.   
  
So thank you again.  I mean it from the bottom of my heart.  Thank you
again for all you do to ensure the future we’re building is no — no one
that’ll be more prosperous and more securer than our children.  That’s
what this gets down to.   
  
So let me close.  I’ve probably already gone on too long.   
  
But may God protect our troops, our diplomats, and all those who serve
our nation.  And that’s what you’re doing — you’re serving our
nation.   
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
(The President speaks to audience with microphone turned off.) 
(Inaudible.)  Thank you!  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
Q    Would you comment on the arrest of the former President, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No. 

5:36 P.M. EDT 
