---
date: '2023-06-22'
modified_time: 2023-06-22 15:48:10-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-22 15:03:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/22/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

  
10:53 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, Mr. President — Mr. President — Mr. Prime
Minister, (inaudible) Modi. Mr. Prime Minister, thank you for being
here, and welcome back to the White House.

Almost exactly 10 years ago, when I visited Mumbai as vice president, I
emphasized how important it was for India and the United States to
continue building a partnership small steps — small steps at a time.

Over that past 10 years, those small steps have transformed into large
progress. And today, the partnership between our countries is stronger
than it has ever been.

We see it in our Major Defense Partnership, now a pillar in the
Indo-Pacific peace and security structure. We see it in our economic
ties and efforts to promote inclusive economic growth for our people
and, quite frankly, people all around the world.

And we see it in our growing coop- — cooperation on a whole range of
issues: in space, emerging technologies, clean energy, global
infrastructure.

And I want to thank you, Mr. Prime Minister, for your decision to — and
hosting the G20 this year and focusing the world on the challenges that
matter not just to you and I and our countries, but to all of us.

And I look forward to discussing how we can strengthen our partnership
and build a future together worthy of both our peoples, one grounded on
democracy, human rights, freedom, and the rule of law.

So welcome again, Mr. Prime Minister. We have a big agenda, I think, to
continue to build our progress, again, step by step, but continue to
build.

Thank you for being here.

PRIME MINISTER MODI: (As interpreted.) Your Excellency, President Biden,
I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to you and to Dr. Jill Biden
for the hospitality and the respect that you have shown to me and my
delegation, and, more importantly, because you opened the doors of the
White House today for the Indian American people, and they were there in
thousands to witness the future of our strategic partnership.

Your Excellency, you’ve always been India’s friend and a well-wisher for
a very long time. And whenever you have gotten an opportunity, you have
always given force and strength to our bilateral relations.

Excellency, eight years ago, while addressing the U.S.-India Business
Council, you had said, “Our goal is to become India’s best friend.” And
it is this personal commitment of yours towards India that is inspiring
us to take many bold and ambitious initiatives.

Today, India and the U.S. are walking shoulder to shoulder in every
field, from the depths of the oceans to the heights of the skies, from
ancient culture to artificial intelligence.

Excellency, whenever there is talk of relations between any two
countries from a diplomatic point of view, people often talk about some
formal joint statements, working groups, MOUs. All of these definitely
have their own importance, but the real engine of the India-U.S.
relationship is our strong people-to-people ties. And we just heard a
spirited roar of that engine out on the White House lawns.

Your Excellency, as you said — and I would like to reiterate that — in
today’s rapidly changing global situation, all eyes are on the two
largest democracies of the world: India and America.

I believe that our strategic partnership is important for welfare of the
humankind, global peace and stability, and for all countries believing
in democratic values. And this is important than ever before. I’m
confident that, working together, we will be successful in enhancing the
strength of the whole world.

We will talk about many such issues today, and we will add new
dimensions to our strategic partnership.

I once again express my heartfelt gratitude to you for your friendship.

Thank you, Mr. President.

(In English.) Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

Thank you, press. (Laughs.)

Q Mr. President, was it a mistake to call Xi a “dictator”?

Q Mr. Prime Minister, can you speak to the treatment of Muslims in India
right now?

Q Do you regret calling Xi a “dictator”?

Q Mr. President, how’s Hunter feeling?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: (Gives thumbs up.)

Q Still? Hunter’s feeling good?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: (Nods.)

11:03 A.M. EDT
