---
date: '2023-06-08'
published_time: 2023-06-08 16:00:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/08/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-rishi-sunak-of-the-united-kingdom-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

11:44 A.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, Mr. Presi- — “Mr. President.” Just — I just
promoted you.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: (Laughs.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Mr. Prime Minister, it’s great to have you back. And,
you know, in the past few months, we’ve met each other in San Diego and
then we met in Belfast, and we met Hiroshima and now we’re here. And
we’re going to solve all the problems in the world right in this next 20
minutes.

But, you know, Prime Minister Churchill and Roosevelt met here a little
over 70 years ago, and they asserted that the strength of the
partnership between Great Britain and the United States was the strength
of the free world. I still think there’s truth to that assertion.

And together, we’re providing economic and humanitarian aid and security
assistance to Ukraine in their fight against a brutal invasion of the
Russians. And we’ve worked out an arrangement with AUKUS, with
Australia, to make the Indian Ocean and that whole area safer and more
secure. And — and, you know, we’re building on the Good Friday Agreement
— 25 years — and keep that going. We can talk about that a little bit.

As NATO Allies, we’re — we’re working together to help provide the
collective defense of — of all of us. And we’re going to further — I
hope we can — we’re going to discuss today plans to further strengthen
our economic relationship.

And the global economy is undergoing, I think, the greatest
transformation that’s occurred since the Industrial Revolution. And
something you know a lot about, AI, is going to play a big part in that,
and I want to hear your views on that as well.

And we don’t have a closer ally than Great Britain. And I’m delighted
that you’re here.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: Mr. President, thank you. Thank you for the warm
words. But also thank you for welcoming me to the White House and for
allowing me to stay in Blair House, which, I’ve got to say, the spare
room in the flat in Number 10 Downing Street doesn’t quite compare. So
it’s been a real privilege.

And as you said, it’s daunting to think of the conversations that our
predecessors had in this room when they had to speak of wars that they
fought together, peace won together, and incredible change in the lives
of our citizens.

And again, for the first time in over half a century, we face a war on
the European continent. And as we’ve done before, the U.S. and the UK
have stood together to support Ukraine and stand up for the values of
democracy and freedom and make sure that they prevail, as I know we
will.

But also, I completely agree with what you said: Our economies are
seeing perhaps the biggest transformation since the Industrial
Revolution as new technologies provide incredible opportunities but also
give our adversaries more tools for harm.

The one thing I know won’t change — I’m confident won’t change is the
strength of our partnership and our friendship. And we will put our
values front and center, as we’ve always done, to deliver for the
British and American people.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, if we had time, I’d take you over to the
Residence where I live. And when you were over in Blair House, the —
President Truman was there because they were redoing the White House. He
put a whole — the Truman Balcony exists now because of Blair House being
available. The bal- — that second balcony you see — the first balcony
you see going up.

So, any rate, and there’s an awful lot of stories that are told —
probably a bunch, a pocketful — about the former Prime Minister liked to
take baths up the — anyway.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: Wandering around at three in the morning.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: That’s right. (Laughs.)

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: Yeah, Winston Churchill was bothering — bothering
Mrs. Roosevelt. Yes. So you won’t — don’t worry, you won’t see me there
at — (laughter) —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: All right.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: — bothering you and the First Lady.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Anyway, welcome, welcome, welcome.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: Well, it’s great to be here. Thanks for having me,
Joe.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Thank you. Good to be with you.

Thanks, everybody.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: Thank you.

Q Is the special relationship in good shape, Mr. President? Is it in
good shape?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: (Thumbs up.) In real good shape.

Q Any response — federal response to the smoke, Mr. President?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: You’re going to get a chance to ask me questions at the
press conference.

(Cross-talk.)

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK: As the President said, you’ll have a chance to ask
us questions later on.

11:49 A.M. EDT
