---
date: '2023-06-23'
modified_time: 2023-06-23 18:41:28-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-23 18:31:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/23/remarks-by-president-biden-in-a-political-event-with-reproductive-rights-groups/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in a Political Event with Reproductive Rights\_\
  Groups"
---
 
Mayflower Hotel  
Washington, D.C.

5:03 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Jill said you women should take off your high heels or
you should just lie down.  (Laughter.)  My lord, talk about commitment,
standing all this time.  (Laughter.)

Thank you, Doc.  I appreciate that introduction.  I really do. 

My name is Joe Biden.  I’m Jill’s husband and Kamala’s running mate. 
(Laughter and applause.)  You all think I’m kidding.

I want to thank — start by thanking Kamala for taking the lead on this
issue and so many other issues in our campaign and our governing.

And I want to thank Jill and Doug for their work in shining a spotlight
on the issue affecting women.

And I want to thank all of you — EMILYs List, NARAL, Planned Parenthood
— for your endorsement.  It’s a big deal.  It’s a big deal.  Your
support was critical last time around, and we’re so grateful for it and
we’re hard working with — with you again.

I can’t think of three organizations who will do more — have more
consequential impact on the right and the ability to regain freedom.

You know, you have troops on the ground in every single state, and we’re
going to need all those troops in those states.

We want to thank Nancy Pelosi, a good friend, who’s been an ally and
friend of mine for a long time, as well as the many members of the
Congress who are here and elected officials from all around the country.

To state the obvious — even though it’s clear by now; it’s almost
redundant to say it — this fight really matters.  It really, really
matters.

Since the day the Dobbs decision came down one year ago tomorrow, we’ve
seen the devastating effects all across the country: women turned away
from emergency rooms, denied lifesaving care; moms, college students,
teachers, nurses traveling hundreds of miles to get basic reproductive
healthcare.

And we just heard from Jill, who’s heard the stories firsthand.  You
know, we’ve all heard the stories firsthand.  People come up to you —
people you know and people you’ve grown up with.

You know, and since that dark June day last year, each of you has worked
tirelessly to fight back.

In the Dobbs decision, the Court particularly — practically dared the
women of America to be heard.

This is what the majority wrote: “Women are not without electoral or
political power.”  You ain’t seen nothing yet, Court.  (Applause.)  I
really mean it.

Think of the challenge that is.

I said at the time that I didn’t think the Court — or, for that matter,
the Republican Party, who for decades have pushed

their extreme agenda — have a clue about the power of women in America. 

I said they were about to find out.  (Applause.)  And, by the way, in
the midterms, we were supposed to be blown out.  They did find out. 
(Applause.)  And they’re going to find out again.  I really believe — in
my heart, I believe it.

Look, we were — we were criticized for making this an issue in the
midterms.  In fact, I got attacked for it.

But you know all along what Kamala and Doug and Jill and I knew as well:
The Americans would not stand by and let the Court take away the right
that’s so fundamental, that we’d fight — we’d fight to restore these
protections of Roe v. Wade and make it the law of the land once again. 
And we’re going to do that.  (Applause.)  And we will not let the most
personal decisions fall in the hands of politicians instead of woman and
their doctors.

The Court was betting that all of us would remain silent.  But my mother
had an expression.  She said, “Joey, never bow, never bend, never
yield.  Just get up.”  Oh, you think I’m kidding?  You didn’t know my
mom.  (Laughter.)

That the American — that the women of America would remain silent was
just beyond comprehension; that Kamala and I would remain silent.  Well,
we’re not.  We will not remain silent. 

And all over this country, thanks to the hard work of the voters,
delivered a clear message.  In Kansas, in Michigan, in Kentucky, in the
polls in November, Americans voted to protect the woman’s right to
choose.  In fact, you all showed up and beat the hell out of them. 
(Laughter and applause.) 

You know, what’s really remarkable is despite the will of the American
people, MAGA Republicans have made clear that they don’t intend to stop
with the Dobbs decision.  No, they won’t, until they get a national ban
on abortion. 

Speaker McCarthy said, quote, “Our work is far from done.”  End of
quote.  Senator Lindsey Graham wants to —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  — wants to criminalize doctors and nurses who provide
medical care for their patients; make it a crime. 

Republicans in Congress have proposed three national abortion bans just
this last year.  Well, make no mistake about it: If somehow Congress
were to pass a national ban, I will veto it.  (Applause.) 

Let’s also be clear that this decision also risks — risks the broader
rights of privacy for everyone.  That’s because the fundamental right to
privacy, which Roe recognized, has — has served as a basis for so many
other rights that are ingrained in our fabric of our country: the right
to make the best decisions for your health, the right to use birth
control.  Did you ever think we’d be arguing about that? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m serious.  

The right to marry the person you love.  (Applause.) 

Judge Thomas said as much in his concurring opinion in Dobbs, writing,
quote, “For that reason, in future cases we should reconsider all the
Court’s substantive due process precedents, including Griswold,
Lawrence, and Obergefell.”

These guys are serious, man.  I — I said it when the decision came out,
and people looked at me like I was exaggerating.  But they’re not
stopping here.  Make no mistake, this election is about freedom on the
ballot once again. 

Look, we’ve made so much progress.  We can’t let it take us backwards. 
I believe that one of the best ways to continue making progress is to
ensure women are at every table where every decision is made. 
(Applause.)  And that’s not hyperbole.  That’s not hyperbole. 

I promised that my administration would look like America.  My Cabinet
is the first majority-female Cabinet in history.  (Applause.)  You just
heard from the first woman ever Vice President of the United States. 
(Applause.) 

And perhaps the most critical of milestones we mark tomorrow. 

We are reshaping our courts.  We’ve appointed more Black women to the
federal Circuit Courts of Appeal — (applause) — than — than every other
president in American history combined.  Combined.  (Applause.)

And, of course, I was proud to keep my promise to appoint Justice
Jackson — (applause) — the first Black woman to the Supreme Court.  And,
by the way, she’s smarter than the rest.  (Applause.)  She is — I’m
serious.  She’s incredible.  She is genuinely incredible. 

We’re also making progress building an economy where all Americans have
the opportunity to work, raise a family, buy a home, start a business.

We made historic investments in childcare, making it more affordable so
parents can work and provide for their kids at the same time.

The first major piece of legislation I signed, the American Rescue Plan,
provided historic tax relief for millions of families, helping to
recover — (applause) — childcare costs through the largest increase in
history of Childcare Tax Credit and the Dependent — the Dependent Care
child — Tax Credit.

We helped 200,000 children care providers stay open, and small
businesses, continuing to go through the pandemic and continuing to
serve more than 9.5 million children.  
  
These things matter.  
  
I signed legislation increasing funding for Child Care and Development
Block Grants by 30 percent, helping low-income families afford
childcare.  
  
But there’s so much more to do.  And we’re fighting over abortion?  
  
For example, the United States is still one of the only countries in the
world that doesn’t guarantee paid leave.  I remain committed to changing
that — (applause) — and bringing us in line with every other single
major economy in the world by passing a national program for paid leave
and medical leave.  (Applause.)  
  
We can get all this done and so much more.  We can restore the
protections of Roe v. Wade and make it the law of the land again, but
we’re going to need your help badly.  
  
So, let me ask you this: Do you think your colleagues are with us?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I tell you what: They better damn well be. 
(Laughter.)  
  
After the Dobbs decision came down, I signed two executive orders, and
my administration took a number of actions to protect the access to
reproductive healthcare.   
  
And it’s just — the one I signed — the third executive order, which is
to strengthen the affordability of high-quality contraception.  The idea
that I had to do that — I mean — no, I mean, really, think about.  Think
about it.  
  
I know I’m 198 years old — (laughter) — but all kidding aside, think
about that.  I never ever thought I’d be signing an executive order
protecting the right to contraception.  
  
But the only sure way to protect a woman’s health and rights is for
Congress to pass a law.  (Applause.)  
  
As I’ve said before, the Court got Roe right 50 years ago, and I believe
Congress should restore the protections of Roe v. Wade once and for
all.  (Applause.)  But we need your help.  
  
So, I’ll ask again: Are you with us?  You’re going to get this done? 
(Applause.)  I really mean it.  
  
So, let me close — let me close with this.  
  
Over the last week or so, we’ve seen extraordinary support from three of
the most important voices in the country coming together to get behind
this campaign: organized labor — (applause) — climate leaders —
(applause) — and all of you representing the powerful groups fighting to
protect the advantage for women’s rights.  (Applause.)  
  
Your strong support, your determination, your ago- — your advocacy are
why I’ve never — I know I’ve said this before, and I want you to listen
to it again, and I mean it from the bottom of my heart: I have never
been more optimistic about America’s future than I am today.  
  
And with your help, Kamala and I are going to continue to make the
progress.  We’re going to finish this job.  
  
We just have to remember who the hell we are.  We’re the United States
of America.  (Applause.)  And there’s nothing, nothing beyond our ca- —
if we work together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  (Applause.)  
  
Let’s go get this done.  Let’s get this done!  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
5:13 P.M. EDT
