---
date: '2023-06-05'
published_time: 2023-06-05 12:12:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/05/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-art-in-embassies-celebration/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the 60th Anniversary\
  \ of the Art in Embassies\_Celebration"
---
 
Lisbon, Portugal

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, Ambassador Levine. Randi, for many years now, you and Jeff
have been such good friends to Joe and me—and it’s wonderful to be here
with you and your family. Thank you for your service here in
Portugal.   
  
Back in February when Randi personally invited me to this celebration of
the 60th Anniversary of the Art in Embassies program, her passion was
clear. If you know Randi, you know what I mean. We made it work and it’s
my honor to be here with you today.   
  
Good afternoon distinguished guests, Mayor Moedas, Céline, Vice
President Lima of the Azores, and Minister Mendes. 

And, it’s great to see so many, many familiar faces: Ambassador
Milstein, Ambassador Harpootlian, Ambassador Moser, Ambassador Reynoso.
   
  
Julissa, as proud as I am of the work you’re doing in Spain, there will
always be a place in my heart that misses hearing your incredible laugh
in our office every day.   
  
Congressman Don Beyer, Director Meghan Beyer, Rector Gil, thank you for
being with us today.  
  
And, my dear friend Ellen Sussman, you have dedicated your life to art.
Thank you for sharing your passion with me and the world.   
  
Let me also recognize the Meridian delegation who has come here from the
United States, Ambassador Holliday and Gwen.  
  
And, finally please meet my daughter Ashley and my sister Bonny.  
  
Art is about connection.   
  
In a world that asks us to sprint from moment to moment—from meeting to
meeting—art stops us in our tracks. It feeds our spirits when we’re
hungry for something more. It shows the contours of our sorrows and
joys, so that we know we aren’t alone. It brings us back to the beauty
in every moment.  
  
Art is the evidence and expression of our humanity.   
  
And even when it’s easy to get caught up in differences; yes, art can
unite us.  
  
Connection is what diplomacy is about as well.   
  
For 60 years, the State Department has recognized the diplomatic power
of art, distributing works to embassies throughout the world. And,
deploying over 200 U.S. artists as cultural envoys to local communities
as well.   
  
With each brushstroke and bar of music, with each workshop and cultural
exchange, we are creating a conversation about history and legacy, about
ideals and identities, about the invisible threads that tie us to one
another—across oceans and continents.   
  
Diplomacy isn’t only about a government-to-government relationship. It’s
people to people. Heart to heart. And when visitors understand that, so
much can grow from common ground.   
  
Randi, I know how deeply you believe in this effort. Your dedication and
passion to promoting the arts worldwide is unparalleled. You empower and
unite a community of artists who are transforming our countries—not only
with their work, but with their commitment to democracy.   
  
And the collection you’ve created is a celebration of the complex and
rich beauty of America. Even as exhibitions end, the connections you’ve
made, the new ideas you shared, will live on.    
  
We’re joined today by members of the foreign service, dignitaries, and
some of the United States’ most prominent artists.    
  
Thank you all for being with us.   
  
You remind us that diplomacy, justice, liberty—these things are alive.
They breathe—they beat—inside of us.   
  
In every diplomat working for a brighter future, every painter, and
singer, and sculptor helping us see the hidden colors of the world
around us.   
  
Thank you. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------
