---
date: '2023-06-28'
published_time: 2023-06-28 16:07:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-economy-chicago-il/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Economy | Chicago,\_IL"
---
 
Old Post Office  
Chicago, Illinois

11:58 A.M. CDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Thank you all very
much.   
  
And, Bob, thank you for that introduction.  Bob has been helping me for
a long time.  I guess he doesn’t know any better.   
  
And speaking of help from a long time — a brand-new guy in town, a guy
who — I told him that being mayor I think is the toughest job in
America.  They know where you live, and every time you walk in the
grocery store you get questions.   
  
But congratulations, Mr. Mayor.  I think that you’ve been doing a good
job.  (Applause.)  Mayor Brandon Johnson.  
  
Look, you know, there’s a guy that helped me more than — I can say this
without equivocation — helped me more than anybody in America get
elected last time.  A single person: your governor.  He stepped up.  He
raised money.  He raised support.  Governor, you’re the best.  Thank you
for being such a good friend.  (Applause.)  No, I really mean it.   
  
And I like hanging around with heroines like Tammy Duckworth.  Tammy,
God love you.  You’re the — you’re the best too, I tell ya.   
  
But you know what?  My good friend Dick Durbin — and he is a good
friend; we’ve worked together a long, long time in the United States
Senate — he’s the single-most effective senator in getting things done. 
And that’s not a joke.  It’s not just Judiciary Committee.  He’s made
sure that we got more judges appointed — we — we’ve appointed more
African American women to the exec- — to the — to the federal bench than
any other — every other president combined.  (Applause.)  And he got the
first and brightest Justice Ketanji Brown.  He got — I said I was going
to put a Black woman on the Court, and he put her on the Court for me. 
He put her on the Court for me.  
  
Dick, you really are the best, man.  And, by the way, when I have
questions about — just about any — anything at all beyond the Judiciary
Committee, I still call him anyway for his advice.  So thank you.  
  
And Representative Danny Davis.  Danny, you’ve been a good friend for a
long time.  (Applause.)  He’s always there.   
  
And to all the elected officials — member of Congress, elected officials
here today: Thank you.  Thank you for the welcome and welcoming me to
Chicago.  
  
You know, in the first quarter of the 20th century, the poet Carl
Sandburg described Chicago as a “city of big shoulders.”  A “city of big
shoulders.”  He was describing the “big shoulders” of the working-class
American town where — who were building this city, at the same time
building the middle class.  
  
I’m here in Chicago today, for the first quarter of the 21st century, to
talk about the economic vision for this country: the economy that grows
the economy from the middle out and the bottom up instead of just the
top down.  When that happens, everybody does well.  The wealthy still do
— (applause) — everybody does well.  The poor have a ladder up, and the
wealthy still do well.  We all do well.  
  
This vision is a fundamental break from the economic theory that has
failed America’s middle class for decades now.  It’s called trickle-down
economics — fundamental economics, trickle-down.  The idea was — it’s
the belief that we should cut taxes for the wealthy and big corporations
— and I know something about big corporations; there’s more corporations
in Delaware incorporated than every other state in the union combined. 
I want them to do well, but I — I’m tired of waiting for the
trickle-down.  It doesn’t come very quickly.  Not much trickled down on
my dad’s kitchen table growing up.  
  
And it’s a belief that we should shrink public investment in
infrastructure and public education — shrink it; that we should let good
jobs get shipped overseas.  And we actually have a tax policy that
encourages them to go overseas to save money.  We should let big
corporations amass more power while making it harder to join a u- — a
union.  
  
I meant what I said when I said I’m going to be the pro- — the most
pro-union president in American history.  And I make no apologies for
it.  (Applause.)  
  
My predecessor — if my mom were here — and God bless his soul — my
predecessor enacted the latest iteration of a failed — the failed
theory.  Tax cuts for the wealthy.  It wasn’t paid for, and the
estimated cost of his tax cut was $2 trillion.  Two trillion dollars.   
  
Now Republicans are at it again, pushing for tax cuts for large
corporations and the wealthy and adding trillions of dollars to the
deficit.  Trillions.   
  
Folks, let me say this as clearly as I can: The trickle-down approach
failed the middle class.  It failed America.  It blew up the deficit. 
It increased inequity.  And it weakened the in- — our infrastructure. 
It stripped the dignity, pride, and hope out of communities one after
another, particularly through the Midwest, Western Pennsylvania, and
heading west.  
  
People working as hard as ever couldn’t get ahead because it’s harder to
buy a home, pay for a college education, start a business, retire with
dignity.  
  
The first time in a generation, the path of the middle class seemed out
of reach.  And I don’t think it’s hyperbole; I think it’s a fact no
matter whether you’re a Democrat, Republican, or an independent.   
  
I knew we couldn’t go back to the same failed policies when I ran, so I
came into office determined to change the economic direction of this
country, to move from trickle-down economics to what everyone in the
Wall Street Journal and Financial Times began to call “Bidenomics.”  
  
I didn’t come up with the name.  (Laughter.)  I really didn’t.  I now
claim it, but they’re the ones that used it first.   
  
I got asked by a press person this morning, getting on the helicopter in
Washington, why — “When I asked you about Bidenomics a long time ago,
you said you didn’t know what it was.”  I said, “I didn’t name it
Bidenomics.  I didn’t realize the economists in the Wall Street journal
did.”  But I think it’s a plan that I’ll — I’m happy to call it
“Bidenomics.”  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
And guess what?  Bidenomics is working.  When I took office, the
pandemic was raging and our economy was reeling, supply chains were
broken, millions of people unemployed, hundreds of thousands of small
businesses on the verge of closing after so many had already closed —
literally, hundreds of thousands on the verge of closing.   
  
Today, the U.S. has had the highest economic growth rate, leading the
world economies since the pandemic.  The highest in the world. 
(Applause.)  
  
As Dick said, with his help, we created 13.4 million new jobs.  More
jobs in two years than any president has ever — (applause) — made in
four — in two.   
  
And, folks, it’s no accident.  That’s Bidenomics in action.  Bidenomics
is about building an economy from the middle out and the bottom up, not
the top down.  And there are three fundamental changes that we decided
to make with the help of Congress and been able to do it: first, making
smart investments in America; second, educating and empowering American
workers to grow the middle class; and third, promoting competition to
lower costs to help small businesses.  
  
Here’s what I mean by all this.  Under trickle-down economics, it didn’t
matter where you made things, as long as you helped the company’s bottom
line, even if that meant seeing jobs and industries go overseas for
cheaper labor.  Supply chains and key products moved overseas, like
China and mu- — much of Asia.  The entire towns and communities, from
where I lived all the way out there and through the Midwest, were shut
down, hollowed out.  I mean literally hollowed out.  
  
All over the country, parents have to say to their — and many of you and
all elected officials heard people tell you this — had to say to their
children, “Honey, I lost my job.  We can’t live here anymore.  We’ve got
to move.”  
  
Trickle-down also meant slashing public investment on things that helped
drive long-term growth and helped America lead the world in innovation. 
We used to invest 2 percent of our gross domestic product in research
and development.  By the time I came to office, that was down to 0.7
percent.  
  
We used to be number one in the world in research and development. 
That’s what we were known for.  Now we rank number nine in the world. 
China, decades ago, was number eight in the world.  Now it’s number two
in the world.  And other nations are closing in fast.  
  
We used to have the best infrastructure in the world — roads, bridges,
et cetera — but then we fell to thirt- — rated 13th best inters- —
investment in infrastructure.  Two to thirteen.  How can you have the
best economy in the world without the best infrastructure in the world? 
How do you get product from one place to another?  
  
I was out in Pittsburgh recently, the “City of Bridges” — bridges
collapsing all over the nation.  You’ve seen on television railroad
bridges collapsing.   
  
Bidenomics.  We’re turning this around.  We’re supporting targeted
investments.  We’re strengthening America’s economic security, our
national security, our energy security, and our climate security.  
  
I designed and we signed a Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  It’s already
announced — and you — I heard some of the speakers before touting some
of it.  It’s already announced 35,000 projects across the country.  
  
Think of it this way: Nearly a century ago, Franklin Roosevelt’s Rural
Electrification Act — Rural Electrification — brought electricity to
millions of Americans in rural America.  Seventy years ago, Dwight
Eisenhower launched the Interstate Highway System, the largest
infrastructure project to date in history.  
  
That’s what the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law does.  It will be for our
kids and grandkids, only bigger.   
  
Just last week, we announced our plan to bring affordable high-speed
Internet to end a decade of — that — of unaffordable and un- —
inaccessible Internet to every home in America, every small business in
America.   
  
And to no one’s surprise — (applause) — and to no one’s surprise, it’s
bringing along converts.  People strenuously opposed, voting against it
when we had this going.  They were — this was going to “bankrupt
America.”   
  
Well, there’s a guy named Tuberville from Ala- — a senator from Alabama,
who announced that he strongly opposed the legislation.  Now he’s
hailing its passage.  Here’s what he said: Quote, “It’s great to see
Alabama receive critical funds to boost ongoing broadband efforts.” 
(Laughter.)     
  
(The President makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter.)  
  
We’re replacing every single lead pipe in this country and putting our
healther- — our children’s health back directly — (applause) — 400,000
schools, 10 million homes.  We’re fixing crumbling bridges, upgrading
our power grid, renovating our airports and ports.  
  
And, Dick, you’re — or one of you talked about that, how important that
is for the Great Lakes as well.   
  
Anyway, last week we reopened I-95, back where I live.  And you go up
the East Coast — it’s one of the most important lengths in the entire
East Coast.  Well, guess what?  Less than — we — a guy driving a truck
hit a ba- — anyway, he knocked down a whole bridge, and the whole —
blocked four lanes of the highway.   
  
I went up there, and I said, “We’re going to get this, the number one
project, to get done.”  Within one week of my being there, two weeks of
it happening, tanker trucks that crashed and caused this overpass that —
that has 150,000 vehicles travel on it every day and 14,000 trucks.  
  
It’s critical to our economy.  We did it with union workers. 
(Applause.)  We closed all the loopholes.  We used all American
products, all American materials.  We used federal infrastructure
project, made in America.  Made in America.  Not a slogan; it’s actually
happening.  
  
You know, when Roosevelt passed the legislation in the ‘30s about unions
being able to be engaged, everybody thinks he just legalized unions.  It
said we should encourage unions.  There was a little provision there
that very few presidents paid attention to.  It said, “Buy American.” 
That meant that if a president was given money by the Congress to build,
say, a new deck in an aircraft carrier, or whatever it was, he or she
was supposed to use 100 percent American labor and 100 percent American
products.  It hardly happened.  They’d get exceptions down to 30
percent, et cetera.  
  
I changed all that.  We’re now investing in key industries of the
future, making targeted investments to promote domestic production of
semiconductors, batteries, electric cars, clean energy.  
  
Under the trickle-down economic theory was that public investment would
discourage private investment.  Give me a break.  (Laughter.)  
  
We went to see a whole lot of major corporations and said, “Are you more
or less likely to invest if the government invests?”  Overwhelmingly —
they had it backwards — they said, “No, we’re more likely to invest if
the government invests.”  
  
Public investment declined here at home.  Industries that we invented
started to move overseas, like semiconductors.  I want to remind you:
America invented these chips — small computer chips the size of the tip
of your finger that affect nearly everything in your life, from whether
your cellphone functions, your automobiles fu- — can be built,
refrigerators work.  It goes on and on — and to sophisticated weapons
systems.  
It’s all in that little com- — without that computer chip, we got a real
problem.  But over time, we went from producing 40 percent of those
world’s chips down to 10 percent.  Not anymore.  
  
Biden economics means the industries of the future are going to grow
right here at home.  At home.  (Applause.)  I mean it.  Not a joke.   
  
Under Bidenomics, we’ve already had over $490 billion in private
investment commitments — $490 billion — from U.S. companies and
companies around the world coming to the United States of America.  
  
Working with our global partners, America’s investments in clean energy
technology are going to reduce carbon emissions, continue to lower the
cost of wind — you talked about the wind farms you’re talking about. 
You know, it’s already cheaper.  Wind and solar are already
significantly cheaper than coal and oil.  You’re not going to see
anybody building a new coal-fired plant in America, not just because I —
I’d like to pass a law to say that.  It’s too expensive.  It doesn’t
work anymore.  Solar power is not just here but around the world.  
  
And we used to be the center of building these solar panels.  We’re
coming back and doing it again.  America is going to lead again. 
(Applause.)  
  
Look, it’s a win for the United States and a win for the world that
builds on my decision to rejoin the Paris Climate Agreement on the first
day I came to office.  The first day.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, my predecessor talked a lot about increasing
manufacturing.  Remember “Infrastructure Week”?  Infrastructure Week
became Infrastructure Week and week and week and week and week.  It
never happened.  (Laughter.)  
We got Infrastructure Decade done right off the bat.  (Applause.)  
  
But in reality, construction of manufacturing facilities here on U.S.
soil grew only 2 percent on my predecessor’s watch in four years.  Two
percent.  On my watch, it’s grown nearly 100 percent in two years — 100
percent — (applause) — with the help of all the members of Congress who
are here.  And I’m not being solicitous.  
  
Look — Weirton, West Virginia: It used to — where a steel mill closed in
the beginning of this century — in 2001 or -02, in that range.  It
employed thousands — it had thousands of good-paying jobs that were
lost.  
  
But today, with the help from the Inflection \[sic\] Reduction Act —
Inflation Reduction Act, a new plant is being built, building iron-air
batteries, which are going to help store energy.  These batteries are
going to help store energy.  And it’s being built on the same exact
site, bringing back 750 good-paying jobs, bringing back a sense of pride
and hope for the future, for all the people or Weirton and surrounding
areas.  
  
I believe every American willing to work hard should be able to say
where they grew up and stay where they grew up.  That’s Bidenomics.  
  
You know, my dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “Joey…” — and I
give you my word.  He’d say — my dad was a well-read guy, never got to
go to college, and a hardworking gentleman.   
  
We had dinner at — where we incidentally had conversation and
incidentally ate.  My dad used to say, “Remember, a job is about a lot
more than a paycheck.”  And I mean this; I give you my word.  He would
say, “A job is about lo- — a lot more than a paycheck, Joey.  It’s about
your dignity.  It’s about pride.  It’s about being able to look your kid
in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’”   
  
Think about it.  I mean literal sense, think about that.  It’s about
your dignity, how you’re treated, and being able to make a living and
you can tell your kids it’s going to be okay.  
  
The second big part of Bidenomics is empowering American workers.  
  
When I took office, unemployment was over 6 percent.  With the American
Rescue Plan, we’ve provided relief and support directly to working-class
families.  Our economy came roaring back.  Unemployment dipped below 4
percent by the end of my first year in office.  Now it’s been below 4
percent for the longest stretch in 50 years in American history. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I must admit I concentrated on it, but we’ve seen, with the help of
Jesse Jackson’s legacy and a lot of other people here, we’ve seen
record-low unemployment for African Americans — record-low unemployment
for African Americans — and Hispanic workers with disabilities.   
  
The lowest unemployment rate in 70 years for American women, and you
make up half the economy and probably two thirds of the brains. 
(Applause.)  No, really, think about it.  
  
To pause for a second: When I was trying to get — name me a time when
you thought any Democrat would get the endorsement — every en- — within
a week, every single environmental group out there, the AFL-CIO, the
women’s groups.   
  
I mean, here’s the deal: When I sat with the AFL-CIO, when I sat with
the IBEW — starting when I ran last time — I said, “Here’s the deal,
though: I’m going to be the most pro-American — most pro-union president
in history, but you’ve got to employ more women, you’ve got to attract
more African Americans, and you’ve got to attract more minorities.” 
They have; they’re going now.  It’s beginning to change.  (Applause.)  
  
In every industry, from — anyway, I’m — I go to these sites where
they’re training — by the way, the other thing I’ve told labor guys:
You’ve got to brag a little more about what you do.  Do you realize to
get a license to be an electrician in this town or any other you’ve got
to essentially go to four years of college?  You have to go through an
apprenticeship that takes you four years to five depending — or you
can’t get a job.  You get paid a little bit, but you can’t get your
license to be an electrician, a labor electrician, until that happens.  
  
Look, pay for low-wage workers has grown at the fastest pace in over two
decades.  Full employment means workers, especially low-wage workers,
have even more bargaining power to demand good pay, to secure good
jobs.   
  
And this is the thing that isn’t consistent with whether people think
that we’re moving in the right direction:  Job satisfaction, based on
every poll, is at a 36-year high.  More people are satisfied with their
jobs than any time in 36 years.  
  
And the shame \[sic\] of working-age Americans in the workforce — the
share of them — the share of them is the highest it’s been in 20 years. 
Remember what they were saying?  “Biden’s policy isn’t working.  He’s
just paying people not to work, people on the sidelines.”  Well, guess
what?  Every single day in four years before I took office — you may
remember, I took a lot of criticism in my presidency.  Republicans
charged me with encouraging people to stay home and not work.  Well,
they were wrong.  
  
The evidence is clear: Americans are back to work who’ve been on the
sidelines, and they want to come back.  
  
And we’re going to continue this progress by making sure every American
has the training and education to participate in this new economy.  
  
We’ve increased Pell Grants and made landmark investments in historic
Black universities.  
  
We’ve invested more in registered apprenticeships and center — and
career technology education programs than any previous administration in
American history.  
  
Because of this new economy, we don’t need everyone to have a four-year
degree.  It’s great if you can get one; we’re trying to make it easier
for you to get one.  But you don’t need it to get a good-paying job
anymore.  
  
Think of this: How many of you remember going back to high school and
they had shop class, and they had classes where people can learn if they
were interested in working with their hands?  They don’t have them very
much anymore, anywhere around the country.  
  
Well, my wife teaches at a community college, full-time, still.  She has
an expression; she says, “Any country that outcompetes us, that out” —
excuse me — “that out-educates us will outcompete us.”  We’re not going
to let that happen.  
  
That’s why we’re investing significantly in education.  
  
I’m determined to keep fighting for universal pre-K and free community
college.  
  
We’re also fighting to make — (applause) — we’re also fighting to make
childcare more affordable because we know one benefit is that it opens
up significant opportunities for parents to be able to go back and join
the workforce.  (Applause.)  
  
We’re also making it easier to empower workers by making it easier to
join a union.   
  
As I said, I promised to be the most pro-union president in history. 
And I tell business leaders all the time: Our union workers are the best
in the world.  
  
It takes four to five years at an apprentice.  It’s like going to
college.  They’ll do the right job on time.  Long-term costs for
businesses is less.  
  
You know, addressing the 40-year decline in unionization by supporting
project labor agreements, collective bargaining, prevailing wage laws,
that’s the reason today Americans’ support of unions is higher than it’s
been in 60 years — 60 years.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, I met with the Business Roundtable and others.  They
said, “Why am I so pro-union?”  And I said, “Because it helps you.”  It
really does.  Think about it.  
  
The total cost of a major project goes down when you have the best
workers in the world doing it.  Not a joke.  It’s true.  It lasts
longer.  You don’t have to worry about whether that — that socket is
going to work.  
  
Look, young people are organizing in new companies and industries.  You
know, I’ve — I’ve indicated labor — to labor leaders they must expand
their ranks.  As I said: more women, more minorities.  That’s what
they’ve got to do.  
  
The third part of Biden economics is promoting competition.  Because
when companies have to compete on a level playing field, they have to
work harder to attract customers and recruit and retrain workers.  Some
of you businesspeople in here know that well.  
  
But under the trickle-down economic thr- — theory, three quarters of
U.S. industries grew more con- — concencra- — I mean — excuse me —
<s>consecrated</s> \[concentrated\].  I’m thinking I didn’t go to mass. 
(Laughter.)  They c- — they were moving to diminish competition.  
  
Well, that may have been things — made things easier for big
corporations.  But for everybody else, it made it harder and more
expensive.  It got harder for bus- — small businesses to compete.  It
stifled <s>integration</s> \[innovation\].  It reduced wages for — for
workers.  And it made our supply chains more vulnerable.  
  
So, folks, that’s been the Republican plan so far.  Good for big
business.  Bad for everybody else.  It’s not even that good for big
business anymore.   
  
When I came to office, it was a very different plan: a limited
<s>contertation</s> \[concentration\] of power at the expense of
consumers.  The cops are back on the beat enforcing anti-trust laws.  
  
My administration is working to crack down on what we used to call
“non-compete agreements.”  We still call them that.   
  
These prevent 30 million Americans — from security guards to retail
workers — from walking across the street to a same kind of business and
getting a higher pay — getting 5 bucks more a week or 10 bucks more a
week.  
  
Non-compete agreements.  It’s one thing to have non-compete agreements
when you’re dealing with trade secrets.  It’s another thing when you’re
doing the same thing of flipping a hamburger, and you’re going to get
five cents more by walking across the street to a different place.   
  
We also — we’ve promoted and we’re supporting small businesses.  You
know, Vice President Harris has prioritized providing support and
capital for small-business owners, including for rural, minorities, and
women entrepreneurs; including through a brand-new program that’s
already helping deliver billions of dollars in growth capital to small
businesses in every state.  
  
We’ve seen a record 10.5 million applications — 10.5 million
applications — for folks looking to start a small business just in the
last two years — 10.5.  Every one of those applications is an
application to hope.  Hope.    
  
Competition also means lowering costs for consumers.  Bringing down
inflation remains one of my top priorities.  
  
Today, inflation is less than half — less than half of what it was a
year ago — and that inflation caused by Russia and by the war in Ukraine
and by what was going on.  But we knew we had more to do.  There’s more
than one way to bring down the costs.  
  
Another expression my dad used to use — for real, he’d say, “Joey…” — he
said, “At the end of the month, the question is, after you pay all your
bills, do you have just a little left for breathing room?  Just a little
left for breathing room.  All your bills paid; do you have anything
left?”  
  
Well, inflation eats into that obviously.  But guess what?  Bringing
down the cost of medication goes a long way to giving you a little
more.   
  
That’s why, through the Inflation Reduction Act, we finally gave
Medicare the power to negotiate lower prescription drug prices like the
VA does now.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve been trying to get this done — Dick and I — for decades in the
Senate.  This time, we finally beat Big Pharma for the first time. 
(Applause.)  
  
You know — you know, the same drug made by the same American company
sold in Chicago is more expensive than that same drug sold in Toronto,
Great Britain, Eng- — France, Germany, any — any city you can name.  For
real.   
  
Now, seniors on Medicare are paying as much as 400 — less — 4- — who
were paying $400 a month for insulin last year are now paying $35 a
month.  (Applause.)   
  
Because guess what?  You know how much it costs to make that insulin? 
Ten — T-E-N — dollars.  Package it, maybe 12 total.  And the guy who
invented the insulin didn’t even ask for a — a patent because he wanted
everybody to have access to it.  
  
We’re just finishing the first round of negotiating drug prices, and
we’ll save the taxpayers this year $160 billion.  (Applause.)  That’s
like a tax cut.   
  
It lowers the cost of prescription drugs, and it lowers the federal
deficit as well.   
  
We’re expanding healthcare coverage for more Americans building on
Barack’s Affordable Care Act.  (Applause.)  You know why we’re doing
that?  I’m proud to strengthen that act, saving average families $800 a
year on their healthcare premiums.  
  
We’re also fighting to end junk fees.  Most people don’t think of it
that way.  Well, here’s what a junk fee is: They can add up to a hundred
dollars a mon- — hundreds of dollars a month for a family.  Like that
extra fee when you say, “I want my child to sit next to me when I take
him to see Grandpop on the West Coast.”  It’s not listed now.  They’re
listing it now.   
  
Hotel resort fees.  You don’t realize — you’re not told they’re going to
be — you know that ad in television, “Mine is $200.  His is $180”? 
Well, guess what?   
  
Or the — the one that bothers me the most is overdraft fees for banks. 
The banks made $7.7 billion a year on overdraft fees.  You overdraft on
your checking, you get a penalty.   
  
It’s — one of the leading bank presidents — God love him, he’s passed
away — but he had a — he had a yacht.  The name of the yacht was
“Overdraft.”  (Laughter.)  I swear to God.  Well, guess what?  There are
going to be no more overdraft fees.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, we’re doing this — we’re doing all this, reducing the deficit at
the same time.  
  
Just in my first two years in office, my team and I have reduced the
deficit by $1.7 trillion — more than any president has just in two
years.  (Applause.)   
  
And the budget agreement I negotiate, without having to give away
anything of consequence, reduced the deficit by another trillion
dollar.  
  
You know, reversing 40 years of Republican trickle-down economics that
helped few but hurt the middle class, it’s going to take some time.  But
we’re in — but we’re in a place where some big pieces — and we’re moving
in the direction where we can get some more done and people will see
it.  
  
What I’m doing — and I knew I’d have to do this: All those major
legislations we passed, people go, “That’s great.”  But they — it takes
time to get it out in the field.  
  
It takes time for them to see it.  And I’m not here to declare victory
on the economy.  I’m here to say we have a plan that’s turning things
around incredibly quickly.   
  
But we have more work to do.  For example, does anyone here think the
federal tax system is fair?  Raise your hand.  No matter how much money
you make.  We’re going to make it fair by eliminating loopholes for
crypto traders, hedge fund managers.  Big Oil made $200 billion last
year and got a $30,000 tax break — $30 billion tax break.  
  
We’re going to get billionaires to pay up a little bit, at least a
minimum tax.  You know, when we — when we began, there were 750 — before
the pandemic — 750 billionaires in America.  Now there are a thousand. 
You know how much their average tax is — they pay in federal tax?  Eight
percent taxes.  No billionaire should pay a lower tax rate than a
schoolteacher, a firefighter, or a cop.  I mean, this is — (applause)
—  
  
And I’m not talking about the old, old days of 70 percent tax.  I’m
talking about a fair shot.  If they just paid the top — at the top tax
rate that exists now, which is lower than 30 percent, we’d raise
billions and billions of dollars, lowering the deficit, allowing us to
pay for so much more we have to do.  
  
That’s the next phase of this fight: making the tax code fair for
everyone, making the wealthy and the super-wealthy and big corporations
begin to pay their fair share, without raising taxes at all on the
middle class.  
  
I made a commitment when I got elected: No one in America making under
$400,000 would ever have to pay a single penny more in federal taxes as
long as I’m president.  (Applause.)  And I’ve kept that promise.  And
$400,000 is a lot of money where I come from.  
  
Let me close this.  I came — when I came to office, I had a fundamental
decision to make: Are we going to continue to trickle-down economic as a
policy — that’s failed time and again, that grew in inequality, that saw
jobs go overseas, that saw– and you’ve seen it out here — towns hollowed
out.  
  
I ran on the promise I was going to end this and that I’d begin to build
an economy from the middle out and the bottom up.  We’re not going to
continue down the trickle-down path as long as I’m president.  This is
the moment we are finally going to make a break and move away from
economy that has existed in a fundamentally different direction.  
  
Here’s the simple truth about trickle-down economics: It didn’t
represent the best of American capitalism, let alone America.  It
represented a moment where we walked away — and how many in this country
— from how — how this country was built, how this city was built.  
  
Bidenomics is about the future.  Bidenomics is just another way of
saying: Restore the American Dream because it worked before.  
  
It’s rooted in what’s always worked best in this country: investing in
America, investing in Americans.  Because when we invest in our people,
we strengthen the middle class, we see the economy grow.  That benefits
all Americans.  That’s the American Dream.  
  
Forty years of trickle-down limited that dream at — for those — except
for those at the top.  Too many for too long have seemingly suggested
that it’s only available if you have a four-year college degree and you
can work at a teach — or work at a tech center.  
  
These new factories that are opening — these fabs that are opening for
semiconductors, without a college degree, you’re going to make $100- to
$130,000 a year working in those fabs — (applause) — $100- to $130,000 a
year.   
  
Well, I believe that every American willing to work hard should be able
to get a job no matter where they are — in the heartland, in small
towns, in every part of this country — to raise their kids on a good
paycheck and keep their roots where they grew up.  That’s Bidenomics.  
  
I think the economic philosophy is not going to restore the American
Dream that we have now, that philosophy.  But this new one will.  And
it’s going to help — and I think it’s going to help lessen the division
in this country by bringing us back together.  It makes it awful hard to
demagogue something when it’s working, although they do it all the
time.  
  
I’ve long said — and I mean this — I was on the Tibetan Plateau with Xi
Jinping.  I traveled 17,000 miles with him.  I’ve spoken with him more
than any other head of state because it started when I was vice
president and President Hu was the president, and he was the vice
president.  We knew he was a su- — going to be successful.   
  
It was inappropriate for Barack to spend that time with him, but I — I
spent a lot of time with him.  I met alone with him, just he and I and a
simultaneous interpreter, 68 times — 68 hours — 68 times, more than 68
hours.  By the way, I turned in all my notes.  (Laughter.)  
  
But — and this is the God’s truth — he asked me — we were on the Tibetan
Plateau, and he asked me — he said, “Can you define America for me?”  I
said, “Yes, in one word” — and I meant it — “possibilities. 
Possibilities.”  
  
We’re a land of possibilities.  And I told him: It’s never been a good
bet to bet against America.  Never.  (Applause.)  
  
And I can honestly — I can honestly say I’ve never been more optimistic
about America’s future.  I swear to God.  I’ve never been more
optimistic.  We just have to remember who we are.  We are the United
States of America.  
  
There is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
12:35 P.M. CDT
