---
date: '2023-06-10'
published_time: 2023-06-10 19:35:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-pride-celebration/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at Pride\_Celebration"
---
 
South Lawn

1:20 P.M. EDT

THE FIRST LADY: Welcome to the White House. And happy Pride. (Applause.)

The Pride Celebration is always one of the most exciting events at the
White House. But this year, we wanted to do something a little different
than before — not just a reception that recognizes the leaders and the
activists of this movement, but an all-American picnic here on the South
Lawn — (applause) — celebrating you, America’s LGBTQ families.
(Applause.)

We’re grateful to the Gill Foundation who helped make today possible, as
well as all of those organizations who worked to bring hundreds of
families together from across our country.

It’s such an honor to be here with all of you and to see so many of our
friends. And as I look around at this crowd, I re- — I’m reminded that
you’re not just leaders and icons. You’re parents trying to figure out
what to make for tonight’s dinner. (Applause.) You’re kids who are
hoping to spend every minute in the pool this summer. (Laughter.) And
you’re friends who drop off meals when someone is sick.

All of us wants what everyone else wants: The chance to be who we are
and love who we love and make a good life for our families. (Applause.)
And all of us deserve that.

We know that this year’s Pride is caught between the push and pull of
progress. Outside the gates of this house are those who want to drag our
country backwards —

AUDIENCE: Booo —

THE FIRST LADY: — and so many battles yet to be brave.

But today, we’re not here to be strong. We’re not here to be courageous,
even though, for so many of you, just coming to this event is an act of
bravery.

Today, we are here to find joy. (Applause.) We want our kids just to be
kids, running around and, hey, eating too much sugar; to laugh with the
friends that we wish we saw more often; to find solace in the arms of
people who see us for who we are; to celebrate the beauty and the
resilience of this community.

The author — you know I’m an English teacher; you had to get a little
bit — (applause) — Rita Mae Brown once wrote, “Every day you’re alive
and someone loves you is a miracle.” (Applause.)

Today, we say loud and clear that you belong, that you are beautiful,
that you are loved. (Applause.)

That’s the miracle that carry us — carries us through the darkest times,
that gives us hope for the future that we all want, that strengthen us
for the fights ahead.

And when you leave here to go back to the place that needs so much
change, take that miracle with you. Let it remind you that you don’t
have to face these battles alone.

You are never alone, and you are loved.

Thank you for celebrating with us today. (Applause.)

And now, please welcome Scarlet Harvey, a health and fitness coach from
Texas, who is here with her wife, Krystle, and their three kids. Thank
you. (Applause.)

MS. SCARLET HARVEY: Hello. And happy Pride. (Applause.)

We are the Harvey family. And we’re thrilled to be here at the White
House for this incredible celebration of joy with the LGBTQ+ community
and fam- — friends from across the country.

We live in Houston, Texas, with our three kids: twelve-year-old Josselin
—

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Woo! Josselin! (Laughter.)

MS. SCARLET HARVEY: — (laughs) — four-year-old Liam, who couldn’t join
us today; and Krystopher, who will be one later this year on Pride —
(applause) — this week.

My wife, Krystle, is an elementary physical education teacher, and I am
a health and fitness coach. (Applause.)

Growing up in Texas and knowing I was part of the LGBTQ+ community, I
had to hide my true self. I never knew if I’d be able to marry the
person I love or have kids. But look at where I am today: together with
my wife and kids at the White House. (Applause.) And I am so damn proud.
(Applause.)

We’re a blended family living out and proud to show our community, our
state, and our country that love makes a family. (Applause.)

As you can imagine, being out in Texas can be especially tough. In many
areas of Texas, we don’t see families like ours, and many times we get
looks and whispers behind our backs. But we don’t let it discourage us
from being us. We don’t let negativity and ignorance win.

We hope being an out and visible two-mom family will help others realize
that while we may look different — (applause) — that we may look
different than their family, there’s so much we have in common.

Every week, we try to balance the kids’ school, basketball practice, and
play dates; cheering them on their sport games; and trying to instill
confidence in them to be their best self. After all, isn’t that what
we’re all trying to teach our kids? (Applause.)

We teach our children that everyone is unique and we must not only
accept their uniqueness, but embrace it and celebrate it. We show our
children the love and what love looks like. We practice kindness and
respect to all. We try to be examples not only for our kids, but to
anyone else’s and anyone who sees us.

We always be proud of our family and proud of our love. (Applause.)

And we’re also proud that we have the President who gets it and who
values us — (applause) — and knows that love makes a family. (Applause.)

It’s an honor to introduce a true ally of the LGBTQ+ community, the 46th
President of the United States, Joe Biden. (Applause.)

AUDIENCE: Joe! Joe! Joe!

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello. (Applause.)

You know, I was a lucky guy — kid. I had a dad and a mom who — who
understood that we meant what we said in our — that sounds corny — in
our — we’re the most unique nation in the world. We’re the only nation
that is founded on an idea — not geography, not religion, and not
ethnicity — that all men and women are created equal, endowed by their
Creator, et cetera.

I’ll never forget, I was going down to get an application, when I was in
high school, to be a lifeguard in the city pool. And my dad was driving
me down on his way to work — going to drop me off.

And Wilmington, Delaware, is the corporate capital of the world. It was
anyway. And — (laughter) — but all kidding aside, there’s a place called
Rodney Square. And the DuPont Building was there. The Hercules building
was there — all these major corporations.

And I was getting out of the car to go into the — in the city hall. And
there were these two well-dressed men standing on a corner. The light
changed. They kissed each other and went in different directions. One
went to the DuPont Building; one went to the Hercules building.

And I had never seen that before. I looked at my dad. He looked back at
me. He said, “It’s simple. They love each other. It’s simple.”
(Applause.)

And to me, it’s that simple. It’s that straightforward.

Scarlet, thank you for introducing me and the — and for the hope and
optimism you and your family represent for our entire country.

And to all — to all of you: Happy Pride Month. (Applause.) Happy Pride
year. Happy Pride life. (Applause.)

We’re joined today by leaders across our administration, which has more
proud staff at every level than any administration in American history.
(Applause.) Our Secretary of tap- — of Transportation, Pete Buttigieg.
(Applause.)

And we have the first and second transgender Americans to the — be
confirmed by the United States Senate in history: Assistant Secretary of
Health and Human Services Admiral Rachel Levine — (applause) — and
Undersecretary of Defense Shawn Skelly. (Applause.)

And, by the way — by the way, I am proud that back home in Delaware the
first transgender state legislator in American history, Sarah McBride.
(Applause.)

I also want to thank two people who couldn’t be here but who made this
possible: My dear friend Tim Gill and his husband Scott Miller —
(applause) — who is doing a terrific job as my Ambassador to
Switzerland. (Applause.)

And it’s wonderful to welcome all of you to the — and over a thousand
Americans from all across the country. We’re gathered here today to
honor the extraordinary — and I’m not being solicitous — the
extraordinary courage and contributions of the LGBTQ community, to
celebrate their legacy and their progress.

And we welcome to the largest Pride Month celebration ever held at the
White House. But just the beginning. (Applause.)

Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, the entire administration are doing
everything we can to advance equality for the LGBTQ community in our
nation — the entire nation.

As Commander-in-Chief, I was proud to have ended the ban on transgester
\[sic\] Americans — transgender Americans serving in the United States
military. (Applause.)

I signed historic executive orders strengthening civil rights
protections for —

He’s running from me; I don’t know where he is going. (Laughter.) Do
that again, man. You’re a sprinter. I can — you can — (laughter) — I
don’t know if he’s running to something or from something. I don’t know.
(Laughter.)

But look, we provide — we put protections for housing, employment,
healthcare, education, and the justice system.

We’re combatting dangerous and cruel practices of conversion therapy.
(Applause.)

We’re launching a new national strategy to end HIV epidemic by 2030. By
2030. (Applause.)

We’re working with communities to treat and contain the M-pox outbreak.

We’re ending the disgraceful practice of banning gay and bisexual men
from donating blood. (Applause.)

Making human rights for LGBTQ people around the world — not just here,
around the world — a top priority for my foreign policy, including a
review of our engagement with Uganda following its recent anti-gay law —
the most extreme in the world. (Applause.)

And last December, we felt such pride here on the South Lawn when I
signed the historic Respect for Marriage Act. (Applause.) It protects
the marriage of same-sex and inter-racial couples.

But for all the progress we’ve made, we know — we know a real change and
real challenges still remain. When a person can be married in the
morning and thrown out of a restaurant for being gay in the afternoon,
something is still very wrong in America. (Applause.)

That’s why the Congress must pass and send me the Equality Act —
(applause) — to codify protections for LGBT community.

Joining us today are survivors of the Club Q and Pulse — the shootings
that took place — who remind us why we must fully implement the
significant gun law that we passed — the most significant in 30 years —
that I signed. But it’s not done yet. We have to ban assault weapons.
(Applause.)

You know, and when families across the country face excruciating
decisions to relocate to a different state to protect their child from
dangerous anti-LGBTQ laws, we have to act. We have to act as a nation.

We need to push back against the hundreds of callous and cynical bills
and laws introduced in states targeting transgender children, terrifying
families, and criminalizing doctors and nurses.

These bills and laws attack the most basic values and freedoms we have
as Americans — that’s not hyperbole; that’s a fact: the right to be
yourself, the right to make your own health decisions, the right to
raise your own children. (Applause.)

I recognize, for a lot of folks across this country, maybe it’s not you,
your kid, your family member going through whatever our transgender
child and family is going through. But I think we all agree, if it were
you, you’d want the space to figure it out with your family and your
doctor — not being told by anybody. (Applause.)

Look, I think we can all agree: No one — no one should have to fear for
their safety in this country. No one should be singled out or demonized
or made to feel less than anyone else.

There are some things we should never question or put at risk: your
life, safety, your dignity. They can never be put at risk, and they are
still.

You know, too many people in the LGBT community are worried and afraid
about their future and their safety. So today, I want to send a message
to the entire community, especially to transgender children: You are
loved. (Applause.) You are heard. (Applause.) You are understood.
(Applause.) And you belong! (Applause.)

And as I’ve made clear, including in my State of the Union Address, your
President and my entire administration has your back. (Applause.)

We see who you are: made in the image of God, deserving of dignity,
respect, and support.

Two days ago, I announced a series of new initiatives  
we’re taking to protect the LGBT communi- — Q community.

First, ensuring your physical safety. Whether you’re organizing a Pride
parade, running a small business, or just trying to focus at school, you
should have — you shouldn’t have to deal with bomb threats, harassment,
and violent attacks.

That’s why the Department of Homeland Security, with the support of the
Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services,
is launching a safety partnership that’s going to provide critical
training and support to the community; dedicated resources to better
protect festivals, marches, community centers, and businesses; to better
protect health — healthcare providers serving the community; and help
folks report hate crimes.

Second, we’re taking to civil — we’re take — taking on these civil
rights violations, because that’s what they are. An example — for
example, we’re addressing how the growing threat to — book bans may
violate the federal civil rights laws when they target LGBTQ students or
students of color and create hostile classroom environments.

Third, we’re investing in the future of LGBTQ kids. Last year, we
launched a nationwide crisis hotline for the LGBTQ youth who are feeling
isolated and overwhelmed. If you need help, if you’re worried, if you’re
just concerned — not sure what to do, you need somebody to talk to, you
can now pick up the phone and call 988 and talk to a counselor who can
give you help. (Applause.)

And don’t hesitate to call. This year, we’re committing more mental
health resources and new funding for programs that help families support
and affirm their kids, a new federal initiative to address the LGBQ
homelessness, new proposed regulations requiring states to protect LGBTQ
kids in foster care, and so much more.

Let me close with this. I know it’s hot out there, and you’re probably,
“When is the man going to finish?” (Laughter.) (The President pretends
to throw the microphone.) (Laughter and applause.) Let me close with
what I see today.

AUDIENCE: Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you.

Well, let me close with what I see today at the White House, and I mean
this from the bottom of my heart. I see families who testified in state
capitols against laws stripping them of their freedom.

I see students who are leading walkouts and protests of hateful bills
like “Don’t Say Gay.”

In all of you — and this is not hyperbole — in all of you what I see is
courage. I mean it sincerely from the bottom of my — I see courage.
Courage.

And those who were in the generation before you who stepped up, it’s
even more courage. They worried not only for their lives, they worried
for their jobs. They worried for whether or not they could even be in- —
involved at all in the community. Imagine what it took 40 years ago to
stand up and say, “I’m gay.” What would have happened? (Applause.) No, I
mean, people who had to fear for their lives just acknowledging it —
just acknowledging it.

We all talk about courage. Well, I see more courage on this lawn than
I’ve seen in any time in the recent past. (Applause.)

But the thing about y’all is: You not only are about courage. You
generate so much hope for people. Hope and light. You enrich every part
of American life: educators, entertainers, entrepreneurs, athletes,
actors, artists, scientists, scholars, diplomats, doctors, service
members, veterans, and so much more. (Applause.)

As I said — I mean this; I swear to God — you’re some of the most —
you’re some of the bravest and most inspiring people I’ve ever known.
And I’ve known a lot of good folks.

You set an example for the nation and, quite frankly, for the world.

You know, we all move forward when we move together with your joy, with
your pride lighting the way.

So today, let us proudly remember who we are: the United States of
America. (Applause.)

And there is nothing, nothing beyond America’s capacity when we decide
to do it together, as you’re doing today. We shall get better every
single year. (Applause.)

Happy Pride. (Applause.) Enjoy the celebration.

And in just a few minutes, Jill’s going to come back out and introduce a
performer who embodies joy of this community.

God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. (Applause.)

1:42 P.M. EDT
