---
date: '2023-06-05'
published_time: 2023-06-05 15:56:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/05/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-mette-frederiksen-of-denmark-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen of Denmark\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

1:45 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, welcome. I am delighted to have Madam Prime
Minister here today. Great to see you again.

We were just talking about the last time we met. I had the opportunity,
which was a great opportunity — unrelated to anything having to do with
foreign policy — that — for her to meet my — my granddaughters, who are
bright young women who are college and law school graduates, who still
talk to me about their meeting with the Prime Minister.

PRIME MINISTER FREDERIKSEN: Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: And as we all know but we don’t talk often much about
it, Denmark is one of our greatest allies and most reliable friends,
closest friends, and in lockstep in every global issue that we’ve — that
we’ve been engaged in.

And I understand today is Constitution Day.

PRIME MINISTER FREDERIKSEN: Yeah, it is. It is.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: And — and it’s — it reflects the fact that we have the
same values. I mean, you know, I always talk about how, wh- — it’s about
values, whether a country is organized around a certain set of values,
and Constitution Day is not dissimilar than our U.S. Constitution. And
the idea that there’s a shared commitment to the core values of — that
gives our strength. At least that’s what I believe.

And together we’re working to protect those values, including standing
up for the people of Ukraine against the brutal aggression of the
Russians.

And we’ve also addressing the global challenges, from promoting
inclusive economic growth and the climate crisis. And I want to thank
you for your clean energy transition leadership. I really mean it.

And together with NATO Allies, we’re taking steps to strengthen our
shared security, including finishing our bilateral defense cooperation
agreement that we’re working on.

And I want to thank you again, Madam Prime Minister, for making the
effort to be here. We’re anxious to see you.

So, welcome. And the floor is yours.

PRIME MINISTER FREDERIKSEN: Thank you so much, Mr. President. It’s
really nice to see you again and to be here.

I would — I would like to thank you for your leadership. I mean, from a
European perspective, to have a President in the U.S. who is committed
to the transatlantic alliance has always been extremely important.

But I mean, nowadays, when war has returned to our continent, in Europe,
it is so important that our allies and our friends — that we stick
together, that we are united. And we have truly been for now 15 months,
in Ukraine. We will, of course, continue, from a Danish perspective, our
very strong — strong support to Ukraine, but I’m looking forward to work
even closer with you on defense and securities.

I would also like to thank you for your leadership on the green
transition. I mean, you have brought the U.S. back to the fight against
climate change, and you are doing it in a very interesting way because
you — you don’t — you — you have high ambitions when it comes to climate
change, but at the same time you insist on making sure that Americans
will have a job because of this. So, sustainable growth is so important.

So, thanks for your leadership, and thanks for welcoming us today.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, I’m delighted to have you here. Thank you.

Thank you all.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Will the counteroffensive work?

PRESIDENT BIDEN: (Crosses fingers.)

1:50 P.M. EDT
