---
date: '2023-06-19'
modified_time: 2023-06-20 12:02:47-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-19 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/19/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-atherton-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Atherton,\_CA"
---
 
Private Residence  
Atherton, California

5:39 P.M. PDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Steve, thank you.  I used to dream of being
charismatic.  (Laughter.)  Anyway.  All kidding — thank you.  Thank you,
thank you.  
  
By the way, there’s the real reason we’re gathered here: We have two
recent college graduates in the front row here.  (Applause.)  Stand up,
guys.  No, you got to stand up.  I’m  going to embarrass you.  Stanford
and Cal.  
  
That’s the only reason I came out.  I want to get to know who’s going to
be running the country later.  So, I —  
  
Look, I want to thank Anna for allowing me to — a passport into the
district.  Thank you, Anna.  (Applause.)  We’ve been working together a
long, long time.  
  
And the fact of the matter is that, you know, Anita is here somewhere. 
I don’t know where An- — there you are, Anita.  Well, I tell you what:
You’re the only reason I came out.  (Laughter.)  Thank you.  No — no,
you’ve been — you’ve been wonderful.  
  
And I want to thank everyone here because, quite frankly, I wouldn’t be
standing here talking to you were it not for most of the people in this
room.  A lot of you have been helping me for a long, long time.  I go
back 217 years, to Joe Cotchett.  (Laughter.)  Joe — Joe and I go back a
long way.  But I’m serious — looking around the room, some of you’ve
been with me a long time, and I truly appreciate it.  
  
You know — you know, a lot of world leaders I’ve — the only thing that
comes with serving a long time in office is you get to know a lot of
people.  And I’ve had an opportunity to meet virtually every world
leader in the past 35 years or more.  And one of the things that I get
asked — well, let me put it this way: I was — when Barack was president
and I was vice president, it was clear that President Hu — and that was
his name at the time, the president of China — and his vice president,
Xi — where Xi was going to be the successor, vice president to become
president in the near term.  
  
And it wasn’t appropriate for Barack to be able to spend a lot of time
getting to know him, so it was an assignment I was given.  And I
traveled 17,000 miles with him, usually one on one.  I — we — I’d have a
simultaneous interpreter, and he had one too.  And we got to know each
other fairly well.  
  
And one of the things — we were in the Tibetan Plateau, and he asked me
one day, and he said — one of our meetings — he said, “Can you define
America for me?”  And this is the God’s truth.  I said, “Yes, in one
word.”  He said, “What’s that?”  I said, “Possibilities.”  
  
In America, we are the “ugly Americans” because we believe anything is
possible when we work together.  I’m being deadly earnest now.  Think
about it.  When has there ever been a problem that we’ve decided to take
on we thought we couldn’t solve?  As hard as it would be, when — when
did that ever happen?  And it hadn’t happened.  
  
There’s never been a time when we had — until — of late, until the last
time around, when we decided we’re going to go it alone, “America
First.”  We found ourselves in the position where there wasn’t much
coordination, and we stopped talking to one another.  
  
You know, I told this story before: When — I learned early on that —
after eight years of sitting in the Oval Office every single morning at
nine o’clock with Barack, there were two questions he’d ask.  We’d start
off with kidding each other.  He said, “What do you think the
temperature is in Hawaii?”  And I said, “78.”  (Laughter.)  That was a —
you think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  
  
And then I’d say to him — and I’d say, “Remember, Barack,” — I just
called him Mr. President.  “Remember, Mr. President, all politics is
personal,” both international and national.  You get to — got to know
the other team.  You’ve got to know the other person, what’s motivating
that person and what’s not motivating that person.  
  
And so, we spent a lot of time trying to figure out where this
relationship was going to go, not only with China but with Russia.  You
may remember, when I became president, I checked with the intelligence
community to see if I could — without any — hurting any one individual,
to let — let the world know that for the first time since World War Two,
135,000 people were going to invade another country.   
  
And I said and I predicted — and I told — I told — at the time, it was
cleared.  And I told the Ukrainians that they were going to be invaded. 
They didn’t believe it either.  But for the first time, we had — ever —
no one contemplated the notion that there would be a Russian army that
would invade another country with a hundred- — it ended up being 185,000
people.  
  
The point I’m trying to make is this: You know, there’s a — my
colleagues in the Senate used to always kid me because I was always
quoting Irish poets.  They thought I quoted Irish poets because I’m
Irish.  That’s not the reason; they just happen to be the best poets in
the world.  (Laughter.)  
  
But Seamus Heaney, a poet — and his wife I got to know very well after
he passed away — he wrote a poem called “The Cure at Troy,” and he said,
“All’s changed, changed utterly.  A terrible beauty has been born.”  
  
All has changed, has changed utterly, both good and bad.  It’s a
different world.  
  
When I was deciding whether or not to run in 19- — turned around —
decided to run in 2020, I wasn’t sure what to do, whether I was going to
run or not.  Because then I was — I started to write a book on what —
American inflection points, the things that — those are things that
occur within a relatively short span of time, less than a decade, that
change the world for the next three, four, or five decades.  It’s
happened about eight times in modern history.  And we’re at one of those
junctures, in my view.  
  
And then what happened was along came what happened in Charlottesville. 
And that young woman that I met — the mom of the young woman who was
killed.  And the President was asked — and those folks — remember, they
came walking out of the — out of the woods, the fields, carrying
torches, singing the same antisemitic bile that was sung in — in Germany
in the ‘30s and accompanied by white supremacists in the Ku Klux Klan. 
And my predecessor was asked, “Well, what — what do you think?”  He said
there were very good people on both sides.  
  
That’s when I knew things had — had begun to change in a way that was —
if we didn’t move, it would be irreversible over a period of time.  
  
And the reason I bother to say those things to you is I think there’s
enormous prospects that we have as a consequence of the changes that you
helped allow us to begin.  Begin, not end.  Begin.  And many of those
changes relate to — think about it: You know, we’re tol- — I said I was
running for three reasons, and a lot of you helped me last run.  
  
I said I was running for three reasons.  One, to restore the soul of
this country.  And that was to restore a sense of decency and honor and
be able to talk with one another, be able to communicate back and forth
with one another.  The second reason was to res- — to build the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up, because when that happens, you
all do very well, the wealthy do very well, and the middle class has a
shot.  And the disaffection of the middle class was growing, growing
deeply.  The percentage of the working-class, high-school-educated
population that voted Democrat was overwhelming.  But they began to be
left behind, not intentionally but it was the effect — that was a
fact.  
  
And think what we inherited when we came to office: an economy in
disarray, a circumstance where we were the “America First” crowd.  We
weren’t — we were just — we were disregarded, quite frankly, by the vast
majority of our allies around the world.

And if you think I’m exaggerating, I’m not.  The first meeting I
attended as a U.S. — as the United States President was in England, in
the southeast of Fran- — southeast of England, for the G7 meeting, all
the — the seven largest economies.  And I sat down.  We were seven of us
at a round table.  And I sat down, and I said, “America is back.”  And
the French President looked at me and he said, “For how long?  For how
long?” 

And then the Chancellor of Germany looked at me — new to the job himself
— looked at me and he said — he said, “What would you think, Mr.
President, if tomorrow you woke up and in the London Times the headline
was, ‘A thousand people broke into the Parliament, broke down the doors
of the House of Commons, two bobbies were killed, and in the process,
they tried to stop the transfer of power’?  What would you think?” 

And I hadn’t thought of it that way before, and I don’t know that any of
you have.  Imagine the impact it’s had on the rest of the world.  The
United States, all of a sudden, January 6th — I’m not trying to make a
legal case, I’m just talking about the course of history.  Imagine —
imagine how we’d feel if that was the case.

And so I had two jobs you elected me to do.  First was to reestablish
American leadership in the world, not so we could beat our chests —
because if we don’t do it, no one gets it done.  No one has the
influence, the power, the consequence, or the history to get it done. 
Nobody.  It doesn’t mean we’re better than anybody else.  It means — but
we are more unique than anybo- — than another country.

You know, there’s a — every other country in the world is based on their
— their — their — their country, as a consequence of ethnicity,
religion, geography — or something other than — other than geography. 
And we’re the only country in the world that we’re united based on an
idea.  That’s what — and that’s not hyperbole, that’s a fact.  Think
about it.  The only country organized based on an idea — that we hold
these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are created
equal, endowed by their Creator with certain rights, et cetera, et
cetera.

We’ve never lived up to it, but we never walked away from it
completely.  And we’ve been the — we’ve been the linchpin that most
democracies around the world look to to keep things moving.  Madeleine
Albright was right when she said we’re the essential nation.

And so, the point I’m trying to make here is that we had an obligation
to try to reunite the world.  I have spent, because of your help — I
haven’t been able — I’ve spent over now, they tell me, about 180 hours
with European heads of state and allies, including the Japanese as well,
who have come along — come along a big way.  And in terms of pulling
these countries together.

If you notice, Putin was certain when he in- — virtually certain when he
invaded that he was going to split NATO, that NATO would ne- — never
stay together.  NATO is more united than it’s ever been in an entire
history of NATO, because we’ve worked together.  And it’s critically
important, and that was the job that I had.

I’m going to say something outrageous.  I think I know as much about
American foreign policy as anybody living, including Dr. Kissinger. 
That’s what I’ve done my whole life — for the last 270 years.  (Laughter
and applause.)

But the second point — the second thing was we had to figure out how to
unite the country.  And the press, understandably — it’s not a — I’m not
criticizing the press when I say this — the press sort of made light of
my saying we got to unite America.  How can a democracy function without
the — without the consent of the government, without cooperation?  How
does that work?  I don’t know any place that ever worked.

And so, we spent a lot of time working on that.  And when I said, Joe,
that we’re going to have bipartisanship, people looked at me like I was
crazy.  Because remember, they said, “Well, Biden was a real bipartisan
leader when he was a senator.  And he was known for being able to
(inaudible).  But this is different.”  Well, guess what?  We came up
with a trillion-200-billion-dollar bipartisan infrastructure bill. It’s
going to change — (applause) —

How in God’s name — how in God’s name can we lead the world when we rank
number — I think it’s 16 in quality of infrastructure?  How does that
happen?  It doesn’t happen.

And we used to invest a significant amount of our — out of our entire
GBT — GDP, we invested on average 2 percent of our GDP on research and
development.  I’m in the middle of Silicon Valley; you guys have
forgotten more about this than most people around the world know.  No,
I’m not being — I’m not being solicitous.  I’m being deadly earnest.

But we — we stopped doing it.  0.7 percent was the max we, in fact,
invested in research and development in America.  The United States of
America.  So that’s why I came up with this legislation relating to how
we’re going to deal with the whole notion of dealing with investments.

And, for example, when we did the — when I put together a legislation —
or proposed the legislation relating to dealing with computer chips,
sources of — you know, we talked about — you all understood, but a vast
majority of people in America don’t understand what talking about source
of product is.  And we never talked about source before.

But, all of a sudden, we found ourselves — and we invented the computer
chip.  We used to have pre- — 25 years ago, we produced 40 percent of
the chips, which are needed for virtually everything now, as you — I
need not tell any of you.  Well, guess what?  We were down to 10
percent.  How can that — how could that have happened? 

So we changed the law.  We invested significant amounts of money.  We
attracted $450 billion — billion dollars in private sector investment in
that.  $450 billion.

We’re in a situation now where we have a — we have over — all the —
look, $300 billion just for building fabs, just — building chip
factories now. 

You know, there’s a situation — (applause) — but the reason why I
thought that was so important, beyond America’s place in the world, was,
you know, we kept losing those blue-collar workers.

You know, my dad used to say, “Joey a job is about a lot more than a
paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about being able to look your
kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.  We’re going to
make it.’”

We’ll, they’re stripped of their dignity.  We started to decide to go
where the labor was cheapest.  We’d export jobs and import product. 
Well, there’s a little law that existed since 1935.  It says, “Buy
America.”  Any money — any amount of money that Congress gives me, I can
insist that it be purchased 100 percent American manufacturer.  And
consistent with — with the WTO.  I can insist — but no one was willing
to do it.  
Well, guess what?  You better be buying American and hiring Americans. 
And if you don’t have the capacity, we make exceptions.  We make
exceptions.   
  
But, folks, the point is that — guess what? — it’s created thousands and
thousands and thousands of jobs.   
  
And, for example, the fab that Intel is building outside of Columbus,
Ohio, that fab is employing 12,000 people: 5,000 people working in the
fab when it’s constructed and 7,000 people building it.  Well, the 7,000
people are getting paid prevailing wage.  And guess what?  The three
thou- — the 5,000 people that are going to work, they’re going to have
an average salary of an excess of $120,000 a year.  And you don’t need a
college degree.   
  
All of a sudden, we’re paying attention to blue-collar workers again. 
We’re building the country from the middle out and the bottom up.  And
the wealthy are still doing very, very well.   
  
We also did the same thing with regard to — we used to –you know, the VA
can negotiate drug prices with — with pharmaceutical companies. 
Pharmaceutical companies aren’t bad guys, just so they charge Americans
more than anybody else.  Not a joke.   
  
The most significant medicine you need — prescription you need, you can
go to Toronto, Canada; Paris, France; Madrid, Spain, and buy it cheaper
from the same exact manufacturer as you buy it here.   
  
So we said because they can negotiate drug prices for veterans, we
should be able to dru- — negotiate drug prices for the — for
Medicare.   
  
And guess what?  It had the added advantage of reducing the debt by $168
billion, just as it relates to one thing: insulin.  (Applause.)   
  
But here’s my point: My point is we did this — we created 13
million-plus jobs in the first two years, more than any president ever
has in four years — in four years.  (Applause.)  We’re now in a
situation where — we’re in a situation where we’re able to do things
that we couldn’t do before.   
  
And all — this entire period, all this spending — the “big spending
Biden” — guess what?  We reduced the debt by $1.7 trillion at the same
time — (applause) — because of the ingenuity of the people in this
room.   
  
You know what I said when I was talking about that Intel project?  S- —
is it SM?  What — what — what’s the outfit in South Korea?   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER: SMC.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  SMC.  I met with the CEO of SMC in — in — in South
Korea.  And I said, “Why are you making this investment?”  
  
And they’re investing a significant amount of money — $100 million they
committed — in the “field of dreams,” I call it, that hun- — that
thousand acres just off — just west of — of Columbus, Ohio.   
  
And I said — you know, I asked him, “Why are you doing it?”  And he
said, “Because it’s the safest investment we can make anywhere in the
world, in the United States.  And secondly, you have the best, finest
workers.”   
  
Well, a lot of you probably are wondering why I’m so pro-union.  I’m
pro-u- —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Woohoo!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m — well, I’m pro-union for a simple reason: what
people underestimate — and I think — I’ve watched — I’ve met with the
Business Roundtable.  I’ve met with — and I — I asked them at the
meeting we had with about 40 members of the Business Roundtable — I
said, “You guys are wondering why I’m pro-union.”  I said, “Let me ask
you a question.  When I was vice president, I visit — I — I met with 352
of you out of the Fortune 500.  And I asked you one thing: ‘What do you
need most?’”  
  
You know what they said: an educated workforce.  But you don’t educate
your workforce anymore.  You don’t invest the money in educating your
workforce.   
  
I come from the state of DuPont: Delaware.  When I got elected 200 years
ago, Delaware — DuPont was the eighth largest corporation in America. 
Every new enterprise they engaged in, they spent the money educating
their own folks.  Now the public gets to do it.   
  
So why do you oppose my effort to invest more in education?  And guess
what?  We got support now, investing in education.  
  
My generic point is the same.  There’s so much we can do.  And we can do
it without hurting anyone, just growing the economy.   
  
And, look, one of the things that happened — and I’ll stop with this —
one of the things that happened when the — let me back up so I say it
this way.  
  
How many of you are not from this area?  (Phone rings.)  (Laughter.) 
He’s calling again, isn’t he?  He keeps calling me.  I don’t know why. 
(Laughter.)  
  
No, all kidding aside.  How many you are not from Silicon Valley?  And
how many are you from smaller Midwestern towns or near?  You know what
happens when the factory closes.  The soul of the community is lost. 
Not a joke.  It’s not only the loss of the jobs.  It’s the loss of their
sense of self-worth — their sense of self-worth.   
  
And so, one of the things we’re doing now is we’re in- — all these
offices are investing throughout the Midwest, throughout the South — in
the South.   
  
Matter of fact, I’m going to show up for a major initiative and
investment that’s taking place in — in North Georgia, in the home of
Marjorie Taylor Greene.  (Laughter and applause.)  It’s a
multi-billion-dollar — it’s a multi-multi-million-dollar project. 
Okay?  But I’m going to be there with a spade to turn the dirt, because
I said — and I mean it — I — I represent all Americans, whether they’re
Democrats or Republicans or whoever they are.   
  
Because, look, we got to unite the country.  We got to let people know
what we’re doing.   
  
And so — any rate, there are a number of things — and one — one last
thing I want to talk a little bit about, and then I’ll hush up, because
I was told that I’m not going to get to get questions from y’all.   
  
A couple things.  The environment: The existential threat to the United
States and to humanity, not a joke, is envir- — climate change, if we do
nothing about it.  
  
You know, it used to be a whole hell of a lot of people who thought that
climate change was not an issue.  Well, I have now flown over — flown
over more burned-down forest in helicopters — a lot with your governor,
I might add — as a consequence of what’s happened in — because of
climate change than you can imagine.  As much territory, since I’ve come
into office, has burned to the ground that makes up the entire geography
of the state of Maryland.  That’s how much has burned to the ground in
the United States.   
  
When I was out here about three years ago saying I worried about the
Colorado River drying up, everybody looked at me like I was crazy.  They
looked at me like when I said I worried about Putin using tactical
nuclear weapons.   
  
It’s real.  But it’s all doable.  We can — we can do it.  We can deal
with it.  We can make it happen.  And we can create millions of
good-paying jobs.   
  
And what we can do when we do this — and, by the way, that — we’re in a
situation where, in terms of the — dealing with the environment, there
is a broad political coalition that’s beginning to form.  The idea that
I was able to, for example, get endorsements by every single major
environmental group and, at the same time, every major union in
America.  (Applause.)  I mean, seriously, if I had said that to you two
years ago, what are the prospects of that?  
  
But guess what?  Everybody is kind of figuring it out.  And, by the way,
the reason I push unions so much is they’re not a bunch of thugs that
are portrayed by many people.  What they are is — they’re blue-collar
workers who have to go back to college, in effect, for three to five
years in an apprenticeship, getting paid less in order to get the
license to be able to be an electrician, get the license to be able to
be — go down the list.  
  
Anyway, I made a commitment.  I made a commitment that my term as
president of the United States, I was going to make sure that 30 percent
of all of our lands and all of our waters under American jurisdiction
would be conserved by the year 2030.  (Applause.)  
  
And we’re on target to get it done.  For example, in Cape Hale — Camp
Hale in Colorado, 500- — excuse me — 50,000 acres.  Boundary Waters in
Minnesota, 225,000 acres.  Spirit Mountain in Nevada, 5,000 — 500,000
acres.  The Castner Range in Texas, over 608- — 600- — excuse me — 6,600
acres.  Alaska, 25,000 acres I put in conservation: the Tongass Forest,
Bristol Bay, the Atlantic — Arctic Ocean, and North Slope.   
  
In addition to that, there are multiple, multiple miles around Hawaii
that are off limits now to — to moving in terms of anything other than
conservation.  And so —  
  
And, by the way, we’re going to reduce emissions by 2030 in Am- — in the
world by — of the United States by 50 to 52 percent.  (Applause.)  
  
We put so much money into the power stri- — the power grid.  How many of
your fires out here have been because of those high-tension wires that
have come down as a consequence of storms, tornadoes, et cetera?   
  
The end result is the power grid — we’re now getting — and your power
companies and others around the world — around the country decided
they’re going to put it underground.  It’s five to six times more
expensive, but, with our help, we’re going to be able to get it done. 
It’s going to save millions of acres of land.   
  
We’re in a situation where we also have — I was able to get, on the
South Lawn — and this is not me just reminding people but reminding what
they really were about.  I got everybody la- — a year ago last summer on
the South Lawn, all the — all the auto companies in Detroit.  And they
agreed.  
  
Mary <s>Robinson</s> \[Barra\], the Chairman of the Board of General
Motors, was saying that she was suing the state of California because
you had a higher standard — emission standard than — than they did.  And
she said no state could have a standard lower than that of the United
States government.   
  
Well, guess what?  I got a phone call after that meeting with her and
all these folks on the South Lawn, saying she dropped her suit and she
committed to go all electric by 2035.  (Applause.)  Know what that
means?   
  
And this is why everybody was a little suspect, because I didn’t
announce my environmental plan immediately because I wanted to bring —
be sure I was able to bring labor along, just because we needed to bring
them along.  
  
Guess what?  The end result of that is the — for example, the — the
Electrical Workers Union is going to be employ- — building 500,000 EV
stations throughout the country — 500,000.  And every bit of evidence
shows that when you build the gas stations in the old days, back in the
1900s, and the — guess what?  You end up building the equivalent of a
McDonald’s.  You end up building an equivalent of other — other vehicles
— other stores.  It builds economic growth.   
  
And so — and, by the way, the — we also have in my for- — my original
home state of Pennsylvania and northern West Virginia, in that part of
the world, we have thousands of uncapped wells — gas and oil wells —
that are just spewing methane.  
  
Well, now we’re paying the same people to dig them, to cap them.  And
it’s going have a profound impact on the environment in those areas.   
  
And so, I guess what I’m trying to say is, you know, a comprehensive
traged- — strategy here — and I’ll end with this, on the environment —
is that, in the real world, agriculture — 60,000 farms now plant cover
crops, which we were talking — I was talking to someone in here about
Brazil — cover crops that absorb the pollution of the air, taking it
into the ground — 60,000.   
  
We have, as I said, a circumstance where solar panel manufacturing has
increased multifold.  And what they want to get rid of — guess what? —
you hear your neighbors who want — they get a tax credit for putting
solar panels on the roof or buying certain electric material — excuse me
— certain products that, in fact, are — don’t generate as much energy
intake — windows and doors, less air conditioning or heat escaping. 
It’s having a profound impact on the consumption of energy.   
  
We’re also — heavy industry companies are investing billions of dollars
in clean construction materials, like clean steel and clean cement.  I
thought I knew a fair amount about the environment, about so- — I didn’t
realize until eight years ago how much — how much is spewed into the air
as a consequence of the production of cement and steel, how much goes
into the air in terms of pollution.  
  
Well, now we’re making clean steel and clean cement.  So, it is having a
profound impact.   
  
I guess what I’m saying is that factories all over the country and Qcell
solar factories are being built.  And the end result of all of this is
bipartisan budget deal with nearly a trillion dollars in deficit
reduction on top of the $1.7 trillion that I’ve already saved.   
  
And we can do a lot more to lower costs.  But, again, I’m beginning to
bore myself.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I guess what I’m trying to say is the — and I’ll end with this — the
gigantic issues of the day — what are the things that are going to be
consequential to our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren?  Whether
they have clean air to breathe.  Whether there’s a world in which it’s
more likely that it’s status quo ante, in terms of peace sustained, or
there’s war.  Which is it?  And I think we know the answer.   
  
And I think we’re on the trail to making sure that we can do both: have
a safer world because of America’s engagement in a way that it has in
the past — in the distant past of now — as well as making sure that we
have an economy that benefits everyone, because there’s nothing worse
than denying somebody who’s busting their neck the dignity of their
job.   
  
At any rate, I’m going to hush up.  Thank you all very much. 
(Applause.)  
  
6:11 P.M. PDT
