---
date: '2023-06-08'
published_time: 2023-06-08 19:02:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/08/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-rishi-sunak-of-the-united-kingdom-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Rishi Sunak of the United Kingdom\
  \ in Joint Press\_Conference"
---
 
East Room

2:16 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, good afternoon.  Please have — please be seated.

I’d like to start, with the permission of my British friends, to just
say a few words about the wildfires in Canada and the quality of the air
here in the East Coast that’s blanketed the communities in the East
Coast and — and the smoke this past few days.  
  
I just put out a more detailed statement, so — for the press and for the
people to see.  But I spoke yesterday with Prime Minister Trudeau, and
I’ve decided — I dictated a National Interagency Fire Center response to
Ca- — Canada’s request for additional firefighters and the fire
suppression assets, such as airtankers.

We already have 600 American firefighters on the ground that have been
there for a while in Canada, including Hotshots and the Smokejumper
crews.

And it’s very important that affected communities listen to the guidance
of their state and local officials from this point forward.

To keep up to date on the air quality in real time, go to the app that
we provided.  It’s called AirNow.gov.  And check on one another.

And, by the way, what you’ll get is something that looks like this —
(holds up graphic) — with a — with a calibrated piece that says when the
air is clean and when the air is dangerous and hazardous.  And it
dictates what — will tell you the air quality in your neighborhood.

Now, it’s — it’s my honor — my honor to welcome Prime Minister Sunak to
the White House.   
  
Rishi, we’ve — you’re probably tired of meeting.  We met in March in —
in San Diego to discuss AUKUS and — with the Prime Minister of
Australia.  In April, we were there for the 25th Anniversary of the Good
Friday Agreement in Belfast.  We met and discussed again today the — the
need to get the Stormont institution in Northern Ireland up and running.

Last month, together with our G7 partners in Hiroshima, we drove
progress on everything from our shared support for the brave people of
Ukraine to the common principles of engaging with China.  
  
And today in Washington, we’ve had important and positive discussions to
deepen our bilateral economic relationship and expand our cooperation to
shape the challenges and future for this — remainder of this century.  
  
It’s a testament to the depth, breadth, and, I would argue, the
intensity of our cooperation and coordination, which has existed —
continues to exist between the United Kingdom and the United States. 
There’s no issue of global impoi- — of importance, none, that — where
our nations are not leading together and where we’re not sharing our
common values to make things better. 

In our conversations today, we continued to build on all that we’ve
achieved over these past months.  
  
We discussed how we can continue to adapt and upgrade our partnership to
ensure our countries remain at the cutting edge of a rapidly changing
world.  
  
Our economic partnership is an enormous strength and source of
strength.  It anchors everything that we do together.  
  
We want to harness that power to make sure we’re creating good jobs and
supporting working-class families in both our countries and that growth
is shared broadly and no one gets left behind.  
  
So today, we’re releasing a new plan to equip our economic partnership
for the 21st century.  It outlines how we can enhance our cooperation to
accelerate the clean energy transition that must take place and is
taking place, lead the development of — on — of emerging technologies
that are going to shape so much of our future, and protect technologies
critical to our national security.  
  
And a key piece of that is working together to strengthen our critical
mineral supply chains and to make them more resilient so we’re not
dependent on any one country to meet our goals.  
  
When it came — when it comes to technology that will shape the future —
like semiconductors, quantum computing, artificial intelligence — the UK
and the U.S. are working together to make sure they are developed safely
and responsibly and jointly.   
  
We’re going to do more on joint research and development to ensure the
future we’re building remains fundamentally aligned with our value set
in both our countries.  
And we’re doing more to prevent technologies that are — are invented and
developed in our countries from being used for — for military or
intelligence purposes by countries that do not share our values.  
  
Today, we’re — also discussed our unwavering support for the people of
Ukraine and defend — who are defending themselves against the most
brutal aggression we’ve seen in a long time, at the hands of Russia and
Putin.  
  
The UK and the United States, together with more than 50 partners, have
committed historic levels of security assistance to Ukraine.  And I want
to thank the Prime Minister for his strong, strong leadership,
contributing significant amounts of security assistance and training
Ukrainian troops so they can effectively use the equipment and
ammunition we’ve collectively provided them, and in bringing the world
together later this month to drive support for Ukraine’s long-term
economic recovery.

You’re doing a great deal.

So, Mr. Prime Minister, I thank you for making the journey to
Washington.

Earlier this week, we marked the 79th anniversary of D-Day, and — a
timely reminder of the proud history of — our nations share and the
values — the values that we have long stood together to defend.  
  
That’s the unshakable foundation of this special relationship.  And it
is a special relationship.  There’s no country closer to us than Great
Britain.  
  
Today, as NATO Allies, partners in innovation, as friends in a shared
vision of the future, and the two nations — our two nations are ready to
meet the challenges of our time and meet them together.   
  
And I’m confident the United Kingdom and the United States will continue
to lead the world toward greater peace, prosperity, and security for
all.

So thank you again, Mr. Prime Minister.  And the floor is yours.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  Thank you, Mr. President.  And before I begin my
remarks, a word, if I may, on what happened in France this morning.

All our thoughts are with those affected by this unfathomable attack,
including a British child, and with their families.  I’ve been in touch
with President Macron.  We stand ready to offer any assistance that we
can.

Mr. President, Joe, it is an honor to be here at the White House, and
thank you for your very warm welcome.   
  
Not for decades has the relationship between our two nations been so
important.  The values we share, our belief in freedom, democracy, and
the rule of law have never changed.  They never will.   
  
But what has changed are the challenges that we face.  And standing here
together, as our predecessors have done for generations, I feel
confident that through the strength of our relationship, we can shape
the world once again in our pursuit of liberty, prosperity, and the
possibilities of a new age.   
  
And that begins with our highest priority: national security.  
  
Last time I was here in the U.S., we signed AUKUS, the most significant
defense partnership in generations, because we recognize that the
security of the Atlantic and Pacific regions are indivisible.   
  
And just a fortnight ago, in Hiroshima, President Biden and I stood with
President Zelenskyy and our G7 allies in a powerful display of unity. 
The UK is proud of our contribution, including providing tanks,
long-range weapons, and training Ukrainian soldiers.   
  
But let no one doubt U.S. leadership and resources are the decisive
contribution allowing the forces of democracy and freedom to prevail.  
  
As I said in Congress, and I say again now to President Biden and to the
American people: Thank you.  
  
And just as we collaborate to protect our national security, so must we
increasingly do the same to protect our economic security on which our
prosperity depends.   
  
Countries like China and Russia are willing to manipulate and exploit
our openness, steal our intellectual property, use technology for
authoritarian ends, or withdraw crucial resources like energy.  They
will not succeed.   
  
Today we have agreed the Atlantic Declaration, a new economic
partnership for a new age, of a kind that has never been agreed before. 
Yes, a partnership that protects our citizens, but more than that, a
test case for the kind of reimagined alliances President Biden has
spoken so eloquently about.   
  
And that means new investment.  This week alone, 14 billion pounds of
new American investment has been committed into the UK, creating
thousands of jobs.  It means stronger supply chains with a new action
plan on clean energy.  And it means reducing trade barriers in the
technologies of the future with a new secure UK-U.S. data bridge,
helping tens of thousands of small businesses.  An agreement to work
towards mutual recognition of more professional qualifications in areas
like engineering.   
  
And we’re launching negotiations on a new critical minerals agreement. 
Once concluded, this will give UK companies stronger access to the U.S.
market.   
  
And we’re building on our extraordinary shared strengths in cutting-edge
future technologies, with joint research collaborations in areas like
quantum, semiconductors, and AI.  
  
Now, our job as leaders is to ensure that this technological revolution
makes us more secure and not less.  Last week, the pioneers of
artificial intelligence warned us about the scale of the challenge, as
well as the opportunity.   
  
The U.S. and the UK are the world’s foremost democratic AI powers.  So
today, President and I agreed to work together on AI safety, including
multilaterally.   
  
Now, the UK looks forward to hosting the first global summit on AI
safety later this year so that we can seize the extraordinary
possibilities of this new technological age and do so with confidence. 
And we are well placed to do so.   
  
I know some people have wondered what kind of partner Britain would be
after we left the EU.  I’d say: Judge us by our actions.  We’re
committed to our values as ever, as reliable an ally as ever, as
attractive an investment destination as ever.

But we’re changing too.  We’re strengthening our relationships, not just
with old friends like America or in Europe, but with new friends in the
Indo-Pacific, too.   
  
And we now have the freedom to regulate the new technologies that will
shape our economic future, like AI, more quickly and flexibly.   
  
That is the future that we are creating in Britain: confident, proud,
and free.  
  
And let me close with a personal reflection.  
  
As Joe mentioned, he and I have seen quite a lot of each other in recent
months.  I gather our wives have even started to take spin classes
together.  And we were talking earlier about our hometowns.  Joe is very
rightly proud of Scranton.  And I was telling him a little bit about
Southampton, in England, where I’m from.   
  
Now, not everyone knows this, but it was in a church in Southampton,
where in the days before he set sail for these shores, that John
Winthrop first spoke about his dream of building “a city on a hill.”  
  
And that reminds us that the relationship between our two nations is
unlike any other.  Our alliance is so strong because it is not
abstract.  It is rooted in our people.  And it’s never been about our
history alone, but about our ability to grasp the future.  
  
We share the same beliefs, pursue the same purpose, and act according to
the same ideals.  And that’s why today, as we meet the challenges of our
time, we can depend on each other with absolute conviction.   
  
When the United States and the United Kingdom stand together, the world
is a safer, better, and more prosperous place.  And that’s why ours is
the indispensable alliance.   
  
Thank you.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister.   
  
All right.  First question goes to James of the Financial Times.  Unless
he left.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I appreciate the question.  With — you
spoke about your unwavering support for the people of Ukraine.  So much
of that depends on funding from the U.S. Congress.  And now with the
counteroffensive underway, when do you expect to return to Congress and
ask for new funding?  And how much do you expect you will need?  And do
you think that Speaker McCarthy will agree to it, given some skeptical
comments that we heard earlier this week?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  No, not sure.  And yes.  
  
Q    And — and to Prime Minister Sunak, you spoke earlier this week
about the importance of finding long-term security arrangements and
agreements for the defense of Ukraine for many years ahead.  Do you
think that — have you found a common position with President Biden on
that issue?  What’s your preferred model for a long-term security
agreement with respect to Ukraine?  And does it need to be sorted out
before the Vilnius summit?  
  
Thank you.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me begin by answering your question.  First of
all, the Ukrainians should speak to the military operations; I won’t do
that from here.  We’ve done everything we could collectively, but
individually in the United States, to make them ready, to support that
it will — that it’s going to continue, and an evolving situation that
we’re — where we’re very optimistic.  
  
In talks with the Ukraine — and Ukrainians and particularly with
Zelenskyy and our allies and partners, on commitments to Ukraine,
long-term security — long-term security to deter future aggression after
this war ends is — is the goal.  And we’re advancing this goal by
providing them the support Ukraine needs now on the battlefield and
helping them strengthen their military over the long term.  
  
The fact of the matter is that I believe we’ll have the funding
necessary to support Ukraine as long as it takes.  And I believe that
we’re going to — that that support will be real, even though there are —
you hear some voices today on Capitol Hill about whether or not we
should continue to support Ukraine and for how long we should support
them.   
  
The fact of the matter is I asked people to picture what would happen if
we were not supporting Ukraine.  Do we think Russia would stop in Kyiv? 
Do you think that’s all there would be happening?  I think not, and I
think the vast majority of my colleagues, even the critics, think that
would not be the case as well.  
  
There’s much more to say about Ukraine, but I hope that answers your
direct question.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  James, thank you for the question.  If I — if I
might actually touch on your first question first.   
  
And — and so it’s actually entirely reasonable for the American people
to hear what I say and hopefully acknowledge the thanks that we have for
their support of the situation in Ukraine, but also ask if everyone is
doing their bit.  And that’s why, as I said, the UK is proud to be,
behind the U.S., the biggest contributor to the military effort in
Ukraine.   
  
And I think it’s right that other countries also step up and do their
part.  We’re lucky to have America’s investment in European security,
but we need to share the burden alongside you, which is why defense
spending in the UK has — was — been above the 2 percent NATO benchmark. 
It’s on an increasing trajectory, and we would encourage other countries
to follow the lead that the U.S. and — and the UK set, because our
security is collective.  
  
I think the other thing for you to know about us as an ally is we also
view security as indivisible between the Euro-Atlantic region and the
Pacific.  That’s why the AUKUS partnership is so important.  That’s why
we’re strengthening our engagement and alliances in that region, too, so
that the U.S. can count on the UK as a partner and an ally, sharing the
burden but also working together in every sphere that it matters.  
  
And on your latter question, I agree with what the President said: It’s
about deterrence.  President Putin will be thinking that he can wait us
out, that the Alliance will tire, we’ll get fatigued, and we’ll give
up.  
  
Now, that is not the case.  And the more we can put in place support for
Ukraine — not just in the here and now, but support that will last for a
time and for years to come — I think it sends a strong signal to him
that there is no point in trying to wait us out.  We’re not going
anywhere.  We will be here for as long as it takes.  And hopefully that
will speed up the calculation in his mind that he should withdraw his
forces and stop what is an illegal and unprovoked act of aggression.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Also, if you don’t mind my making an addendum, I’d
point out that not only do we have Europe responding — I spent a lot of
time in Japan — the Japanese have stepped up.  They’ve stepped up in
terms of their budget.  They’ve stepped up in terms of their
involvement.  They’ve stepped in — stepped up in terms of their support
for Ukraine, realizing that an inva- — a — a glaring invasion, with no
pretext by anything other than conquering land, occurring in the 21st
century is a danger not only in Europe but everywhere in the world.  
  
The next question from — from the PBS NewsHour.  Laura.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I think you’re going to steal the mic.  That’s why
they’re —  
  
Q    (Laughs.)  Yeah, they’re holding on to it.  
  
Laura Barrón-López with the PBS NewsHour.  All over the country, Mr.
President, Republican-led states are passing laws — passing anti-LGBTQ,
anti-transgender laws that restrict rights and medical care. 
Intimidation is on the rise.  This week, anti-LGBTQ protestors turned
violent in California.  
  
And also recently, I spoke to the parents of a transgender girl in Texas
who told me that they’re afraid and that they are considering leaving
not just their state, but the country.  
  
Sir, why do you think this is happening?  And what do you say to
parents, like the ones that I spoke to, to those families who are
contemplating leaving the country because they don’t feel safe
anymore?  
  
And then, Prime — Prime Minister Sunak, thank you.  You mentioned that
AI has been a key part of your visit.  What are the U.S. and the UK —
what is the UK doing with the U.S. to protect elections and democracy
from AI-generated disinformation campaigns waged at scale by foreign
actors? 

And you also mentioned the warning letter sent by AI leaders about the
potential threat that this technology, if misused, can pose to
humanity.  How is regulating artificial intelligence going to be any
different than what has been done at the global scale, so far, to deal
with climate change, another existential threat?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me answer your first question.  
  
First of all, maybe quietly when we finish this, you can give me the
number of that family, and I will call them and let them know that the
President and this administration has their back.  And I mean that.  
  
Look, as President, I was proud to end the ban on te- — transgender
troops in our military, sign the Respect for Marriage Act, strengthen
the civil rights protections for LBG- — LBGT Americans, and advance LGBT
human rights around the globe.  
  
But our fight is far, far from over because we have some hysterical and,
I would argue, prejudiced people who are engaged in all of what you see
going on around the country.  It’s — it’s an appeal to fear, and it’s an
appeal that is totally, thoroughly unjustified and ugly.   
  
It’s wrong for — that a person can be married in the morning in the
United States and fired in the afternoon by their employer because they
are — they’re gay.   
  
It’s wrong that the violence and hate crimes targeting LGBTQ people is
rising.  It’s wrong that extreme officials are pushing hateful bills
targeting transgender children, terrifying families, and criminalizing
doctors.   
  
These are our kids.  These are our neighbors.  It’s cruel and it’s
callous.  Not somebody else’s kids; they’re all our kids.  They’re the
kids — and our children are the kite strings that hold our national
ambitions aloft.  It matters a great deal how we treat everyone in this
country.  
  
And the fact is that I’m announcing today a series of new initiatives
that we’re taking to protect the LGBT community.  I was going to do this
at the fore out on South Lawn.  We’re having Pride Day, but we’re going
to have to postpone it because of the — the climate, because of the
weather and the pollution out there because of the fires.  
  
But number one, we’re going to strengthen the physical safety, dedicated
resources, the federal coordination to better protect Pride
celebrations, marches, community centers, healthcare providers, and
small businesses.  
  
Secondly, we’re addressing civil rights violations, a new coordinator to
protect LGBT students from book bans, which make it harder for kids to
learn and may violate their civil rights at the same time.  
  
We’re also engaging in mental health and — and other supports, more
mental health resources and funding to help families support their kids,
new efforts to protect LGBTQ kids in foster care, and steps to end — the
absolute end of LGBTQ homelessness.  
  
Congress has to pass — and I’m not giving up on this.  Just like they
told me we couldn’t get Marriage Act passed.  Congress must pass — must
pass the Equality Act and send it to my desk. 

LGBTQ Americans, especially children: You’re loved, you’re heard, and
this administration has your back — and I mean it.  We are not relenting
one single second to make sure that they’re protected.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  Laura, on your question, it’s clear that AI can
bring incredible and will bring incredible benefits to society, our
economies, to all of us.  And actually, one of your leading venture
capitalists just published a — an essay on this, which made the point
very eloquently yesterday. 

And it’s also clear, though, that it does pose very real risks that we,
as leaders, need to be cognizant of and put in place the guardrails to
mitigate against. 

Actually, President Biden and I had a very good conversation on this
just a couple of weeks ago in Japan in one of our sessions in
Hiroshima.  And we are aligned in wanting to discuss with other
countries what those guardrails should be.

I think here in the U.S., you’ve convened all the companies together
recently; we’ve done the same in Downing Street just a couple of weeks
ago.  And I think there are a series of measures that we can implement
working cooperatively, as we have been discussing, that will ensure that
we can enjoy the benefits of this technology whilst mitigating against
their risks.  That’s what our citizens would expect.   
  
And you talk about climate change.  You know, we come together at COP to
work multilaterally across multiple countries to bring down carbon
emissions, to get funding to the countries that need it, to share
research on how we can develop the green technologies of the future. 

Indeed, that’s part of our conversations and agreement today: that we
need to bring that same spirit of urgency, I think, to the challenges
and opportunities that AI poses, because the pace of the technological
change is faster than people had anticipated.  And I think the letter
that you mentioned kind of reminded us that we do need to work urgently
to address this issue. 

And I’m delighted that Joe and I and others will be doing that with all
great haste. 

And I think a couple of questions on our end.  Could I call on the BBC?

Q    Thank you.  Chris Mason from BBC News. 

Prime Minister, your aim as the Conservative Party at the last general
election was a full free trade deal with America.  Isn’t the simple
truth of what’s been announced today an acknowledgement of a failure to
do that?

And to the President, why won’t you do a full trade agreement with the
UK?  Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  So if you — if you look at what we’ve announced
today, what it does is respond to the particular opportunities and
challenges that we face right now and into the future.  And it asked the
question: What do we need to do, working together, that can bring most
benefit to our citizens as quickly as possible? 

And our agreement does that.  It’s a first-of-a-kind agreement that’s
ambitious in what it seeks to achieve. 

I think that I’ve structured around a couple of different areas.  The
first is economic security, because the challenges we face are much more
economic in nature — a big subject of our discussions at the G7 recently
— and the only way we’re going to meet those challenges is to work
together to strengthen the resilience of our supply chains, to research
the technologies of the future together. 

And that’s what we’ve announced today, is a partnership that will deepen
our cooperation to strengthen the economic security.  And that’s good
for all our citizens at home. 

And those risks have intensified in the past couple of years.  I think
that’s very evident.  But it also seeks to build prosperity and create
jobs in both of our countries. 

We’ve announced billions of pounds of investment into the UK, which is
going to support thousands of jobs.  And the agreement that we’ve struck
today will continue to do that.  It will support tens of thousands of
small businesses in the UK, removing unnecessary red tape so that they
can trade and do business in the U.S. far easier.

And I think those types of specific, targeted measures that will deliver
real benefits to people as quickly as possible are the right things for
us to be focused on.  
  
But I think be in no doubt, as Joe and I were discussing earlier, the
economic relationship between our two countries has never been
stronger.  The trade is worth hundreds of billions of pounds, or
dollars, a year.  Over a million of our citizens in each other’s
countries work in each other’s companies.  We are one of the largest
investors in each other’s countries, and that trade is growing at
something like 20 percent last year.   
  
So the relationship is strong; it’s booming.  But our agreement today
focuses on the particular challenges, opportunities of the moment we’re
in.  And I think that’s the right thing for us both to be focused on.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I think we had a really good discussion today about
our economic relationship.  And we’ve launched negotiations on critical
materials and an agreement to deal with climate crisis. 

For example, there is no reason why Great Britain will not play a major
role in not only critical materials but in investing in the United
States of America and all of our initiatives relating to the need for
critical materials, including battery technology and a whole range of
things.  Number one.  
  
Number two: cooperating on data and AI.  It is a limitless capacity and
possibility.  We — but we have to do it with great care, not relative to
one another but relative to the issue.  Because when I convened the
leaders in AI about — I think there were 13 — here in the United States,
the very architects of this — AI — they’re also very concerned about it
getting out of hand, and we got to make sure we’re all on the same
page.  
  
And we’re looking to Great Britain to lead that effort this fall in
putting together a proposal — a group of nations to deal with how do we
deal with this.  It not only has the potential to — to cure cancer and
many other things that are just beyond our comprehension, but it has the
potential to do great damage if it’s not controlled.  
  
And so we — we’re looking for — I’ll overstate it: We’re looking for
watermarks on everything that has to do with — “produced by AI” so we
know from whence it comes.  But there’s a lot we have to do.   
  
And we’re also addressing the national security risk posed by certain
types of outbound investments.   
  
I had a discussion with — with Xi Jinping in China: Why was I not
transferring certain technological capabilities?  And I said, very
simply, “Because you’re using them for weapons of mass destruction and
intelligence intervention.”  And I said, “If we can work out something
on that, we’d have a very different relationship.”  
  
So what we’re trying to do is figure out how together we can make sure
that we have the — let me back up and say it this way: I don’t think
ever in the history of human endeavor has there been as fundamental
potential technological change as is presented by artificial
intelligence.  It is staggering.  It is staggering.  
  
You have some of these leaders in the industry talking about how they’re
concerned whether a machine will be able to begin to think for itself,
not need to be programmed.  I mean, it’s just — I know it sounds like
science fiction, but it is close to science fiction, some of the things.
 It has enormous potential.  
  
And we’re looking to Great Britain to help lead that effort, to figure
out a way through this.  So we’re in full — total cooperation, because
there’s no one, no country we have greater faith in being able to
negotiate this — no — not negotiate with individuals, negotiate our way
through this — than — than the Prime Minister.  And so, we — we are in
lockstep.   
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.   
  
PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  Thank you.  Last question is the Times.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Chris Smyth from The Times.  Prime Minister, you’ve
made clear your support for free trade, but is today’s agreement
essentially a recognition that in light of COVID, the growing threat of
China, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, that the era of unfettered
globalization is over?  And if so, the U.S. has made clear that it
thinks that requires a much more interventionist industrial policy to
respond to that.  Why do you think that approach is wrong for the UK?   
  
And, Mr. President, what do you say to those abroad who say that your
new Washington Consensus is simply a fancier way of saying “America
first”?  And in light of the warm words just now about UK-U.S. defense
collaboration, particularly in Ukraine, do you think it’s time for the
first British NATO Secretary General in two decades?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  What’s the last part of your question?  I’m sorry.  
  
Q    Is it time for a British NATO Secretary General?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Maybe.  That remains to be seen.  We’re going to have
to get a consensus within NATO to see that happen.  They have a
candidate who’s a very qualified individual.  But we’re going to have —
we have a lot of discussion, not between us, but in NATO, to determine
what the outcome of that will be.   
  
And with regard to the first part of your question you wanted me to
respond to?  
  
Q    It was about: Is the new Washington Consensus that you and your
National Security Advisor set out simply another way of saying “America
first,” which some overseas think it is?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, look, my economic policy is totally consistent
with what I think is in the interest of our NATO Allies and our allies
around the world.   
  
One of the things that I decided to do — and I find that the Wall Street
Journal — and I’m sure there is someone here from the Wall Street
Journal and other publications that are talking about Bidenomics.  I
didn’t realize it was — I had Bidenomics going.   
  
But the bottom line was this: that the fundamental changes taking place
in terms of international trade, nobody in — at least very few people in
United States, and I suspect around the world, knew what a supply chain
meant, what they’re talking about, the supply chain.  
  
When we found out during the pandemic that the reason why we couldn’t
build automobiles was because the outfit that we got our semiconductors
from in Southeast Asia had shut down because of the pandemic, we
realized that — I decided that no longer would we rely on one center of
support for any of the things that are needed for our economic
growth.   
  
And I made it clear to all our NATO Allies and our partners, as well,
that although we were going to generate a — for example, an AI capacity
here — I mean, excuse me, a semiconductor capacity here in the United
States, attracting literally several hundred billion dollars in
investment, that that was available to all of our — all of our allies,
all of our friends.  And they’re investing as they — as we are and
benefiting in a similar way.   
  
The bottom line here for me is that I think that the world is changing
in a way that globalization is still real.  But the measure of what we
used to call in the United States trickle-down economics, where if the —
if the — tri- — trickle-down economics resulted in — in bo- — in
Democratic and Republican administrations for generations — in making
sure we found the cheapest labor in the world, sent the product to —
sent the work to those — to that neighbor or those neighbors who have
the cheapest labor, and they send back their products.   
  
Well, I’m not doing that anymore.  We’re going to make sure that we, in
fact, have a flip of that.  We’re sending capacity — here in the United
States, we’re attracting capacity to build here in the United States to
send product overseas, not — not the reverse.   
  
And I know it sounds simplistic, but it’s working so far.  And it’s not
going to hurt any of our allies or friends in terms of the trade piece
of this.   
  
Matter of fact, I’m finding they’re benefiting from it as well, because
they’re engaging in it with us.  And at home they’re doing similar
things.   
  
So that’s why we talked about the need to have relationships in terms of
certain materials — the battery technologies, to share.  We rely on
Great Britain to produce a lot of that for us.   
  
So it is increasing trade.  But right now it looks like it is — because
the United States is doing so incredibly well, it makes it looks like
it’s only the United States.  It’s not.  It’s just a change in direction
in terms of how we view generating economic growth.  
  
PRIME MINISTER SUNAK:  And just to add to that, I’d say I’m absolutely
of the view that the United States, this President does not believe in
zero-sum competition amongst allies.  That’s what we declared together
with our G7 partners just a few weeks ago in Hiroshima.  This is a
President and an administration that is completely attuned to the needs
and concerns of its allies on these issues.  And you can see that.   
  
Today, as the President said, we are launching negotiations between the
UK and the U.S. on a critical minerals agreement so that the U.S. can
provide us with that interaction and cooperation we need.   
  
And the Atlantic Declaration that we’ve announced today just talks about
strengthening, deepening our cooperation.  It’s not about looking in and
being protection; it’s about the exact opposite of that.   
  
And it’s about strengthening that cooperation across the full spectrum
of economic, technological, and other spheres.  And that’s what you will
see.  You’ll see that from the President.  You’ll see it from me. 
You’ll see the UK and the U.S. working even more closely together on all
the big economic issues of our time, because that’s what the moment
demands, and that’s what our citizens need us to do.  And that’s what
the President and I plan to deliver.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And it’s not just our citizens.  Look, the Global
South — there are going to be a billion people in Africa very shortly. 
One billion.   
  
At the G7, it was originally called Build Back Better World, but we were
talking about — there’s a new <s>PPI</s> \[PGII\] — anyway — an
industrial policy that we’re all signed on to to provide the countries
in Africa and in the — in the Global South an opportunity to grow,
significantly grow, which benefits the United States, benefits Europe,
benefits every country.    
  
Because the reverse is true: If we don’t figure a way in which these
countries can grow and participate and have to — and be able to build
infrastructure — you know, the Canadians — the — excuse me, the Chinese
have a pa- — have a Belt and Road Initiative.  Well, the Be- — Belt and
Road Initiative turns out to be a debt and confiscation program.  Not
going very far.  
  
But what we’re doing — and we’re going to be doing with our NATO Allies,
with the G7 — is providing opportunities.  For example, Angola — I —
should be in a position very soon to have the largest glo- — the largest
solar facility in the world, generating significant amounts of energy. 
It benefits us, benefits them, brings them into the 21st century in a
way that they’d never been before.   
  
We’re talking about building — and I had my team putting together with
other countries as well — to build a railroad from the Pacific Ocean —
from the Atlantic Ocean all the way to the Indian Ocean.  Never occurred
before.  How — we’re — we’re — our Departments of Agriculture are
working with these countries.   
  
So there’s a significant amount of cooperation, not to hoard capacity,
but to expand capacity to further expand opportunity, because we all
benefit from it.   
  
And one thing I’ve learned is that we are not going to be able to deal
with the global warming, which is a consequential — single-most
consequential threat to humanity if we don’t do it, unless we engage
more together, not fewer — not less together.   
  
And so the United States will do what it can do well and invite all of
our partners to be part of it if we can.   
  
Thank you.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
ANNOUNCER:  Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, please remain in
your seats as the principals and official delegations depart the East
Room.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m supposed to walk off the stage now.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Can you comment on the bribery allegations against you, President
Biden?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  But wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.   
  
Q    The bribery allegation.  Congresswoman Nancy Mace says there’s
damning evidence in the FBI file that you sold out the country.  Do you
have a response to the congressional Republicans?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Where’s the money?  I’m joking.  It’s —   
  
Q    Mr. President —   
  
Q    Mr. President —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It’s a bunch of malarkey.  
  
Q    Mr. President, what do you say to Americans to convince them that
they should trust the independence and fairness of the Justice
Department when your predecessor, Donald Trump, repeatedly attacks it?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Because you notice I have never once — not one single
time — suggested to the Justice Department what they should do or not
do, relative to bringing a charge or not bringing a charge.  I’m
honest.  
  
Thank you.   
  
2:57 P.M. EDT  
