---
date: '2023-06-02'
published_time: 2023-06-02 13:34:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/02/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-for-the-arms-control-association-aca-annual-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan for the Arms Control Association\
  \ (ACA) Annual\_Forum"
---
 
National Press Club

Thank you, Tom, for that very important set of introductory comments and
for the kind words.

I also want to thank Daryl for bringing us all together today.

And most importantly—I want to thank all of you for giving me the
opportunity to just say a few words here this morning.

\*\*\*

60 years ago next month—in grainy, black and white video—President
Kennedy addressed the nation.

He was sitting behind the same Resolute desk that President Biden sits
behind now nearly every day, and that I sit across from him nearly every
day.

“My fellow citizens,” he said. “I speak to you tonight in a spirit of
hope…Negotiations were concluded in Moscow on a treaty to ban all
nuclear tests…”

After years of non-stop negotiations, or stop-and-start negotiations to
be more precise—

Years of dialogue—

Years of commitment and courage—

Establishing the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty was a huge moment.

Not only for our own national security. But for the security and
stability of the world.

And as this group knows well, it was one of the first steps that would
help slowly usher in an era of responsible arms control and nuclear
deterrence measures.

An era where nations could compartmentalize the issues of strategic
stability, even if they couldn’t cooperate on much anything else.

An era where adversaries could disagree and debate across basically
every domain, but could always find ways to work together to limit
nuclear risks.

An era where world leaders chose transparency even during times of
tension—especially during times of tension—because what was at stake was
too important, too vital to our shared future.

That is the foundation of nuclear stability and security that we’ve
depended on for decades.

And it’s the foundation that the Arms Control Association has helped to
uphold across generations.

But over the last few years—that foundation has begun to erode.

And today, we now stand at what our President would call an “inflection
point” in our nuclear stability and security.

A point that demands new strategies for achieving the same goal we’ve
held since the Cold War: Reduce the risk of nuclear conflict.

So today, I’d like to lay out what we’re endeavoring to do in pursuit of
this.

I’ll start with the cracks in the foundation that we see—the new threats
that are challenging the post-Cold War nuclear order.

And then I’ll walk through how we’re trying to adapt both our nuclear
deterrence and our arms control strategies to meet this moment.

\*\*\*

As we’ve all seen recently, some of the major cracks in our nuclear
foundation have come from Russia.

Last year, Russian forces recklessly attacked and seized the
Zaporizhzhya nuclear power plant in Ukraine—the largest operational
nuclear plant in Europe—with little concern for the potential
catastrophic consequences of a nuclear incident.

Earlier this year, President Putin unlawfully suspended Russia’s
implementation of the New START Treaty that places limits on the most
destructive weapons in our arsenals—the kinds that could destroy the
world many times over.

Only a month later, President Putin began to take steps to station
tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus.   

And, as we all saw just a few days ago, Putin formally announced that he
will withdraw from the Treaty on Conventional Forces in Europe—putting
the final nail in the coffin of an agreement that once served as a
cornerstone of European security, which Moscow began violating years
ago.  

But even prior to Russia’s brutal assault against Ukraine, Putin has
been destabilizing the nuclear foundation our forebearers laid.

For years, he’s advanced the development of dangerous new nuclear
capabilities, like radiation-spewing, nuclear-powered cruise
missiles—all while modernizing and stockpiling old capabilities that
aren’t regulated by arms control agreements—like theater-range missiles
and torpedoes.

Russia’s actions have been dealing body blows to the post-Cold war
nuclear arms control framework.

But it’s not just Russia that we have to look to, to consider the full
scope of the context we find ourselves in today with respect to nuclear
security and stability.

We’ve also seen a change in approach from the People’s Republic of
China.

By 2035, the PRC is on track to have as many as 1,500 nuclear
warheads—one of the largest peacetime nuclear build-ups in history.

But unlike Russia—who is threatening to walk away from the negotiating
table, from the arms control agreements our countries have relied upon
for years—the PRC has thus far opted not to come to the table for
substantive dialogue on arms control.

It has declined to share the size and scope of its nuclear forces, or to
provide launch notifications.

And it has not shown much interest in discussions regarding the changes
it is making to its nuclear forces.

Simply put, we have not yet seen a willingness from the PRC to
compartmentalize strategic stability from broader issues in the
relationship. And that compartmentalization, as I noted before, has been
the bedrock of nuclear security—indeed strategic stability—for decades.

Finally—we’re seeing increasing nuclear threats from the DPRK and Iran.

In the last year alone, Kim Jung Un declared that he aimed to have
quote, “the world’s most powerful,” nuclear arsenal—announcing plans to
ramp up the development of everything from tactical nukes, to ICBMs, to
unmanned underwater nuclear weapons.

He announced a sweeping new “Nuclear Forces Policy Law” that would
permit Pyongyang to use nuclear weapons first against non-nuclear
states—in direct violation of the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the NPT.

And, he has tested more ballistic missiles than any other period in the
DPRK’s history.

On Iran—after the previous Administration’s departure from a deal that
put strict limits on Tehran’s nuclear development, and prevented it from
obtaining a nuclear weapon—Iran’s nuclear program was left
unconstrained. 

As a result, Iran is now operating more advanced centrifuges. It has
enriched more uranium, including at levels closer to weapons grade. And
it has done so with less international monitoring of its program, than
when it was under the strict constraints of the Joint Comprehensive Plan
of Action.

\*\*\*

Taken together, the cracks in our post-Cold War nuclear foundation are
substantial and they are deep.

And today, we’re entering a new era—one that demands new strategies and
solutions to achieve the goals we’ve always had:

Prevent an arms race.

Reduce the risk of misperception and escalation.

And most importantly, ensure the safety and security of our people—and
people around the world—from nuclear threats.

Same goals, new strategy.

That’s the core of our approach to strategic stability—one that can be
boiled down to two main lines of effort.

First, update our deterrence capabilities and plans. And second, advance
new arms control and risk reduction measures.

These are two sides of the same proverbial nuclear coin.

Responsibly enhancing our deterrent capabilities allows us to negotiate
arms control from a position of strength and confidence—and new arms
control helps limit and shape our adversaries’ decisions on nuclear
capabilities.

And so today, I’d like to spend a little time discussing each of these
sides of the nuclear coin.

\*\*\*

I’ll start with the deterrence side of the coin—where we’re taking a
two-pronged approach.

First—we’re modernizing our nuclear program here at home.

In practice, that means replacing each leg of our nuclear
Triad—land-based ICBMs, ballistic missile submarines, and
nuclear-capable bombers.

It means updating our nuclear command, control, and communications
architecture by replacing aging capabilities with next generation
systems.

And it means investing in our nuclear complex and defense industry to
help ensure that we have a responsive nuclear enterprise and a resilient
base for long-term competition.

And I want to be clear here—the United States does not need to increase
our nuclear forces to outnumber the combined total of our competitors in
order to successfully deter them.

We’ve been there. We’ve learned that lesson.

Nor does the United States need to deploy ever-more dangerous nuclear
weapons to maintain deterrence.

Rather, effective deterrence means that we have a “better” approach—not
a “more” approach.

It means ensuring that we have the capacity and capabilities necessary
to deter—and if necessary, defeat—major aggression against our country,
our allies, and our partners. 

So to enhance that effectiveness, we’re investing in cutting-edge
non-nuclear capabilities that will help sustain our military advantage
for decades to come.  

Capabilities like conventionally-armed hypersonic missiles that can
reach heavily-defended, high-value targets—in contrast to the
nuclear-capable missiles of similar kind that Russia and China are
developing.

And capabilities like new space and cyberspace tools that will help the
United States retain its advantage across every domain.

Together, these modernization efforts will ensure our deterrent
capabilities remain secure and strong as we head into the 2030s—when the
United States will need to deter two near-peer nuclear powers for the
first time in its history.

But we can’t go at it alone—which leads me to the second prong of our
deterrence strategy: investing in and strengthening our alliances
abroad.

That has been President Biden’s overriding priority—indeed in many ways,
his strategic North Star—since his very first day as President of the
United States.

And, as we’ve worked to further deepen our alliances, we’ve always
remembered that one of our greatest nonproliferation accomplishments of
the nuclear age has been U.S. extended deterrence—which has reassured so
many of our partners that they do not need to develop nuclear weapons of
their own.

For example, in April, the President reaffirmed our ironclad mutual
defense treaty with the Republic of Korea—including our extended
deterrence commitment.

And together with President Yoon, he signed the Washington Declaration—a
step that created more mechanisms for cooperation between our two
countries—including during a potential nuclear crisis—and showed a
recommitment to our shared nonproliferation objectives.

Together with our NATO Allies, we’ve been laser focused on modernizing
the Alliance’s nuclear capabilities—from ensuring broad participation in
the Alliance’s nuclear deterrent mission, to certifying our F-35
aircraft to be able to deliver modern nuclear gravity bombs.

All of these new steps—from revitalizing our nuclear program here at
home, to reinvigorating our alliances abroad, and all of the elements
that fall into those two categories—are necessary in their own right. 

But taken together, they’ll help achieve the same strategic stability
goals we’ve always had.

They’ll show our adversaries and competitors that in an arms race with
the United States—that any arms race with the United States—is
counterproductive at best, and destructive at worst.

And, they’ll help the United States negotiate arms control agreements
from that position of strength and confidence that I described.

Those arms control agreements are the other side of the “nuclear
coin”—which is what I’d like to turn to next.

\*\*\*

Nearly 20 years ago—when then-Senator Biden addressed the Arms Control
Association—and Tom talked about President Biden’s very long-standing
commitment to non-proliferation objectives and his long experience in
being a leader in this space—he said quote, “we must invent new
approaches and foster new international cooperation to meet changing
threats.”

Those words only ring more true today.

And under the President’s leadership, we’re advancing three new
approaches to strengthen arms control and decrease nuclear risks in this
changing nuclear age.

First—we have stated our willingness to engage in bilateral arms control
discussions with Russia and with China without preconditions.

And before I jump into this—let me just step back and say that “without
preconditions” does not mean “without accountability.”

We’ll still hold nuclear powers accountable for reckless behavior. And
we’ll still hold our adversaries and competitors responsible for
upholding nuclear agreements.

For example—the United States will continue to notify Russia in advance
of ballistic missile launches and major strategic exercises, in line
with pre-existing nuclear agreements.

But yesterday, we adopted lawful, proportionate, and reversible
countermeasures in response to Russia’s violations of New
START—including suspending our day-to-day notifications to Russia that
are required under the Treaty.

These steps will help guarantee that Russia does not receive benefits
from a treaty they refuse to abide by, and that the principle of
reciprocity—a key tenet of strategic arms control—is upheld.

It will also demonstrate to Russia the benefits of returning to full
compliance—including once again receiving detailed information regarding
our nuclear forces—a conversation we continue to press for directly with
Russian officials.

But, while claiming to suspend New START, Russia has also publicly
committed to adhere to the Treaty’s central limits—indicating a
potential willingness to continue limiting strategic nuclear forces
through 2026.

We agree.

It is in neither of our countries’ interests to embark on an open-ended
competition in strategic nuclear forces—and we’re prepared to stick to
the central limits as long as Russia does.

And rather than waiting to resolve all of our bilateral differences—the
United States is ready to engage Russia now to manage nuclear risks and
develop a post-2026 arms control framework. We are prepared to enter
into those discussions.

Now—the type of limits the United States can agree to after the Treaty
expires will of course be impacted by the size and scale of China’s
nuclear buildup.

That’s why we’re also ready to engage China without
preconditions—helping ensure that competition is managed, and that
competition does not veer into conflict.

It’s our hope that among the topics on the table for diplomatic
discussion, Beijing will be willing to include substantive engagement on
strategic nuclear issues—which would benefit the security of both of our
countries, and the security of the entire world.

Next—the United States is willing to engage in new multilateral arms
control efforts, including through the five permanent members of the UN
Security Council, the P5: The United States, Russia, China, the United
Kingdom, and France.

We’re under no illusions that reaching risk reduction and arms control
measures in that setting will be easy.

But we do believe it is possible.

And as you all know, four of the five nuclear powers are—with some
exceptions that I just mentioned—already de facto committed to some
transparency and restraint in their nuclear policies and postures.

The U.S., the UK, and France have also all demonstrated their
commitments repeatedly to responsible behavior.

And—some of the P5 have nuclear agreements with each other. For example,
the U.S. and Russia have a ballistic missile launch notification
agreement with each other, which I mentioned before. So do Russia and
China.

But these existing agreements are limited and piecemeal.

We can do more.

The P5 provides an opportunity manage nuclear risk and arms race
pressures through a mix of dialogue, transparency, and agreements. 

For example, formalizing a missile launch notification regime across the
P5 is a straightforward measure that is simply common sense.

It’s a small step that would help reduce the risk of misperception and
miscalculation in times of crisis.

And one that could potentially build momentum toward further measures to
manage nuclear risks and arms racing—

From maintaining a “human-in-the-loop” for command, control, and
employment of nuclear weapons—

To establishing crisis communications channels among the P5 capitals—

To committing to transparency on nuclear policy, doctrine, and
budgeting—

To setting up guardrails for managing the interplay between non-nuclear
strategic capabilities and nuclear deterrence—

These are all areas where we could take further steps in a multilateral
context, working among the P5.  

This leads to my third and final point—the United States will step up to
help set the norms and shore up the values of the new nuclear era.

We’re already making some progress, including across every major
multilateral body that seeks to limit nuclear and WMD risks.

The Nonproliferation Treaty Review Conference.

The Conference on Disarmament.

The Chemical Weapons Convention.

The Biological Weapons Convention.

Across all of these forums—we’re leading results-based discussions.

And we’re ensuring that our frameworks are fit for the threats we face
today and tomorrow.

For example—the fielding of weapons based on emerging technologies will
create new, interconnected, and unpredictable escalation pathways.

So, we’re working to establish new guardrails—especially in space and
cyberspace.

And of course, with the advent of Artificial Intelligence, this entire
picture only becomes more complex and challenging and requires the new
kinds of approaches that I’ve been describing throughout the speech.

The approach that we are looking at takes into account technologies and
tools that could complicate a potential nuclear conflict—like hypersonic
weapons, like AI-enabled systems.

And as the President often says—we’re making sure that we’re leading not
just by the example of our power, but by the power of our example.

That’s why we’ve committed to not conduct destructive, direct-ascent
anti-satellite missile testing—and we’re encouraging our Allies,
partners, and competitors to do the same.

And it’s why we’ve put forth proposals for responsible behavior in space
and principles for the use of AI in the military domain—both of which we
are actively promoting in international fora.

\*\*\*

Let me close with this.

60 years ago—President Kennedy spoke to our nation in the “spirit of
hope.” That’s how he put it—the spirit of hope.

Hope that we could safely manage strategic competition.

That we would one day build a world free of nuclear weapons.

That we could forge a future of greater peace, greater stability, and
greater security.

Not just for Americans—but for everyone.

Today—as we face new threats and as we face those cracks in our
post-Cold War nuclear foundation—I not only believe that we can find
this hope again.

I believe that we must.

Because when it comes to nuclear risks, what is at stake—for our people,
and for our world—is too important, too consequential for our shared
futures not to.

We are under no illusions about the task at hand—of the hard work, and
likely the long work needed to help lay a new, stronger foundation for
this era.

But through new deterrence and arms control measures—one fit for this
age—we can turn this moment of peril into a moment of possibility.

And I look forward to working with all of you to do just that—and I’m
looking forward to the conversation this morning.

Thank you very much for the time.

\###
