---
date: '2023-06-29'
modified_time: 2023-06-30 10:53:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-29 22:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-at-the-2023-essence-fest-global-black-economic-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation at the 2023 Essence\
  \ Fest Global Black Economic\_Forum"
---
 
Four Seasons Hotel New Orleans

2:57 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.

AUDIENCE:  Good afternoon!

MS. DUCKETT:  This is fantastic, and it is a moment.  So before we
start, I know there’s something that you would like to say, so let me
turn it over to you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I do.  Thasunda, I — I’m prepared to have a very
long conversation with you about many other matters —

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and then the highest court in our land just made
a decision today on affirmative action.  And I — I feel compelled to
speak about it, and I’m sure that I share the sentiment and the feeling
of everyone in this room, in terms of the deep disappointment. 

I encourage everyone, by the way, to read the dissenting opinion of
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.  (Applause.)  I encourage you to read it,
because she is a beautiful writer who is compelled by logic and a
knowledge of history and a clarity of thinking about where we have been
as a country and where we have the potential to go. 

And what she so rightly has articulated, as I take away from her writing
and the way I feel about it, is the disappointment is because this is
now a moment where the Court has not fully understand the importance of
equal opportunity for the people of our country, and it is in so very
many ways a denial of opportunity.

And the — it is a complete misnomer to suggest this is about
“colorblind,” when, in fact, it is about being blind to history, being
blind to data, being blind to empirical evidence about disparities,
being blind to the strength that diversity brings to classrooms, to
boardrooms.

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I did — Thasunda, I thank you for giving me
this moment to just speak on that.  And I think that there is no
question we have so much work to do.  And the President spoke so
eloquently earlier today about this: Our administration will use all the
tools in our power to continue to applaud policies that understand the
importance and the significance and the strength of diversity in all of
those places. 

And one of the points that the President also made is — is the point of
encouraging our educational institutions to now be very purposeful in
thinking about how they will prioritize the importance of diversity,
including looking at students’ backgrounds, in terms of fin- — access to
financial strength and benefits, where they went to high school, where
they grew up.

And also, the President, I thought, was very clear about saying to
corporate America that we would expect that this decision will not in
any way cloud their judgment about the importance of diversity in the
workplace.  (Applause.)

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, thank you.

MS. DUCKETT:  Well, thank you.  I shared with you, this morning was
emotional. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

MS. DUCKETT:  But what I do know is that talent is created equally,
opportunity is not. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. DUCKETT:  And so we will all do our part to make sure that every
young talent know that they can achieve their full potential —  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. DUCKETT:  — in this country.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
MS. DUCKETT:  And we know we still have work to do, but joy comes in the
morning.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Amen.  

MS. DUCKETT:  Okay?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  That’s exactly right. 

And I do consider myself a joyful warrior.  (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes, you do.  She is a joyful warrior. 

Okay.  So, speaking of talent, my father, Otis Brown, will always say to
me, “People see your glory, but they don’t know your story.”

Vice President Harris, impact maker, always creating space for so many
people, can you take us back to your story?  I know you’ve talked about
how your parents met at Berkeley and were active in the Civil Rights
Movement.  In fact, I think they took you along in a stroller, so I have
a little vision here.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Indeed. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Okay?  But how — how has your past growing up impacted the
arc of now being the Vice President of the United States of America?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  In every way.  I had the true privilege and
blessing of being raised by a family, an extended family, and a
community that was so abundant in its belief that we must nurture the
children and give them a sense of how important they are. 

You know, I sometimes joke about it — you know, I was raised in a
community and by — by parents and a community that they just told all of
us we were special.  (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We weren’t particularly special.  (Laughter.)  But
we believed that —

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — when they told us that.  (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I grew up, yes, in the midst of this movement
that was — you know, there’s the — there are different regions of our
country that had different levels of — of impact on the civil rights
movement.  But in Berkeley and Oakland, California, there was a very
robust community that was fighting for civil rights.  And so, I grew up
among my parents, who were marching and shouting for justice every day.

The heroes of that movement included Thurgood Marshall —

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — Charles Hamilton Houston —

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — Constance Baker Motley.  Right? 

And that’s why I wanted to become a lawyer.  And probably one of the
main reasons I decided to become a prosecutor — and this is not a
favorite thing that I — I like to share, but it is very pivotal in why I
made that decision — is, growing up, my — my best friend in high school,
I learned, was being abused by her stepfather.  And when I realized it,
I said to her, “Well, you — you have to come live with us.”

And I actually called my mother and I said, “Mommy, this is happening.” 
And she said, “Well, of course she has to come live with us.”

MS. DUCKETT:  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And she did.  And just — the feeling of the need to
make sure we protect —

MS. DUCKETT:  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and — and give people a sense of dignity and —
and uplift them.  And — and so a majority of my career as a prosecutor
was spent focusing on crimes of violence against women and children.

And — but the work that I’ve done has also been a function of this fight
for justice, be it economic justice, which is a main area — one of the
main areas of focus for this —

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — this convening.  The importance of giving people
dignity, giving them opportunity, is something that has always guided
me.   
  
When I was attorney general — I know we have some people here who are
bankers, but I — when I was attorney general, I actually — (laughter) —
sued the big banks around the foreclosure crisis that was impacting
California in a pretty substantial way.   
  
We had some of the highest rates of foreclosure.  And it — I felt the
very strong need to be able to protect these homeowners, so many of whom
were — were Black, who were people of color, who deserve to be treated
fairly.   
  
So that’s, in a nutshell, some of the things that formed who I was and
who I am at an early age.

MS. DUCKETT:  You sure are special.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  You are, too.

MS. DUCKETT:  And so is everyone here —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Everybody here is special.  (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  — right?  We are special.  (Applause.)

You know, I — I know — you know, I’m — I’m raised with my parents, Otis
and Rosie Brown, and they grew up in the segregated South.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  But even with that backdrop, they told me to reach for the
Moon —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. DUCKETT:  — because even if I missed, I would be among the stars. 

Madam Vice President, you continue to reach for the Moon.  So, thank
you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, Thasunda.

MS. DUCKETT:  Now, I want to shift, because we are at the Global Black
Economic Forum.  We are in the backdrop of Essence Festival, where a
million people will spend the next couple of days.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  Joy and justice.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  We also know that, as a Black community, it’s projected in
2024: $1.8 trillion of spending power.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  Yet, the net worth over the last several years have gone
down 14 percent.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Yep.

MS. DUCKETT:  So, we have to continue this dialogue and talking about
the economy.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  So, I would love to get your perspective, broadly, about
the economy and then, secondly, your thoughts as it relates to Black
Americans, as we know that when there’s volatility, many times we can
have a disproportionate negative impact.  Could you share your thoughts
and the administration’s thoughts?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  Well, I will tell you that we are very
proud, as an administration, of our accomplishments as it relates to the
economy.  And I don’t need to remind everyone that we came into office
during the height of the pandemic and — at a time when people — there
was an extraordinary loss of life, of normalcy.  People lost their
homes, lost their jobs.  And — and the work we had to do was to build
back up.

And during the course of the last two and a half — almost two and a half
years now, the work that we have done has actually been historic in
proportion.  Not only have we recovered from the pandemic, which is why
everybody’s sitting so close together without masks —

MS. DUCKETT:  (Laughs.)  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we have been able to recover in a pretty
substantial way; although, there are still very real lingering effects
from the pandemic —

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — including a very real impact on mental health —

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which I think is something we need to talk and —

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and deal with more.

But, for example, what we were able to do not only with the — with the
American Rescue Plan, which was to recover from the pandemic and help
small businesses stay open and keep their doors open and keep their
employees, but what we have done with the infrastructure law.    

You know, the previous administration kept talking about “Infrastructure
Week.”  And you will remember that never happened.  We have now passed a
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which is in the process, in real time, of
addressing the fact that America’s infrastructure is over 150 years old.

And understand what that means.  That means the creation of jobs that
are both about construction and the actual building back up, but also
manufacturing to supply the resources that are necessary for that
building back up.  It also is not only about the creation of jobs in
that regard, it’s also about understanding what that does in terms of
everyday working people and the impact this will mean.

By that, I mean: Think about the fact that if you — and most Americans
do — live in a place where they — they cannot afford to live where they
work, so they have a significant commute.  And if you are driving every
day over roads and bridges that are falling apart, you are getting flat
tires, which your car insurance does not pay for.  And most Americans
are a $400 unexpected expense away from bankruptcy. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So there are very real residual benefits from this
approach around infrastructure.   
  
I will add to that what we did with the Inflation Reduction Act.  If you
combine what we did with the infrastructure law and the Inflation
Reduction Act, by my estimate, we are dropping about $1 trillion on the
streets of America to address infrastructure and to invest in a clean
energy economy. 

And that is, again, about jobs, including something I’m very passionate
about, which is thinking about small businesses and how we strengthen
them.   
  
Here is why I say that: Do you know that of the firms of the comp- —
that — that over 75 percent of manufacturing firms in the United States,
manufacturing companies, hire 20 or fewer employees?  Those are small
businesses. 

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  When you compound that with the fact that our
administration has made a commitment to increase federal contracts for
minority-owned businesses by 50 percent and then you think about what
that can do to address racial inequities, in terms of wealth-being
around small businesses as an example, the residual impact to
communities is profound. 

And one of the things I would — I’m going to ask as part of the due-out
of this — of this convening is that we get to all of the leaders here
all the information about how small businesses that you work with, that
you may run, that are in your community, know of the benefits that are
available in real time.  Because I really do think of it as being part
of a pathway to accelerating and, in some ways, addressing what have
been long-standing disparities because of inadequate access, no access
to this kind of information. 

But those are just some —

MS. DUCKETT:  Love it.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — of the examples.  
  
And you’d look at the CHIPS and Science Act.  I have been traveling
around the world.  I have, as vice president, now met with over 100
world leaders — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings. 
And one of the big issues that I’ve been talking with them about,
whether I’m in the Indo-Pacific or meeting with our European allies, is
the importance of addressing the supply chain issues that became
highlighted during the pandemic and what we need to do around U.S.
manufacturing so that we are not caught in that vice again of relying on
essential products from foreign countries where they may not be
available to us, but also thinking about it in terms of an investment in
U.S. manufacturing around things like semiconductor chips. 

We are, as a result of the investment that we’re making in a clean
energy economy, doing a lot of investment in the innovations around
electric vehicles — school buses, buses, large-capacity vehicles — and,
again, thinking about what this means not only to strengthen our
economy, to reduce reliance on foreign goods, but also then to invest in
our workforce. 

And purposely, I think about all of this through many lens, including
what we must do to address disparities based on race and the ability of
folks to acquire and grow wealth for their families and for their
communities. 

MS. DUCKETT:  No, I love it.  I love the connection between small
business and recognizing how important it is.  There’s 61-plus million
Americans.  We know it’s about 46 percent of the workforce comes through
small business.  We also know that corporate America plays a role
because there is an opportunity for us to make sure we’re doing our part
when we think about business diversity. 

So it’s a “we” thing for sure.  And one of the things that you’ve talked
a lot about, and we’ve even talked about, is the importance of
private-public partnership.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Yes.

MS. DUCKETT:  That we cannot do it alone.  It takes all of us to operate
in a connected way.  And you have been very vocal.  I would love for you
to share your thoughts about the importance of private-public
partnership, especially given that you’re in the room with many
leaders. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I will talk about public-private partnerships
as a — a devout public servant.  (Laughter.)  We need these
partnerships.  Because what I do know, and I have — I have held local
elected office, statewide office; I was a United States Senator and,
obviously, now vice president.  And I am acutely aware that the kind of
work that we need to do to grow our economy and address some of the most
longstanding issues and intractable issues will require that partnership
for a number of reasons. 

Government uniquely has the ability to scale.  But it is the private
sector that can often, unburdened by bureaucracy, make a meaningful
investment with the skill set and the culture that understands the
importance of a return on investment. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, I think about that in a number of ways, and
I’ll give some examples of the most recent work I’ve done.  As you know,
I just came back from the continent. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So I was — and I — I — it is as — one of my goals
as vice president to redirect, reorder, in some ways, the relationship
between the United States and the continent of Africa. 

And here is how I think about it: First of all, the median age on the
continent of Africa is 19.  By 2050, one in four people on Mother Earth
will be on the continent of Africa.  Also on the continent, we are
looking at increasing food insecurity and energy insecurity.

So, what these numbers objectively tell us is that we’re looking at
either great opportunity or potentially great risk.  Well, I like going
with —

MS. DUCKETT:  Opportunity.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the opportunity. (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.  Say less.  (Laughs.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — exactly.

MS. DUCKETT:  Exactly.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Understanding — also, increasingly, it’s so obvious
these days how interconnected and interdependent nations are.

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, I purposely curated that trip so it was not
going to be about hungry children and malaria — not that those are not
issues that should be addressed — but I purposely curated the trip so it
was going to be about young entrepreneurs.

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It was going to be about — and it was. 

This is what the trip was about: young entrepreneurs, about digital
inclusion, understanding the importance of fintech, and getting people
into a structured banking system, and what that does to empower
individuals and, therefore, families and communities — in particular
women, because when you lift up the economic status of women, you lift
up the economic status of families, and the whole community benefits. 
(Applause.)

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.  Yes, absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, we basically pulled together private
partners.  And I got on the phone, and I —

MS. DUCKETT:  You did. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — called folks.  You know that.  (Laughs.)

MS. DUCKETT:  I do.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You.  (Laughter.) 

And said — and called folks and said, “Look, this is what I’m up to. 
Join us.  Let’s — let’s do this together.”

Thus far, we have raised $8 billion, focused primarily on the digital
inclusion piece, understanding the connection between that and — and
agri-tech, right?

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Understanding the connection between — I’m also the
head of the Space Council.  I am a space geek.  That will be a subject
for another day.

MS. DUCKETT:  I love that.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But how satellite technology — right? — but you
have to have access to the tech — helps determine — and can help a
farmer — a small farmer determine what crops to grow, to seed, because
they will have an accurate sense of what the season will bring, right? 
So, all of that.

And that work, focused on Africa, was based on work I did when we first
came in as an administration, when the President asked me to address the
root causes of irregular migration from the northern part of Central
America, in particular, Honduras and El Salvador and Guatemala.

So, there — then going back now about a year and a half — I pulled
together a public-private partnership focused on, in particular, the
agricultural issue there.  And we raised $4.2 billion focused on those
countries to do the work.

And the — the partners were Microsoft.  The partners were — we had
friends who are not only in technology, but in MasterCard, Visa.  All of
these folks coming together.

And the beauty of a public-private partnership is I’m acutely aware of
my ability and power to convene and then bringing folks together to
break through silos with a common objective.  And so, that’s the work
that we have done. 

And so, both in the northern part of Central America and in Africa — as
two recent and, I think, very good examples — we have shown how the
partnership actually benefits many more people than any of us could
individually.

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  I love the fact that you’ve connected the dots in this
conversation that didn’t start and end here in our country.  But this is
a Global Black Economic Forum —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.

MS. DUCKETT:  — and you brought in your work and your passion and the
importance to America on making sure that we’re connected in the work
that you’re doing in Africa and the importance of all of us working
together.

So I want to shift, because you said this earlier, and I know you want
to get to it because it’s important to you, and that is the importance
of mental health.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  And we know that we’re also in the backdrop of Essence,
where there’s so many women here.  Can you take a moment to talk about
mental health and also to inspire women and, really, everyone — because
it’s impacting everyone — to hold on and have that joy that you talked
about?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, first of all — so, back when I was
actually DA of San Francisco, I started to look into the issue of
post-traumatic stress disorder among children who were growing up in
low-income communities, which, not by coincidence, also had high rates
of violence.

And we started to do the work.  And I collaborated with a woman by the
name of Nadine Burke Harris.  No relation to me.  Dr. Nadine Burke
Harris. 

I encourage anyone who is interested in this topic to read her book,
“The Deepest Well.”  A Black woman who started a clinic in
Bayview-Hunters Point in San Francisco, which has a household annual
income of 15 — 1-5 — thousand dollars a year.

     MS. DUCKETT:  In San Francisco.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  In San Francisco.

And so, we started to do the clinical work and bring it together.  And,
basically, what we were not surprised to find out is that so many of
children who are growing up in these circumstances, either in the — at
home when there’s violence — and, by the way, that has nothing to do
with socioeconomic status — or in a community, you know, where there is
— there’s — there are no opportunities — and let’s also be clear that
poverty is trauma-inducing, okay? — we realized just the number of young
people who are growing up who have trauma that has been undiagnosed and
untreated.  Interesting studies have been done on this, by the way. 

You know, forever, folks would say, “Oh, Black Americans genetically
have high rates of high blood pressure and heart disease.”  And then
studies were done.  Because, you know, for — for so many, you can kind
of figure out the body type and figure out the original tribe, right?

MS. DUCKETT:  Right.  (Laughter.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, the studies were done of the original
people — right? — on the continent.  No such heart disease.  No such
high blood pressure.  “Oh, well, what caused it then?”  Well, hundreds
of years of slavery and all of the other things — (applause) — that we
are looking at that are these unique stressors that are — that are
environmentally inherited, right?

And so, I say all this to say: We have to understand the big picture of
it and then also understand the way the pandemic accelerated so many
things — some, interestingly enough, like adoption of technology was
probably helpful, but nothing else really was — and including
accelerating the mental health crisis in America.

And so, I think the first thing that we have to do is agree that we
should talk about it.

The second point that I’ll make is I’ve been convening also young men of
color as entrepreneurs.

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes.  Yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I had a group of — who were so phenomenal, who were
— I mean, they’ve got businesses that are dealing with space and with
climate and all these other — and one of the things they raised with me
when I said, “What would you like me to highlight,” in addition to
access to capital, they said, “Please talk about mental health.”

MS. DUCKETT:  Wow.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Our young people are more willing to talk about
mental health than — I’ll speak for myself and any of you who are part
of this generation — they are so much more willing to talk about it. 

To their credit, and the issue then becomes: Do we have the resources
and are we inviting the conversation and receiving it with the resources
and the support that is needed.  And I think we have more work to do in
that regard. 

But you mentioned women, and I’d like to talk about a specific issue
that is a subset of this, which is the issue of postpartum care. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I have been for years, including when I was in
the Senate — and my CBC sisters and I, in particular, were working on
this — is dealing with the issue of Black maternal mortality.  In
America, one of the wealthiest nations in the world, we have one of the
highest rates of maternal mortality.  Black women are three to four
times more likely to die in connection with childbirth than other
women. 

And, by the way, statistically, we know that it is not necessarily a
function of her educational level or her socio- — socioeconomic level. 
It literally has to do with the fact that when she walks in a hospital
or a clinic or an emergency room, she is not taken as seriously. 

The other thing that compounds the issue is the unique stressors that
are — all of the myriad of stressors that we know that Black women in
America face. 

And so, one of the issues that I have been addressing then, as a subset
of my focus on maternal mortality, has been the need to get postpartum
care for women.  And when I — and so I did a call to action in December
of ‘21, and at the time, only three states in our country expanded
Medicaid coverage to expand postpartum care from 2 months to 12 months. 
I did a call to action and basically put a lot of pressure on this and
said: All states need to extend postpartum care up to 12 months. 
(Applause.)  And so far, we have 35.  So it is working.

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s great.  That’s great.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So it is working. 

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s great.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because, again, for — you know, for — for new
mothers and for many who may have other children that — that — we have
to treat the whole person and understand also that when we talk about
healthcare, the body doesn’t just start from the neck down.  We also
have to address healthcare from the neck up. 

But we, you know, also — you know, as Black people in America need to
deal with the fact that there are still stigmas associated with this. 
And so all of us as opinion leaders and — and having the resources that
we do, I think it is very worthwhile in the energy that we expend in
service to community and others to really highlight the importance of
addressing this and understanding it’s a strength to ask for help and
not a weakness. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.  So, strength. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely. 

Now, one last question: You said “joy,” earlier; you are a “joy
warrior.”  Caroline, CEO of Essence, has this space called “Chief To
Chief” and recognizing that, as women, we are all chiefs.  We’re the
CEOs of our home, we may be the CEO in the boardroom, we may be the CEO
in our own domain, but we are all CEOs.

Joy.  Optimism.  We cannot get tired.  We have a lot of work to do. 
Talk about your joy.  And leave us with some hope and some optimism,
because we are still here and we still have good trouble ahead of us. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well — (laughter) — give me a minute.

MS. DUCKETT:  Give her a minute. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Joy. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Joy.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That in spite of the fact that a 6-to-3 Court just
undid Affirmative action, that there is probably one of the most
brilliant dissents that any justice of the United States Supreme Court
has ever written, and her name is Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.  Joy.

MS. DUCKETT:  Joy.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Joy that I look at our young leaders — and I will
say, as a proud HBCU graduate and a —

MS. DUCKETT:  We know that was going to get in.  Somehow she was going
to work that in.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, “Joy.”

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And joyful. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Joyful.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I look at our young leaders, and I hope everyone
here, in addition to the children that we have and in our family, find
time to just convene our young leaders.  I’m telling you, they’re so
smart. 

And — and this generation of young leaders, they are bold.  They’re not
having it.  They are — they are — they are saying — whether it be on the
issue of the climate crisis or — or just knowing how adept they are to
understand technology in a way that some of us feel really small when
we’re around them — 

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — they’re so good.  And, you know, we were talking
backstage.  And let’s remember, when we look at our young leaders, that
John Lewis was in his 20s.

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Diane Nash was in her 20s.  Let me tell you — oh,
I’ll tell you another example of — of my point about the young leaders:
The two Justins in Tennessee. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Mmm.  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, you know, when they — when they were doing that
— when that mess was happening in Tennessee and the — I’ll just — I have
to just go with this for a minute.  These — there were three of them:
the two Justins and — and Gloria.  They were “The Tennessee Three.”  And
I’m with my husband, we’re watching the — the nightly news, and I see
how they’re trying to shut up these elected leaders.  And I was so upset
about it, I got on Air Force Two the next morning and went down to
Tennessee.  (Applause.)

Because here is the thing: These young — these two young men in their
20s were there talk- — they’re elected in the chamber, during session,
doing it — that session in a chamber that was designed — you know, but
I’m sure there are architects here — it was designed for debate.  That’s
how these — these buildings in these rooms are designed: for debate. 
And they wanted to debate the importance of addressing gun violence in
America and how it is killing young Black people every day.

And the leaders of that legislature turned off their microphones.  They
are elected leaders in the chamber that was designed for debate, during
session, to debate one of the biggest issues impacting our country, and
they turned off their microphones.

And here is why I love them, and I was really prompted just to go down
there and tell them that.  They were like, “Okay, you turn off my
microphone.  Anybody got a bullhorn?”  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  And they
organized, and they organized young people.  Oh, they were not giving
up.  They were not.  They’re not. 

So though — these are some of the things that gives me joy.

What gives me joy?  This convening. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The fact that everyone is together under one roof,
reminding ourselves and each other that we’re all in this together. 
Nobody is alone.

Even though every day, each of us — or every other day — walks into a
room where we may be the only one who looks like us or has had our life
experience, but yet we know that when we walk in those rooms, we’re
walking in with everyone and with a responsibility, then, to be the
voice that carries the voice of so many who are not in that room and so
many who have probably often never been in that room. 

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that gives me joy. 

MS. DUCKETT:  I love it. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I am joyful about the challenges because I know we
can meet them, and I know we love our country —

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and that we are prepared to fight for its ideals,
understanding we’ve not yet achieved them but that the strength of our
nation has been a commitment to the expansion of rights and freedoms. 

And I’m going to paraphrase Coretta Scott King, because I do all the
time —

MS. DUCKETT:  It’s okay.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and I just feel it’s so apt.

MS. DUCKETT:  Absolutely.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And she famously said: The fight for civil rights,
the fight for equality, the fight for freedom, the fight for justice —
the fight for civil rights, must be fought and won with each
generation. 

And I think she had two points there.  The one is that it’s the nature
of these fights that whatever gains we make, they will not be
permanent.  It’s the nature of it. 

So if you understand it’s the nature of it — the second point then — as
an admonition, then do not despair.  Do not tire.  Do not throw up our
hands when it’s time to roll up our sleeves. 

And so that’s — that’s part of it, too.  Let’s not be tired.  Let’s not
be overwhelmed.  We know that we’re fighting for something — not against
something, but for something. 

And — and we are strong.  And we are strong.  And we are on the right
side of history. 

MS. DUCKETT:  That’s right. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So —

MS. DUCKETT:  So — (applause) — I have to wrap this whole thing.  We’ve
talked about global economics.  We’ve talked about small business. 
We’ve talked about the power of public-private partnership.  We’ve
talked about mental health.  We’ve talked about the historic moment that
will not tire us.  We’ve talked about joy. 

So I will say, as the President and CEO of TIAA, having the privilege to
be only one of three Black women to ever lead a Fortune 500 — (applause)
— I will say: Joy is sitting next to the Vice President of the United
States.  Joy. 

Joy is convening at the Global Black Economic Forum. 

Joy is understanding that we stand on the shoulders of giants.  And when
we widen the lens, even though today was hard, we cannot get tired,
because it was their resilience, it was the strength of our parents —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. DUCKETT:  — it was the strength of the unsung heroes that create a
space for this history to exist. 

So the future will always be brighter because we refuse to tire.  And
the future will always be brighter because we are the ones raising the
youth of today and of tomorrow. 

So, Essence Festival, Global Black Economic Forum, here with leaders,
with the Vice President of the United States, Madam Kamala Harris: Thank
you so very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

                          END                 3:35 P.M. CDT
