---
date: '2023-06-20'
published_time: 2023-06-20 18:37:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-seizing-the-opportunities-and-managing-the-risks-of-artificial-intelligence/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Seizing the Opportunities and Managing the\
  \ Risks of Artificial\_Intelligence"
---
 
The Fairmont  
San Francisco, California

1:13 P.M. PDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thanks for joining me today, everyone.  I
appreciate it very much.

And especially thanks to my buddy Governor Newsom, who is one of the
best governors I’ve ever worked with, and Arati, the — my director of my
Office of Science and Technology and Policy.

And earlier this year, we met with my Council on Science and Technology
Advisors and — and some of America’s top minds to discuss the
possibilities and the risks associated with artificial intelligence.

In May, Kamala and I convened the CEOs of American companies foremost
involved in AI development to underscore their responsibility in making
sure their products are used safely before making them public.

The same here today: I want to hear directly from the experts.  And
these are the world — some of the world’s leading experts on this issue
and the intersection of technology and society, who we — who we can
provide a range — who can provide a range of perspectives for us and —
on AI’s enormous promise and its risks.

As I’ve said before, we’re — we’ll see more technological change in the
next 10 years than we’ve seen in the last 50 years and maybe even beyond
that.  And AI is already driving that change in every part of the
American life, often in ways we don’t notice.

AI is already making it easier to search the Internet, helping us drive
to our destinations while avoiding traffic in real time.  AI is going to
change the way we teach, learn, and help solve challenges like disease
and climate change — and giving — giving the time to focus on the things
that matter most to you personally.

But in seizing this moment, we need to manage the risks to our society,
to our economy, and our national security.  My administration is
committed — is committed to safeguarding America’s rights and safety,
from protecting privacy, to addressing bias and disinformation, to
making sure AI systems are safe before they are released. 

Last October, we proposed an AI Bill of Rights to ensure that important
protections are built into the AI systems from the very start. 

Earlier this year, I signed an executive order to direct my Cabinet to
root out bias in the design and use of AI. 

And in May, we announced a new strategy for funding the respon- — for
responsible AI development so Americans can lead the way and drive
breakthroughs in this critical area, from cybersecurity to public health
to ar- — agriculture to education and, quite frankly, so much more. 

Social media has already shown us the harm of powerful — that powerful —
powerful technology can do without the right safeguards in place. 
That’s why I said at the State of the Union that Congress needs to pass
bipartisan privacy legislation to impose strict limits on personal data
collection, ban targeting advertising to our children, and require
companies to put health and safety first. 

Next month, the Vice President will be — will convene the civil rights
leaders of America, consumer protection groups, and civil society to
continue the — our administration’s ongoing engagement on AI. 

But today, I’d like to hear more from this group, because I have a lot
to learn and we also have a lot to discuss.  So, I’d like to ask the
press to leave the room.  Thank you for coming in. 

Q    Mr. President, have you spoken to your son today?  Have you spoken
to Hunter today?

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Q    Mr. President, any reaction to his guilty plea?

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Q    Have you spoken to your son today, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m very proud of my son.

1:17 P.M. PDT
