---
date: '2023-06-20'
published_time: 2023-06-20 23:50:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
*Private Residence*

*Dallas, Texas*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  (Applause.)  And let’s give it up
for the Second — the first Second Gentleman of the United States.  
(Applause.)  Please have a seat.   Please have a seat. 

Dallas is hot.  (Laughter.)  I checked the little phone.  It’s like 107,
feels like. 

But let me just start by thanking everyone.  It is — Jill, where — it is
— and Randy, Rachel, it’s so good to be back here.  This family is an
extension of my family, and I have stood in this very living room so
many times where you all have been so supportive throughout this
journey. 

And so I just want to say in front of all the friends: Thank you.  I
love you.  I lovely — thank you for hosting us.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And I know that Jill talked a bit about our sorority.  One of my
greatest joys, I must admit — I’ll tell you as a point of personal
privilege — was to be able to host our — I don’t know what the new terms
are for it; can we still say “line”?  Okay.  Okay.  (Laughs.)  But those
of us who joined the sorority together — at the Vice President’s
residence, because we were all in college together.  There were 38 of
us.  And — and I just want to say, as a point of personal privilege,
that one of the real blessings for me is the circle of life and how, you
know, things may change, but they stay the same. 

So, thank you all very much, again.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

And I know we introduced and recognized all of the electeds who are
here, and I want to thank each of you.  Eddie Bernice, for all the work
that you have done in Washington, D.C. — I have witnessed it firsthand. 
Thank you for that. 

And to everyone, thank you for being here, and for so many of you, for
your lifelong commitment to our country.  Because being active in this
process is about loving our country.  It really is.  It is about being
willing to put yourself out there in spite of or in addition to all of
the demands on your life, all of the priorities that you have, to come
out and to stay engaged. 

And I think that this is one of the most critical times in the history
of our country, where none of us can afford to be passive and passive
bystanders, because everything that is at play involves us and will
impact us so directly, and will impact the standing and the strength of
our country. 

So I thank you all.  I thank you also for what you did in 2020. 
(Applause.)  I mean, let’s just take a moment to reflect.  Let’s reflect
on the fact that, in 2020, we were at the height of a pandemic, an
historic pandemic, extraordinary loss of life, loss of normalcy.  People
lost their jobs.  And in the midst of that, you in this room believed in
reaching out to your neighbor, reaching out to friends and family, and
reminding them: We can’t give up.  We’ve got to get out there. 

And because of your activism, because of your commitment to our country,
we had an historic number of people turn out to vote, an historic number
of young people turn out to vote.  Historic.  And when I think about it,
people stood in lines, and, you know — I mean, this state hasn’t been
exactly helpful to voters to make it easy to vote, right?  And so that
made your job even more difficult.  More difficult. 

But you gave people a sense of optimism that, “Okay, it’s all right. 
You might have to put in an extra effort to vote, but your vote will
matter.”  And because of that, Joe Biden was elected President of the
United States.  I was elected Vice President.  And here’s what we
accomplished together, all of us.  We accomplished things like this: 

Knowing that so many of us have family members and friends who have
diabetes, I’d ask — raise your hand if you have a family member who has
diabetes.  There you go.  Seniors who have been making decisions about
whether they could afford to fill a doctor’s prescription, which will
save their life, or put food in their fridge, or pay their rent.  And
people stood in line and voted and said, “That’s not right.  We need to
do something about this.” 

And because you were so active, because people voted, we have now capped
the cost of insulin for seniors at $35 a month.  (Applause.)  We have
now done what many people said should be done but had not accomplished,
which is we are going to allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices on
behalf of the American people so that we can cap the cost of
prescription medication at $2,000 a month.  This is a big deal. 
(Applause.) 

Because you voted, because you were active, people said, “You know, it —
driving over these roads and bridges that are in disrepair is wrong.” 
It’s not right that people have to live in a country where the
infrastructure was built about 150 years ago.  In a first-class country,
we deserve first-class infrastructure. 

Many people talked about it.  Remember “Infrastructure Week” that never
happened?  (Laughter.) 

But because you voted, because you were active, we now passed an
historic investment in America’s infrastructure.  And I want to remind
you of what that means.  Think about the fact that so many people in our
country can’t afford to live where they work.  Okay?  And — you know,
but I know this family can afford to keep the lights on.  (Laughter.) 
It might be cooler.  That’s okay.  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  LED!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But people — people said, look, they have to — a
lot of people have to commute hours to get to work. 

Why don’t we just leave it, guys?  Don’t worry about it.  (Laughter.) 

And what ended up happening is: By passing this infrastructure law, we
were dealing with the fact that when people are driving over a bridge
that’s torn apart, potholes, they’re getting a flat tire.  You know how
much it costs to repair a tire, to replace a tire, and your insurance
does not cover it?  And most Americans are a $400 unexpected expense
away from bankruptcy. 

Think about what this means to real people to deal with an
infrastructure issue.  Think about what it means for real people.

When we said we are going to deal with the fact that in one of the
wealthiest countries in the world, we should not be looking at child
poverty.  And we were able then to extend the Child Tax Credit in the
first year, reducing child poverty in America by over 40 percent. 
(Applause.)

Because you were active — because you were active, we dealt with the
reality, which is that we are in the midst of a climate crisis.  We had
an administration before, which was in abject denial, pulled us out of
the Paris Agreement, didn’t want to deal with the reality of it. 

Because you all activated, because people then voted, we have, by my
calculation, between the Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act,
and the Inflation Reduction Act, we are dropping about $1 trillion over
the next 10 years on the streets of America to invest in a clean energy
economy.  Understand what that means. 

It’s about building up our resilience and adaptation.  Equally, it’s
about jobs — good-paying jobs: pipe fitters, electricians, the building
trades, the folks who are going to build back up an infrastructure
around resilience and adaptation, because you all were active.  And I
could go on and on down the list. 

Because you all were active in the midterms — you remember they said
there was going to be this red whatever they called it?  Didn’t happen,
because you weren’t willing to give up on our country and what we stand
for and our values and our ideals.

And so, we have a good track record of knowing what to do and seeing it
through to great impact.  And that’s how I look at the election coming
up.  And I know we feel the same way.

Because right now — and I don’t need to tell Texans — right now, we have
so-called leaders — extremist so-called leaders who are on a full-on
attack against hard-won freedoms.  And we must stand up for what we
believe in as a country.

You know, one of the attributes of our strength, I believe, is we are a
nation that has been committed to understanding the strength that comes
from an expansion of rights.  But now we are looking at so-called
leaders who have as a national agenda the objective of restricting
rights in America.  Think about it.

Here, places like Florida, restriction of voting rights; Georgia,
passing a law that would make it illegal to offer someone food and water
while they’re standing in line for hours.  What about “love thy
neighbor”?  Passing laws that would, in this year of our Lord 2023, ban
books.  Anybody remember reading “1984?”  Welcome to 2023.  (Laughter.) 
Passing laws saying, “Don’t say gay.” 

Let me tell you, I was proud, back in 2004, as District Attorney of San
Francisco, to perform some of the first same-sex marriages.  2004.  Next
year will be 20 years from now.  I’m looking at these young teachers in
Florida, who are in their 20s, who are afraid to have a photograph up of
themselves with their partner for fear they will be fired, will be
separated from, I think, what is a calling, which is anybody who decides
to dedicate their life to teaching our children. 

All this is happening in 2023.

And then, of course, a font- — front-and-center issue that we are going
to also acknowledge in four days, which is that the highest court in our
land just took a constitutional right, that had been recognized, from
the women of America.

And here’s the thing on that subject: One does not have to abandon their
faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)

We are talking about foundational principles such as freedom — the
freedom to be, the freedom to teach, the freedom to love, the freedom to
make decisions about your own body and the future of your family — under
attack.

And the other thing about this all, this national agenda, is the sense
that we are getting — and that is pretty much clear — that they would
deign to suggest that the measure of strength is based on who you beat
down instead of what we all know, which is that the measure of your
strength is based on who you lift up.  (Applause.)

So this is the environment in which we come together.  This is the
environment in which we live and are prepared to fight for all that is
right.

You know, as Vice President, I have now met with over 100 world leaders
— presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings.  And I’ll tell
you something about what it means to walk in these rooms.  Walking in
these rooms representing the United States of America, we walk in those
rooms chin up, shoulders back, with the authority, then, to talk about
issues like democracy, the importance of rule of law, human rights.  We
have been held out and hold ourselves out as a role model.

Well, this is a room of role models.  Here’s the thing about being a
role model: When you’re a role model, people watch what you do to see if
it matches what you say.  And a great fear of mine is that in the midst
of all of the injury to the American people, this has an impact on
people around the world — people who are fighting for rights, individual
rights; women who are fighting for rights in their country, where some
dictator or autocrat will look at them and say, “You want to hold out
the United States?  Look at what they’re doing.  You be quiet.” 
Understand the implications. 

All of this is at stake.  But here’s the thing: We’re up for this fight
because we understand what’s at stake.  And we love our country.  And if
you look at our track record from 2020 to the midterms to now, we
actually know how to deal with this.  We know what to do in these
moments.  (Applause.)  It’s about organizing.  It’s about bringing folks
together.  It’s about understanding the strength of the coalition.  It’s
about reminding people they are not alone.

There is so much about these issues that is trying to make people
suggest or think that they’re somehow outside.  But we know how to bring
people together and stand for our country based on our love of our
country.

So, with that, I thank you all for all that you do, all that you have
done, and all that we have yet to do.

Thank you.  (Applause.)                           END

\###
