---
date: '2023-06-28'
published_time: 2023-06-28 11:01:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/28/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
Private Residence  
Chevy Chase, Maryland

(June 27, 2023)

5:46 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Well, first of all, thank you. You know, people indicate
that putting on a fundraiser is no big deal. It’s a giant deal. You’ve
had Secret Service running through the house. (Laughter.) You’ve had all
kinds of people. Yeah. Your neighbor is saying, “What the hell you’re
blocking the roads out there for?” (Laughter.)

So, thank you, thank you, thank you. And I want to thank everyone here.
And I know that there’s a great concern about the situation in Israel.
I’m happy to take some questions on that. But I just want you to know
that, you know, I’ve often said: From the time I came to the United
States Senate, I’ve been — and Stu knows — an incredibly strong
supporter of the State of Israel.

I’ve often said: If there weren’t (inaudible), we’d have to invent one.
My dad was what a lot of those of you involved in the community would
call a righteous Christian. Our dinner table was a place — this is the
God’s truth — where we would — my dad worked late to — he ran an
automobile dealership. Didn’t own it, but he ran it. And he’d come home
for dinner every night. And — and at our house, dinner was a place where
you’d ask questions and incidentally ate.

And my dad would rail against what — why we didn’t bomb the railroad
tracks, the camps, why we took so long to allow the ships to come in, et
cetera. And he talked about a phrase that was used often then and still
— that silence is complicity. And I mean this — this is a fact;
everybody knows this about my dad, when he was alive and at home.

And my dad talked about the fact that — the idea that — and, by the way,
Chris Dodd’s dad was part of the commission to investigate what happened
in the concentration camps. And he’d talk about why we didn’t do a lot
at the time.

And, you know, one of the interesting things is that he used to talk
about how it was impossible for the Israelis to — excuse me — the
Germans not to know what was going on. And so, he convinced me before he
di- — long before he died: The one thing I’ve done, I’ve taken every one
of my children to Dachau and every one of my grandchildren, because I
wanted them to see — I wanted them to see those beautiful homes along
the fence line with the beautiful roofs and lovely homes, and they’d
pretend they didn’t know. But they knew. And I wanted my kids to
understand how — how that happened.

Now, I’ve taken every one of my — my three children — Beau was alive at
the time — as well as my grandchildren. I have eight grandchildren; I
have two to go. They’re too young. But, by the way, they’re even trying
to change a little bit of what Dachau looked like at the time. It’s much
more sanitized than it was.

But the point I’m trying to make is: There’s been an unbreakable bond
we’ve had with Israel. Our relationship is defined by a genuine
friendship. It’s defined by a shared interest and shared democratic
values. And America is the only nation, in my view — and some of you
heard me say this before — that was founded on an idea. Every other
nation has been founded based on geography, ethnicity, religion, and
whatever.

We’re the only one that — I apologize to the press for hearing me say
this so many times — but we’re the only nation in the world founded on
an idea. Nothing else unites us but that idea. And it’s one that we say
that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men and women are
created equal, endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights
— life, liberty, et cetera.

We’ve never fully lived up from it, but we’ve never walked away from it.
We’ve never walked away from it.

And one of the things that concerns me is — you inadvertently mentioned
when you were introducing me — and that is that democracy is at stake.
Democracy is at stake not just here but around the world. And I called a
meeting of all the leading democracies — which we’ve done. We have fewer
democracies today than we had 15 years ago.

And one of the things that I think is important to keep our focus on is
that I’ve been stunned at the damage done by the last administration to
us internationally and globally. I mean, I’ve been stunned how deep it
goes. His “One America” — his, you know, “America Only” policy has been
disastrous. This is a guy who wanted us to pull out of NATO. This is a
guy who thought Putin was an admirable guy. This is a guy who thought we
could deal with — it just went on and on and on.

So, what I’ve done — I’ve spent a great deal of my time, in a bizarre
way, trying to put the world back together again — not because I’m so
special, but I just happen to be president.

So I’ve met with over 89 heads of state so far, and I’ve — trying to
make sure that they understand we’re not that nation. We’re not the
nation that existed.

I’ll tell you a really quick story. When I showed up for the first G7
meeting back when I was just elected in February in London, the G7 — I
sat down with all the other — other major democracies and their major
economies. And I said, “America is back.” And one of the member — one of
the heads of state turned to me and said, “For how long? For how long?”
And then another one said, “Joe…” — he would call me “Mr. President”; we
call each other “Joe” now. But he said — I said — he said, “Mr.
President, what would you do if you woke up tomorrow morning and read in
the London Times that a thousand people broke into the House of Commons,
broke the doors down, killed two bobbies, and — to overturn an election
that was occurring in the House of Commons? What would you think?”

And I never thought about it quite before. But that’s how the world —
the rest of the world wonders. They wonder about are we really back.

And one of the things that you’ve just seen what’s happened in Russia,
with Wagner and — the group — and Putin: The fact is that Putin was
certain that he was going to be able to break up NATO. And Stu knows
this: He was positive this was going to be the effect.

So I’ve spent over 180 hours directly meeting with the group and/or
individually, as recently as on the telephone and Zoom with each of the
heads of state in Europe this past couple of days, because they look to
the United States to decide what we’re going to do, how we’re going to
proceed.

My generic point is this: We have a lot to do, but we have enormous
opportunities in terms of American foreign policy. We put together with
— the Japanese have been wonderful. They’ve been wonderful. They’ve
increased their budget. They’re — they are engaged in a European war by
saying that “We can’t allow it to happen.”

We find — and, you know, I became friends with — with the Prime Minister
of Japan. And he indicated to me he was going to make things better with
South Korea. He did it. He told me what he was going to do. And I
strongly supported it, the idea. South Korea and Japan have had — not
had a relationship.

So, there’s a lot happening around the world. We’ve also put together a
thing called the Quad in the Indian Ocean and in the South China Sea,
affecting the — all that security surrounding what — what the — what Xi
Jinping is very worried about: being isolated.

Well, that’s not the purpose. He asked me why I’m doing what I’m doing.
I’ve been — spent more time meeting with Xi Jinping than any person in —
in — that holds a government office, mainly because it started when I
was vice president.

We knew he was going to become the president. And what happened was:
Barack couldn’t be talking to him and dealing with him, but I did. And I
traveled with him over 17,000 miles in the United States and in China. I
know him well.

The point is, he called me and said, “Why are you doing the Quad? You’re
trying to surround us and hurt us.” I said, “No, we just don’t want the
international rules of — to change relative to airspace and sea space,
and you’re trying to do that. We’re not going to go along with it.”

My generic point is that we’re uniting the rest of the world in a way
that it hasn’t been united before. We have a long way to go. I don’t
want to overstate it, but I don’t want to understate it either.

And we talk about China being this great power. China has enormous
problems — enormous problems. I’m not going to get into it right now.
But the idea that they are going to be able to do things that they
thought they could do is not accurate.

Domestically, I was — I ran — and I’ll be very brief. I ran with a
specific objective. I was sick and tired of trickle-down economics, the
fundamentals of economics. They didn’t — they weren’t working for
America. They weren’t working for America. Not much trickled down to my
dad’s ta- — my dad’s kitchen table in terms of helping him.

And so, I thought it was really important. And I thought the key to the
United States’ power (inaudible) in economic growth and stability was
when the middle class was growing.

When the middle class does well, everybody does well. The wealthy do
very well. The poor have a way up, and the middle class is just fine.

And so, I’ve spent a lot of time — and I’m making the speech tomorrow on
what the — what the Wall Street Journal referred to as “Bidenomics.”
Well, it’s working. It’s working.

We’ve created 17 — 13.2 million jobs in two years — more jobs than any
president ever has created in four years — ever.

We’ve also reduced the federal deficit by $1.7 trillion. No one has ever
done that.

The reason it’s working is because we’re engaging everyone.

And, by the way — and I know I get criticized for being so pro-labor. I
make no apologies for it. The reason I’m so pro-labor is because, you
know, these are people who are feeling left behind. They’re feeling —
but they also — and they’re — and they’re clean now.

And here’s the deal. You have a circumstance where, you know, to be — to
get a license to be an electrician, you got to spend five years — five
years — five years as an apprentice getting partial pay. And they don’t
— people don’t realize that.

And I met with the Business Roundtable. Told them — and they said why am
I so pro-labor? I said, “What did you say to me when I was working with
the Secretary of Commerce on the — as vice president? What do you need
most?” We interviewed three hundred — and I think — -fifty-eight
corporate heads. They said, “We need a better-educated workforce.” I
said, “Why aren’t you educating them then?”

I said, “I come from a state of DuPont. More corporations incorporated
in my state than every other state in America combined. And the day —
and they were the eighth-largest corporation when I got elected. Eighth.
And guess what? When they bought a new enterprise, they trained their
workers. You guys don’t spend any money training your workers. You
expect the government to do it. So why in the hell are you against my
effort to increase education funding?” And they all looked at me like,
“Hm, never quite thought of that.”

But my generic point is: It’s changing. The idea that any president
could be endorsed within a week by the environmental movement, all of
it; by the AFL-CIO, all of them; by the women’s organizations, all of
them; and by significant elements of corporate America in one week,
because we’re doing something right.

We’re not — I — the only thing we have disagreements on these days is
taxes. I think everybody should pay your fair share. When you got a
million — you got — now we have a thousand billionaires. I’m a
capitalist. If you can make a million bucks, make it. It’s okay by me.
Multimillionaire? Good. It’s good for the country. But pay your taxes.
Not 8 percent average — 8 percent. A cop pays more than that. A
firefighter pays more than that. We’ve got to make sure that people
know. That’s the one thing that we still — we haven’t done very well.

Lastly, I also thought it was really important to deal with — as my dad
used to say — my dad was a well-read man who never got to go to college.
And my dad — you — our dinner table was a place where you sat down to
have conversation and incidentally eat. And I’m not joking. I’m not
joking when I say that. And one of the things that he said was — he used
to say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about
your dignity. It’s about respect. It’s about being able to look your kid
in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.’” And he meant it. He
meant it.

Well, one of the things we’ve been able to do, for example — he’d also
say that, “At the end of the month, do you have any breathing room?”

We talked about inflation. And I’ll end with this. We have inflation
down for 11 months in a row, notwithstanding some of the dire
predictions of the — of recessions next month. Hadn’t happened yet. I
don’t think it will because the basis of the economy is so strong now —
so strong. But we’ll see. I could be wrong.

But here’s the point: My dad used to make the point that it wasn’t
whether the price of gasoline went up and food went up and all those
things — which are bad — and housing. But it was about: Do you have any
money left at the end of the month?

And guess what? What’s the biggest bill most people over 65 pay?
Healthcare. Healthcare. Why is it that you have — we have the best drug
companies in the world — same drug company making an important product
sold here in the United States and around the world — same exact product
— you can buy it more cheaply in Toronto and you can buy it more cheaply
in Germany, London — in London, you can — Frankfurt, Germany. Why? Why
is that? Because right now, it’s the only industry we can’t bargain
with. Only industry we can’t bargain with. And you pay billions of
dollars a year in Medicare expenses. Billions — tens of billions a year.

Well, guess what? In my negotiations with the Speaker of the House when
they shut down the government — that issue — not “trying to” — but
trying to avoid shutting down the government. I poi- — he wanted — they
wanted to get rid of what I just passed. Well, what we just passed was:
Medicare can negotiate the price of what it cost.

For example, any of you — I’m sure all of you know someone who needs —
who has Type 1 or 2 diabetes and needs insulin. Well, guess what? The
average cost of insulin for a month is 400 bucks a month. And you know
how much it costs to make? Ten — T-E-N — dollars. Ten. The guy who
invented insulin didn’t patent it because he thought it should be
available to everybody. It cost 12 bucks to package it — a total of 12
bucks.

So, guess what? We just had Medicare negotiate it. The price of insulin
is now, for on a monthly basis, $35. $35.

And I can go down the list. We’re going to — I also eight — eight —
eight different drugs a mo- — a year can be negotiated as well.

If you go to the — for example, the VA, they negotiated all their
prices. You want to sell us drugs or insulin? You come — you — you — we
negotiate the price with you.

My generic point is: At the kitchen table, if you were able to deal with
a little money at the end of the year — you got a little money at the
end of the year. I can go down the list.

For example, when my staff thought I was crazy when I said, “We ought to
deal with junk fees — junk fees.” Well, guess what? You know we have —
and most people — it deprives people of their pride. You want to take
your grandson or daughter to see your mom on the East — on the West
Coast, you’re going to be surprised when you find you pay almost double
the price to have your child sit next to you. You’re not told about
that.

Old bank overdrafts, you know how much it is (inaudible)? $55 billion a
year. Okay? They’re one of the — and I won’t name them, but you could
check it out — one of the CEOs had a yacht called “Overdraft.” My word,
it’s now sunk. (Laughter.)

But my generic point is: It’s just about treating people with decency.
Just — just let people know what’s going on. And that’s what we’re
doing.

And one of the things that have started and — for example, I used — and
remember in the beginning you said, “Biden you can never get anything
done bipartisanly. Not possible.” Well, guess what? We did. We did. We
passed the act that — you know, dealing with veterans exposed all those
burn pits.

We owe — we have a lot of sacred obligation and only one truly sacred
obligation: Equip — equip those folks we send to war and take care of
them and their families when they come home.

Well, guess what? Not anymore. They’re going to have to be paid for
those losses because of exposure to those burn pits. Why wouldn’t we do
that?

We used to be number one in the world in infrastructure. We’re now
number 18. How in God’s name do you run — how — how do you have the most
powerful nation in the world with a second-rate infrastructure? I — I’m
not — I think it’s actually we’re number 10.

And the same thing with — we — we just –just go down the list. We used
to invest more in research and development than any country in the
world: 2 percent of our GDP. Know what it is now? Point seven-tenths of
1 percent. How do we lead the world?

Computer chips. We — we were the guys that went out — we invented the
semiconductor. We invented it. Invented — we made it sophisticated. We
used to have 40 percent of the market; we now have 10 percent in the
market.

If you decided it was better to buy it overseas — “Buy America” — people
are criticizing me for the Buy — Buy America is a provision passed in
the ‘30s. It’s totally consistent with all of our international trade.
If a president is given money to put a new deck of an aircraft carrier,
he’s allowed to say, “We’re going to have American labor and American —
American products on it.”

Well, guess what? I’ve said that. Democrat and Republican presidents of
the past didn’t say that. They made exceptions saying you can only have
— you need 10 percent or whatever.

Well, guess what? Manufacturing is back. We have created 800,000 jobs —
800,000 manufacturing jobs. A major article today in Bloomberg, you
ought to — I’ll leave a copy behind — about — no, I’m serious — major
article and — by a Syracuse paper saying how we’re bringing back all of
manufac- —

Think of all the places — and you — we’ve been campaigning a lot
together, Stu — think of all the places where in a place like in — in
the Midwest or in Western Pennsylvania or — where all of a sudden, the
factory that’s been around employing 2-, 3-, 5-, 700 people for years
and years gets shut down. Why does it get shut down? Because labor is
cheaper overseas, we export the jobs and import the products. Not
anymore. Not anymore.

One sem- — we’re going to put $495 billion in private investment, just
since I’ve become President, in infrastructure, as well as new — new
endeavors. Almost — almost $500 billion.

This idea that when our government is setting — we did a survey: Are you
more likely as a corporate entity to invest in a project where the
government has an interest or not? Eighty-five percent said more likely.

So, my point is we’re creating thousands and thousands and thousands of
good-paying jobs. And the middle class is growing. And it’s only now
becoming clear.

I was asked earlier by a group of editors I met with — not editors —
columnists. And they said, “Why are you talking about it now so much?” A
simple reason: We couldn’t start it off — we started it off, we passed
all this, but no one knows what it meant. None of it was happening. Now
we have 35,000 infrastructure projects underway — bipartisan
infrastructure projects.

Guess what? McConnell needed a bridge across — across the Ohio River. It
cost a billion dollars to fix it — $1 billion. But it affects the
commerce of the entire Midwest area, so we’re building a new bridge. I
indicated I was going to be president for everybody, whether they voted
for me or not.

You know, the point is that there’s a lot — for example, I know I’m a
big Amtrak guy. So I (inaudible) Amtrak, everybody kind of rolls their
eyes. I get it. I’ve traveled 1,200,000 miles on Amtrak. Commuted every
single day for 35 years.

Here’s the point: If you think about it, there is a tunnel going through
Baltimore underneath the bay there, and there’s one in New York as well.
Those tunnels are — nothing has been done on one of them since 1906.

I’m probably the only non-Amtrak worker that’s walked through that
tunnel. There are lightbulbs hanging down. There’s flooding going on.
There is a lot of problems. You have to slow down to 30 miles an hour to
go through there with the train.

We’re fixing it. It’s cost a lot of money — a billion dollars. But guess
what? It’s going to save billions of dollars because now you’ll be able
to go through it 100 miles an hour.

We learned one thing for sure — certain: If, in fact, you could travel
from point A to point B faster on a train than your vehicle, you leave
your vehicle home. It has profound impact on dealing with the
environment, which I’m — the last thing I’ll mention. Oh, no, I won’t;
I’m going to get a question on the environment, so I’m going to wait on
that. I think I’m getting a question about it.

Anyway, my point is: I am really optimistic. I’m optimistic about the
notion that I think the American — I’m confident the American people are
decent and honorable people. They’ve just been confused as hell.

And there — and when I made that speech when I was running in 2020 at
the — at — up at the — in Philadelphia, and I — I made the speech about
democracy was at stake. And with all due respect to the press, they
said, “What the hell is he talking about that for?” — by and large,
notable exceptions. But, “why is he talking about that?”

Well, guess what? Sixty-six percent of the American people agree with
me. They’re worried about the — literally, I’ll end with this —
democracy in America. What’s happening? Not a joke. What’s happening?

We talked about the Supreme Court — great news today. And there is great
news. I think Roberts is beginning to have an impact on the close calls.

But think about what’s happened, what we’ve done in terms of individual
rights — individual rights, everything from gay — LBGTQ rights all the
way through to rights relating to having an abortion. You know, I’m
determined to bring back Roe v. Wade. And my objective to do that is to
get the states — half the states to decide that, because now the Court
said, you know, it’s state issue.

And the thing I love, they said, “And we’ll see what women can do.”
They’re going to find out. (Laughter.) They’re going to find out.

But my point is: In addition to all this, the world is changing so
rapidly. It’s understandable why people are concerned.

Last point: The pandemic — I think we’re going to find — and I wrote
about this early on — a profound impact on the psyche of the American
people. A profound impact.

Mental health concerns are higher today than they’ve ever been in
history of America. Look what’s happening. Third graders are 7 to 18
months behind in their education. Across the board, schools, teachers —
look, these guys wanted to cut 100,000 teachers in the negotiation that
happened — 100,000 teachers. Try being a teacher in a classroom.

Did you ever think you’d live in a country where books are being banned?
No, I’m not joking. Think — I mean, think about the things that are
happening.

So, people are confused. We got to let them know who we are. Let them
know who we are, what we’re for, and what we’re against. And I think
we’ll be okay.

But with that, I’m going to — as my mother would say, “Hush up, Joey.”
And I understand I got some questions coming. (Applause.)

6:11 P.M. EDT
