---
date: '2023-06-08'
published_time: 2023-06-08 17:50:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/08/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-u-s-caribbean-leaders-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at U.S.-Caribbean Leaders\_Meeting"
---
 
*Atlantis Conference Center*

*Paradise Island, Bahamas*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Prime Minister Davis.  And I
congratulate you and your country on its upcoming 50th anniversary of
independence. 

It is my understanding, to your point, that I am the highest elected
official from the United States to visit the Bahamas since you gained
independence 50 years ago.  And it is truly my honor to be here and
co-host this convening with you.

And to all of the CARICOM and Caribbean leaders who are here today, I
thank you for the work that we have done over the last couple of years. 
And congratulations on the 50th anniversary of CARICOM.

As neighbors, the United States shares common bonds and interests with
the Caribbean nations.  Our partnership, we strongly believe, is
essential to our mutual security and prosperity. 

Our nations have extensive people-to-people ties.  In fact, in the
United States this month, we celebrate Caribbean American Heritage
Month.

Strengthening the U.S.-Caribbean relationship is a priority for me, as
it is for President Joe Biden.  And these meetings have proven — I
believe, at a leader level, have proven to be very important and
essential to the strength of these relationships.

This, in fact, is the fourth multilateral meeting I have hosted with
Caribbean leaders.  I first convened this group and asked them to join
me virtually in April of 2022, where I committed to the leaders here
that we would meet at least once a year.  We then met in person in Los
Angeles in June of last year at the Summit of the Americas.  And last
September, a smaller group of us met in Washington, D.C.

Throughout all of these engagements, we have discussed the priorities of
the leaders at this table and identified specific areas of
collaboration.  I have then, after those conversations, often raised the
issues that we have discussed with other world leaders and — outside of
the Caribbean — and worked on these priorities in Washington, D.C.

Since we last met, I do believe we have made significant progress. 

Regarding the existential threat of the climate crisis, Caribbean
nations are on the front lines.  We have discussed, for example,
powerful storms that can wipe out economic progress; low-lying islands
that face erosion, flooding, and deadly storm surge from rising seas.

These discussions resulted in the launch of our U.S.-Caribbean
Partnership to Address the Climate Crisis — or, as we call it, PACC 2030
— last year at the Summit of the Americas.  PACC 2030 is designed to
help accelerate the Caribbean’s transition to clean energy and to
promote energy security and climate resilience.

Since we last met in Los Angeles, the United States has helped to
facilitate clean energy projects throughout the region. 

I’ll offer some examples: in St. Lucia, the work that we have done thus
far to deploy solar microgrids to power schools, hospitals, and water
treatment plants; Dominica and St. Kitts, to develop commercial
geothermal power projects; Antigua and Barbuda, to train a clean energy
workforce; and the Dominican Republic, to integrate battery storage in
their energy grid.

Our work together has also helped build capacity for disaster
preparedness.  For example, the administrator of NOAA led a group of
U.S. export — experts to Barbados to support regional resilience,
including early warning systems and sharing climate information with
communities.

We established a network of Caribbean-based scientific experts to create
new climate mitigation and adaptation methods.

And in Jamaica, we are helping develop a national emergency commercial
infrastructure and commu- — communications — pardon — infrastructure.

Since we last met, we have also worked to bring investors to the
Caribbean to identify new opportunities for clean energy infrastructure,
including through trade missions.  We have provided $28 million in food
security assistance.  And we have invested in the Blue-Green Investment
Corporation, spearheaded by Barbados, which we expect to unlock up to
$210 million over three years.

And today, it is my pleasure to announce additional PACC 2030
investments.

One, specifically, a $20 million investment in the Caribbean Climate
Investment Program to help incentivize the private sector to partner
with Caribbean nations to develop more clean energy technologies, like
microgrids and energy storage systems, and to help businesses become
more energy efficient in their operations.

And, second, a $15 million investment to support emergency response
efforts and strengthen the capacity of the Caribbean Disaster Emergency
Management Agency.  This investment is intended to help develop new
early warning systems and pre-position first aid equipment and
generators. 

As a follow-up to this convening, in fact, tomorrow the Atlantic Council
and RMI are hosting a PACC 2030 summit here in Nassau.  There, we will
work with these and other organizations to facilitate connections
between the United States government, the private sector, NGOs, and
philanthropic organizations, and officials here in the Caribbean to
identify, build, and operate new clean energy projects. 

Another key area of our work with the Caribbean, through PACC 2030, is
to increase access to development financing.  To that end, earlier this
week, I met with the new President of the World Bank, Ajay Banga, and
informed him that the United States will lead a diplomatic campaign on
multilateral development bank reform. 

My conversations with the leaders at this table helped inform our
administration’s approach.  We seek more available and — availability of
low-cost concessional financing to nations in the Caribbean.  And we
believe addressing the climate crisis should be a critical part of the
mission of the World Bank. 

More broadly, new debt must include disaster clauses to allow a pause on
debt payments immediately following a natural disaster. 

And, three, we want the bank to better mobilize the private sector in
support of these goals. 

Implementation of these reforms will have a major impact on countries in
the Caribbean, and we aim to achieve these key reforms by the G20
meeting this fall.

At my invitation, President Banga will join our meeting today virtually
in just a few minutes. 

On the issue of security, too many people in all of our countries are
dying from gun violence.  I will reiterate that our administration is
committed to disrupt gun trafficking.  We are committed to interdict
shipments of arms and ammunition and hold traffickers accountable. 

And today, I am pleased to announce that the United States Department of
Justice will create a new position, a Coordinator for Caribbean Firearms
Prosecutions, which will help maximize information sharing between our
countries to support the prosecution of traffickers. 

This effort will be aided by the bipartisan Safer Communities Act, which
President Biden signed last year, and includes new federal criminal
offenses for firearms trafficking and straw purchases. 

In addition, through the U.S. law enforcement agencies, we are
supporting a recently established Caribbean Crime Gun Intelligence Unit
in Trinidad and Tobago to train officials in firearms investigations and
help bring criminals to justice. 

And we will stand up a Haiti Transnational Criminal Investigative Unit
in collaboration with the Haitian National Police to facilitate
investigation and prosecution of firearms and human trafficking, which
affects the entire region. 

More broadly on the issue of Haiti: First, I will say that our hearts go
out to those who have lost loved ones and all who have been impacted by,
just this week alone, the flooding and the earthquake.  The
international community must continue to support the Haitian people in
light of the devastating humanitarian and security crisis in that
country. 

The United States supports the development of a multinational force to
Haiti.  And today I’m pleased to announce $53.7 million in new
humanitarian aid for Haiti.  In addition, our administration will
support the extension of HOPE-HELP trade preferences for Haiti, which
are due for renewal in 2025. 

Finally, in response to longstanding requests from our Caribbean
partners, I am pleased to announce that the Biden-Harris administration
has begun to process to establish an expanded diplomatic presence in the
Eastern Caribbean, including two new embassies. 

In conclusion: From the climate crisis, to development financing, to
security, and Haiti and diplomatic presence, we have achieved
substantial progress in the last two years based on shared priorities,
many of which have been formed and discussed through these convenings
that we have had over the last two years. 

We are neighbors in the Western Hemisphere.  And the security and
prosperity of this region requires the type of collaboration and
partnership that we have developed and continued to grow over the last
two years. 

It is the full intention of our administration and the United States to
continue this good work, knowing, of course, there is more to do but
that progress has been made. 

And so, again, I thank the leaders at this table and, Mr.  Prime
Minister, you, again, for hosting us. 

                                           END

\###
