---
date: '2023-06-27'
modified_time: 2023-06-28 11:40:58-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-27 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/27/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-chevy-chase-md/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Chevy Chase,\_MD"
---
 
Private Residence  
Chevy Chase, Maryland

7:07 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, folks, you know, I may step down there and talk so
I can see you all.  Look, I’ll try to be relatively brief here.   
  
Sandy and Stewart, you’ve been helping me for a long time, and helping
me not only with your personal contributions but — you know, people make
judgments about elected officials, in large part by the people who
support them.  I really mean it.  It’s all of you who have been — almost
every one of you have helped me in the past.  Every one of you has been
really generous.  
  
And, by the way, I want you to meet the next United States Senator from
the state of Delaware.  Stand up, Congresswoman.  (Applause.)  
  
Our families are close.  Her sister ran my office that got me
re-elected.  Her father was first-team all-American in basketball.  And
he was with the “Fabulous Five.”  He is literally picked as one of the
best ball players in history.  He went to an all HBCU.  They won the
national championship back in the ‘60s.  And her dad is an incredible
guy — incredible guy.  But her mother has all the brains.  But — all
friends.  
  
Look, folks, you know, there’s a lot at stake, to state the obvious. 
And I want to make sure that — you know, you’ve probably heard me say
that I’m more optimistic about America today than I’ve ever been in my
entire career.  And that seems like — it seems like a contradictory
thing to say when so much wrong — is going wrong in the country.  
  
I was — I’ve met with — with Xi Jinping face to face more than any other
world leader has.  I’ve spent over 85 hours with him alone, 68 of which
are in person.  Back when I was vi- — when I was vice president, it was
clear he was going to become the president.  Barack could not spend the
time with him.  And so, I was the — I traveled 17,000 miles with him all
across the world, including in — in China.   
  
And we were on the Tibetan Plateau on one of our meetings, and he looked
at me and he said, “Can you define America for me?”  And I said, “Yes, I
can, in one word.”  And he looked at me.  I said, “Possibilities.” 
Possib- — (applause) — no, really.  
  
Think about it.  It’s one of the reasons why a lot of other countries
think we’re the “ugly Americans.”  We think we can do anything.   
  
There’s never been anything we’ve set our mind to do as a country we
haven’t been able to eventually co- — never, never.  And there’s so much
at stake right now.   
  
You know, when I was deciding whether or not to run again for office —
and I had been out of office four years.  I was a full professor at the
University of Pennsylvania.  They gave me a couple-million-dollar budget
to hire personnel.  I had people like Tony Blinken working for me.   
  
(Audio briefly malfunctions.)  Is this still working?  There you go.  
  
And I wasn’t going to run again.  My — my son had just died.  And what
happened was: I was — I was watching the television one night and I saw
the — what happened in Charlottesville, Virginia.  And I saw, literally,
people coming out of the woods carrying torches — out of the fields —
you couldn’t make this up — carrying Nazi flags and singing the same
venomous antisemitic chants they sang in ‘30s in Germany, com- — and
accompanied by white supremacists and the Ku Klux Klan.  
  
And a young woman was killed, a bystander, and I spoke to her mom.  And
when the outgoing — the existing — the sitting president said — “What do
you think, Mr. President, of what happened?”  He said, “I think there
were very fine people on both sides.”  “Very fine people on both
sides.”  
  
And I thought to myself, “How can that possibly — how could you possibly
say that?  How could you possibly s- — be so encouraging to white
supremacists and Nazi sympathizers — neo-Nazis?”  And so, I decided I
was going to run.  
  
But then I realized how ugly it would be.  And so, I wasn’t sure I
wanted to put my kids through that, because I knew what would happen.  
  
And so, we have a tradition in our family, for real.  Any child can ask
for a family meeting.  And I’m serious; we’ve had, since I’ve been
alive, nine family meetings total.  And they’re taken seriously.  Any
child can ask for a family meeting, because if I asked for one, it’s
important.   
  
And my kids and my grandkids asked if we could have a family meeting. 
And my granddaughter, who was then a senior at Columbia Law School, my —
another granddaughter, who was a senior at the University of
Pennsylvania, one was a junior — a sophomore at Penn, and one was on her
way there.  And they asked for a meeting.   
  
And my little grandson, who is now 18 years old, was, I guess, 9 years
old or thereabouts.   
  
And they said, “Pop, we know it’s going to be ugly.  We know.”  Being
the son or daughter or granddaughter of a senator, a vice president, a
president, and a — or attorney general or a decorated war veteran like
my son was, is — they — they’re used to — everybody thinks it’s a great
thing.  But you get a lot of downside for that.   
  
And so, they made the case.  My — my grandkids: “Daddy wants you to
run.  They know it’s — and we know it’s going to be tough.”   
  
My little grandson, who was, I guess — well, how would he be then?  He
would have been probably six year- — seven years old.  He took out his
cellphone.  He said, “We know, Pop.  It’s going to be terrible.”   
  
And he showed me a photograph on the Internet — a photograph — a
photograph of me walking out of the church where my son just had a
military service, and a bur- — out on the way to the graveyard with my
hand on a  — <s>hand</s> \[flag-\]draped casket with my — where my son
was being escorted.   
  
And I used to always hold my grands- — my son, Beau.  In church, I used
to — when he would walk — under his chin, I’d le- — put my arm around
him and — and hold him.  So, I had my little grandson, Hunter, his son,
standing next to me, and I did the same thing.  
  
And — and the (inaudible) said, “Biden molests another child.”  And so,
he said, “We know it’s going to be ugly, Pop.”  
  
And so, I ran.  And I ran for three reasons.   
  
One, to restore the soul of this country — not a joke, not a joke —
decency, honor, being able to treat people with respect, not doing what
we’re doing.  
  
Secondly was to rebuild the country from the middle out and the bottom
up.  Not that — I wasn’t big on trickle-down economics, because I think
— I’m a capitalist.  If you can make a million dollars or billion
dollars, have at it.  I really mean it.  I support that.  But everybody
— when you only trick — when you think it’s going to trickle down, not
much trickled down on my dad’s kitchen table.   
  
So, I’ve always been of a view that the way to build a country
economically and reestablish our dynamism was to rebuild the middle
class.  And when you rebuild the middle class, the poor does very well
and the wealthy still do very well.  
  
And the third reason was (inaudible) unite the country.  And you’ll
recall that’s when the press justifiably said, “Joe Biden is out of
touch.  He used to be able to do that; he had a reputation to be able to
pull Democrats and Republic together, but you can’t do it anymore.  That
time has passed.”  
  
But I was convinced it could still happen.   
  
So, the end result was, when I got elected, I hired people with me who
share — and, by the way, my staff, including the campaign staff, didn’t
buy onto my reasons.  I mean, they thought they were right, but they
didn’t think it was the way to run.  The end result was, though, we were
able to win.  
  
And when we did, we put together a team on foreign policy and domestic
policy, because I’m convinced — I’m convinced that we can, in fact,
unite this country in a way that it hadn’t been united in a long, long
time.  And one of the things that I had — had said (inaudible) we
thought that we would be able to pull people together in various — both
in foreign policy and domestic policy.   
  
Before I announced — before I decided to run, I started to write another
book.  And this book wasn’t about my son.  This book was about what was
changing the world, how technology has changed the world.  And I started
off on the first chapter talking about the printing press and Gutenberg,
how it fundamentally changed relations among countries.  And I was going
to work it all the way through where — what’s happening now with AI and
other things, which I don’t know nearly as much about.   
  
And so, what happened was that I realized that I had to — I had to do
something to demonstrate why we could be so good.  And so, one of the
things we did in the foreign policy — I was convinced, and still am,
that the world is changing so rapidly, we have a chance to do things we
could never do before.   
  
Think about this: If anybody told you — and my staff wasn’t so sure,
either — that we’d be able to bring all of Europe together in the
onslaught on <s>Iraq</s> \[Ukraine\] and get NATO to be completely
united, I think they would have told you it’s not likely.  The one thing
Putin counted on was being able to split NATO.   
  
My staff has figured out I’ve spent 180 hours — 180 hours in direct
contact with my friends in Europe and NATO members in the EU.  And above
— of that, a lot of it was in person, but some of it was on — on
Zoom.   
  
And we’ve been able to hold the West together — hold it together. 
That’s the one thing that Putin thought he could do is break it.  And he
still thinks he can break it.  But guess what’s happened?  By holding
the West together on everything from North Africa all the way to dealing
with what’s going on in Europe, we’ve changed the dynamic.   
  
And the idea that — for example, I — I said I was going to go to — to
Japan to meet with the Prime Minister, because he would be — he would
change his views.  And I spent a lot of time with him.  And he didn’t
need my convincing as much as he’d already decided — first time Japan
has increased their military budget significantly and got engaged in a
European war, because he knew that if they didn’t do that, it would send
a green light about Taiwan and a number of other things.  And he’s
gotten deeply involved.   
  
I said something at a fundraiser earlier last week that was mis- —
misleading.  I didn’t mean to be.  And that was that — I said I
convinced him to deal with South Korea.  He told me he was going to work
out something with South Korea, because of the World War Two leftover —
and he did.  And then I strongly — he asked me to strongly support it,
which I did.   
  
The idea that you have — in the Far East, you have — in the Pacific, you
have Japan and South Korea working with United States, dealing with
what’s going on in Europe as well as the Taiwan Straits.   
  
The idea we were able to put together a thing called the Quad — that is
India, Fr- — excuse me, India, Japan, the United States, and Australia —
fundamentally changing security in the Indian Ocean and the South China
Sea.  
  
A whole range of things that are happening — a whole range of things
that are happening around the world.  And this is the first time — you
think of this — none of you can — I — even if you’re as old as I am, you
can’t think of a time when the world was moving so rapidly in
determining what their alliances were and where they were.   
  
You probably saw my new best friend — (laughs) — the — the Prime
Minister of a little country that’s now the largest in the world, China
— I mean, excuse me, In- — India.  India is not looking for a permanent
alliance, but they’re looking for some hedge against — in the region.   
  
So, my point is: The world is changing.  And if you take a look at
Africa and South America — and Africa is going to have a billion people
— one billion people by 2033.  And they have very little ability to deal
with changing the infrastructure and growing their economies.  And so,
we convinced our G7 partners that we all should be doing — we’re the
ones that cause climate change.  The West to — we cut all our forest
down.  We — and so what are we doing to do to help Africa?  They need
—  
  
And, by the way, China came in and said, “We’ll give you money to build
your roads as long as you use Chinese workers and as long as you pay us
a lot of money to allow us to dock our ships.”  Well, guess what?  That
turned into — instead of Belt and Road, it turns into a noose and debt. 
And so it’s all changing.   
  
We’ve convinced our colleagues — for example, we’re going to build a
largest — the West is going to build the largest solar facility in the
world in Angola.  We’re going to move to — and we’re going to have —
build the first transcontinental railroad across all of Africa.  All of
us are going to do that.  Why?  Some countries have the significant food
resources.  Some people have energy resources.  There’s no way they
could share it even if they want to.  None at all.   
  
So my generic point is: The world is changing.  In Latin America, the
same way.  Look what’s happening in the Gulf.  We’re working like hell
to deal with trying to generate support for democracy in the region.   
  
And, for example, in Brazil — the Brazil rainforest absorbs more carbon
out of the air than every ounce of carbon emitted from the United States
on a yearly basis.  We got to preserve it.  It costs a lot of money to
preserve, but guess what?  All those folks want to go in.  And they have
farmers, and they want to clear-cut, they want to plant crops, et
cetera.   
  
So, I’m trying to work with our — our allies around the world to provide
them money not to do it.  Pay them not to do it to give them
opportunities to generate industries and all that.   
  
I could go on, but the point is: The world is changing.  It’s changing. 
And we have an opportunity to send it in the right direction.  We really
do.  And I think that’s why I’m so excited about — I know it’s why I’m
so excited about the prospects for the next four years and beyond,
because we can change the dynamic of the world right now.  It’s within
our power to have significant — if we can keep our allies together and
grow them.   
  
And so, the second thing is on the economy.  When I was a kid in the
Senate — (laughs) — I was 29 when I got elected.  I had to wait 17 days
to be sworn in.   
  
But my point is that I — I say — as I said at the outset — and I’m going
to make a speech on this in Chicago tomorrow: The Wall Street Journal
and — what was the other major publication?  The Journal and one other
major conservative publication referred to my economic plan as
“Bidenomics.”   
  
And they’ve been very actually complimentary about it, because I was
convinced, as I said, that we had to become the leader in the world in
infrastructure.  How can you be the leading nation in the world and have
a second-rate infrastructure?  We’re ranked number 9, 10, or 11 —
whatever the hell it was.  We used to be number one.   
  
How in God’s name could we be the leading country in the world when we
have a circumstance where we don’t have — we used to invest more in
research and development than any nation in the world.  And guess what? 
We used to have 2 percent of our GDP.  Guess what?  Now it (inaudible)
seven tenths of one percent of our GDP.  So we changed that.  We changed
that by the — the legislation we passed.   
  
How can we be in a position where — my dad used to have an expression. 
He said, “Joey, inflation is a real problem.”  This is back when I was a
kid.  But it’s not — the real question for middle-class families and
poor families says is: Is there anything left in your paycheck?  Do you
have any breathing room left in the paycheck?   
  
My dad literally — my word as a Biden — my dad used to say, “Joey, your
job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s
about respect.  It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and
say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay’ and mean it.”  I swear to God, that
was my dad, for real.  For real.   
  
And so — and what happened?  Well, we decided that we had to do
something to give people a shot.  And so, what we did was, we changed —
we — at the end of the day, inflation — we brought it down 11 months in
a row.  I hope it continues, but think about it.  Major, major banks and
— and — and international finance organizations, they said, “The
recession is coming next month.”  It’s been coming for 11 months.   
  
Well, guess what?  I don’t think it’s going to come because we’ve never
had as dynamic a growth in American history — never — even including
Roosevelt’s time.  We have — we’ve created 13.6 million new jobs,
800,000 manufacturing jobs — 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  (Applause.)   
  
If you go on — and so when you talk about what’s happening in terms of —
as my dad says, “a little breathing room” — more than one way to provide
breathing room to deal with inflation.  We’re bringing inflation down
and, God willing, we’ll continue.   
  
But here’s the deal.  At the end of the month, if you’re — what are you
worried about: the inflation going up as high as it’s been or being able
to pay your medical bills?   
  
We pay — we pay the highest prescription drug prices of any nation in
the world — of any developed nation.  The same company, making the same
exact drug sold in Toronto or London or Paris or Bucharest is
significantly cheaper.  Why?   
  
I was in Northern Virginia not long ago doing a town meeting, and a
lovely woman stood up with — almost tears.  And she said, “I have two
children with Type 2 diabetes.”  She said, “And — and I need insulin. 
And I — I have a job, but my insurance won’t cover that insulin.  And —
and I had to split it sometimes.”  Talk about depriving a family of
their dignity.  Knowing you had to split the insulin and one of your
kids may die.  I mean, talk about the impact on a family.   
  
And so, I decided that — I’ve been fighting this for a long time — over
20 years — it’s about time that we were able to negotiate drug prices
with the pharma companies.   
  
For example, you know how much it costs to — (applause) — you know how
much it costs to make that insulin?  Ten — T-E-N — dollars.  Ten dollars
is the actual cost.  To package it, another $2.  So now they — that
insulin costs $35 instead of $400 per insulin shot — a month.   
  
The point I’m making is — and, by the way, I even — originally when I
wrote it — it passed the Senate — including everyone, not just the
people on Medicare.  They — my friends on the Republican side knocked
out the non-Medicare portion.   
  
But the point is, I keep — and when we were doing that settlement on
trying to figure out how to keep us from going bankrupt as a nation for
the first time in American history.  Well, I said, “Look… — they said,
“We’re not going to do anything having to do with taxes.”   
  
And I said, “Well, let me tell you something.”  And they moved to
eliminate this legislation — eliminate all the legislation we passed. 
And I said, “You know, it saves the country money.”  I said, “It saves
the people who are on — need this insulin about 350 bucks a month per
insulin shot.  But — but it also saves the country $168 billion less
being paid out.”   
  
They looked to me.  They said, “How can…” — that’s what it does, by the
way, because the — your taxes are paying for that Medicare.  And when
you reduce the price of this whole project we have — for example, next
year, we pick eight more drugs, and they negotiate the prices of those
drugs.  It’s already in the law.   
  
Well, guess what?  They’re trying to eliminate it again in their new
legislation.  They wanted to make sure they made fundamental changes in
Social Security and Medicare — eliminate a lot of it.   
  
By the way, I never thought my third State of the Union Address would be
negotiated on the floor of the United States Congress, but it worked. 
(Laughter.)  Remember when I said — (applause) — because I said, “They
want to cut Social Security and Medicare.”  And they said, “Liar! 
Liar!”  And I said, “Okay.”  I said, “Everybody who thinks you want to
cut it, raise your hand.”  Silence.  I said, “Everybody who is opposed
cutting — promised not to cut it.”  No one raised their hand.  I said,
“Folks, you’re on camera.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, so when you reduce prices — for example, you all
know about junk fees.  The average American does.  Now, you want to take
your grandson or daughter to see your mom or dad and — if they’re still
alive — or your mother or father to California to see them.  And you
have a child with you.  Not until you get the ticket do you find out you
paid about double for the ticket to have your child sit next to you.  
  
Or, for example — I don’t want to insult anybody who is a banker here;
there’s a lot of good bankers.  But guess what?  Overdraft fees — 155 —
$55 billion a year in overdraft fees.   
  
There was one banker — I’m not going to mention his name; he’s probably
a good guy — he had a yacht called “Overdraft.”  (Laughter.)  As they
say, “Google it.”  You’ll see I’m telling you the truth.  “Overdraft.” 
Well, guess what?  It sunk.  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
But — but my generic point is: These are the things that matter to
ordinary people — to ordinary people.  And they’re big numbers for
ordinary people.  When they find out all these extra costs that are
hidden costs.   
  
And my staff thought I was crazy.  I think it’s fair to say my staff
didn’t think it was such a great idea.  Well, guess what?  It’s off the
charts because people don’t like being played for suckers.  Whether
you’re wealthy, you’re middle class, or you’re poor, you don’t like
being played for a sucker.  
  
My generic point is: Those hidden fees are part of what people think is
wrong with the country generally.  They think they’re being taken
advantage of across the board, and they’re not.  They’re not.  So if you
pick the ones that are the most egregious and eliminate them, it makes a
big difference, in my view, in terms of public confidence, which leads
me to —  
  
You know, I made a speech when I ran last time — and some of you were
foolish enough to help me then, too — in New York City, at Independent —
I mean in Philadelphia, at Independence Hall, on democracy being at
stake.  And I got roundly criticized by the press.  “What the hell is he
talking about that for?  Who cares?”  I mean, no one thinks that — not
everybody in the press, but a lot of criticism.  
  
Well, guess what?  Over 65 percent of the American people worry about
democracy being at stake, for real.  Think about it.  How about — did
you ever think we’d be in a position where not only 55 years of Roe v.
Wade would be overruled, but then you have two justices saying, “And, by
the way, let’s make it clear there is no right to privacy to who you
marry.  There’s no right of privacy…”  And it goes down the whole list
of things.  Contraception.  And when I said they’re going to go after
that, what’s happening now in many states across the nation?  Outlawing
contraception.  
  
So I’m — you know, I happen to be a practicing Catholic. I’m not big on
abortion.  But guess what?  Roe v. Wade got it right.  Roe v. Wade cut
in a place where the vast majority of religions have reached agreement. 
Historically, the first three months or thereabouts, in all major
religions, was: That’s between a woman and her doctor.  The next three
months is between — I mean, just a woman and her family.  Next three
months is between a woman and her doctor.  The last three months have to
be negotiated, because you can’t — unless you are in a position where
your physical health is at stake — you can’t do it.  
  
And so, in addition to that, we found out that it used to be an accepted
principle that rape and incest were exceptions — were exceptions to that
rule.  Look at the states that have changed the rules.  Look at the
states that have changed the rules.  State legislatures.  Did you ever
think you’d see a day when you would not only — forget your position on
abortion — but were rape and incest were not even considered, number
one?  Couldn’t be.  And at the same time, we’re in a situation where you
were — we’re banning books in schools, and not just any — not just the
schoolboard; anybody can come in and call for the banning of a book.  
  
I mean, this the United States of America, for God’s sake.  The United
States of America.  
  
And so, there’s — and one last thing: The rise of antisemitism in
America is out of — out of whack.  Way out of whack.  So I’ve set up a
major commission.  I brought in all the — all the groups into White
House to focus on dealing with — dealing with antisemitism.  
  
But it’s not just anti-Semites.  Look what’s happening in terms of the
way women wearing a headscarf — most at-risk people in America.  God
love you, I’m so proud of you.  No, no — we know each other.  But I mean
it.  
  
But think — think about what’s happening in the United States of
America.  Gun legislation.  Gun legislation.  I was the guy, along with
Barbara — excuse me — the senator from California who’s about to retire,
who got the assault weapons ban passed.  And you know what?  It worked. 
It drastically reduced the number of mass murders across the country. 
And there was a mass murder in every poor neighborhood in America every
single day.  And it fundamentally changed it.   
  
And — but I couldn’t get it passed for more than 10 years.  And we have
to reauthorize it.  And the Bush administration came along and — both
Bushes are decent people, but they succumbed to their — to the gun
lobby.  
  
You know, they’re the only major industry in America you cannot sue. 
It’s (inaudible) law is the gun industry, gun manufacturing.  Well,
imagine if that had been the case with tobacco.  How many thousand more
people would be dead if we couldn’t sue the tobacco companies?  
  
And so, I think we got to change two changes.  One, we have to once
against assault weapon, which I’m going to get done come by hell or high
water.  (Applause.)  And two — two, we have to change the law
(inaudible).  It doesn’t mean that everything happens is their fault.
 But I found out, when I was up in (inaudible) up in Connecticut — the
fact is that, as I’m told — I can’t swear to this; I haven’t verified it
yet — is that one of the reasons we’re — the gun manufacturers are so
committed to the AR-15 is because it’s the biggest moneymaker they have,
and they sell more than any other weapon.  The single biggest moneymaker
they have.  
  
And you know who they sell it to?  They sell it to young people.  They
talk about, “This is your manhood.  This is what you…”  I mean, what’s
going on?  
  
And the fact we don’t have background checks that are universal, that
you’re can walk in at 16, 17, 18 years old and buy a pistol in many
states?  Open carry — that’s a real good idea.  That’s a real good
idea.  
  
My wife is a full-time school professor.  They want schoolteachers to be
able to be armed, as if that’s going to — now, my wife might be able to
shoot you.   
  
But no — but all kidding aside, think about it.  Think about what the
hell we’re doing.  And think about the number of — I won’t go through
the detail with (inaudible) — the number of mass murders that have
occurred.  The number.  It’s his- — I mean, it’s at a historic high.  We
can stop it.  
  
So, there’s two things we need to do.  We have to outlaw assault
weapons, and we have to outlaw magazines that can hold more than nine
bullets.  (Applause.)  That’s even too much.  But I don’t think I’ve
been —  
  
By the way, in Delaware, we have a high rate of gun ownership because
there’s a lot of duck hunters, for real.  That’s why so many — mostly
shotguns.   
  
But at any rate, I was going through trying to sell the assault weapons
ban when I was — the first time around as a senator.  So I’m walking
through the Delaware — the Delaware-Maryland area has an awful lot of
swamp area, all through the — and I always kid Steny Hoyer and say, “The
best part of Maryland is in Delaware.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside — but all kidding aside, I’m walking through and I
— in Delaware.  As the congresswoman can tell you, it’s hand to hand,
they expect you to —  
  
For example, Pete du Pont was a very competent governor and wanted to
run against me for the Senate.  They did a survey.  “Have you ever met
Pete du Pont?”  Seventy-one percent of the people said yes — or
sixty-one.  Seventy-four said they’d met me.  and they said, “Have you
ever met them more than once?”  Fifty-eight percent said me.  And 29 or
30 percent.  I mean, no other state in America is — it’s all
hand-to-hand combat in Delaware.  (Laughter.)  
  
And so, anyway, I was walking through, and this guy said, “You’re going
to take my damn gun from me, Biden?”  He was fishing.  And I said,
“What…” — I said, “What do you mean?”  He said, “You going to take my
gun away.”  And I said, “No, no, I’m just going to take your AR-15 away
if you have one.”  He said, “Why are you doing that?”  I said, “How many
deer wear Kevlar vests out there?”  (Laughter.)  And he looked at me. 
No, I swear to God, true story.  
  
Not only, I said, “Well, what do you need something can shoot up to 200
rounds?  Remember what happened in Colorado?  Remember what happened?” 
And he said, “I don’t.”  And I said, “Well, if you do, you’re a hell of
a lousy shot.”  And he said, “Damn…” — I won’t say exactly what he said,
but “Damn, boy, you made a point.”   
  
Because they’re trying to make it seem like we’re trying to take
everybody’s gun away.  Not true.  But we have to have some rational
basis for gun ownership.  
  
The last thing I think I’d like to mention to you is education.  You
know, my wife has an expression.  And my wife never — she never talked
to a group of more than the size of her school ever.  And now she’s out
talking to 8-, 10,000 people sometimes, because she’s so committed.  
  
And my point is this: She has an expression.  She said, “Any country
that out-educates us will outcompete us.”  Any country that out-educates
us will outcompete us.”   
  
And what’s really even hurt education more is the pandemic.  It’s had a
profound impact on the mental health of our children but also the loss
of six mo- — the loss of three months in school is equivalent to losing
a year and a half of education.  All this data shows this is real.  
  
And so, I think we have to invest more in education.  Rather than just
having daycare centers, I think we should have pre-K at three years
old.  
  
What happens is — all the studies have shown in the last 10 years, from
Stanford to Harvard to Penn — all the major universities — University of
Virginia, et cetera — have done studies that show that no matter what
home you come from, what background, if you start off learning reading,
writing, arithmetic, and some version of that when you’re three years
old, you have a 57 percent better chance of going through all 12 years
and on to maybe an apprenticeship or community college.  That’s exc- —
that’s significant.  That is significant.  
  
And, by the way, I met with the Business Roundtable.  And when I was —
right when I was vice president, the Secretary of Commerce was the
sister of the governor of California, a really brilliant woman.  And we
interviewed, by phone mostly, over — I think it was — don’t hold me to
the exact — 540 or 549 or -50 CEOs of the Fortune 500 companies and
asked what’s their — what’s their major concern they have.  You know
what they say, the majority?  A better-educated workforce.  And I said,
“Well, you’re not helping much.”   
  
And I sa- — I pointed out that in the state of Delaware, which used to,
when I started running, be called the state of DuPont — a very important
family in the state.  But the company was the eighth-largest company —
corporation in the world at the time; it’s now number 81 or something
like that.  
  
But I said the DuPont company, when they buy a new enterprise — which
they were doing not infrequently — they would educate that enterprise. 
They would educate those people.  And I said — and I’d ask on the
phone.  I’d (inaudible) — I said, “You don’t have to answer me, but do
you educate your new employees?  Do you educate them?”  Virtually nobody
does anymore.   
  
And I said, “So why are you opposing my effort to have a better-educated
public?”  And it was silence on the phone most the time.  And they
changed their mind, the vast majority, because of the data that’s coming
in and what we can do.  
  
And so, I guess what I’m saying is I think part of what we have to do is
try to get away from the basic labels — that “Biden is a liberal” or
“Biden is a right-winger,” or “Biden is whatever he is” — and talk about
the facts — not just Biden, but other — other col- — other of my
colleagues, in both the House and the Senate and in other positions.   
  
And I think we can get there.  I really think we can get there because I
think — and I spoke with a couple of folks today, a couple of
columnists, and I’ve spoken to some of the press.  The idea that — the
idea that they think they’re going to increase their standing by going
right back at what I was able to brush off — having them move away from,
in terms of eliminating all the programs I’ve mentioned plus others,
including Social Security and Medicare they’re changing again, after
promising they wouldn’t, and agreeing in the agreement that we had
relative to the debt ceiling.   
  
And, by the way, all the stuff that I’ve done — we’ve done — guess how
much we’ve — how much it’s raised the debt.  We’ve cut the debt $1.7
trillion.  (Applause.)  More than any president ever has.   
  
And so we have a good story to tell, but we got to tell it.  And I was
asked by the press some — I forget who asked me today — that: “Why are
you just starting this extensive drive now?”  Well, the reason we’re
starting now is because no one knew what the hell we passed.  No one
knew — they knew we passed it.  They thought the idea was good.  
  
(Airplane flies overhead.)  That’s Trump.  He always flies over. 
(Laughter.)  I’m — I’m teasing.  That’s a bad joke.  Bad joke.   
  
But — but all kidding aside, think about it.  We — I had to spend the
first — everybody told me I couldn’t pass any of this stuff.  We got it
all.  We got more major legislation passed than anybody since
Roosevelt.  I mean, for real.  Fundamental changes in economic and
foreign policy — not because of me — because I have great staff, and I
got a lot of support.   
  
But here’s the second point.  The second point is the reason I’m pushing
it so hard now is people know generically what’s happened, and they
think it’s important — and overwhelming support for everything we passed
by the public — but they don’t know what it means in their own home, in
their own neighborhoods.   
  
So, for example, if you ever take Amtrak to New York from here, well,
guess what?  You go through a tunnel that was — hadn’t had anything done
to it since 1907.  I’m probably the only non-Amtrak per- — I’ve traveled
1,200,000 miles on Amtrak, for real.  (Applause.)  Because I — after my
wife and daughter were killed, I didn’t plan on staying.  I started to
commute.   
  
And I had the dubious distinction of being listed as the poorest man in
Congress for 38 years — 36 years.  I didn’t think I was poor.  I had — I
had a good Senate salary.  I thought I was fine.  But I was the poorest
guy, literally.   
  
And so, I — I could not afford a house in Washington and in Wilmington,
and I sold my house — I have a nice house in Wilmington.  If I sold it,
I’d be gone.  If you leave Wilmington — if you leave Delaware, you might
as well forget it.  Okay?  
  
So one day we’re getting on a train, and the — and the — when I was vice
president, and the Secret Service never liked me riding the train
because it’s more dangerous.  You can — you know, they have 99 chance of
doing something bad.   
  
And so I’m getting on the train to go home and see my mom, who was
living with me, who was dying.  And I get in the train, and the guy — I
won’t mention his name because I mentioned it last time, and he was so
proud I — but I didn’t mention others, so I won’t mention this time. 
And this guy walks up to me — I’ve known from a time I was — started
riding the train.  He goes, “Joey, baby!”  And grabs my cheek.  And I
thought Secret Service was going to shoot him.  (Laughter.)  I said,
“No…” — I’m serious.  Am I joking about how they — my friends in
Amtrak?   
  
I had picnics in my house for all the Amtrak conductors, because they
were so damn good to me all the years.  No, I really mean it.   
  
He said, “I just read in the paper: You traveled 1 million 100 thou-” —
or I think it was 1,100,000 miles — “on Air Force planes.”  We have to
list every — they keep a record of every time we’re in an Air Force
plane.  And he said, “Big effing deal, Joey.”  (Laughter.)  
  
And I said — I said, “Ang, what’s the problem?”  He said, “Joey, we just
had a retirement dinner up in Newark.”  He said, “And we checked — we
checked it out.  You’ve traveled 1,200,000 miles.”  (Laughter.)  I said,
“How’d you get that, Ang?”  He said, “Well, we figured it out.  You were
in session about 117 days year-end average, times that by 36 years, then
times the time as vice president.  You’ve traveled over 1,200,000.  I
don’t want to hear any more of this!”  (Laughter.)  
  
Well, everybody thinks every time I mention Amtrak I’m — you know — but
we got $45 billion more for Amtrak — (applause) — because here’s the
deal: If you want to have an impact on the environment, get vehicles off
the road.   
  
And guess what?  All the data shows — not a joke — if somebody can go
from point A to point B on a railroad and get there quicker than they
can in their car, they — they don’t drive their car.  They don’t drive
their car.   
  
And so, for example, the Baltimore tunnel, it’s going to cost a billion
dollars to fix it.  Had nothing been done to it since 1906, I think it
was.   
  
I’m probably the only non-Amtrak guy that’s ever walked through that
tunnel.  For real.  Walked — light bulbs hanging from the ce- — you
know, like — like in a — cords in a light bulb hanging from the ceiling,
flooding going on when it rains real hard.  It’s under the bay.  Not
flooding — wipe out the track.  But trains have to go through there, if
my memory is correct now, at 30 miles an hour.  And some of them aren’t
stopping in Baltimore; they’re going through.   
  
Well, guess what?  We’re fixing it for safety reasons, but in addition
to that, you’re going to be able to go through that tunnel at 100 miles
an hour, fundamentally saving time.  Same with New York.  It’s a lot of
money.  It’s over — going to be — cost a billion dollars out of the —
out of the fund we have for — for infrastructure.   
  
But guess what?  It’s creating thousands of good-paying jobs, generating
economic growth in downtown Baltimore.  (Applause.)  
  
And I said when I passed this legislation, I was going to be a president
for all people, whether they voted for me or not.   
  
Well, guess what?  A guy I’m friendly with, we get on well, is the
senator — he’s smart as hell — the senator from Kentucky, Mitch
Landrieu.  They’ve been trying to fix that bridge forever — (audio
distortion) — walls going to collapse.  And you see the bridge collapses
that are going on?  Okay.  And guess what it cost to rebuild that
bridge: close to $1 billion.  
  
More rail traffic and more truck traffic goes over that bridge than
almost any bridge in the country, and it connects an entire economic
system going all the way down to Florida.  Well, we’re going to build
it.  We’re going to build it.  Again, it’s going to be a boom for
Kentucky and Missouri, but that’s a good thing, not a bad thing.   
  
And so, I guess my point is this: The reason we’re doing what we’re
doing now is letting people know exactly what’s happening, what’s going
to happen.   
  
We had an event yesterday — and I’ll end with this.  We’re replacing
every single, solitary lead pipe in America.  Hear me?  Children are —
fewer children are going to die and have mental illness.  Every single
lead pipe to the house — to the house — it costs them money.  And we’re
going to make sure they have — those lead pipes are fixed.   
  
In addition to that, we announced yesterday we’re spending billions of
dollars for high-speed Internet that’s cheap.  And it’s going to
fundamentally change what happens in communities.   
  
In many communities, you can’t even — how many people you’ve — you’ve
heard that work for you said, “I had to stop at McDonald’s with my kid
to do their homework so I could pick up the Internet”?  I’m — I’m being
deadly earnest.   
  
How many farmers without access to Internet know when the best time to
sell their cattle is or their crop?  They have to rely on — on the big
conglomerates.   
  
So it’s going to fundamentally change how we think of ourselves.  And
it’s going to up the ability of ordinary families to have access to more
information and grow.   
  
So the only point I’m making is there is a lot we’re doing.  And we
still cut the deficit by $1.7 billion, doing every one of these things. 
And I think if the Republican — and, by the way, this is not your
father’s Republican Party.  A lot of really good Republicans I’ve worked
with.  I’ve had seven of them — the press heard me say this —
individually — well, in one case, two came to me, but in the other case,
one at a time — I promised I’d never say their names, and I’ll go to my
grave without mentioning it — saying, “Joe, I agree with you” — I give
my word — “I agree with you, Joe.  But if I — if I join you, they’ll
primary, and I’m going to lose my election.  I’ll lose my election.” 
Not a statement of courage, but a statement of reality.   
  
So we got to change all of this.  And I think we’re in the process of
doing it, because I only have faith in the American people.   
  
You know, I’m always quoting Irish poets on the floor of the Senate, and
they always kid me about it, and they thought I was doing it because I’m
Irish.  It’s not the reason.  They’re the best poets in the world. 
(Laughter.)  
  
And there’s a guy named Seamus Heaney.  I’ve become friends with his
wife.  He — I just knew him vaguely.  And he wrote a poem called “The
Cure at Troy.”  And the line in the poem goes — he said, “All is
changed, changed utterly.  A terrible beauty has been born.”  All has
changed, internationally and nationally.  And we can — I am more
optimistic about our ability to control everything from the environment
to all the things we’re talking about and put them in a better place
than before.   
  
I really — I honest to God believe it.  And I know — and the one thing I
can say: I’ve been around longer than anybody.  I don’t brag about that
very often.  (Applause.)  But all kidding aside, I think we can do great
things.  I really do.  I really do.   
  
And so, with your help, I hope to be able to do that.  And you’re
helping — by the way, the money raised here is significant.  You’re
helping a great deal.  I want to thank our host and all of you.  And
many of you, it’s a second or third time.  You got to blame yourself
now, not me.  (Laughter.)  
  
But you — but you know — anyway, thank you, thank you, thank you. 
(Applause.)   
  
(Music plays.)  
  
AIDE:  We have closed the roads (inaudible).  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Last thing.  If I don’t leave, we lose thousands of
votes.  You think I’m joking?  We set a time when we come — we have to
give the local officials a time we are going to be leaving on the road. 
Since I’ve become President, a lot different than — I had lunch with
Barack today, who was helping me.  It was — and he was remarking how
much he cha- — I have 80-something vehicles that follow me. 
(Laughter.)   
  
And I used to think we had — we had traffic problems on the highway.  I
don’t know what the hell is the matter.  We have no problems. 
(Laughter.)  None at all.  But we also make a hell of a lot of people
mad if we don’t get going, because they’re — they block the roads
beginning now.   
  
So thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  And thank you, Mr.
Ambassador.   
  
7:53 P.M. EDT
