---
date: '2023-06-22'
published_time: 2023-06-22 16:39:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/22/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India\
  \ in Joint Press\_Conference"
---
 
1:41 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Please, be seated.  Thank you.  
  
Well, good afternoon.  The Prime Minister and I have just finished a
very productive meeting.  
  
And the Prime Minister — I know you’ve got to get up to Capitol Hill
very soon and — to address the Joint Session of Congress.  
  
It’s a testament to the strong and enduring and thoroughly bipartisan
support that exists all across the United States for the friendship and
partnership between India and the United States that the — they’re
anxiously waiting to hear you up on Capitol Hill.  
  
A partnership that is among the most consequential in the world, that is
stronger, closer, and more dynamic than any time in history.  
  
Mr. Prime Minister, we’ve met many times over the past few years, most
recently in Hiroshima at the G7 Summit.  And each time, I was struck by
our ability to find new areas of cooperation.  
  
Together, we’re unlocking a shared future of what I believe to be
unlimited potential.  
  
And with this visit, we’re demonstrating once more how India and the
United States are collaborating on nearly every human endeavor and
delivering progress across the board, for — from designing new ways to
diagnose and treat illnesses like cancer and diabetes; to collaborating
on human spaceflight including sending an Indian astronaut to the
International Space Station in 2024; to accelerating the global clean
energy transition and tackling climate — the climate crisis we face; to
harnessing our shared expertise on critical and emerging technologies
like quantum computing and artificial intelligence to ensuring they are
not used as tools of misinformation and oppression.  
  
We are doubling down on our cooperation to secure our semicondector
\[sic\] — our semiconductor supply chains, advancing Open RAN
telecommunications networks, and growing our Major Defense Partnership
with the more joint exercises, more cooperation between our defense
industries, and more consultation and coordination across all domains.  
  
Our economic relationship is booming.  Trade between our countries has
almost doubled over the past decade to more than $191 billion,
supporting tens of thousands of good jobs in both India and the United
States.  
  
Add to that: One million American jobs across 44 states will by
supported by the purchase of more than 200 — more than 200 American-made
Boeing aircraft by — that Air India is announcing earlier this year.  
  
And with this visit, Indian firms are announcing more than $2 billion —
more than $2 billion in new investments in manufacturing — in solar in
Colorado, steel in Ohio, and optic fiber in South Carolina, and much
more.  Further proof that America’s manufacturing is back.  
  
We’re expanding educational exchanges for our students, building on the
record 125,000 student visas for Indians to study in the United States
we issued last year and opening new consulates that’s going to make it
easier for our people to travel, work, and collaborate together.  
  
On the issues that matter most and that will define the future, our
nations look to one another, including on critical regional and global
issues.  
  
And today, we also talked about our shared efforts to mitigate the huma-
— the humanitarian tragedies unleashed by Russia’s brutal war in Ukraine
and to defend the core principles of the U.N. Charter: sovereignty and
territorial integrity.  
  
We discussed our work through the Quad and how India and the United
States, together with Australia and Japan, can ensure the vital
Indo-Pacific region remains free, open, prosperous, and secure.  
  
Through our new I2U2 groun- — grouping with Israel and the UAE, we’re
building regional connections to the Middle East and spurring
science-based solutions and — to the global challenges, like food
security and clean energy.  
  
And this year, under India’s leadership of the G20, we’re putting
sustainable development at the center of the agenda.  
  
We’re delivering meaningful action on low- and middle-income nations,
including multilateral development bank reform, debt relief, and
building resilient and equitable health systems.  
  
The bottom line is simple: We want people everywhere to have the
opportunity to live in dignity.  
  
And let me be — close with this: Indians and Americans are both peoples
who innovate and create, turn obstacles into opportunities, who find
strength in community and family, and who cherish freedom and celebrate
the democratic values of universal human rights, which face challenges
around the world and each — and in each of our countries but which
remain so vital to the success of each of our nations: press freedom,
religious freedom, tolerance, diversity.  
India now has the most populous country — is now the most populous
country in the world.  It’s a democracy.  We understand that it is — has
— it is the brilliance and the backbone of our people as diverse in
talents and traditions that make us strong as a nation.  It’s
democracies that do that.  
  
We see that so clearly here in the United States where a vibrant Indian
American community of more than 4 million strong contributes every
single day to the writing of the future of our nation.   
  
Indian Americans of every background and faith, representing the full
diversity of India, are pursuing their American dream while maintaining
deep connections for their Indian heritage and families.  
  
That — that makes us all stronger.  That is a cornerstone  
of this essential partnership between India and the United States.  And
that is why I know the friendship between our nations is only going to
grow as we face the future together.  
  
Mr. Prime Minister, the floor is yours.  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Your Excellency, President
Biden; delegates of both countries; friends from the media: *Namaskar*. 

First of all, I thank President Biden for his warm words and for his
positive views on India-America relations. 

Friends, today is a day that has special importance in the history of
India-America relations.  Our discussions today and the important
decisions we have taken have added a new chapter to our comprehensive
and global strategic partnership.  They have given it a new direction
and a new energy.

Friends, a trade and investment partnership between India and America is
important not only for our two countries, but for the global economy as
well. 

Today, America is India’s biggest trade partner.  We have decided to
resolve long-pending trade-related issues and make a new beginning. 

The initiative for Critical and Emerging Technologies, iCET, has emerged
as an important framework for our technical cooperation. 

By increasing our cooperation in fields such as artificial intelligence,
semiconductors, space, quantum, and telecom, we are creating a strong
and futuristic partnership.  The decision taken by American companies
such as Micron, Google, and Applied Materials to invest in India
symbolizes this futuristic partnership. 

During this journey, I also had the opportunity to meet some other
American CEOs.  And in my discussions with them, I could feel the
enthusiasm and the positive views about India. 

We both agree that to make a strategic technology partnership
meaningful, it is very important that governments, businesses, and
academic institutions come together. 

In order to implement India and America’s shared vision on clean energy
transition, we have taken several important initiatives.  These cover
areas such as green hydrogen, wind energy, battery storage, and carbon
capture. 

We have also decided that in the midst of global uncertainties, India
and America will, as trusted partners, create reliable, secure, and
resilient global supply chains and value chains, as well. 

The close defense cooperation between India and America symbolizes
mutual trust and shared strategic priorities.  Moving away from the old
buyer-seller relationship we had earlier, we have transitioned today to
a relationship involving transfer of technology, co-development, and
co-production. 

The decision taken by General Electric to manufacture engines in India
through transfer of technology is a landmark agreement.  This also opens
up new job opportunities in both countries.  This will give our defense
cooperation a new character in the times to come. 

The defense industries and startups of both countries are important
partners in this cooperation.  Bringing them together is the key
objective of our defense industrial roadmap.

In the area of space, science, and technologies, we have had
longstanding cooperation.

By taking the decision to join the Artemis Accords, we have taken a big
leap forward in our space cooperation.  In fact, in short, for India and
America partnership, even the sky is not the limit. 

Friends, the most important pillar of our relations is our
people-to-people ties.  More than 4 million people of Indian origin
today make significant contribution to the progress of America.   
  
In fact, just this morning, the large number of Indians that gathered at
the White House demonstrates that the Indian Americans, in fact, are the
real strength behind our relations.  In order to further deepen these
relations, we welcome America’s decision to open consulates in Bengaluru
and Ahmedabad.  Similarly, we will also open a new Indian consulate in
Seattle.  
  
Friends, in our meeting today, we discussed several regional and global
issues.  Peace and security in the Indo-Pacific is our common priority. 
We agree that the development and success of this region is important
for the entire world.   
  
We shared our views to enhance coordination with all countries in this
region, along with our Quad partners.  India and America stand
shoulder-to-shoulder in the fight against terrorism and fundamentalism. 
We’re in agreement that concrete actions are needed in order to end
cross-border terrorism.   
  
The COVID pandemic and the Ukraine conflict have afflicted the countries
of the Global South in particular.  We believe that in order to resolve
these problems, it is absolutely imperative for all countries to
unite.   
  
From the very beginning of the events in Ukraine, India has laid
emphasis on resolution of dispute through dialogue and diplomacy.  We
are completely ready to contribute in any way we can to restore
peace.   
  
Under India’s G20 presidency, we are laying emphasis on the spirit of
“One Earth, One Family, One Future.”  We are lending a voice to the
priorities of the Global South.   
  
I thank President Biden that he has expressed support to my proposal of
giving the African Union full membership of the G20.   
  
Friends, the core philosophy of all of our collective efforts is to
strengthen democracy and democratic values and democratic order.   
  
Two of the world’s largest democracies, India and America, can together
make an important contribution to global peace, stability, and
prosperity.  I’m confident that based on these values, we will be able
to fulfill the expectations and aspirations of not only the people of
our two countries, but of the entire world.   
  
President Biden, thank you for the meaningful discussion today.   
  
This year, during the G20 Summit, we are looking forward to welcoming
you.  This is myself and all of India is looking forward to welcoming
you to India.   
  
And as the President has said, I do have another engagement after this. 
I need to address the Congress.  So I do not want to take any more
time.  And I am going to stop here.  Once again, President Biden, thank
you very much.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, the Congress is actually waiting to — and
anxiously waiting to hear you.  
  
I’m told there are two questioners: Sabrina from the Wall Street Journal
and Kumar from the Trust of India.   
  
And, Sabrina, you first.   
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I have a question for the Prime
Minister.  But first, a two-part question for you: Your comments at a
fundraiser this week appear to be the first time in recent memory that a
sitting U.S. president has called a Chinese leader a dictator.  Did
those comments about President Xi undermine or complicate the progress
your administration has made in maintaining a relationship with China?  
  
And secondly, on India: As you raise these broader issues of human
rights and democracy, what is your message to those, including some
members of your own party, who say that your administration is
overlooking the targeting of religious minorities and crackdown on
dissent in Prime Minister Modi’s country?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  The answer to your first question is: No.  You know,
what — when we’re talking to our allies and partners around the world,
including India, we let the — the idea of my choosing and avoiding
saying what I think is the facts with regard to the relationship with
India — with China is — is just not something I’m going to change very
much.   
  
I think we — I believe that — and I’ve said this for some time — that
the hysteria about the relationship with China is collapsing and moving,
et cetera, et cetera — we had an incident that caused some — some
confusion, you might say.  But President — but Secretary Blinken had a
great trip to China.  I expect to be meeting with President Xi sometime
in the future, in the near term.  And I don’t think it’s had any real
consequence.  
  
And what was your second question?  
  
Q    So, as you raise these broader issues of human rights and
democracy, what is your message to those — including some members of
your own party — who believe that your administration is overlooking the
targeting of religious minorities and a crackdown on dissent in India?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, look, the Prime Minister and I had a good
discussion about democratic values.  And — and there is a — there is the
— that’s the nature of our relationship: We’re straightforward with each
other, and — and we respect each other.  
  
One of the fundamental reasons that I believe the U.S.-China
relationship is not in the space it is with the U.S.- Indian
relationship is that there’s an overwhelming respect for each other
because we’re both democracies.  And it’s a common democratic candida- —
character of both our countries that — and our people — our diversity;
our culture; our open, tolerant, robust debate.   
  
And I believe that we believe in the dignity of every citizen.  And it
is in America’s DNA and, I believe, in India’s DNA that the whole world
— the whole world has a stake in our success, both of us, in maintaining
our democracies.  It makes us appealing partners and enables us to
expand democratic institutions across — around the world.  And I believe
this, and I still believe this.  
  
Q    Mr. Prime Minister, India has long prided itself as the world’s
largest democracy, but there are many human rights groups who say that
your government has discriminated against religious minorities and
sought to silence its critics.  As you stand here in the East Room of
the White House, where so many world leaders have made commitments to
protecting democracy, what steps are you and your government willing to
take to improve the rights of Muslims and other minorities in your
country and to uphold free speech?  
  
PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  I’m actually really surprised
that people say so.  And so, people don’t say it.  Indeed, India is a
democracy.   
  
And as President Biden also mentioned, India and America — both
countries, democracy is in our DNA.  Democracy is our spirit.  Democracy
runs in our veins.  We live democracy.  And our ancestors have actually
put words to this concept, and that is in the form of our
constitution.  
  
Our government has taken the basic principles of democracy.  And on that
basis, our constitution is made and the entire country runs on that —
our constitution and government.  We have always proved that democracy
can deliver.  And when I say deliver, this is regardless of caste,
creed, religion, gender.  There’s absolutely no space for
discrimination.   
  
And when you talk of democracy, if there are no human values and there
is no humanity, there are no human rights, then it’s not a democracy.  
  
And that is why, when you say “democracy” and you accept democracy and
when we live democracy, then there is absolutely no space for
discrimination.  And that is why India believes in moving ahead with
everybody with trust and with everybody’s efforts.  
  
These are our foundation principles, which are the basis of how we
operate, how we live our lives.  In India, the benefits that are
provided by the government is accessible to all.  Whoever deserves those
benefits is available to everybody.  And that is why, in India’s
democratic values, there’s absolutely no discrimination neither on basis
of caste, creed, or age, or any kind of geographic location.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Kumar.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks a lot, sir.  Sir, my question is on the issue of
climate change.  Both countries have spoken strongly about the need to
tackle the climate change.  But there’s a view —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Tackle what?  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Climate change.  
  
Q    Both —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Climate change.  I’m sorry, I didn’t hear you.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Both countries have spoken about the challenge of climate
change.  But there is a view that ambitious targets are set but
implementation is found often lacking.  And there is also a criticism of
lack of technological transfer, financial transfer from the developed
countries to the developing nations.  
  
How do you both leaders see the way ahead on this pressing issue?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, first of all, I think it is the existential
threat to humanity: climate change.  It’s the most serious problem we
face as human beings.  We have to keep it below 1.5 degrees Cel- —
Celsius.   
  
We’ve made enormous progress here in the United States on dealing with
this issue by doing three things.  
  
Number one, by insisting that we move our — every one of our industries
into a position where they can take advantage of cheaper and more
extensive and more available renewable energy, whether it’s solar or
wind or hydrogen and green hydrogen.  There’s a whole range of things
we’ve been working on.

In addition to that, we find ourselves in a position that — what we’ve
done is that we have significantly reduced the — for example, I made a
commitment that we are going to make sure that by 2030, 30 percent of
all our land and sea and oceans were — are — were in conservation, could
not be developed. 

We’re well on our way to doing that.  And that’s also absorbing carbon
from the air as a consequence of that, because of the conservation.

We are in a position, as well, by — we have provided for significant
increase in funding for a whole range of issues, but not just for the
United States, but for the rest of the world. 

For example, we’re working with the G7 to provide for infrastructure
work for commu- — for dealing with global warming on the continent of
Africa: in Angola, building the largest solar project; moving ourselves
— having railway to go all the way across the southern two thir- — the —
from the Atlantic Ocean to the — to the Indian Ocean, in Africa, to be
able to transport and do it cheaper and do it with less — less — how can
I say it? — less carbon emissions.

We’re trying to work with other countries to maintain their — maintain
their carbon sinks so they don’t have to develop them like we did and
causing pollution.  And we’re trying to figure out how to work out to
pay them not to develop certain areas, like the Amazon in Brazil.

But there’s a lot of technology that’s available that we’re sharing, and
we share with one another.  We’ve learned how to do solar energy, which
is considerably cheaper than it is to — for — for fuel — for fossil
fuels.  The same way dealing with not just solar, but dealing with wind.

And so, there’s a lot of the technology that we’ve developed.  And — and
we’re well on our way, I think, to meeting the commitment we made to —
that we made in Paris.  And I — and we’re prepared to share all of that
with India, that has a desire to do the same.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Excellency, you said very
rightly that, as far as India is concerned, the environment, climate,
these are extremely important in our cultural traditions.  For us, the
environment is an article of faith.  This is not just something that we
need to do for convenience; we believe this.

We do not believe in the exploitation of nature.  In order for all of
creation to work, we can make nature — but we cannot have exploitation
of nature, and we have always believed this.

And on the basis of these values, we are not only doing things for
ourselves, but are taking some global initiatives, as well.

You perhaps know that the G20 countries, the promises they made in
Paris, of all the G20 countries, India is the only country that has
fulfilled all the promises it made at the G20.

Not just that, in the area of solar energy, in Glasgow, we had set
ourselves a target to achieve 500 gigawatts of renewable energy.  By
2030, we have set ourselves a target to make Indian railways net zero. 

And you must understand the scale of Indian railways.  When we talk
about Indian railways, it means that every day the entire population of
Australia travels in our wagons — in our railway wagons, on our trains. 
And we have set ourselves a target to achieve net zero for our
railways.   
  
We have also set ourselves targets for solar energy, for ethanol — 10
percent mix of ethanol.  We have completed this target before the set
date.   
  
We are also working in the area of green hydrogen.  We want India to be
a green hydrogen hub, and we are working towards this.   
  
And the International Solar Alliance has been launched by India, and
many countries have joined it and are working with India.  The island
countries, we have helped them in the area of solar energy so that they
have now got a new confidence that we are with them in their efforts to
fight climate change.  And we will not only fulfill our
responsibilities, but we will also help you in the area of climate
change.    
  
We have seen that due to natural calamities — people talk about the
death of people, no doubt, when there are natural disasters, but there
is a lot of destruction of infrastructure as well.   
  
And therefore, because of climate change, the kind of crisis we are
feeling, we need to develop infrastructure that is resilient.  And
therefore, we have created a global organization called CDRI.  And you
perhaps know that in Glasgow I presented a subject to the world.   And
recently, it was launched by the U.N. Secretary General and myself. 
That is Mission LiFE.  And when I say “LiFE,” I mean “Lifestyle for the
Environment.”  Therefore, every individual must live his life in a
pro-environment, pro-development way.  And we are working towards
this.  
  
And I am sure that whatever work India has started in all these areas —
not because India has adversely affected the environment of the world;
we are doing this because we have a concern for future generations.  We
do not want to give our future generations a world that make life
difficult for them.   
  
And therefore, as a global responsibility, India has not caused any
problems to the environment.  However, we are playing a leading role in
contributing in a positive manner.  
  
As far as prosperous countries are concerned, there’s always been talk
about technology transfer, financial support, and there are some
countries that need to have technology transfer, financial support.  And
we hope that as soon as we can move forward in this area, we will be
able to solve this challenge of climate change.  Thank you very much.   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me add one thing.  We — we have caused damage in
the United States the way we developed over the last 300 years.  And
that’s why I was able to convince my colleagues in the Congress to pass
legislation — the largest climate fund ever in American — in the world
history: $369 billion — $369 billion to deal with the climate crisis.   
  
And we are doing it extensively now, and I think you’re going to see
significant progress.   
  
Thank you all very, very much.   
  
2:14 P.M. EDT
