---
date: '2023-06-15'
published_time: 2023-06-15 15:57:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/15/remarks-by-president-biden-on-protecting-consumers-from-hidden-junk-fees/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Protecting Consumers from Hidden Junk\_Fees"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:16 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Before I begin, I want to thank everyone involved in
reaching a tentative agreement at our ports on the West Coast.  This
deal shows collective bargaining works.  
  
When employers and workers come together to agree on a deal that works
for both of them, it’s good for the economy and keeping our supply chain
open.  
  
A special thanks to Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su, who used to —
her deep experience and judgment to keep parties talking throughout the
negotiations.  And this is going to have a real positive impact on
trade.  
  
She — she’s shown she’s a true leader, and I think she should be
confirmed.  She’s up — I think she’s up in the Senate today for a
hearing — her confirmation hearing.  
  
And I want to thank both sides for staying at the table and reaching a
deal.  And a special thanks to the longshore workers who worked
historically through this pandemic, and it was really heroically as
well.  And — and we finally get — they’re going to get the pay, and the
benefits, and the quality they deserve.  
  
Now, to the purpose of our meeting today.  
  
In my State of the Union Address, I outlined our fight against junk fees
— to end junk fees: these hidden charges that companies sneak into your
bill to make you pay more and without you really knowing it
initially.   
  
Junk fees are not a matter for the wealthy very much, but they’re a
matter for working folks, like the homes I grew up in.  And they can add
hundreds of dollars a month and make it harder for families to pay their
bills.  I think it’s just wrong.  
  
My administration has also taken a number of steps to crack down on junk
fees by reducing overdrafts by $5.5 billion a year and bounced checks
cost by another $2 billion a year.  That’s real money.  
  
And we’re seeking to require airlines to refund money and give you
additional compensation, like cash or travel vouchers, if your flight is
canceled or delayed.  
  
These actions matter, and it’s inspiring companies to change their
practices.  
  
Today I’m pleased to announce there is even more progress.  One of the
major categories of junk fees are ones that companies charge right at
the end of the purchasing process, after you’ve already spent the time
comparing your options.  The solution is — the — the solution is what is
called “all-in pricing.”  And that’s where companies fully disclose
their fees upfront when you start shopping so you’re not surprised at
the end when you check out.  
  
The companies represented here today are voluntarily committing to
all-in, upfront pricing.  Some of them have used this process for years
to sell tickets — events — like ticktock — TickPick — excuse me — DICE,
and Newport Festival Foundation.  Tens of millions of fans have already
benefitted from their decision.  
  
Others, like Airbnb, have started giving customers the option of seeing
all-in prices since we called for action last year, and other businesses
are committing today.  
  
Starting in September, Live Nation will automatically list all the
prices upfront for all tickets to events at more than 200 venues of its
own, benefitting over 30 million customers.  And it will give customers
the option of an all-in price for all other tickets sold on its
platform.  
  
The ticket seller, <s>SeatGreek</s> \[SeatGeek\], is also set to give
customers the option of seeing all-in, upfront prices.  
  
And I’m pleased we’re also joined by x-pay \[sic\] — xBk, a small venue
in Des Moines, Iowa, that’s going be using all upfront pricing for its
hundred events at — a year as well.  
  
Folks, we’re just at the latest private-sector — we — these are just the
latest private-sector leaders who are responding to my call for action. 
And I’m asking their competitors to follow suit and adopt an all-in,
upfront pricing as well.   
  
This is — this a win for consumers, in my view, and proof that our
crackdown on junk fees has real momentum.  But there’s more to do to
address the problem of online ticketing to prote- — to — excuse me — to
address the problems in the online ticketing industry and to get \[rid
of\] junk fees across all industries.  
  
I want to thank members of Congress who are working on legislation to
address these junk fees in ticketing, lodging, and other industries.  
  
This is real transparency, which leads to more competition, brings down
costs for working Americans, keeps growing our economy from the middle
out and the bottom up, not the top down.  
  
And I’m going to now turn it over to Lael, our director of my National
Economic Council, to start our discussion.  
  
So, thank you.   
  
Q    Mr. President, can you tell us what you want Blinken to achieve in
China, sir?  What would you like Blinken to achieve in China, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I’ve spoken with him.  And — but we’ll talk about
that later.  That’s not what this is about.   
  
Q    And on the cyberattack today, sir — can you say anything about the
cyberattack today for us?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No.  
  
Q    President Biden, why is (inaudible)?  Why did the Ukraine and FBI
informant file refer to you as the “Big Guy,” President Biden?  Why is
that term continuously applied?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Why do you ask such a dumb question?   
  
2:21 P.M. EDT
