---
date: '2022-07-08'
modified_time: 2022-07-08 12:45:05-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-08 12:43:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/07/08/executive-order-on-protecting-access-to-reproductive-healthcare-services/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Protecting Access to Reproductive Healthcare\_Services"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Nearly 50 years ago, *Roe v. Wade*, 410 U.S. 113
(1973), articulated the United States Constitution’s protection of
women’s fundamental right to make reproductive healthcare decisions.
 These deeply private decisions should not be subject to government
interference.  Yet today, fundamental rights — to privacy, autonomy,
freedom, and equality — have been denied to millions of women across the
country.

Eliminating the right recognized in *Roe* has already had and will
continue to have devastating implications for women’s health and public
health more broadly.  Access to reproductive healthcare services is now
threatened for millions of Americans, and especially for those who live
in States that are banning or severely restricting abortion care.
 Women’s health clinics are being forced to close — including clinics
that offer other preventive healthcare services such as contraception —
leaving many communities without access to critical reproductive
healthcare services.  Women seeking abortion care — especially those in
low-income, rural, and other underserved communities — now have to
travel to jurisdictions where services remain legal notwithstanding the
cost or risks.

In the face of this health crisis, the Federal Government is taking
action to protect healthcare service delivery and promote access to
critical reproductive healthcare services, including abortion.  It
remains the policy of my Administration to support women’s right to
choose and to protect and defend reproductive rights.  Doing so is
essential to justice, equality, and our health, safety, and progress as
a Nation.

Sec. 2.  Definitions.  (a)  The term “agency” means any authority of the
United States that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than
one considered to be an independent regulatory agency, as defined in 44
U.S.C. 3502(5).

(b)  The term “reproductive healthcare services” means medical,
surgical, counseling, or referral services relating to the human
reproductive system, including services relating to pregnancy or the
termination of a pregnancy.

Sec. 3.  Protecting Access to Reproductive Healthcare Services.  (a) 
Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall submit a report to the President:

(i)    identifying potential actions:

(A)  to protect and expand access to abortion care, including medication
abortion; and

(B)  to otherwise protect and expand access to the full range of
reproductive healthcare services, including actions to enhance family
planning services such as access to emergency contraception;

(ii)   identifying ways to increase outreach and education about access
to reproductive healthcare services, including by launching a public
awareness initiative to provide timely and accurate information about
such access, which shall: 

(A)  share information about how to obtain free or reduced cost
reproductive healthcare services through Health Resources and Services
Administration-Funded Health Centers, Title X clinics, and other
providers; and 

(B)  include promoting awareness of and access to the full range of
contraceptive services, as well as know-your-rights information for
those seeking or providing reproductive healthcare services; and

(iii)  identifying steps to ensure that all patients ‑- including
pregnant women and those experiencing pregnancy loss, such as
miscarriages and ectopic pregnancies — receive the full protections for
emergency medical care afforded under the law, including by considering
updates to current guidance on obligations specific to emergency
conditions and stabilizing care under the Emergency Medical Treatment
and Labor Act, 42 U.S.C. 1395dd, and providing data from the Department
of Health and Human Services concerning implementation of these efforts.
 

\(b\)  To promote access to reproductive healthcare services, the
Attorney General and the Counsel to the President shall convene a
meeting of private pro bono attorneys, bar associations, and public
interest organizations in order to encourage lawyers to represent and
assist patients, providers, and third parties lawfully seeking these
services throughout the country.

Sec. 4.  Protecting Privacy, Safety, and Security.  (a)  To address
potential heightened safety and security risks related to the provision
of reproductive healthcare services, the Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider actions, as appropriate
and consistent with applicable law, to ensure the safety of patients,
providers, and third parties, and to protect the security of clinics
(including mobile clinics), pharmacies, and other entities providing,
dispensing, or delivering reproductive and related healthcare services.

(b)  To address the potential threat to patient privacy caused by the
transfer and sale of sensitive health-related data and by digital
surveillance related to reproductive healthcare services, and to protect
people seeking reproductive health services from fraudulent schemes or
deceptive practices:

(i)    The Chair of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) is encouraged to
consider actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law
(including the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 41 *et seq*.), to
protect consumers’ privacy when seeking information about and provision
of reproductive healthcare services.

(ii)   The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall consider
actions, including providing guidance under the Health Insurance
Portability and Accountability Act, Public Law 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936
(1996) as amended by Public Law 111-5, 123 Stat. 115 (2009), and any
other statutes as appropriate, to strengthen the protection of sensitive
information related to reproductive healthcare services and bolster
patient-provider confidentiality.

(iii)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, in consultation
with the Attorney General, consider actions to educate consumers on how
best to protect their health privacy and limit the collection and
sharing of their sensitive health-related information.  

(iv)   The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, in consultation
with the Attorney General and the Chair of the FTC, consider options to
address deceptive or fraudulent practices related to reproductive
healthcare services, including online, and to protect access to accurate
information.

Sec. 5.  Coordinating Implementation Efforts.  (a)  The Secretary of
Health and Human Services and the Director of the Gender Policy Council
shall establish and co-chair an Interagency Task Force on Reproductive
Healthcare Access (Task Force).  Additional members shall include the
Attorney General and the heads of other agencies as determined by the
Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Director of the Gender
Policy Council.  The Task Force shall work to identify and coordinate
activities to protect and strengthen access to essential reproductive
healthcare services.  In addition, the Task Force shall coordinate
Federal interagency policymaking, program development, and outreach
efforts to address barriers that individuals and entities may face in
seeking and providing reproductive healthcare services.  The Department
of Health and Human Services shall provide funding and administrative
support as may be necessary for the performance and functions of the
Task Force.

     (b)  The Attorney General shall provide technical assistance, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, concerning Federal
constitutional protections to States seeking to afford legal protection
to out-of-State patients and providers who offer legal reproductive
healthcare.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    July 8, 2022.
