---
date: '2022-07-19'
published_time: 2022-07-19 10:09:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/07/19/executive-order-on-bolstering-efforts-to-bring-hostages-and-wrongfully-detained-united-states-nationals-home/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Bolstering Efforts to Bring Hostages and Wrongfully Detained\
  \ United\_States Nationals\_Home"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Robert Levinson
Hostage Recovery and Hostage-taking Accountability Act (22 U.S.C. 1741
*et seq.*) (Levinson Act), the International Emergency Economic Powers
Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the National Emergencies Act (50
U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) (NEA), section 212(f) of the Immigration and
Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code,

I, Joseph R. Biden JR., President of the United States of America, find
that hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States
nationals are heinous acts that undermine the rule of law.  Terrorist
organizations, criminal groups, and other malicious actors who take
hostages for financial, political, or other gain — as well as foreign
states that engage in the practice of wrongful detention, including for
political leverage or to seek concessions from the United States —
threaten the integrity of the international political system and the
safety of United States nationals and other persons abroad.  I therefore
determine that hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United
States nationals abroad constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United
States.  I hereby declare a national emergency to deal with this threat.

The United States Government must redouble its efforts at home and with
partners abroad to deter these practices and to secure the release of
those held as hostages or wrongfully detained.  Processes established
under Executive Order 13698 of June 24, 2015 (Hostage Recovery
Activities) and Presidential Policy Directive 30 of June 24, 2015 (U.S.
Nationals Taken Hostage Abroad and Personnel Recovery Efforts) (PPD-30)
have facilitated close interagency coordination on efforts to secure the
safe release of United States nationals taken hostage abroad, including
engagement with the families of hostages and support of diplomatic
engagement with partners abroad.  This order reinforces the roles,
responsibilities, and commitments contained in those directives and
seeks to ensure that — as with hostage recovery activities — interagency
coordination, family engagement, and diplomatic tools are enshrined in
United States Government efforts to secure the safe release and return
of United States nationals wrongfully detained by foreign state actors. 
This order also reinforces tools to deter and to impose tangible
consequences on those responsible for, or complicit in, hostage-taking
or the wrongful detention of a United States national abroad.

Accordingly, I hereby order:

<u>Section</u> 1.  Executive Order 13698 and PPD-30 shall continue to
apply to United States hostage recovery activities.  Nothing in this
order shall alter the responsibilities of the Hostage Recovery Fusion
Cell (HRFC), the Hostage Response Group (HRG), or the Special
Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs (SPEHA), established by Executive
Order 13698, with respect to hostage recovery activities under Executive
Order 13698 or PPD-30.  Nor shall this order alter the scope of PPD-30,
which applies to both suspected and confirmed hostage-takings in which a
United States national is abducted or held outside of the United States,
as well as to other hostage-takings occurring abroad in which the United
States has a national interest, but does not apply if a foreign
government confirms that it has detained a United States national.

Sec. 2.  (a)  The HRG shall, in coordination with the National Security
Council’s regional directorates as appropriate, convene on a regular
basis and as needed at the request of the National Security Council to
work to secure the safe release of United States nationals held hostage
or wrongfully detained abroad.

(b)  The HRG, in support of the Deputies Committee of the National
Security Council and consistent with the process outlined in National
Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National
Security Council System), or any successor memorandum, shall:

(i)    identify and recommend options and strategies to the President
through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs to
secure the recovery of hostages or the return of wrongfully detained
United States nationals;

\(ii\)   coordinate the development and implementation of policies,
strategies, and procedures for the recovery of hostages or the return of
wrongfully detained United States nationals;

\(iii\)  coordinate and deconflict policy guidance, strategies, and
activities that potentially affect the recovery or welfare of United
States nationals held hostage or the return or welfare of United States
nationals wrongfully detained abroad, including reviewing proposed
recovery or return options;

\(iv\)   receive regular updates from the HRFC, the Office of the SPEHA,
and other executive departments and agencies (agencies), as the HRG
deems appropriate, on the status of United States nationals being held
hostage or wrongfully detained abroad and measures being taken to effect
safe releases;

\(v\)    receive regular updates from the Department of State on all new
wrongful detention determinations; and

\(vi\)   where higher-level guidance is required, make recommendations
to the Deputies Committee of the National Security Council.

Sec. 3.  (a)  The SPEHA shall report to the Secretary of State on a
regular basis and as needed to advance efforts to secure the safe
release of United States nationals wrongfully detained abroad.

(b)  The SPEHA shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i)    coordinate diplomatic engagements and strategy regarding hostage
and wrongful detention cases, in coordination with the HRFC and relevant
agencies, as appropriate and consistent with policy guidance
communicated through the HRG;

\(ii\)   share information, including information acquired during
consular interactions and engagements, regarding wrongful detention
cases with relevant agencies to facilitate close interagency
coordination;

(iii)  draw on the experience and expertise of the HRFC to support
efforts to return wrongfully detained United States nationals, including
by providing support and assistance to the families of those wrongfully
detained;

\(iv\)   develop and regularly update, in coordination with relevant
agencies, strategies for wrongful detention cases for review by the HRG;

\(v\)    ensure, in coordination with the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, that relevant agencies have access to necessary
information, including intelligence information, on wrongful detention
cases to inform strategies and options; and

\(vi\)   share, in coordination with the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, relevant information, including intelligence
information, on developments in wrongful detention cases with the
families of wrongfully detained United States nationals, in a timely
manner, as appropriate and consistent with the protection of sources and
methods.

(c)  To ensure that the United States Government provides a coordinated,
effective, and supportive response to wrongful detentions, the Secretary
of State shall identify adequate resources to enable the SPEHA to:

\(i\)    ensure that all interactions by executive branch officials with
the family of a wrongfully detained United States national occur in a
coordinated fashion and that the family receives consistent and accurate
information from the United States Government, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law;

\(ii\)   provide support and assistance to wrongfully detained United
States nationals and their families throughout their detention,
including through coordination with the HRFC, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law; and

\(iii\)  provide support and assistance to United States nationals upon
their return to the United States from wrongful detention, including
through coordination with the HRFC and the Department of Health and
Human Services, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

Sec. 4.  The SPEHA, in coordination with the HRG, the HRFC, and relevant
agencies, as appropriate, shall identify and recommend options and
strategies to the President through the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs to reduce the likelihood of United States
nationals being held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad.  The options
shall seek to counter and deter hostage-takings and wrongful detentions
by terrorist organizations, foreign governments, and other actors by
imposing costs on those who participate in, support, or facilitate such
conduct.  The strategies shall seek to deter any effort to engage in
hostage-taking or the wrongful detention of United States nationals
abroad through cooperation with like-minded foreign governments and
organizations. 

Sec. 5.  The Secretary of State shall publicly or privately designate or
identify officials of foreign governments who are involved, directly or
indirectly, in wrongful detentions, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, including section 7031(c) of the Department of State,
Foreign Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2022
(Division K of Public Law 117-103).

Sec. 6.  (a)  All property and interests in property of the following
persons that are in the United States, that hereafter come within the
United States, or that are or hereafter come within the possession or
control of any United States person, are blocked and may not be
transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:

\(i\)   any foreign person determined by the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the Attorney
General:

(A)  to be responsible for or complicit in, to have directly or
indirectly engaged in, or to be responsible for ordering, controlling,
or otherwise directing, the hostage-taking of a United States national
or the wrongful detention of a United States national abroad;

(B)  to have attempted to engage in any activity described in subsection
(a)(i)(A) of this section; or

\(C\)  to be or have been a leader or official of an entity that has
engaged in, or whose members have engaged in, any of the activities
described in subsections (a)(i)(A) or (a)(i)(B) of this section relating
to the leader’s or official’s tenure; 

(ii)  any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in
consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General:

(A)  to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial,
material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in
support of:

(1)  any activity described in subsection (a)(i)(A) of this section; or

(2)  any person whose property and interests in property are blocked
pursuant to this order;

(B)  to be owned, controlled, or directed by, or to have acted or
purported to act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this
order; or

(C)  to have attempted to engage in any activity described in subsection
(a)(ii)(A) of this section.

(b)  The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except to
the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders, directives,
or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted prior to the date of this order.

Sec. 7.  (a)  The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the
United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of the
criteria set forth in section 6(a) of this order would be detrimental to
the interests of the United States, and the entry of such persons into
the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is hereby suspended,
except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland
Security, as appropriate, determines that the person’s entry would not
be contrary to the interests of the United States, including when the
Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney
General, that the person’s entry would further important United States
law enforcement objectives.

(b)  The Secretary of State shall implement this authority as it applies
to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.

(c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order as it
applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as the
Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, may establish.

(d)  Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same manner as
persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24, 2011
(Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security
Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act
Sanctions).

Sec. 8.  I hereby determine that the making of donations of the types of
articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(2))
by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to this order would seriously impair my
ability to deal with the national emergency declared in this order, and
I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by section 6 of this order.

Sec. 9.  (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the purpose of
evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to violate any
of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

(b)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set forth
in this order is prohibited.

Sec. 10.  For those persons whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional presence
in the United States, I find that because of the ability to transfer
funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such persons of
measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render those measures
ineffectual.  I therefore determine that for these measures to be
effective in addressing the national emergency declared in this order,
there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made
pursuant to section 6 of this order.

Sec. 11.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is authorized to take such actions, including the
promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers granted
to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the purposes
of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent with
applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the Department
of the Treasury.  All agencies of the United States Government shall
take all appropriate measures within their authority to carry out the
provisions of this order.

Sec. 12.  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the United States Government by
employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

Sec. 13.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to submit recurring and final
reports to the Congress on the national emergency declared in this
order, consistent with section 401(c) of the NEA (50 U.S.C. 1642(c)) and
section 204(c) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1703(c)).

Sec. 14.  For purposes of this order: 

(a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust, joint
venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

(b)  the term “foreign person” means any citizen or national of a
foreign state (including any such individual who is also a citizen or
national of the United States, provided such individual does not reside
in the United States) or any entity not organized solely under the laws
of the United States or existing solely in the United States;

(c)  the term “hostage-taking” has the same meaning as provided in
PPD-30, which is the unlawful abduction or holding of a person or
persons against their will in order to compel a third person or
governmental organization to do or to abstain from doing any act as a
condition for the release of the person detained;

(d)  the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or
noncitizen national of the United States;

(e)  the term “person” means an individual or entity;

(f)  the term “United States national” means:

(i)   a “national of the United States” as defined in 8 U.S.C.
1101(a)(22) or 8 U.S.C. 1408; or

(ii)  a lawful permanent resident with significant ties to the United
States;

(g)  the term “United States person” means any United States citizen,
lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of the United
States or any jurisdiction within the United States (including foreign
branches), or any person in the United States; and

(h)  the term “wrongful detention” means a detention that the Secretary
of State has determined to be wrongful consistent with section 302(a) of
the Levinson Act.

Sec. 15.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    July 19, 2022.
