---
date: '2022-07-22'
published_time: 2022-07-22 13:25:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/07/22/a-proclamation-on-made-in-america-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Made in America Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During Made in America Week, we celebrate American workers, the
products they make, the services they provide, and the incredible impact
they have on our Nation’s economy.  Across the world, “Made in America”
is a badge of quality, and this week we honor the proud legacy and
promising future of American goods, services, jobs, and innovation — the
collective engine of American prosperity.

     The COVID-19 pandemic and the economic crisis it caused, as well as
Vladimir Putin’s unjustified and unprovoked war on Ukraine, have
underscored the importance of a strong and secure domestic industrial
base.  We have seen in recent years that when goods made overseas become
unavailable or exorbitantly costly, American families feel the pain. 
For years, “Buy American” was a hollow slogan — too many goods and
services paid for by American taxpayers were outsourced abroad at the
expense of American jobs.  In my Administration, “Buy American” is an
ironclad promise — and we have taken bold action to make it real. 

     During my first year in office, we created more manufacturing jobs
on average per month than any other President has in the last 50 years.
 Businesses are investing in American manufacturing and creating
thousands of good-paying union jobs to meet the demands of our modern
economy and rebuild that economy around working people.  We are creating
more opportunity for workers and businesses who have too often been
overlooked by investing in racial, gender, and geographic diversity for
industries across the country.

     The Federal Government is the largest buyer of consumer goods in
the world.  To ensure that we are investing in American products, I
recently announced a procurement rule that strengthens Buy American
provisions by increasing the Made in America content threshold from 55
percent to 75 percent so that goods have to be truly made in America to
be considered “Made in America.”  This represents the biggest change to
the Buy American Act in almost 70 years.  I also named our Nation’s
first-ever Made in America Director to serve in a high-level White House
role.  I continue to call on the Congress to pass the Bipartisan
Innovation Act so that we can create more resilient domestic supply
chains and unleash the next generation of American innovation for the
industries and jobs of the future.

     The historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is critical to advancing
our Made in America agenda.  We are rebuilding our Nation’s roads,
bridges, ports, airports, and so much more.  We are constructing a
national network of 500,000 electric vehicle chargers installed by union
workers on highways and in communities across America.  We are ensuring
that every American has clean drinking water.  We are creating
good-paying union jobs, revitalizing American manufacturing, and
positioning the United States to continue to lead throughout the 21st
century. 

     In addition, we are leveraging a federally funded national network
— the Manufacturing Extension Partnership — to help Government agencies
connect with new suppliers across the country, including Black, Brown,
and Native American-owned small businesses, which have often been
excluded from these opportunities.  My Administration also launched
MadeInAmerica.gov to help American businesses in every community
identify available government contracts, and we created a Made in
America Council to help ensure that our future is made in all of America
by all of America’s workers. 

     A vibrant domestic industrial base is key to building an economy
that works for working people and advancing America’s global leadership
with American manufacturers and workers at the forefront.  During Made
in America Week, let us celebrate everything that is Made in America and
the workers, businesses, and innovators who are the driving force behind
their success.  America is the most innovative country in the world, and
together, we will build a competitive economy for the future right here
at home.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
24 through July 30, 2022, as Made in America Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by supporting American workers and
domestic businesses that are the backbone of building a future here in
America and celebrating Made in America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-second, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
