---
date: '2022-07-26'
modified_time: 2022-07-26 11:16:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-26 11:06:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/07/26/a-proclamation-on-national-korean-war-veterans-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on  National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day,\_2022"
---
 
In June of 1950, the United States answered the call to defend freedom
abroad by joining the Republic of Korea in its fight against the
communist regime in North Korea and eventually the People’s Republic of
China.  After 3 years of violent combat across the Korean peninsula, an
armistice was signed by representatives of the United States as head of
the United Nations Command, the People’s Republic of China, and North
Korea.  For nearly 70 years, the ensuing peace and the abiding
relationship between the Korean and American people has been the
foundation for the thriving democracy and incredible economic progress
of the Republic of Korea.  During my recent visit to the Republic of
Korea, I paid tribute to those Korean troops who fought and sacrificed
shoulder‑to-shoulder with Americans, along with our United Nations
counterparts, to defend their country.  Today, our Nation honors those
selfless American service members whose courage and sacrifice helped
forge the armistice, the enduring Alliance between our two nations, and
a lasting legacy of freedom in the Republic of Korea.

Today, the Republic of Korea is our strong ally, a global center of
innovation, and a vibrant democracy.  In Seoul, I affirmed with
President Yoon that the U.S.-ROK Alliance is stronger than ever,
evolving to maintain its role as a linchpin of peace and stability in
the region and increasingly expanding to the global stage.  At Osan Air
Base, I met with some of the brave American troops and their families
who are stationed in the Republic of Korea, still serving side-by-side
with our South Korean allies and strengthening the bonds between our
people. 

     During the Korean War, nearly 1.8 million Americans answered the
call to serve and defend the freedoms and universal values that the
people of South Korea enjoy today.  They faced enormous challenges —
often outnumbered by the enemy, facing extreme heat and cold while
fighting in the mountains and valleys and in the rice paddies and rocky
terrain of the Korean Peninsula.  More than 36,000 of those American
service members were killed in action, along with more than 7,000 Korean
Augmentation to the United States Army soldiers that fought with the
United States Armed Forces — sacrificing everything to defend freedom
and democracy on the Peninsula.  Thousands were held in brutal
captivity.  Thousands remain unaccounted for to this day.  Many more
service members returned home with wounds of war, both visible and
invisible.  The First Lady and I are committed to fully accounting for
all of our Prisoners of War and Missing in Action and fulfilling our
sacred obligation to care for our veterans and their families,
caregivers, and survivors, making sure they receive the benefits and
services they have earned. 

     Today and every day, we continue to remember our Nation’s Korean
War Veterans and honor all that they made possible through service to
our Nation and our highest ideals.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
27, 2022, as National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.  On this day, I
encourage all Americans to reflect on the strength, sacrifices, and
sense of duty of our Korean War Veterans and bestow upon them the high
honor they deserve.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor and give thanks to our
distinguished Korean War Veterans.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

    JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
