---
date: '2025-10-30'
modified_time: 2025-10-30 14:39:15-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-30 14:39:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/the-republic-of-korea-joins-first-lady-melania-trumps-fostering-the-future-together/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "The Republic of Korea Joins First Lady Melania Trump\u2019s Fostering the\
  \ Future Together"
---
 
The Republic of Korea joined First Lady Melania Trump’s Fostering the
Future Together initiative in a new [Technology Prosperity
Deal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/10/u-s-korea-technology-prosperity-deal/)
with the United States. The agreement, the first of its kind as part of
Mrs. Trump’s new global coalition, highlights a shared commitment by
first spouses of heads of governments around the world to empower
children through the promotion of technology, innovation, and education.

“I am proud that the Republic of Korea is joining my global coalition to
empower children through the promotion of technology, innovation, and
education. As a longstanding leader in technological advancement, the
Republic of Korea will offer invaluable insights to the participating
nations in the Fostering the Future Together initiative,” asserted First
Lady Melania Trump.

Developed by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy in
coordination with the Office of the First Lady, and signed during
President Donald J. Trump’s visit to Asia, the U.S.-Korea Technology
Prosperity Deal formalizes cooperation on artificial intelligence (AI)
and emerging technology. The tech deal includes language reflecting the
First Lady’s global initiative, which promotes the responsible use of
advanced technology to support children, educators, and parents while
protecting youth from online dangers.

**BACKGROUND**

Launched during the 80th session of the United Nations General Assembly,
Fostering the Future Together will make available to countries around
the world advanced technology, including AI, to assist children,
educators, and parents while also protecting youth from online dangers.
Major technology companies have developed such tools and agree to make
these advancements available to participating countries, either at no
cost or very low cost.

First spouses interested in participating in this initiative will work
with their respective national governments to assess the different
technologies available. They will engage in dialogues on how to best
implement innovative technologies to create educational opportunities
for the children of their country, train educators and parents, and
design advanced learning environments for the future.

Mrs. Trump will invite Coalition Members to the Fostering the Future
Together inaugural meeting in the White House in 2026 to discuss these
important issues and opportunities. The meeting will be a forum for
Coalition Members who have begun implementing their commitments to
provide insight and recommendations surrounding advantages, risks, and
potential policy ideas to the First Lady and other Coalition Members.
The initiative builds upon the First Lady’s longstanding BE BEST
platform and reflects her ongoing international engagement to advance
the well-being of youth in the digital age.
