---
date: '2025-10-26'
modified_time: 2025-10-26 02:16:27-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-26 02:16:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/agreement-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-malaysia-on-recipricol-trade/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Agreement Between the United States of America and Malaysia on Recipricol Trade
---
 
**Preamble**

The Government of the United States of America (“United States”) and the
Government of Malaysia (“Malaysia”) (hereinafter referred to
individually as “a Party” and collectively as  
“the Parties”),

**EMPHASIZING** their shared values, including their shared commitment
to sovereignty, economic prosperity, and resilient supply chains;

**RECOGNIZING** the bonds of friendship and cooperation between them, in
particular in their trade and investment relations, as reflected in the
*Trade and Investment Framework Agreement between the Government of the
United States and the Government of Malaysia*;

**INTENDING** to enhance reciprocity in their bilateral trade
relationship by addressing tariff and non-tariff barriers; and

**SEEKING** to strengthen their commercial relationship through
increased alignment on national and regional economic security matters,

**HAVE AGREED** as follows:

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1. Tariffs and
Quotas</span>**

**Article 1.1: Tariffs**

1.         Malaysia shall apply a rate of customs
duty<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[1]</a> on originating goods of the
United States as set out in Schedule 1 to Annex I.

2.         The United States shall apply a revised reciprocal tariff
rate on originating goods of Malaysia as set out in Schedule 2 of Annex
I.

**Article 1.2: Quantitative Restrictions**

Malaysia shall not impose quantitative restrictions on imports of
originating goods of the United States except in accordance with the
*General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade* 1994 (GATT 1994).

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 2. Non-Tariff
Barriers and Related Matters</span>**

**Article 2.1: Import Licensing**

Malaysia shall not apply import
licensing<a href="#_ftn2" id="_ftnref2">[2]</a> to U.S. originating
goods in a manner that restricts the importation of such goods. Malaysia
shall ensure that any non-automatic import licensing that it applies is
applied only to administer an underlying measure, and in a manner that
is transparent, nondiscriminatory, and not unduly burdensome, and that
does not reduce the competitiveness of U.S. exports.

**Article 2.2: Technical Regulations, Standards, and Conformity
Assessment**

1.         The Parties recognize their existing rights and obligations
with respect to each other under the World Trade Organization (WTO)
*Agreement on Technical Barriers to Trade*. Malaysia shall allow U.S.
originating goods that comply with applicable U.S. or international
standards, U.S. technical regulations, or U.S. or international
conformity assessment procedures to enter its territory without
additional conformity assessment requirements. In doing so─

\(a\)        Malaysia shall accord to the conformity assessment bodies
of the United States treatment no less favorable than that it accords to
its own bodies; and

\(b\)       Malaysia shall facilitate the acceptance of U.S. compliance
procedures for goods that are not subject to third-party conformity
assessment in the U.S. regulatory framework.

2.         Malaysia shall ensure that technical regulations, standards,
and conformity assessment procedures are applied in a non-discriminatory
manner and do not operate as disguised restrictions on bilateral trade,
and shall remove existing technical barriers to trade in areas that
undermine reciprocity, including requirements for duplicative or
unnecessary testing or conformity assessment.

**Article 2.3: Agriculture**

Malaysia shall provide non-discriminatory or preferential market access
for U.S. agricultural goods as set forth in this Agreement. In doing so─

(a)        Malaysia shall ensure that its sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) measures are science- and risk-based and do not operate as
disguised restrictions on bilateral trade, and shall remove unjustified
SPS barriers in areas that undermine reciprocity.

(b)       Malaysia shall not enter into agreements or understandings
with third countries that include non-scientific, discriminatory, or
preferential technical standards or third-country SPS measures that are
incompatible with U.S. or international standards; or otherwise
disadvantage U.S. exports.

**Article 2.4: Geographical Indications**

Malaysia shall ensure transparency and fairness with respect to the
protection or recognition<a href="#_ftn3" id="_ftnref3">[3]</a> of
geographical indications, including pursuant to an international
agreement to which Malaysia is a party. Malaysia shall only protect or
recognize a term that identifies a good as a geographical indication
where there is a given quality, reputation, or other characteristic of
the good that is essentially attributable to its geographical origin.

**Article 2.5: Cheese and Meat Terms**

Malaysia shall not restrict U.S. market access due to the mere use of
the individual cheese and meat terms listed in Annex II.

**Article 2.6: Intellectual Property**

Malaysia shall provide a robust standard of protection for intellectual
property.<a href="#_ftn4" id="_ftnref4">[4]</a> Malaysia shall provide
effective systems for civil, criminal, and border enforcement of
intellectual property rights and shall ensure that such systems combat
and deter the infringement or misappropriation of intellectual property,
including in the online environment. Malaysia shall prioritize and shall
take effective criminal and border enforcement actions against copyright
and trademark infringements.

**Article 2.7: Services**

This Agreement incorporates, *mutatis mutandis*, any commitment
concerning trade in services that Malaysia has made or hereafter makes
in a trade agreement to any third country, jurisdiction, or economy.
This Article shall not apply to any commitment to the Association of
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) under any ASEAN trade or investment
agreement.

**Article 2.8: Good Regulatory Practices**

Malaysia shall adopt and implement good regulatory practices as set out
in Article 2.21 of Annex III that ensure greater transparency,
predictability, and participation throughout the regulatory lifecycle.

**Article 2.9: Labor**

1.**        ** Malaysia shall adopt and implement a prohibition on the
importation of goods mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part
by forced or compulsory labor. Malaysia may acknowledge U.S. government
determinations on entities under Section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930
and shall take appropriate action to prohibit importation of goods from
those companies. The Parties shall cooperate by sharing best practices
on the development and enforcement of forced labor import prohibitions,
as appropriate. Malaysia shall implement the obligations in this
paragraph within two years of the date of entry into force of this
Agreement.

2.         Malaysia shall protect internationally recognized labor
rights.<a href="#_ftn5" id="_ftnref5">[5]</a> This includes by adopting
or maintaining such rights in its domestic law and practice, and
effectively enforcing its labor laws, including by creating or
maintaining necessary institutions to protect labor rights. Malaysia
shall establish and effectively apply appropriate legal sanctions for
violations of those laws. Malaysia shall not weaken or reduce the
protections in its labor laws and shall address any such weakening or
reduction that has been made to encourage trade or investment to
date.<a href="#_ftn6" id="_ftnref6">[6]</a> In addition, Malaysia shall
address issues related to labor rights that contribute to non-reciprocal
trade.

**Article 2.10: Environment**

Malaysia shall adopt and maintain environmental protections, effectively
enforce its environmental laws, uphold or institute, as necessary,
strong environmental governance structures, and address
environment-related issues that contribute to non-reciprocal trade.

**Article 2.11: Customs and Trade Facilitation**

Malaysia shall facilitate technology solutions that allow for full
pre-arrival processing, paperless trade, and digitalized procedures for
the cross-border movement of goods.

**Article 2.12: Border Measures and Taxes**

1.         Malaysia shall coordinate and endeavor to align its border
measures applicable to third-country imports with relevant border
measures that the United States may adopt in the future, such as
border-adjusted tax measures or other border measures, to combat
regulatory arbitrage that would disadvantage U.S. workers and
businesses.

2.         No Party shall contest at the WTO a measure adopted by the
other Party to rebate or to refrain from imposing direct taxes in
relation to exports from that Party.

3.         Malaysia shall not impose value-added taxes that discriminate
against U.S. companies in law or in fact. 

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 3. Digital Trade and
Technology</span>**

**Article 3.1: Digital Services Tax**

Malaysia shall not impose digital services taxes, or similar taxes, that
discriminate against U.S. companies in law or in fact.

**Article 3.2: Facilitation of Digital Trade**

Malaysiashall facilitate digital trade with the United States, including
by─

\(a\)        refraining from measures that discriminate against U.S.
digital services or U.S. products distributed
digitally;<a href="#_ftn7" id="_ftnref7">[7]</a>

(b)       ensuring the cross-border transfer of data by electronic means
across trusted borders, with appropriate protections, for the conduct of
business; and

\(c\)        endeavoring to collaborate with the United States to
address cybersecurity challenges and matters of mutual interest, which
may include exchanging information on threats and best practices,
promoting the use of relevant international standards, and understanding
capacity-building activities.

**Article 3.3: Digital Trade Agreements**

Malaysia shall consult with the United States before entering into a new
digital trade agreement with another country that jeopardizes essential
U.S. interests.

**Article 3.4: Market Entry Conditions**

1.         Malaysia shall not impose any condition or enforce any
undertaking requiring U.S. persons to transfer or provide access to a
particular technology, production process, source code, or other
proprietary knowledge, or to purchase, utilize, or accord a preference
to a particular technology, as a condition for doing business in its
territory.

2.         Nothing in this Article shall─

(a)        preclude the inclusion or implementation of terms and
conditions related to the provision of source code in commercially
negotiated contracts;

(b)       preclude a Party from requiring that access be provided to
software used for critical infrastructure, to the extent required to
ensure the effective functioning of critical infrastructure, subject to
safeguards against unauthorized disclosure;

(c)        preclude a Party from requiring the modification of source
code of software necessary for that software to comply with laws or
regulations which are not inconsistent with this Agreement;

(d)       apply to government procurement;

(e)        preclude a regulatory body or judicial authority of a Party
from requiring a person of another Party to preserve and make available
the source code of software, or an algorithm expressed in that source
code, to the regulatory body for a specific investigation, inspection,
examination, enforcement action, or judicial proceeding, subject to
safeguards against unauthorized disclosure; or

(f)        apply to a Party’s measures adopted or maintained for
prudential reasons.<a href="#_ftn8" id="_ftnref8">[8]</a>

**Article 3.5: Customs Duties on Electronic Transmissions**

Each Partyshall not impose customs duties on electronic transmissions,
including content transmitted electronically, and shall support
multilateral adoption of a permanent moratorium on customs duties on
electronic transmissions at the WTO. For greater certainty, this Article
does not preclude a Party from imposing internal taxes, fees, or other
charges on electronic transmissions, including content transmitted
electronically, provided that those taxes, fees, or charges are imposed
in a manner consistent with Articles I and III of the GATT 1994 or
Articles II and XVII of the WTO *General Agreement on Trade in Services*
(GATS).

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 4. Rules of
Origin</span>**

**Article 4.1: General Provision**

The Parties intend for the benefits of this Agreement to accrue
substantially to them and their nationals. If benefits of this Agreement
are accruing substantially to third countries or third-country
nationals, a Party may establish rules of origin necessary to achieve
the Parties’ intention for this Agreement.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 5. Economic and
National Security</span>**

**Article 5.1: Complementary Actions**

1.         If the United States imposes a customs duty, quota,
prohibition, fee, charge, or other import restriction on a good or
service of a third country and considers that such measure is relevant
to protecting the economic or national security of the United States,
the United States intends to notify such measure to Malaysia for the
purpose of economic and national security alignment. Upon receiving such
notification from the United States, Malaysia shall adopt or maintain a
measure with equivalent restrictive effect as the measure adopted by the
United States or agree to a timeline for implementation that is
acceptable to both Parties, to address a shared economic or national
security concern, guided by principles of goodwill and a shared
commitment to enhancing bilateral relations between the United States
and Malaysia.

2.         Malaysia shalladopt and implement measures, in accordance
with its domestic laws and regulations, to address unfair practices of
companies owned or controlled by third countries operating in Malaysia’s
jurisdiction that result in─

(a)        the export of below-market price goods to the United States;

(b)       increased exports of such goods to the United States;

(c)        a reduction in U.S. exports to Malaysia; or

(d)       a reduction in U.S. exports to third-country markets.

3.         Malaysia shall adopt, through its domestic regulatory
process, similar measures of equivalent restrictive effect as those
adopted by the United States to encourage shipbuilding and shipping by
market economy countries. The Parties shall discuss the structure and
effect of such measures, recognizing the Parties’ commitment to address
shared economic or national security concerns in the shipbuilding and
shipping sector.

**Article 5.2: Export Controls, Sanctions, Investment Security, and
Related Matters**

1.         Malaysia shall, through its domestic regulatory process,
cooperate with the United States to regulate the trade in national
security-sensitive technologies and goods through existing multilateral
export control regimes, align with all unilateral export controls in
force by the United States, and ensure that its companies do not
backfill or undermine these controls.

2.         Malaysia shall cooperate with the United States, in a manner
consistent with applicable requirements of domestic laws and
regulations, with a view to restricting transactions of its nationals
with individuals and entities included in the U.S. Department of
Commerce Bureau of Industry and Security Entity List (Supplement 4 of
Part 744 of the Export Administration Regulations), as well as the U.S.
Department of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Lists of
Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and
the Non-SDN Consolidated Sanctions List.

3.         Malaysia shall explore the establishment of a mechanism to
review inbound investment for national security risks, including in
connection with critical minerals and critical infrastructure,
consistent with widely accepted international best practices, and shall
cooperate with the United States on matters related to investment
security.

4.         If the United States determines that Malaysia is cooperating
to address shared national and economic security issues, the United
States may take such cooperation into account in administering its
domestic laws and regulations pertaining to export controls, investment
reviews, and other measures.

**Article 5.3: Other Measures**

1.         The United States shall work with Malaysia to streamline and
enhance defense trade.

2.         Malaysia shall, in accordance with its domestic laws and
regulations,adopt and effectively enforce measures to combat
transshipment and other practices to evade or circumvent duties applied
by the United States. Malaysia shall enter into a duty evasion
cooperation agreement with the United States.

3.         If Malaysia enters into a new bilateral free trade agreement
or preferential economic agreement with a country that jeopardizes
essential U.S. interests, the United States may, if consultations with
Malaysia fail to resolve its concerns, terminate this Agreement and
reimpose the applicable reciprocal tariff rate set forth in Executive
Order 14257 of April 2, 2025.

4.         Malaysia shall not purchase any nuclear reactors, fuel rods,
or enriched uranium from certain countries, except where there are no
alternative suppliers on comparable terms and conditions.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 6. Commercial
Considerations and Opportunities</span>**

**Article 6.1: Investment **

1.         With respect to the central level of government, Malaysia
shall, in accordance with its laws and regulations, facilitate and
promote investment by the United States in sectors including critical
minerals, energy resources, power generation, telecommunications,
transportation, and infrastructure services.

2.         The United States shall work through U.S. institutions such
as the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM Bank) and the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), if eligible, to
consider supporting investment financing in critical sectors in Malaysia
in collaboration with U.S. private sector partners, consistent with
applicable law.

3.         Malaysia shall facilitate, to the extent practicable,
approximately USD70 billion in job-creating investment, including
greenfield investment, in the United States over the next 10 years.

**Article 6.2: Commercial Considerations**

1.         Malaysia shall ensure that its State-Owned or -Controlled
Enterprises (SOEs) operating in its market, when engaging in commercial
activities─

(a)        act in accordance with commercial considerations in their
purchase or sale of goods or services; and

\(b\)       refrain from discriminating against U.S. goods or services.

Malaysia shall refrain from providing non-commercial assistance or
otherwise subsidizing its goods-producing SOEs, except for the
achievement of their public service obligations. Malaysia shall ensure a
level playing field for U.S. companies in Malaysia’s market with respect
to SOEs of third countries.

2.         Upon the written request of the United States, Malaysia shall
provide non-confidential<a href="#_ftn9" id="_ftnref9">[9]</a>
information regarding all forms of non-commercial assistance or
subsidies that it provides to a manufacturing enterprise in its
territory, and shall take action to address the distortive impacts of
those subsidies and support mechanisms that may materially affect
bilateral trade and investment with the United States.

**Article 6.3: Purchases**

Malaysia intends to purchase, or to facilitate the purchase by Malaysian
companies, of originating goods of the United States, as set out in
Annex IV.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 7. Implementation,
Enforcement, and Final Provisions</span>**

**Article 7.1: Recognition of Existing Rights and Obligations**

The Parties recognize their rights and obligations under the WTO
agreements, including provisions of those agreements that reflect a WTO
member’s sovereign rights to protect essential security, address unfair
trade practices, and pursue other public policy objectives.

**Article 7.2: Entry into Force**

This Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the date on which
the Parties have exchanged written notifications certifying completion
of their applicable legal procedures or on such other date as the
Parties may agree.

**Article 7.3: Modifications and Amendments**

Either Party may request reasonable modifications to any provision of
this Agreement. The other Party shall consider such modifications in
good faith. The Parties may agree, in writing, to amend this Agreement.
An amendment to this Agreement shall enter into force 60 days after the
date on which the Parties exchange written notification of the
completion of their respective applicable legal procedures or on such
other date as the Parties may agree. An amendment shall not affect the
rights and obligations of the Parties provided for under this Agreement
until the amendment enters into force.

**Article 7.4: Enforcement**

1.         Nothing in this Agreement shall constrain, or otherwise
prevent, a Party from imposing additional tariffs to remedy unfair trade
practices, to address import surges, to protect its economic or national
security, or for other similar reasons consistent with its domestic law.

2.         If a Party considers that the other Party has not complied
with a provision of this Agreement, the Party may review the terms of
this Agreement and take action in accordance with applicable domestic
law. A Party shall, when practicable, with a view to finding a mutually
satisfactory solution, notify and seek consultations in good faith with
the other Party prior to taking any action.

**Article 7.5: Termination**

Either Party may terminate this Agreement by written notification to the
other Party. Termination shall take effect 180 days after the date of
the notification.

**Article 7.6: Annexes, Appendices, and Footnotes**

The annexes, appendices, and footnotes to this Agreement constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.

DONE in duplicate at Kuala Lumpur, this 26th day of October, 2025.

For the Government of the                                         For
the Government of Malaysia:

United States of America:                                         

Donald. J. Trump                                                       
Anwar Ibrahim

President                                                                    
Prime Minister

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[1]</a> **Customs duty** includes any
duty or charge of any kind imposed on or in connection with the
importation of a good, and any surtax or surcharge imposed in connection
with such importation, but does not include any─

(a)        charge equivalent to an internal tax imposed consistently
with Article III:2 of GATT 1994;

(b)        fee or other charge in connection with the importation
commensurate with the cost of services rendered; or

(c)        antidumping or countervailing duty applied pursuant to a
Party’s law.

<a href="#_ftnref2" id="_ftn2">[2]</a> For greater certainty, “import
licensing”, “automatic import licensing”, and “non-automatic import
licensing” have the same meanings as provided in the WTO *Agreement on
Import Licensing Procedures*.

<a href="#_ftnref3" id="_ftn3">[3]</a> For greater certainty, Malaysia
shall not protect or recognize a predetermined list of geographical
indications.

\[4\] For purposes of this Agreement, “intellectual property” refers to
all categories of intellectual property that are the subject of Sections
1 through 7 of Part II of the WTO *Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights*. Further, for purposes of this Agreement,
the protection of intellectual property includes matters related to
technological protection measures and rights management information.

<a href="#_ftnref5" id="_ftn5">[5]</a> For purposes of this paragraph,
internationally recognized labor rights include those in the
International Labor Organization (ILO) *Declaration on Fundamental
Principles and Rights at Work and its Follow-Up (1998)*, as amended in
2022; a prohibition on the worst forms of child labor; and acceptable
conditions of work with respect to minimum wages and hours of work.

\[6\] For greater certainty, the scope of this paragraph includes
special economic zones, including export processing zones, or
sector-specific laws or regulations that have lesser labor protections
than the overall economy.

<a href="#_ftnref7" id="_ftn7">[7]</a> For greater certainty, Malaysia
has the right to regulate in the public interest.

\[8\] The Parties understand that the term “prudential reasons” includes
the maintenance of the safety, soundness, and integrity or financial
responsibility of individual financial service suppliers as well as the
safety and financial and operational integrity of payment and clearing
systems.

<a href="#_ftnref9" id="_ftn9">[9]</a> For purposes of this paragraph,
“non-confidential information” means information other than confidential
information, and “confidential information” means information that
relates to a specific enterprise and is protected under the laws and
regulations of Malaysia.

**[Annexes and
Appendix](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/final.pdf)**
