---
date: '2025-10-26'
modified_time: 2025-10-26 02:17:28-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-26 02:00:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/agreement-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-kingdom-of-camboida-on-recipricol-trade/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Agreement Between the United States of America and the Kingdom of Cambodia
  on Reciprocal Trade
---
 
**AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND THE KINGDOM OF
CAMBODIA ON RECIPROCAL TRADE**

**Preamble**

The United States of America (“United States”) and the Kingdom of
Cambodia (“Cambodia”) (individually “a Party” and collectively “the
Parties”),

**Emphasizing** their shared values, including their shared commitment
to sovereignty, economic prosperity, and resilient supply chains;  

**Recognizing** the bonds of friendship and cooperation between them, in
particular in their trade and investment relations, as reflected in the
Trade and Investment Framework Agreementbetweentheir Governments;

**Intending** to enhance reciprocity in their bilateral trade
relationship by addressing tariff and non-tariff barriers;

**Seeking** to strengthen their commercial relationship through
increased alignment on national and regional economic security matters;
and

**Acknowledging** Cambodia’s current development status as a least
developed country (LDC); 

**HAVE AGREED** as follows:

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1:  Tariffs and
Quotas</span>**

**Article 1.1:  Tariffs**

1.**        ** Cambodiashall apply a rate of customs duty on originating
goods of the United Statesas set out in Schedule 1 to Annex I.

2\. **       ** The United States shall apply a revised reciprocal
tariff rate on originating goods of Cambodia as set out in Schedule 2 to
Annex I.

**Article 1.2:  Quotas**

            Cambodia shall not impose quotas on imports of originating
goods of the United Statesunless otherwise agreed by the Parties.

**Section 2.  Non-Tariff Barriers and Related Matters**

**Article 2.1:  Import Licensing and Technical Regulations, Standards,
and Conformity Assessment**

1.         Cambodia shall not apply import
licensing<a href="#_ftn1" id="_ftnref1">[1]</a> to U.S. goods in a
manner that restricts the importation of such goods.  Cambodia shall
ensure that any non-automatic import licensing that it applies is
applied only to administer an underlying measure, and in a manner that
is transparent, nondiscriminatory, and not unduly burdensome, and that
does not reduce the competitiveness of U.S. exports.

2.         Cambodia shall allow U.S. goods that comply with applicable
U.S. or international standards, U.S. technical regulations, or U.S. or
international conformity assessment procedures to enter its territory
without additional conformity assessment requirements.  In addition:

(a)        Cambodia shall accord to the conformity assessment bodies of
the United States treatment no less favorable than that it accords to
its own bodies.

(b)       Cambodia shall facilitate the acceptance of U.S. compliance
procedures for goods that are not subject to third-party conformity
assessment in the U.S. regulatory framework.

3.         Cambodia shall ensure that technical regulations, standards,
and conformity assessment procedures are applied in a non-discriminatory
manner and do not operate as disguised restrictions on bilateral trade,
and shall remove existing technical barriers to trade in areas that
undermine reciprocity including requirements for duplicative or
unnecessary testing or conformity assessment.

**Article 2.2:  Agriculture**

            Cambodia shall provide non-discriminatory market access for
U.S. agricultural goods as set forth in this Agreement.

(a)        Cambodia shall ensure that its sanitary and phytosanitary
(SPS) measures are science- and risk-based and do not operate as
disguised restrictions on bilateral trade, and shall remove unjustified
SPS barriers in areas that undermine reciprocity.

(b)       Cambodia shall not enter into agreements or understandings
with third countries that include non-scientific, discriminatory, or
preferential technical standards; include third-country SPS measures
that are incompatible with U.S. or international standards; or otherwise
disadvantage U.S. exports to such third countries.  
  

**Article 2.3:  Geographical Indications**

            Cambodia shall ensure transparency and fairness with respect
to the protection or recognition of geographical indications, including
pursuant to an international agreement.  In cases where Cambodia
protects or recognizes a term that identifies a good as a geographical
indication but where there is no given quality, reputation, or other
characteristic of the good that is essentially attributable to its
geographical origin, Cambodia shall permit use of the term in connection
with U.S. goods.

**Article 2.4:  Cheese and Meat Terms**

            Cambodia shall not restrict U.S. market access due to the
mere use of the individual cheese and meat
terms<a href="#_ftn2" id="_ftnref2">[2]</a> listed in Annex II.

**Article 2.5:  Intellectual Property**

            Cambodia shall provide a robust standard of protection for
intellectual property.<a href="#_ftn3" id="_ftnref3">[3]</a>  Cambodia
shall ratify or accede to, and shall fully implement, the international
intellectual property treaties in Article 1.11 of Annex III.  Cambodia
shallprovide effective systems for civil, criminal, and border
enforcement of intellectual property rights and shall ensure that such
systems combat and deter the infringement or misappropriation of
intellectual property, including in the online environment.  Cambodia
shall prioritize and shall take effective criminal and border
enforcement actions against copyright and trademark infringements.

**Article 2.6:  Services**

            Cambodia shall refrain from imposing new barriers that
provide less favorable treatment to U.S. services suppliers than the
treatment afforded to domestic services suppliers and services suppliers
from any third country, jurisdiction, or economy.

**Article 2.7:  Good Regulatory Practices**

            Cambodiashall adopt and implement good regulatory practices
contained in Article 1.14 of Annex III that ensure greater transparency,
predictability, and participation throughout the regulatory lifecycle.

**Article 2.8:  Labor**

1.         Cambodia shall adopt and effectively implement a prohibition
on the importation of goods mined, produced, or manufactured wholly or
in part by forced or compulsory labor, as defined by the relevant
International Labor Organization (ILO) instruments to which Cambodia is
a party.  Cambodiamay acknowledge U.S. government determinations on
entities under Section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 and shall take
appropriate action to prohibit importation of goods from those entities.

2\.         Cambodia shall protect internationally recognized labor
rights.<a href="#_ftn4" id="_ftnref4">[4]</a>  This includes by adopting
or maintaining such rights in its law and practice, and effectively
enforcing its labor laws, including by creating or maintaining necessary
institutions to protect labor rights.  Cambodia shall establish and
effectively apply appropriate legal sanctions for violations of those
laws.  Cambodia shall not weaken or reduce the protections in its labor
laws to encourage trade or
investment.<a href="#_ftn5" id="_ftnref5">[5]</a>  In addition, Cambodia
commits to engage with the United States to address issues related to
labor rights that contribute to non-reciprocal trade.

**Article 2.9:  Environment**

            Cambodia shall adopt and maintain environmental protections,
effectively enforce its environmental laws, uphold or institute as
necessary strong environmental governance structures, and address
environment-related issues that contribute to non-reciprocal trade.

**Article 2.10:  Customs and Trade Facilitation**

1.         Taking into account Cambodia’s status as an LDC, Cambodia
shall, within five years of the date of entry into force of this
Agreement, implement technology solutions that allow for full
pre-arrival processing, paperless trade, and digitalized procedures for
the movement of goods of the United States across its borders.

2.         Cambodia shall maintain transparency and uniformity in the
application of its national tariff nomenclature, including in the
application of advance rulings, and improve the mechanism for resolution
of disputes regarding the tariff classification of imports.

**Article 2.11:  Border Measures and Taxes**

1\.         If the United States adopts a border measure to combat
regulatory arbitrage that would disadvantage U.S. workers and
businesses, Cambodia shall consult with the United States regarding
appropriate border measures to address the issue.

2.         Cambodia shall not contest, including through countervailing
measures or at the World Trade Organization (WTO), any measure adopted
by the United States to rebate or to refrain from imposing direct taxes
in relation to exports from the United States.

3.         Cambodia shall not impose value-added taxes that discriminate
against U.S. companies in law or in fact.

**Section 3.  Digital Trade and Technology**

**Article 3.1:  Digital Services Taxes**

            Cambodia shall not impose digital services taxes, or similar
taxes, that discriminate against U.S. companies, in law or in fact.

**Article 3.2:  Facilitation of Digital Trade  **

            Cambodia shall facilitate digital trade with the United
States, including by refraining from measures that discriminate against
U.S. digital services or U.S. products distributed digitally, ensuring
the free transfer of data across trusted borders for the conduct of
business, and collaborating with the United States to address
cybersecurity challenges.

**Article 3.3:  Digital Trade Agreements**

            Cambodia shall consult with the United States before
entering into a new digital trade agreement with another country that
jeopardizes essential U.S. interests.

**Article 3.4:  Market Entry Conditions**

            Cambodia shall not impose any condition or enforce any
undertaking requiring U.S. persons to transfer or provide access to a
particular technology, production process, source code, or other
proprietary knowledge, or to purchase, utilize, or accord a preference
to a particular technology, as a condition for doing business in its
territory.  This article does not preclude a regulatory body or judicial
authority of Cambodia from requiring a person of the United States to
preserve and make available the source code of software, or an algorithm
expressed in that source code, to the regulatory body or judicial
authority for a specific investigation, inspection, examination,
enforcement action, or judicial proceeding, subject to safeguards
against unauthorized disclosure.

**Article 3.5:  Customs Duties on Electronic Transmissions**

            Cambodia shall not impose customs duties on electronic
transmissions, including content transmitted electronically, and shall
immediately and unconditionally support multilateral adoption of a
permanent moratorium on customs duties on electronic transmissions at
the WTO.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 4.  Rules of
Origin</span>**

**Article 4.1:  General Provisions**

1.         The Parties intend for the benefits of this Agreement to
accrue substantially to them and their nationals.  If benefits of this
Agreement are accruing substantially to third countries or third-country
nationals, a Party may establish rules of origin necessary to achieve
the Parties’ intention for this Agreement.

2.         For greater certainty, Cambodia may promulgate measures, as
necessary, to implement and administer rules of origin in order to
provide the intended tariff treatment to U.S. goods under this
Agreement.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Section 5.  Economic and
National Security**</span>

**Article 5.1:  Complementary Actions**

1.         When the United States imposes a customs duty, quota,
prohibition, fee, charge, or other import restriction on a good or
service of a third country pursuant to relevant domestic law, the United
States intends to notify such measures to Cambodia for the purpose of
economic security alignment.  Upon receiving such notification from the
United States, Cambodia shall regulate the importation of that good or
service into its territory through similar measures as those of the
United States in a manner that does not infringe on Cambodia’s sovereign
interests.

2.**        ** At the request of the United States, Cambodia shall,
consistent with its sovereign interests, adopt and implement measures to
address unfairpractices of companies owned or controlled by third
countries operating in Cambodia’s jurisdiction, including those that
result in:  (1) the export of below-market price goods to the United
States; (2) increased exports of such goods to the United States; (3) a
reduction in U.S. exports to Cambodia; or (4) a reduction in U.S.
exports to third-country markets.

3.         Cambodia shall, consistent with Cambodia’s sovereign
interests, adopt similar measures as those adopted by the United States
with respect to shipping and shipbuilding.  The Parties shall discuss
the structure and effect of such measures.

**Article 5.2:  Export Controls, Sanctions, Investment Security, and
Related Matters**

1\.         Cambodia shall cooperate with the United States to regulate
the trade in national security-sensitive technologies and goods through
existing multilateral export control regimes; align with relevant U.S.
export controls on a case-by-case basis, based on requests from the
United States; and ensure that its companies do not backfill or
undermine these controls.

2\.         Cambodia shall cooperate with the United States with a view
to restricting transactions of its nationals with third-country
individuals and entities included on the U.S. Department of Commerce
Bureau of Industry and Security Entity List (Supplement 4 of Part 744 of
the Export Administration Regulations), as well as the U.S. Department
of the Treasury Office of Foreign Assets Control Lists of Specially
Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List (SDN List) and the Non-SDN
Consolidated Sanctions List.

3\.         At the request of the United States, Cambodia shall
cooperate in providing information available to Cambodia, subject to a
mutually agreed protocol for confidential information, about investment
activity in its territory by third countries with a view toward
increasing transparency and cooperation with the United States,
including through technical exchanges, on economic and national security
matters.

4\.         If the United States determines that Cambodia is cooperating
to address shared national and economic security issues, the United
States may take such cooperation into account in administering its laws
and regulations pertaining to export controls and other measures.

**Article 5.3:  Other Measures**

1.         The United States shall work with Cambodia to streamline and
enhance defense trade.

2.         Cambodiashall adopt and effectively enforce measures to
combat practices that evade or circumvent duties applied by the United
States, including illegal transshipment.  Cambodia shall also enter into
a duty evasion cooperation agreement with the United States.

3.         If Cambodia enters into a new bilateral free trade agreement
or preferential economic agreement that the United States considers
undermines this Agreement or otherwise poses a material threat to
economic or national security, the United States may terminate this
Agreement pursuant to Article 7.4.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 6.  Commercial
Considerations and Opportunities</span>**

**Article 6.1:  Investment**

1.         Cambodia shall allow and facilitate U.S. investment in its
territory to explore, mine, extract, refine, process, transport,
distribute, and export critical minerals and energy resources and to
supply power, telecommunication, transportation, and infrastructure
services on terms no less favorable than it accords to its own investors
in like circumstances, and shall regulate those investments in keeping
with minimum standards of international law.

2\.         The United States shall work through U.S. institutions such
as the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM Bank) and the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation (DFC), if eligible, to
consider supporting investment financing in critical sectors in Cambodia
in collaboration with U.S. private sector partners, consistent with
applicable law.

3\.         Cambodia shall facilitate job-creating, greenfield
investment in the United States.

**Article 6.2:  Commercial Considerations**

1\.         Cambodia shall, to the extent possible, exercise its
ownership or control rights over its State-Owned or -Controlled
Enterprises (SOEs) to cause such entities, when engaging in commercial
activities, to:  (1) act in accordance with commercial considerations in
their purchase or sale of goods or services; and (2) refrain from
discriminating against goods or services of the United States that are
offered on comparable terms and conditions, including price.  Cambodia
shall refrain from providing preferential subsidies to its
goods-producing SOEs.  Cambodia confirms that foreign SOEs and private
enterprises are treated equally under its investment
law.<a href="#_ftn6" id="_ftnref6">[6]</a>

2\.         Upon the written request of the United States regarding any
non-commercial assistance or subsidy that it alleges Cambodia provides
to a domestic manufacturing enterprise in its
territory,<a href="#_ftn7" id="_ftnref7">[7]</a>  Cambodia shall
investigate the allegation and provide, for discussion and
consideration, information regarding any forms of non-commercial
assistance or subsidies that it provides to such domestic manufacturing
enterprise and shall take action to address any significant distortive
impacts of such subsidies and support mechanisms on trade and investment
with the United States.

**Article 6.3:  Purchases**

            As set out in Article 4.1 of Annex III, Cambodia shall
purchase originating goods of the United States.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 7.  Implementation,
Enforcement, and Final Provisions</span>**

**Article 7.1:  Annexes and Footnotes**

            The annexes and footnotes to this Agreement constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.

**Article 7.2:  Amendments**

            The Parties may agree, in writing, to amend this Agreement. 
An amendment shall enter into force on the date on which the later Party
has provided written notice to the other Party of the approval of the
amendment in accordance with applicable legal procedures, or on such
other date as the Parties may agree.

**Article 7.3:  Enforcement**

            If either Party considers that the other Party has not
complied with a provision of this Agreement, the Party may review the
terms of the Agreement and take action in accordance with applicable
domestic law.  Prior to taking such action, the Party shall, when
practicable, seek consultations with the other Party.

**Article 7.4:  Termination**

            Either Party may terminate this Agreement by providing
written notice of termination to the other Party.  Termination shall
take effect six months after the date of such notification.  When
practicable, a Party shall provide the other Party an opportunity to
consult before providing such notice.

**Article 7.5:  Entry Into Force**

            Each Party shall notify the other Party, in writing, once
the internal procedures required for entry into force of this Agreement
have been completed.  This Agreement shall enter into force on the date
of the last notification.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto by
their respective Governments, have signed this Agreement.

DONE in duplicate at Kuala Lumpur, this 26th day of October, 2025.

For the Government of the                                         For
the Government of the

United States of America:                                         
Kingdom of Cambodia:

Donald J. Trump                                                        
Hun Manet

President                                                                    
Prime Minister

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<a href="#_ftnref1" id="_ftn1">[1]</a> For greater certainty, “import
licensing” and “non-automatic import licensing” have the same meanings
as provided in the World Trade Organization *Agreement on Import
Licensing Procedures*.

<a href="#_ftnref2" id="_ftn2">[2]</a> For greater certainty, this
paragraph is without prejudice to multi-component terms that include an
individual cheese or meat term listed in Annex II as a component.

<a href="#_ftnref3" id="_ftn3">[3]</a> For purposes of this Agreement,
“intellectual property” refers to all categories of intellectual
property that are the subject of Sections 1 through 7 of Part II of the
World Trade Organization *Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of
Intellectual Property Rights*.  Further, for purposes of this Agreement,
the protection of intellectual property includes matters related to
technological protection measures and rights management information.

<a href="#_ftnref4" id="_ftn4">[4]</a> For purposes of this paragraph,
internationally recognized labor rights include those in the ILO
*Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and its
Follow-Up (1998)*, as amended in 2022; a prohibition on the worst forms
of child labor; and acceptable conditions of work with respect to
minimum wages and hours of work.

<a href="#_ftnref5" id="_ftn5">[5]</a> For greater certainty, the scope
of this paragraph includes special economic zones, including export
processing zones, or sector-specific laws or regulations that have
lesser labor protections than the overall economy.

<a href="#_ftnref6" id="_ftn6">[6]</a> For greater certainty,
“investment law” refers to the Law on Investment of the Kingdom of
Cambodia, promulgated on October 15, 2021.

<a href="#_ftnref7" id="_ftn7">[7]</a> For greater certainty, generally
available non-discriminatory investment incentives provided under the
Law on Investment of the Kingdom of Cambodia (promulgated on October 15,
2021) are not subject to this provision provided that they do not
materially discriminate or distort bilateral trade or investment.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">[Annex
1](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/Annex-1.pdf)</span>**

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">[Schedule
1](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/3-Cambodia-Art-Schedule-1-Treaty-Size-1.pdf)</span>**

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**[Schedule
2](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/schedule-2.pdf)**</span>
