---
date: '2025-10-26'
modified_time: 2025-10-26 01:45:07-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-26 01:45:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/memorandum-of-understanding-between-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-government-of-the-kingdom-of-thailand-concerning-cooperation-to-diversify-global-critical-minerals-supply-cha/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of
  America and the Government of the Kingdom of Thailand Concerning Cooperation to
  Diversify Global Critical Minerals Supply Chains and Promote Investments
---
 
**MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING**

**between the**

**GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA**

**and the**

**GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND**

**Concerning**

**COOPERATION TO DIVERSIFY GLOBAL CRITICAL MINERALS**

**SUPPLY CHAINS AND PROMOTE INVESTMENTS**

**MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF THAILAND
CONCERNING COOPERATION TO DIVERSIFY GLOBAL CRITICAL MINERALS SUPPLY
CHAINS AND PROMOTE INVESTMENTS**

The Government of the United States of America and the Government of the
Kingdom of Thailand (hereinafter referred to as “the Participants”),   

**SEEKING** to cooperate in strengthening critical minerals resource
sector governance, promoting partnerships between U.S. and Thai
companies, and promoting trade and investment between the Participants
to expand Thailand’s integration into secure and reliable global supply
chains;

**CONSIDERING** the extensive and productive history of trade and
investment between the Participants, as well as the importance of
promoting trade and investment for economic growth and development; 

**RECOGNIZING** the importance of secure, diversified, liquid, and fair
markets for critical minerals supply chains with respect to supporting
exploration, extraction, processing, optimized end-use applications,
recovery, and recycling; 

**ADDITIONALLY RECOGNIZING** the desire to deepen cooperation between
the Participants to benefit mutual economic and resource security;

**EMPHASIZING** the importance of promoting extraction, processing, and
recycling opportunities that adhere to the highest international
standards;

**NOTING** the technical, regulatory, policy, operational, and sector
management expertise and unique experiences in mineral resources that
both countries possess;

**DESIRING** to strengthen trade and investment in critical minerals
supply chains between the Participants, to ensure secure and reliable
global critical mineral supplies, to enable technology transfer, and to
promote research, development, and deployment of innovative
technologies; and

**BELIEVING** that cooperation between the Participants would serve
their common interest in ensuring stable investment conditions for
domestic and foreign investment, increasing the resilience and
sustainability of critical mineral supply chains in their respective
countries, and encouraging partnerships among the business sectors of
both countries in the exploration, development, processing, and end use
of critical minerals;

have reached the following understandings: 

**<u>OBJECTIVE</u>**

The purpose of this Memorandum of Understanding is to strengthen
cooperation between the Participants on critical minerals supply chains
development and expansion; to promote trade and investment between the
Participants in critical mineral resource exploration, extraction,
processing and refining, and recycling and recovery; to encourage
investment that supports domestic value addition and processing
industries rather than solely exporting raw materials; and to support
the transition to open, efficient, secure, and transparent critical
minerals and rare earths markets to improve the strength, security, and
prosperity of critical minerals and rare earths supply chains in the
United States and Thailand. 

**<u>AREAS OF COOPERATION</u>**

1.  The Participants intend to share information, knowledge, and
technical expertise on international best practices to increase the
competitiveness of Thailand’s critical minerals sector; assist Thailand
in analyzing the extent of its critical mineral resource base; and
coordinate, as appropriate, regarding priority projects that advance
secure, resilient, and responsible critical minerals supply chains. 
While each Participant may determine if a project is suitable for
investment, subject to existing agreements between Participants,
Participants expect to have first opportunity to invest, in accordance
with domestic laws, in critical minerals assets that may be sold in
Thailand or by a company headquartered or incorporated in Thailand. 
Investment projects will include provisions for technology transfer,
capacity building, and training of domestic personnel.  Cooperation
should prioritize development of domestic processing industries and
value chains. 

2.  Mechanisms for cooperation may include:  meetings between
Participants’ government officers; workshops, seminars, joint geoscience
work, information exchanges, and other mechanisms on topics of mutual
interest; meetings and information exchanges with the private sector,
universities, and other stakeholders; and capacity-building activities.

3.  Areas of cooperation may include topics relating to good regulatory
practices, such as taking measures to streamline permitting processes;
investment issues; and cooperation between national governments and
provinces, states, or other sub-national government entities.  Further,
the Participants will work in good faith to develop new or strengthen
existing authorities that review and deter certain critical minerals and
rare earths asset sales on national security grounds.

4\.  The Participants intend to provide information to each other
regarding potential tenders and projects at the earliest practicable
moment, and in any case no later than such information is provided to
other potential investors, so as to enable the Participants to
disseminate this information to their companies and partners with
sufficient time for the recipients to participate in such tenders and
projects.

5\.  The Participants will coordinate to protect their respective
domestic critical minerals and rare earths markets on the basis of
market-oriented policy and fair-trade practices, by establishing high
standard marketplaces in which those who meet those high standards can
trade preferentially and within a pricing framework including price
floors or similar measures.

 **<u>IMPLEMENTATION AND INFORMATION SHARING</u>**

The Participants intend to meet in-person or virtually at the working
level on a regular basis to discuss critical minerals supply chain trade
and investment opportunities or may meet, as mutually determined by the
Participants, on an ad hoc basis if a time-sensitive matter arises. 
Each Participant intends to determine independently if a project
discussed during the quarterly meeting is suitable for further
engagement. **  
**

**<u>COMMENCEMENT AND DISCONTINUATION</u>**

1.  This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to become operative
upon the date of its signature by both Participants. 

2.  All cooperation under this Memorandum of Understanding is subject to
the availability of funds.  This Memorandum of Understanding does not
represent an obligation of funds.  Each Participant intends to conduct
the activities provided for under this Memorandum of Understanding in
accordance with its applicable laws and regulations.

3.  This Memorandum of Understanding is not intended to be legally
binding under international law nor to affect any existing agreements
between the Participants.

4.  Either Participant may discontinue cooperation under this Memorandum
of Understanding at any time and should provide written notice of such
discontinuance to the other Participant via diplomatic note.   

5\.  Discontinuation is not intended to affect the implementation of
ongoing activities facilitated under this Memorandum of Understanding
prior to discontinuation.

Signed at Kuala Lumpur on October 26, 2025, in duplicate, in the English
language. 

For the Government of the                                         For
the Government of the

United States of America:                                         
Kingdom of Thailand:

Donald J. Trump                                                        
Anutin Charnvirakul

President                                                                    
Prime Minister
