---
date: '2025-10-19'
modified_time: 2025-10-20 09:23:05-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-19 09:22:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/america-250-presidential-message-on-the-244th-anniversary-of-general-cornwalliss-surrender-at-yorktown/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "America 250: Presidential Message on the 244th Anniversary of General Cornwallis\u2019\
  s Surrender at Yorktown"
---
 
On October 19, 1781, the cause of liberty was immortalized on a
riverside Virginia field when the Continental Army wrested victory from
the arms of the most powerful empire on the face of the Earth—ending
more than 6 years of crushing warfare and concluding the most epic fight
for freedom in the history of the world.  Today, we honor the sacrifice
and invoke the courage of every American giant who secured our
independence at the legendary Siege of Yorktown and throughout the
Revolutionary War, and we renew our resolve that America will never
bend, break, yield, or surrender in the face of tyranny.

After years of fierce fighting for independence, General George
Washington and his Continental Army set forth on a grueling march from
New York to Virginia, where British General Charles Cornwallis and his
army were encamped.  This stand would determine whether the
Patriots—taxed without representation and denied the right to govern
themselves—could finally break free and secure the blessings of
liberty.  Upon arriving in Yorktown on September 28, 1781, the
Patriots—with the help of French forces—pinned the Redcoats within a
perimeter of suffocating trenches.  Low on artillery and waning in
morale, Cornwallis’ men were stranded with little hope of slipping
through the Patriots’ lines—and freedom was in America’s grasp.

Days later, on October 9, American and French soldiers began their first
bombardment, shattering British barricades and kicking off a brutal
stretch of relentless canon fire.  By October 14, the siege lines had
closed in almost entirely and the Patriots were inching closer to
Cornwallis’s main defenses.

At last, on October 19, 1781, history was rewritten as the British
issued their formal surrender—ending all military operations in the
Revolutionary War and ensuring the righteous cause of American
independence for eternity.   Following more than half a decade of
gruesome combat against the mightiest military force on the planet, the
fate of freedom was secured against all odds by a band of farmers,
frontiersmen, blacksmiths, and merchants.  As French General Marquis de
Lafayette famously wrote in the wake of the victory, “Humanity has won
its battle, liberty now has a country.”

Though the war did not formally end until the Treaty of Paris was signed
nearly 2 years later, on that momentous day in Yorktown, American
sovereignty won its ultimate triumph.  Now—244 years later and as we
begin celebrating 250 years of glorious independence—it remains the duty
of every citizen to preserve the spirit of Yorktown and keep this
hard-won legacy of American grit, greatness, and resolve alive for
generations to come.  Today, we salute the heroes who fought for our
freedom at Yorktown, we channel their fortitude, and in their honor, we
pledge to forge a glorious national future inspired by their deeds and
worthy of their sacrifice.
