---
date: '2025-10-27'
modified_time: 2025-10-28 12:15:52-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-27 12:15:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/presidential-message-on-the-birthday-of-president-theodore-roosevelt/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the Birthday of President Theodore Roosevelt
---
 
Today, we mark the birth of a true American original—President Theodore
Roosevelt—and celebrate his tremendous legacy of strength, honor, and
vitality.

Born on this day in 1858, Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. exemplified American
exceptionalism throughout his colorful life.  Tough and gritty,
Roosevelt was a New Yorker through and through.  He was also an
outdoorsman at heart.  Adopting “the strenuous life” at a young age, he
became famous for hunting, boxing, and horseback riding.  Most of all,
Roosevelt was an American hero whose leadership and valor during the
Battle of San Juan Hill became the stuff of military legend—and he
remains the only president to be awarded the Congressional Medal of
Honor for battlefield bravery.  Roosevelt served as a state legislator,
New York City Police Commissioner, Assistant Secretary of the Navy,
Governor of New York, and Vice President of the United States—all before
he reached the age of 45. 

When a radical leftist assassinated President William McKinley in 1901,
Vice President Roosevelt was unexpectedly sworn into office as the 26th
President of the United States. He remains the youngest Commander in
Chief in history.

As President, Roosevelt quickly established a foreign policy famously
rooted in his commonsense motto: speak softly and carry a big stick.  He
understood that when America is strong, prosperous, and free at home,
threats from beyond our shores can be deterred and the world can be at
peace.  President Roosevelt brought to vitality to Washington—constantly
working for the common good and fighting for a “square deal” for the
forgotten men and women of America.  He built the Panama Canal,
prosecuted public and private corruption, removed toxins from our food
and pharmaceuticals, settled labor disputes, and conserved our Nation’s
abundant natural resources to ensure future generations of Americans
could enjoy the fruits of God’s bountiful blessings.  Through his
leadership and negotiation skills, President Roosevelt ended conflicts
across the globe—winning the Nobel Peace Prize for brokering peace
between Imperial Japan and the Russian Empire.

Today, my Administration is proudly reasserting the principles that
drove President Roosevelt’s historic success.  We are holding corrupt
government officials accountable, making America healthy again,
protecting our lands and making our national parks more beautiful than
ever, unleashing our Nation’s energy dominance, and restoring a foreign
policy of peace through strength.  We are reestablishing our leadership
in the Western Hemisphere, restoring our military’s warrior ethos, and
ending centuries-old conflicts in every corner of the world.  And we are
doing all this while putting the American people first.

President Roosevelt thought big, never surrendered, and led our Nation
into the modern era.  He embraced our nation’s bounty and imprinted
himself into the history books—and we carved his likeness in stone in
thanks for his contributions to our Nation’s greatness.  As we begin
celebrating 250 glorious years of American independence, we should look
to President Roosevelt’s example for inspiration to continue fighting to
make America greater than ever before.

Happy birthday, President Roosevelt!
