---
date: '2025-10-26'
modified_time: 2025-10-26 02:12:47-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-26 02:12:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/10/memorandum-of-understanding-between-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-government-of-malaysia-concerning-cooperation-to-diversify-global-critical-minerals-supply-chains-and-promote/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the United States of
  America and the Government of Malaysia Concerning Cooperation to Diversify Global
  Critical Minerals Supply Chains and Promote Investments
---
 
The Government of the United States of America and the Government of
Malaysia (hereinafter referred to as “the Participants”),   

**SEEKING** to cooperate in strengthening critical minerals resource
sector governance, promoting partnerships between United States and
Malaysian companies, and promoting trade with and investment between the
United States and Malaysia to expand Malaysia’s integration into secure
and reliable global supply chains;

**CONSIDERING** the extensive and productive history of trade and
investment between the Participants, as well as the importance of
promoting trade and investment for economic growth and development; 

**RECOGNIZING** the importance of critical mineral supply chains with
respect to supporting exploration, extraction, processing,
manufacturing, optimized end-use applications, recovery, and recycling; 

**ADDITIONALLY RECOGNIZING** the desire to deepen cooperation between
the United States and Malaysia to benefit mutual economic and resource
security;

**EMPHASIZING** the importance of promoting extraction, processing, and
recycling opportunities that adhere to the highest international
standards;

**NOTING** the technical, regulatory, policy, operational, and sector
management expertise and unique experiences in mineral resources that
both countries possess;

**DESIRING** to strengthen trade and investment in critical minerals
supply chains between the Participants, to ensure secure and reliable
global critical mineral supplies, to enable technology transfer, and to
promote research, development, and deployment of innovative
technologies; and

**BELIEVING** that cooperation between the Participants would serve
their common interests in ensuring stable investment conditions for
domestic and foreign investment, increasing the resilience and
sustainability of critical mineral supply chains in their respective
countries, and encouraging partnerships among the business sectors of
both countries in the exploration, development, processing,
manufacturing, and end use of critical minerals;

have reached the following understandings:

**<u>OBJECTIVE</u>**

1\.  The purpose of this Memorandum of Understanding is to strengthen
cooperation between the Participants on critical minerals supply chains
development and expansion; to promote trade and investment between the
Participants in critical mineral resource exploration, extraction,
processing and refining, manufacturing, and recycling and recovery; and
to support the transition to efficient and secure critical mineral and
rare earths markets to improve the security and prosperity of critical
minerals and rare earths supply chains in the United States and
Malaysia. 

**<u>AREAS OF COOPERATION</u>**

1\.  The Participants intend to share relevant information, knowledge,
and technical expertise on international best practices to increase the
competitiveness of Malaysia’s critical minerals sector and coordinate
support for bilateral projects that advance secure, resilient, and
responsible critical mineral supply chains.  Each Participant may
determine if a project is suitable for investment.  Participants will
work in good faith to prioritize investment from the United States in
critical minerals assets that may be sold in Malaysia or by a company
headquartered or incorporated in Malaysia.

2.  Mechanisms for cooperation may include:  meetings between
Participants’ government officers; workshops, seminars, joint geoscience
work, information exchanges, and other mechanisms on topics of mutual
interest; meetings, and workshops and seminars with the private sector,
universities, and other stakeholders; and capacity-building activities.

3.  Areas of cooperation may include topics relating to good regulatory
practices, such as taking measures to streamline permitting processes;
fair and equitable treatment of investors; and project sustainability. 
Further, the Participants commit to work in good faith to strengthen the
review on critical minerals tools and rare earth asset sales as
determined by the respective parties’ authority/government.

4\.  The Participants will coordinate to protect their respective
domestic critical minerals and rare earths markets from non-market
policies and unfair trade practices, by establishing high standard
marketplaces in which those who meet those high standards can trade
freely, protected by a pricing framework that includes price floors or
similar measures. 

**<u>IMPLEMENTATION AND INFORMATION SHARING</u>**

1\.  The Participants intend to meet in-person or virtually at the
working level on a quarterly basis to discuss critical minerals supply
chain trade and investment opportunities or may meet, as mutually
determined by the Participants, on an ad hoc basis if a time-sensitive
matter arises.  Each Participant intends to determine independently if a
project discussed during the quarterly meeting is suitable for further
engagement. 

**<u>COMMENCEMENT AND DISCONTINUATION</u>**

1.  This Memorandum of Understanding is intended to commence upon
signature by both Participants. 

2.  All cooperation under this Memorandum of Understanding is subject to
the availability of funds.  This Memorandum of Understanding does not
represent an obligation of funds.  Each Participant intends to conduct
the activities provided for under this Memorandum of Understanding in
accordance with its applicable laws and regulations.

3.  This Memorandum of Understanding is not intended to be legally
binding nor to affect any existing agreements between the Participants.

4.  Either Participant may discontinue cooperation under this Memorandum
of Understanding at any time and shall provide written notice of such
discontinuance to the other Participant via diplomatic note.   

5\.  Discontinuation is not intended to affect the implementation of
ongoing activities facilitated under this Memorandum of Understanding
prior to discontinuation.

Signed at Kuala Lumpur, on the 26th of October 2025, in duplicate, in
the English language. 

For the Government of the                                         For
the Government of Malaysia:

United States of America:                                         

Donald. J. Trump                                                       
Anwar Ibrahim

President                                                                    
Prime Minister
