---
date: '2025-01-22'
published_time: 2025-01-22 17:41:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/designation-of-ansar-allah-as-a-foreign-terrorist-organization/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Designation Of Ansar Allah as a Foreign Terrorist Organization
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*) (INA), it is hereby ordered as
follows:

Section 1.  Purpose.  This order sets in motion a process by which Ansar
Allah, also known as the Houthis, shall be considered for designation as
a Foreign Terrorist Organization, consistent with section 219 of the INA
(8 U.S.C. 1189).

Supported by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps Quds Force
(IRGC-QF), which arms and trains terrorist organizations worldwide, the
Houthis have fired at U.S. Navy warships dozens of times since 2023,
endangering American men and women in uniform.  Since seizing most
Yemeni population centers by force from the legitimate Yemeni government
in 2014-2015، the Houthis have launched numerous attacks on civilian
infrastructure, including multiple attacks on civilian airports in Saudi
Arabia, the deadly January 2022 attacks on the United Arab Emirates, and
more than 300 projectiles fired at Israel since October 2023.  The
Houthis have also attacked commercial vessels transiting Bab al-Mandeb
more than 100 times, killing at least four civilian sailors and forcing
some Red Sea maritime commercial traffic to reroute, which has
contributed to global inflation.

The Houthis’ activities threaten the security of American civilians and
personnel in the Middle East, the safety of our closest regional
partners, and the stability of global maritime trade.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to cooperate
with its regional partners to eliminate Ansar Allah’s capabilities and
operations, deprive it of resources, and thereby end its attacks on U.S.
personnel and civilians, U.S. partners, and maritime shipping in the Red
Sea.

Sec. 3.  Implementation.  (a)  Within 30 days of the date of this order,
the Secretary of State shall, after consultation with the Director of
National Intelligence and the Secretary of the Treasury, submit a report
to the President, through the National Security Council, concerning the
designation of Ansar Allah as a foreign terrorist organization
consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189.

\(b\)  Within 15 days after submitting the report required under
subsection (a) of this section, the Secretary of State shall take all
appropriate action, consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189, with regards to a
designation of Ansar Allah as a terrorist organization.

\(d\)  Following any designation of Ansar Allah as a foreign terrorist
organization under 8 U.S.C. 1189, the Secretary of State and the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID) shall jointly conduct a review of the United Nations partners,
nongovernmental organizations, and contractors through which USAID works
in Yemen, and identify any entities with a relationship with USAID that
has:

(i)    made payments to members of, or governmental entities controlled
by, Ansar Allah; or

(ii)   has criticized international efforts to counter Ansar Allah while
failing to document Ansar Allah’s abuses sufficiently.

\(e\)  The Administrator of USAID shall take all appropriate action to
terminate the projects, grants, or contracts identified under subsection
(e) of this section as appropriate.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to and does not create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP

      THE WHITE HOUSE,

      January 22, 2025
