---
date: '2025-01-23'
published_time: 2025-01-23 15:38:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/federal-recognition-of-the-lumbee-tribe-of-north-carolina/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Federal Recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

SUBJECT:       Federal Recognition of the Lumbee Tribe of North

Carolina

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1. </span> Purpose and
Policy.  The Lumbee Tribe of North Carolina, known as the People of the
Dark Water, have a long and storied history.  The tribe’s members were
descendants of several tribal nations from the Algonquian, Iroquoian,
and Siouan language families, including the Hatteras, the Tuscarora, and
the Cheraw.  The waters of the Lumbee River and lands that surround it
have protected and provided for the Lumbee people for centuries despite
war, disease, and many other perils.

In 1885, the State of North Carolina recognized the Lumbee people as an
Indian tribe.  1885 N.C. Sess. Laws 92.  In 1956, President Dwight D.
Eisenhower signed the Lumbee Act (Public Law 84-570, 70 Stat. 254),
which recognized the Lumbee as the Lumbee Indians of North Carolina but
denied Lumbee Indians Federal benefits associated with such
recognition.  Today, according to the State of North Carolina, the
Lumbee Tribe consists of more than 55,000 members, making it the largest
tribe east of the Mississippi River and the ninth-largest tribe in the
Nation.

In 2024, the United States House of Representatives passed, by a vote of
311-96, the Lumbee Fairness Act (H.R. 1101), which would grant the
Lumbee Tribe full Federal recognition, but this legislation was not
considered by the United States Senate before the end of the 118th
Congress.  Similar legislation has passed the House of Representatives
several times.

Considering the Lumbee Tribe’s historical and modern significance, it is
the policy of the United States to support the full Federal recognition,
including the authority to receive full Federal benefits, of the Lumbee
Tribe of North Carolina.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Directive for
Recognition Plan.</span>  (a)  Within 90 days of the date of this
memorandum, the Secretary of the Interior shall review all applicable
authorities regarding the recognition or acknowledgement of Indian
tribes and, in consultation with the leadership of the Lumbee Tribe of
North Carolina, shall submit to the President a plan to assist the
Lumbee Tribe in obtaining full Federal recognition through legislation
or other available mechanisms, including the right to receive full
Federal benefits.

(b)  The plan shall include consideration and analysis of each potential
legal pathway to effectuate full Federal recognition of the Lumbee
Tribe, including through an act of the Congress, judicial action, or the
Procedures for Federal Acknowledgement of Indian Tribes set forth in 25
C.F.R. Part 83.

(c)  The Secretary of the Interior is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.
