---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:54:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/regulatory-freeze-pending-review/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Regulatory Freeze Pending Review
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby order all executive
departments and agencies to take the following steps:

(1)  Do not propose or issue any rule in any manner, including by
sending a rule to the Office of the *Federal Register* (the “OFR”),
until a department or agency head appointed or designated by the
President after noon on January 20, 2025, reviews and approves the rule.
 The department or agency head may delegate this power of review and
approval to any other person so appointed or designated by the
President, consistent with applicable law.  The Director or Acting
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (the “OMB Director”) may
exempt any rule that he deems necessary to address emergency situations
or other urgent circumstances, including rules subject to statutory or
judicial deadlines that require prompt action.

(2)  Immediately withdraw any rules that have been sent to the OFR but
not published in the *Federal Register*, so that they can be reviewed
and approved as described in paragraph 1, subject to the exceptions
described in paragraph 1. 

(3)  Consistent with applicable law and subject to the exceptions
described in paragraph 1, consider postponing for 60 days from the date
of this memorandum the effective date for any rules that have been
published in the *Federal Register,* or any rules that have been issued
in any manner but have not taken effect, for the purpose of reviewing
any questions of fact, law, and policy that the rules may raise.  During
this 60-day period, where appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, consider opening a comment period to allow interested parties to
provide comments about issues of fact, law, and policy raised by the
rules postponed under this memorandum, and consider reevaluating pending
petitions involving such rules.  As appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, and where necessary to continue to review these
questions of fact, law, and policy, consider further delaying, or
publishing for notice and comment, proposed rules further delaying such
rules beyond the 60-day period.

(4)  Following the postponement described in paragraph 3, no further
action needs to be taken for those rules that raise no substantial
questions of fact, law, or policy.  For those rules that raise
substantial questions of fact, law, or policy, agencies should notify
and take further appropriate action in consultation with the OMB
Director.

(5)  Comply in all circumstances with any applicable Executive Orders
concerning regulatory management.

As used in this memorandum, “rule” has the definition set forth in
section 551(4), title 5, United States Code.  It also includes any
“regulatory action,” as defined in section 3(e) of Executive Order 12866
of September 30, 1993, as amended, and any “guidance document” as
defined in section 2(b) of Executive Order 13891 of October 9, 2019
(Promoting the Rule of Law Through Improved Agency Guidance Documents),
when that order was in effect.  Thus, the requirements of this
memorandum apply not only to “rules” as defined in section 551(4) of
title 5, but also to any substantive action by an agency (normally
published in the *Federal Register*) that promulgates or is expected to
lead to the promulgation of a final rule or regulation, including
notices of inquiry, advance notices of proposed rulemaking, and notices
of proposed rulemaking.  They shall also apply to any agency statement
of general applicability and future effect that sets forth a policy on a
statutory, regulatory, or technical issue or an interpretation of a
statutory or regulatory issue.

The OMB Director shall oversee the implementation of this memorandum,
and any communications regarding any matters pertaining to this review
should be addressed to the OMB Director.  The OMB Director is also
authorized to establish a process to review pending collections of
information under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, as codified in
chapter 35, title 44, United States Code, and to take actions that the
OMB Director deems appropriate based on that review, consistent with
applicable law.

Should actions be identified that were undertaken before noon on January
20, 2025, that frustrate the purpose underlying this memorandum, I may
modify or extend this memorandum, to require that department and agency
heads consider taking steps to address those actions.

The OMB Director is authorized and directed to publish this memorandum
in the *Federal Register*.

This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law.
