---
date: '2025-01-27'
modified_time: 2025-01-28 10:18:15-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-27 22:47:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/prioritizing-military-excellence-and-readiness/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Prioritizing Military Excellence and Readiness
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and as Commander in Chief of the
Armed Forces of the United States, and to ensure the readiness and
effectiveness of our Armed Forces, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  The United States military has a clear mission:
 to protect the American people and our homeland as the world’s most
lethal and effective fighting force.  Success in this existential
mission requires a singular focus on developing the requisite warrior
ethos, and the pursuit of military excellence cannot be diluted to
accommodate political agendas or other ideologies harmful to unit
cohesion. 

Recently, however, the Armed Forces have been afflicted with radical
gender ideology to appease activists unconcerned with the requirements
of military service like physical and mental health, selflessness, and
unit cohesion.  Longstanding Department of Defense (DoD) policy (DoD
Instruction (DoDI) 6130.03) provides that it is the policy of the DoD to
ensure that service members are “\[f\]ree of medical conditions or
physical defects that may reasonably be expected to require excessive
time lost from duty for necessary treatment or hospitalization.”  As a
result, many mental and physical health conditions are incompatible with
active duty, from conditions that require substantial medication or
medical treatment to bipolar and related disorders, eating disorders,
suicidality, and prior psychiatric hospitalization.

Consistent with the military mission and longstanding DoD policy,
expressing a false “gender identity” divergent from an individual’s sex
cannot satisfy the rigorous standards necessary for military service.
 Beyond the hormonal and surgical medical interventions involved,
adoption of a gender identity inconsistent with an individual’s sex
conflicts with a soldier’s commitment to an honorable, truthful, and
disciplined lifestyle, even in one’s personal life.  A man’s assertion
that he is a woman, and his requirement that others honor this
falsehood, is not consistent with the humility and selflessness required
of a service member. 

For the sake of our Nation and the patriotic Americans who volunteer to
serve it, military service must be reserved for those mentally and
physically fit for duty.  The Armed Forces must adhere to high mental
and physical health standards to ensure our military can deploy, fight,
and win, including in austere conditions and without the benefit of
routine medical treatment or special provisions.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States Government to
establish high standards for troop readiness, lethality, cohesion,
honesty, humility, uniformity, and integrity.  This policy is
inconsistent with the medical, surgical, and mental health constraints
on individuals with gender dysphoria.  This policy is also inconsistent
with shifting pronoun usage or use of pronouns that inaccurately reflect
an individual’s sex.

Sec. 3.  Definitions.  The definitions in the Executive Order of January
20, 2025 (Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring
Biological Truth to the Federal Government) shall apply to this order.

Sec. 4.  Implementation.  (a)  Within 60 days of the date of this order,
the Secretary of Defense (Secretary) shall update DoDI 6130.03 Volume 1
(Medical Standards for Military Service: Appointment, Enlistment, or
Induction (May 6, 2018), Incorporating Change 5 of May 28, 2024) and
DoDI 6130.03 Volume 2 (Medical Standards for Military Service: Retention
(September 4, 2020), Incorporating Change 1 of June 6, 2022) to reflect
the purpose and policy of this Order.

(b)  The Secretary shall promptly issue directives for DoD to end
invented and identification-based pronoun usage to best achieve the
policy outlined in section 2 of this order.

(c)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary shall:

\(i\)   identify all additional steps and issue guidance necessary to
fully implement this order; and 

\(ii\)  submit to the President through the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs a report that summarizes these steps.

(d)  Absent extraordinary operational necessity, the Armed Forces shall
neither allow males to use or share sleeping, changing, or bathing
facilities designated for females, nor allow females to use or share
sleeping, changing, or bathing facilities designated for males.

(e)  Within 30 days of the issuance of the respective updates,
directives, and guidance under subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this
section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall, with respect to the
Coast Guard, issue updates, directives, and guidance consistent with the
updates, directives, and guidance issued under subsections (a), (b), and
(c) of this section.

Sec. 5.  Implementing the Revocation of Executive Order 14004.  (a) 
Pursuant to the Executive Order of January 20, 2025 (Initial Rescissions
of Harmful Executive Orders and Actions), Executive Order 14004 of
January 25, 2021 (Enabling All Qualified Americans To Serve Their
Country in Uniform), has been revoked.  Accordingly, all policies,
directives, and guidance issued pursuant to Executive Order 14004 shall
be rescinded to the extent inconsistent with the provisions of this
order. 

(b)  The Secretary and, with respect to the Coast Guard, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, shall take all necessary steps to implement the
revocations described in subsection (a) of this section and ensure that
all military departments and services fully comply with the provisions
of this order.

Sec. 6.  Severability.  If any provision of this order, or the
application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its
provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)    the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)   the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 27, 2025.
