---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 20:42:18-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:42:17-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/declaring-a-national-energy-emergency/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Declaring a National Energy Emergency
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) (“NEA”), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1. * *Purpose*.*  The energy and critical minerals (“energy”)
identification, leasing, development, production, transportation,
refining, and generation capacity of the United States are all far too
inadequate to meet our Nation’s needs.  We need a reliable, diversified,
and affordable supply of energy to drive our Nation’s manufacturing,
transportation, agriculture, and defense industries, and to sustain the
basics of modern life and military preparedness.  Caused by the harmful
and shortsighted policies of the previous administration, our Nation’s
inadequate energy supply and infrastructure causes and makes worse the
high energy prices that devastate Americans, particularly those living
on low- and fixed-incomes.

This active threat to the American people from high energy prices is
exacerbated by our Nation’s diminished capacity to insulate itself from
hostile foreign actors.  Energy security is an increasingly crucial
theater of global competition.  In an effort to harm the American
people, hostile state and non-state foreign actors have targeted our
domestic energy infrastructure, weaponized our reliance on foreign
energy, and abused their ability to cause dramatic swings within
international commodity markets.  An affordable and reliable domestic
supply of energy is a fundamental requirement for the national and
economic security of any nation.

The integrity and expansion of our Nation’s energy infrastructure —-
from coast to coast -— is an immediate and pressing priority for the
protection of the United States’ national and economic security.  It is
imperative that the Federal government puts the physical and economic
wellbeing of the American people first.

Moreover, the United States has the potential to use its unrealized
energy resources domestically, and to sell to international allies and
partners a reliable, diversified, and affordable supply of energy.  This
would create jobs and economic prosperity for Americans forgotten in the
present economy, improve the United States’ trade balance, help our
country compete with hostile foreign powers, strengthen relations with
allies and partners, and support international peace and security.
 Accordingly, our Nation’s dangerous energy situation inflicts
unnecessary and perilous constraints on our foreign policy.

The policies of the previous administration have driven our Nation into
a national emergency, where a precariously inadequate and intermittent
energy supply, and an increasingly unreliable grid, require swift and
decisive action.  Without immediate remedy, this situation will
dramatically deteriorate in the near future due to a high demand for
energy and natural resources to power the next generation of technology.
 The United States’ ability to remain at the forefront of technological
innovation depends on a reliable supply of energy and the integrity of
our Nation’s electrical grid.  Our Nation’s current inadequate
development of domestic energy resources leaves us vulnerable to hostile
foreign actors and poses an imminent and growing threat to the United
States’ prosperity and national security.

These numerous problems are most pronounced in our Nation’s Northeast
and West Coast, where dangerous State and local policies jeopardize our
Nation’s core national defense and security needs, and devastate the
prosperity of not only local residents but the entire United States
population.  The United States’ insufficient energy production,
transportation, refining, and generation constitutes an unusual and
extraordinary threat to our Nation’s economy, national security, and
foreign policy.  In light of these findings, I hereby declare a national
emergency.

Sec. 2. Emergency Approvals*. * (a)  The heads of executive departments
and agencies (“agencies”) shall identify and exercise any lawful
emergency authorities available to them, as well as all other lawful
authorities they may possess, to facilitate the identification, leasing,
siting, production, transportation, refining, and generation of domestic
energy resources, including, but not limited to, on Federal lands.  If
an agency assesses that use of either Federal eminent domain authorities
or authorities afforded under the Defense Production Act (Public Law
81-774, 50 U.S.C. 4501 *et seq*.) are necessary to achieve this
objective, the agency shall submit recommendations for a course of
action to the President, through the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs.

\(b\)  Consistent with 42 U.S.C. 7545(c)(4)(C)(ii)(III), the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, after consultation
with, and concurrence by, the Secretary of Energy, shall consider
issuing emergency fuel waivers to allow the year-round sale of E15
gasoline to meet any projected temporary shortfalls in the supply of
gasoline across the Nation.

Sec. 3. Expediting the Delivery of Energy Infrastructure*.  *(a)  * *To
facilitate the Nation’s energy supply, agencies shall identify and use
all relevant lawful emergency and other authorities available to them to
expedite the completion of all authorized and appropriated
infrastructure, energy, environmental, and natural resources projects
that are within the identified authority of each of the Secretaries to
perform or to advance.

\(b\)  To protect the collective national and economic security of the
United States, agencies shall identify and use all lawful emergency or
other authorities available to them to facilitate the supply, refining,
and transportation of energy in and through the West Coast of the United
States, Northeast of the United States, and Alaska.

\(c\)  The Secretaries shall provide such reports regarding activities
under this section as may be requested by the Assistant to the President
for Economic Policy.

Sec. 4. * *Emergency Regulations and Nationwide Permits Under the Clean
Water Act (CWA) and Other Statutes Administered by the Army Corps of
Engineers*.  *(a)  Within 30 days from the date of this order, the heads
of all agencies, as well as the Secretary of the Army, acting through
the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works shall:

\(i\)   identify planned or potential actions to facilitate the Nation’s
energy supply that may be subject to emergency treatment pursuant to the
regulations and nationwide permits promulgated by the Corps, or jointly
by the Corps and EPA, pursuant to section 404 of the Clean Water Act, 33
U.S.C. 1344, section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of March 3, 1899,
33 U.S.C. 403, and section 103 of the Marine Protection Research and
Sanctuaries Act of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1413 (collectively, the “emergency
Army Corps permitting provisions”); and

\(ii\)  shall provide a summary report, listing such actions, to the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (“OMB”); the Secretary
of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Civil Works; the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy; and the
Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ).  Such report may
be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this
order.

\(b\)  Agencies are directed to use, to the fullest extent possible and
consistent with applicable law, the emergency Army Corps permitting
provisions to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply.

\(c\)  Within 30 days following the submission of the initial summary
report described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, each department
and agency shall provide a status report to the OMB Director; the
Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary of the
Army for Civil Works; the Director of the National Economic Council; and
the Chairman of the CEQ. Each such report shall list actions taken
within subsection (a)(i) of this section, shall list the status of any
previously reported planned or potential actions, and shall list any new
planned or potential actions that fall within subsection (a)(i).  Such
status reports shall thereafter be provided to these officials at least
every 30 days for the duration of the national emergency and may be
combined, as appropriate, with any other reports required by this order.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant Secretary
of the Army for Civil Works, shall be available to consult promptly with
agencies and to take other prompt and appropriate action concerning the
application of the emergency Army Corps permitting provisions.  The
Administrator of the EPA shall provide prompt cooperation to the
Secretary of the Army and to agencies in connection with the discharge
of the responsibilities described in this section.

Sec. 5*.* Endangered Species Act (ESA) Emergency Consultation
Regulations*. * (a)  No later than 30 days from the date of this order,
the heads of all agencies tasked in this order shall:

\(i\)   identify planned or potential actions to facilitate the Nation’s
energy supply that may be subject to the regulation on consultations in
emergencies, 50 C.F.R. 402.05, promulgated by the Secretary of the
Interior and the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to the Endangered
Species Act (“ESA”), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.; and

\(ii\)  provide a summary report, listing such actions, to the Secretary
of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, the OMB Director, the
Director of the National Economic Council, and the Chairman of CEQ.
 Such report may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports
required by this order.

\(b\)  Agencies are directed to use, to the maximum extent permissible
under applicable law, the ESA regulation on consultations in
emergencies, to facilitate the Nation’s energy supply.

\(c\)  Within 30 days following the submission of the initial summary
report described in subsection (a)(ii) of this section, the head of each
agency shall provide a status report to the Secretary of the Interior,
the Secretary of Commerce, the OMB Director, the Director of the
National Economic Council, and the Chairman of CEQ. Each such report
shall list actions taken within the categories described in subsection
(a)(i) of this section, the status of any previously reported planned or
potential actions, and any new planned or potential actions within these
categories.  Such status reports shall thereafter be provided to these
officials at least every 30 days for the duration of the national
emergency and may be combined, as appropriate, with any other reports
required by this order.  The OMB Director may grant discretionary
exemptions from this reporting requirement.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that the Director of
the Fish and Wildlife Service, or the Director’s authorized
representative, is available to consult promptly with agencies and to
take other prompt and appropriate action concerning the application of
the ESA’s emergency regulations.  The Secretary of Commerce shall ensure
that the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries for the National Marine
Fisheries Service, or the Assistant Administrator’s authorized
representative, is available for such consultation and to take such
other action.

Sec. 6. Convening the Endangered Species Act Committee.  (a)  In acting
as Chairman of the Endangered Species Act Committee, the Secretary of
the Interior shall convene the Endangered Species Act Committee not less
than quarterly, unless otherwise required by law, to review and consider
any lawful applications submitted by an agency, the Governor of a State,
or any applicant for a permit or license who submits for exemption from
obligations imposed by Section 7 of the ESA.

\(b\)  To the extent practicable under the law, the Secretary of the
Interior shall ensure a prompt and efficient review of all submissions
described in subsection (a) of this section, to include identification
of any legal deficiencies, in order to ensure an initial determination
within 20 days of receipt and the ability to convene the Endangered
Species Act Committee to resolve the submission within 140 days of such
initial determination of eligibility.

\(c\)  In the event that the committee has no pending applications for
review, the committee or its designees shall nonetheless convene to
identify obstacles to domestic energy infrastructure specifically
deriving from implementation of the ESA or the Marine Mammal Protection
Act, to include regulatory reform efforts, species listings, and other
related matters with the aim of developing procedural, regulatory, and
interagency improvements.

Sec. 7. Coordinated Infrastructure Assistance*.  *(a)  In collaboration
with the Secretaries of Interior and Energy, the Secretary of Defense
shall conduct an assessment of the Department of Defense’s ability to
acquire and transport the energy, electricity, or fuels needed to
protect the homeland and to conduct operations abroad, and, within 60
days, shall submit this assessment to the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs.  This assessment shall identify specific
vulnerabilities, including, but not limited to, potentially insufficient
transportation and refining infrastructure across the Nation, with a
focus on such vulnerabilities within the Northeast and West Coast
regions of the United States.  The assessment shall also identify and
recommend the requisite authorities and resources to remedy such
vulnerabilities, consistent with applicable law.

\(b\)  In accordance with section 301 of the National Emergencies Act
(50 U.S.C. 1631), the construction authority provided in section 2808 of
title 10, United States Code, is invoked and made available, according
to its terms, to the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, to address any vulnerabilities
identified in the assessment mandated by subsection (a).  Any such
recommended actions shall be submitted to the President for review,
through the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and
the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.

Sec. 8*.  *Definitions*.*  For purposes of this order, the following
definitions shall apply:

\(a\)  The term “energy” or “energy resources” means crude oil, natural
gas, lease condensates, natural gas liquids, refined petroleum products,
uranium, coal, biofuels, geothermal heat, the kinetic movement of
flowing water, and critical minerals, as defined by 30 U.S.C. 1606
(a)(3).

\(b\)  The term “production” means the extraction or creation of energy.

\(c\)  The term “transportation” means the physical movement of energy,
including through, but not limited to, pipelines.

\(d\)  The term “refining” means the physical or chemical change of
energy into a form that can be used by consumers or users, including,
but not limited to, the creation of gasoline, diesel, ethanol, aviation
fuel, or the beneficiation, enrichment, or purification of minerals.

\(e\)  The term “generation” means the use of energy to produce
electricity or thermal power and the transmission of electricity from
its site of generation.

\(f\)  The term “energy supply” means the production, transportation,
refining, and generation of energy.

Sec. 9. General Provisions*.*  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
