---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:31:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/america-first-trade-policy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: America First Trade Policy
---
 
January 20, 2025

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND

   BUDGET

THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR ECONOMIC

   POLICY

THE SENIOR COUNSELOR FOR TRADE AND MANUFACTURING

SUBJECT:                  America First Trade Policy

Section 1.  Background.  In 2017, my Administration pursued trade and
economic policies that put the American economy, the American worker,
and our national security first.  This spurred an American
revitalization marked by stable supply chains, massive economic growth,
historically low inflation, a substantial increase in real wages and
real median household wealth, and a path toward eliminating destructive
trade deficits.

My Administration treated trade policy as a critical component to
national security and reduced our Nation’s dependence on other countries
to meet our key security needs.

Americans benefit from and deserve an America First trade policy. 
Therefore, I am establishing a robust and reinvigorated trade policy
that promotes investment and productivity, enhances our Nation’s
industrial and technological advantages, defends our economic and
national security, and — above all — benefits American workers,
manufacturers, farmers, ranchers, entrepreneurs, and businesses. 

Sec. 2.  Addressing Unfair and Unbalanced Trade.  (a)  The Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the
United States Trade Representative, shall investigate the causes of our
country’s large and persistent annual trade deficits in goods, as well
as the economic and national security implications and risks resulting
from such deficits, and recommend appropriate measures, such as a global
supplemental tariff or other policies, to remedy such deficits.

\(b\)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall investigate
the feasibility of establishing and recommend the best methods for
designing, building, and implementing an External Revenue Service (ERS)
to collect tariffs, duties, and other foreign trade-related revenues.

\(c\)  The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Senior
Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall undertake a review of, and
identify, any unfair trade practices by other countries and recommend
appropriate actions to remedy such practices under applicable
authorities, including, but not limited to, the Constitution of the
United States; sections 71 through 75 of title 15, United States Code;
sections 1337, 1338, 2252, 2253, and 2411 of title 19, United States
Code; section 1701 of title 50, United States Code; and trade agreement
implementing acts.  

\(d\)  The United States Trade Representative shall commence the public
consultation process set out in section 4611(b) of title 19, United
States Code, with respect to the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA) in preparation for the July 2026 review of the USMCA.
 Additionally, the United States Trade Representative, in consultation
with the heads of other relevant executive departments and agencies,
shall assess the impact of the USMCA on American workers, farmers,
ranchers, service providers, and other businesses and make
recommendations regarding the United States’ participation in the
agreement.  The United States Trade Representative shall also report to
appropriate congressional committees on the operation of the USMCA and
related matters consistent with section 4611(b) of title 19, United
States Code.

\(e\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall review and assess the
policies and practices of major United States trading partners with
respect to the rate of exchange between their currencies and the United
States dollar pursuant to section 4421 of title 19, United States Code,
and section 5305 of title 22, United States Code.  The Secretary of the
Treasury shall recommend appropriate measures to counter currency
manipulation or misalignment that prevents effective balance of payments
adjustments or that provides trading partners with an unfair competitive
advantage in international trade, and shall identify any countries that
he believes should be designated as currency manipulators.

\(f\)  The United States Trade Representative shall review existing
United States trade agreements and sectoral trade agreements and
recommend any revisions that may be necessary or appropriate to achieve
or maintain the general level of reciprocal and mutually advantageous
concessions with respect to free trade agreement partner countries. 

\(g\)  The United States Trade Representative shall identify countries
with which the United States can negotiate agreements on a bilateral or
sector-specific basis to obtain export market access for American
workers, farmers, ranchers, service providers, and other businesses and
shall make recommendations regarding such potential agreements.

(h)  The Secretary of Commerce shall review policies and regulations
regarding the application of antidumping and countervailing duty
(AD/CVD) laws, including with regard to transnational subsidies, cost
adjustments, affiliations, and “zeroing.”  Further, the Secretary of
Commerce shall review procedures for conducting verifications pursuant
to section 1677m of title 19, United States Code, and assess whether
these procedures sufficiently induce compliance by foreign respondents
and governments involved in AD/CVD proceedings.  The Secretary of
Commerce shall consider modifications to these procedures, as
appropriate.

\(i\)  The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and
Manufacturing, in consultation with the United States Trade
Representative, shall assess the loss of tariff revenues and the risks
from importing counterfeit products and contraband drugs, e.g.,
fentanyl, that each result from the current implementation of the $800
or less, duty-free *de minimis* exemption under section 1321 of title
19, United States Code, and shall recommend modifications as warranted
to protect both the revenue of the United States and the public health
by preventing unlawful importations.

\(j\)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of Commerce and the United States Trade Representative, shall
investigate whether any foreign country subjects United States citizens
or corporations to discriminatory or extraterritorial taxes pursuant to
section 891 of title 26, United States Code.

\(k\)  The United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the
Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing, shall review the impact of
all trade agreements — including the World Trade Organization Agreement
on Government Procurement — on the volume of Federal procurement covered
by Executive Order 13788 of April 18, 2017 (Buy American and Hire
American), and shall make recommendations to ensure that such agreements
are being implemented in a manner that favors domestic workers and
manufacturers, not foreign nations.

Sec. 3.  Economic and Trade Relations with the People’s Republic of
China (PRC).  (a)  The United States Trade Representative shall review
the Economic and Trade Agreement Between the Government of the United
States of America and the Government of the People’s Republic of China
to determine whether the PRC is acting in accordance with this
agreement, and shall recommend appropriate actions to be taken based
upon the findings of this review, up to and including the imposition of
tariffs or other measures as needed.

\(b\)  The United States Trade Representative shall assess the May 14,
2024, report entitled “Four-Year Review of Actions Taken in the Section
301 Investigation:  China’s Acts, Policies, and Practices Related to
Technology Transfer, Intellectual Property, and Innovation” and consider
potential additional tariff modifications as needed under section 2411
of title 19, United States Code — particularly with respect to
industrial supply chains and circumvention through third countries,
including an updated estimate of the costs imposed by any unfair trade
practices identified in such review — and he shall recommend such
actions as are necessary to remediate any issues identified in
connection with this process.

\(c\)  The United States Trade Representative shall investigate other
acts, policies, and practices by the PRC that may be unreasonable or
discriminatory and that may burden or restrict United States commerce,
and shall make recommendations regarding appropriate responsive actions,
including, but not limited to, actions authorized by section 2411 of
title 19, United States Code. 

\(d\)  The Secretary of Commerce and the United States Trade
Representative shall assess legislative proposals regarding Permanent
Normal Trade Relations with the PRC and make recommendations regarding
any proposed changes to such legislative proposals.

\(e\)  The Secretary of Commerce shall assess the status of United
States intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights, and
trademarks conferred upon PRC persons, and shall make recommendations to
ensure reciprocal and balanced treatment of intellectual property rights
with the PRC.

Sec. 4.  Additional Economic Security Matters.  (a)  The Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the heads of
any other relevant agencies, shall conduct a full economic and security
review of the United States’ industrial and manufacturing base to assess
whether it is necessary to initiate investigations to adjust imports
that threaten the national security of the United States under section
1862 of title 19, United States Code. 

\(b\)  The Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, in
consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, the United States Trade
Representative, and the Senior Counselor for Trade and Manufacturing,
shall review and assess the effectiveness of the exclusions, exemptions,
and other import adjustment measures on steel and aluminum under section
1862 of title 19, United States Code, in responding to threats to the
national security of the United States, and shall make recommendations
based upon the findings of this review. 

\(c\)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, in
cooperation with the heads of other agencies with export control
authorities, shall review the United States export control system and
advise on modifications in light of developments involving strategic
adversaries or geopolitical rivals as well as all other relevant
national security and global considerations.  Specifically, the
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce shall assess and make
recommendations regarding how to maintain, obtain, and enhance our
Nation’s technological edge and how to identify and eliminate loopholes
in existing export controls -– especially those that enable the transfer
of strategic goods, software, services, and technology to countries to
strategic rivals and their proxies.  In addition, they shall assess and
make recommendations regarding export control enforcement policies and
practices, and enforcement mechanisms to incentivize compliance by
foreign countries, including appropriate trade and national security
measures. 

\(d\)  The Secretary of Commerce shall review and recommend appropriate
action with respect to the rulemaking by the Office of Information and
Communication Technology and Services (ICTS) on connected vehicles, and
shall consider whether controls on ICTS transactions should be expanded
to account for additional connected products.

\(e\)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of Commerce and, as appropriate, the heads of any other relevant
agencies, shall review whether Executive Order 14105 of August 9, 2023
(Addressing United States Investments in Certain National Security
Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern) should be modified or
rescinded and replaced, and assess whether the final rule entitled
“Provisions Pertaining to U.S. Investments in Certain National Security
Technologies and Products in Countries of Concern,” 89 Fed. Reg. 90398
(November 15, 2024), which implements Executive Order 14105, includes
sufficient controls to address national security threats.  The Secretary
of the Treasury shall make recommendations based upon the findings of
this review, including potential modifications to the Outbound
Investment Security Program.

\(f\)  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall assess
any distorting impact of foreign government financial contributions or
subsidies on United States Federal procurement programs and propose
guidance, regulations, or legislation to combat such distortion.

\(g\)  The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall assess the unlawful migration and fentanyl flows from Canada,
Mexico, the PRC, and any other relevant jurisdictions and recommend
appropriate trade and national security measures to resolve that
emergency.

Sec. 5.  Reports.  The results of the reviews and investigations,
findings, identifications, and recommendations identified in:

\(a\)  sections 2(a), 2(h), 3(d), 3(e), 4(a), 4(b), 4(c), 4(d), and 4(g)
shall be delivered to me in a unified report coordinated by the
Secretary of Commerce by April 1, 2025;

\(b\)  sections 2(b), 2(e), 2(i), 2(j), and 4(e) shall be delivered to
me in a unified report coordinated by the Secretary of the Treasury by
April 1, 2025;

\(c\)  sections 2(c), 2(d), 2(f), 2(g), 2(k), 3(a), 3(b), and 3(c) shall
be delivered to me in a unified report coordinated by the United States
Trade Representative by April 1, 2025; and

\(d\)  section 4(f) shall be delivered to me by the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget by April 30, 2025.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
