---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 19:01:32-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:53:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-freedom-of-speech-and-ending-federal-censorship/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring Freedom Of Speech And Ending Federal Censorship
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Purpose.* * The First Amendment to the United States
Constitution, an amendment essential to the success of our Republic,
enshrines the right of the American people to speak freely in the public
square without Government interference.  Over the last 4 years, the
previous administration trampled free speech rights by censoring
Americans’ speech on online platforms, often by exerting substantial
coercive pressure on third parties, such as social media companies, to
moderate, deplatform, or otherwise suppress speech that the Federal
Government did not approve.  Under the guise of combatting
“misinformation,” “disinformation,” and “malinformation,” the Federal
Government infringed on the constitutionally protected speech rights of
American citizens across the United States in a manner that advanced the
Government’s preferred narrative about significant matters of public
debate.  Government censorship of speech is intolerable in a free
society.  

     Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to:      
(a)  secure the right of the American people to engage in
constitutionally protected speech;

     (b)  ensure that no Federal Government officer, employee, or agent
engages in or facilitates any conduct that would unconstitutionally
abridge the free speech of any American citizen;

     (c)  ensure that no taxpayer resources are used to engage in or
facilitate any conduct that would unconstitutionally abridge the free
speech of any American citizen; and

     (d)  identify and take appropriate action to correct past
misconduct by the Federal Government related to censorship of protected
speech.

     Sec. 3.  Ending Censorship of Protected Speech.  (a)  No Federal
department, agency, entity, officer, employee, or agent may act or use
any Federal resources in a manner contrary to section 2 of this order.

     (b)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of
executive departments and agencies, shall investigate the activities of
the Federal Government over the last 4 years that are inconsistent with
the purposes and policies of this order and prepare a report to be
submitted to the President, through the Deputy Chief of Staff for
Policy, with recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be
taken based on the findings of the report.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)   the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
