---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 19:01:50-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:53:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/initial-rescissions-of-harmful-executive-orders-and-actions/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Initial Rescissions Of Harmful Executive Orders And Actions
---
 
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

Section 1.  Purpose and Policy.  The previous administration has
embedded deeply unpopular, inflationary, illegal, and radical practices
within every agency and office of the Federal Government.  The injection
of “diversity, equity, and inclusion” (DEI) into our institutions has
corrupted them by replacing hard work, merit, and equality with a
divisive and dangerous preferential hierarchy.  Orders to open the
borders have endangered the American people and dissolved Federal,
State, and local resources that should be used to benefit the American
people.  Climate extremism has exploded inflation and overburdened
businesses with regulation.

To commence the policies that will make our Nation united, fair, safe,
and prosperous again, it is the policy of the United States to restore
common sense to the Federal Government and unleash the potential of the
American citizen.  The revocations within this order will be the first
of many steps the United States Federal Government will take to repair
our institutions and our economy.

     Sec. 2.  Revocation of Orders and Actions.  The following executive
actions are hereby revoked:

     Sec. 3.  Implementation.  (a)  To effectuate the revocations
described in section 2 of this order, the heads of each agency shall
take immediate steps to end Federal implementation of unlawful and
radical DEI ideology.

     (b)  The Director of the Domestic Policy Council (DPC) and the
Director of the National Economic Council (NEC) shall review all Federal
Government actions taken pursuant to the orders, memoranda, and
proclamations listed in section 2 of this order and take necessary steps
to rescind, replace, or amend such actions as appropriate.  Within 45
days of the date of this order, the Director of the DPC and the Director
of the NEC shall submit to the President an additional list of orders,
memoranda, and proclamations issued by the prior administration that
should be rescinded, as well as a list of replacement orders, memoranda,
or proclamations, to increase American prosperity.

     (c)  The National Security Advisor (NSA) shall immediately begin a
complete and thorough review of all National Security Memoranda (NSMs)
issued from January 20, 2021, through January 20, 2025, for harm to
national security, domestic resilience, and American values.  No later
than 45 days from the date of this order, the NSA shall recommend to the
President NSMs for rescission.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
