---
date: '2025-01-27'
modified_time: 2025-01-27 23:35:05-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-27 23:35:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/reinstating-service-members-discharged-under-the-militarys-covid-19-vaccination-mandate/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Reinstating Service Members Discharged Under the Military\u2019s COVID-19\
  \ Vaccination Mandate"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose and
Policy*.* </span> On August 24, 2021, the Secretary of Defense mandated
that all service members receive the COVID-19 vaccine.  The Secretary of
Defense later rescinded the mandate on January 10, 2023.  The vaccine
mandate was an unfair, overbroad, and completely unnecessary burden on
our service members.  Further, the military unjustly discharged those
who refused the vaccine, regardless of the years of service given to our
Nation, after failing to grant many of them an exemption that they
should have received.  Federal Government redress of any wrongful
dismissals is overdue. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Redress*.*</span>
* *Consistent with the policies announced in section 1 of this order,
the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, shall take all necessary action permitted by law to:

(a)  make reinstatement available to all members of the military (active
and reserve) who were discharged solely for refusal to receive the
COVID-19 vaccine and who request to be reinstated;

(b)  enable those service members reinstated under this section to
revert to their former rank and receive full back pay, benefits, bonus
payments, or compensation; and

(c)  allow any service members who provide a written and sworn
attestation that they voluntarily left the service or allowed their
service to lapse according to appropriate procedures, rather than be
vaccinated under the vaccine mandate, to return to service with no
impact on their service status, rank, or pay.

Sec. 3.  Additional Agency Responsibilities*.  *(a)  Nothing in this
order precludes disciplinary or administrative action for conduct that
is proscribed by chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (Uniform
Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C. 801-946a).

\(b\)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to the
President through the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs on their progress in implementing this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Severability. </span>
If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to
any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  General
Provisions*.*</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 27, 2025.
