---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:19:15-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:45:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/unleashing-alaskas-extraordinary-resource-potential/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Unleashing Alaska\u2019s Extraordinary Resource Potential"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: 

Section 1.  Background. *** ***The State of Alaska holds an abundant and
largely untapped supply of natural resources including, among others,
energy, mineral, timber, and seafood. Unlocking this bounty of natural
wealth will raise the prosperity of our citizens while helping to
enhance our Nation’s economic and national security for generations to
come.  By developing these resources to the fullest extent possible, we
can help deliver price relief for Americans, create high-quality jobs
for our citizens, ameliorate our trade imbalances, augment the Nation’s
exercise of global energy dominance, and guard against foreign powers
weaponizing energy supplies in theaters of geopolitical conflict.

Unleashing this opportunity, however, requires an immediate end to the
assault on Alaska’s sovereignty and its ability to responsibly develop
these resources for the benefit of the Nation.  It is, therefore,
imperative to immediately reverse the punitive restrictions implemented
by the previous administration that specifically target resource
development on both State and Federal lands in Alaska.  

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to:

\(a\)  fully avail itself of Alaska’s vast lands and resources for the
benefit of the Nation and the American citizens who call Alaska home;

\(b\)  efficiently and effectively maximize the development and
production of the natural resources located on both Federal and State
lands within Alaska;

\(c\)  expedite the permitting and leasing of energy and natural
resource projects in Alaska; and

\(d\)  prioritize the development of Alaska’s liquified natural gas
(LNG) potential, including the sale and transportation of Alaskan LNG to
other regions of the United States and allied nations within the Pacific
region.

Sec. 3.  Specific Agency Actions.  (a)  The heads of all executive
departments and agencies, including but not limited to the Secretary of
the Interior; the Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under
Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere; and the Secretary of
the Army acting through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Public
Works, shall exercise all lawful authority and discretion available to
them and take all necessary steps to:

\(i\)   rescind, revoke, revise, amend, defer, or grant exemptions from
any and all regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any
other similar agency actions that are inconsistent with the policy set
forth in section 2 of this order, including but not limited to agency
actions promulgated, issued, or adopted between January 20, 2021, and
January 20, 2025; and

\(ii\)  prioritize the development of Alaska’s LNG potential, including
the permitting of all necessary pipeline and export infrastructure
related to the Alaska LNG Project, giving due consideration to the
economic and national security benefits associated with such
development.

(b)  In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this
section, the Secretary of the Interior shall exercise all lawful
authority and discretion available to him and take all necessary steps
to:

\(i\)       withdraw Secretarial Order 3401 dated June 1, 2021
(Comprehensive Analysis and Temporary Halt on All Activities in the
Arctic National Wildlife Refuge Relating to the Coastal Plain Oil and
Gas Leasing Program);

\(ii\)      rescind the cancellation of any leases within the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge, other than such lease cancellations as the
Secretary of the Interior determines are consistent with the policy
interests described in section 2 of this order, initiate additional
leasing through the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program, and issue
all permits, right-of-way permits, and easements necessary for the
exploration, development, and production of oil and gas from leases
within the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge;

\(iii\)     rescind the final supplemental environmental impact
statement entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program
Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement,” which is referred to in
“Notice of Availability of the Final Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing
Program Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska” 89 *Fed.
Reg.* 88805 (November 8, 2024);

\(iv\)      place a temporary moratorium on all activities and
privileges granted to any party pursuant to the record of decision
signed on December 8, 2024, entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing
Program Record of Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of
Availability of the Record of Decision for the Final Supplemental
Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing
Program, Alaska,” 89 *Fed. Reg.* 101042 (December 13, 2024), in order to
review such record of decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies
and for consideration of relevant public interests, and, as appropriate,
conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests,
and environmental impacts;

\(v\)       reinstate the final environmental impact statement entitled
“Final Environmental Impact Statement for the Coastal Plain Oil and Gas
Leasing Program,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability,” 84
*Fed. Reg.* 50472 (September 25, 2019);

\(vi\)       reinstate the record of decision signed on August 21, 2020,
entitled “Coastal Plain Oil and Gas Leasing Program Record of Decision,”
which is referred to in “Notice of 2021 Coastal Plain Alaska Oil and Gas
Lease Sale and Notice of Availability of the Detailed Statement of
Sale,” 85 *Fed. Reg*. 78865 (December 7, 2020);

\(vii\)     evaluate changes to, including the potential recission of,
Public Land Order 5150, signed by the Assistant Secretary of the
Interior on December 28, 1971, and any subsequent amendments,
modifications, or corrections to it;

\(viii\)    place a temporary moratorium on all activities and
privileges granted to any party pursuant to the record of
decision signed on June 27, 2024, entitled “Ambler Road Supplemental
Environmental Impact Statement Record of Decision,” which is referred to
in “Notice of Availability of the Ambler Road Final Supplemental
Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 89 *Fed. Reg.* 32458 (April 26,
2024),  in order to review such record of decision in light of alleged
legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public interests
and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of such
deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts; and reinstate the
record of decision signed on July 23, 2020, by the Bureau of Land
Management and United States Army Corps of Engineers entitled “Ambler
Road Environmental Impact Statement Joint Record of Decision,” which is
referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Record of Decision for the
Ambler Mining District Industrial Access Road Environmental Impact
Statement,” 85 *Fed. Reg.* 45440 (July 28, 2020);

\(ix\)      rescind the Bureau of Land Management final rule entitled
“Management and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska,”
89 *Fed. Reg.* 38712 (May 7, 2024);

\(x\)        rescind any guidance issued by the Bureau of Land
Management related to implementation of protection of subsistence
resource values in the existing special areas and proposed new and
modified special areas in the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska, as
published on their website on January 16, 2025;

\(xi\)      facilitate the expedited development of a road corridor
between the community of King Cove and the all-weather airport located
in Cold Bay;

\(xii\)    place a temporary moratorium on all activities and privileges
granted to any party pursuant to the record of decision signed on April
25, 2022, entitled “National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated
Activity Plan Record of Decision,” (NEPA No.
DOI-BLM-AK-R000-2019-0001-EIS), in order to review such record of
decision in light of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of
relevant public interests and, as appropriate, conduct a new,
comprehensive analysis of such deficiencies, interests, and
environmental impacts;

\(xiii\)   rescind the Bureau of Land Management final rule entitled
“Management and Protection of the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska,”
89 *Fed. Reg.* 38712 (May 7, 2024), and rescind the Bureau of Land
Management notice entitled “Special Areas Within the National Petroleum
Reserve in Alaska,” 89 *Fed. Reg.* 58181 (July 17, 2024);

\(xiv\)    reinstate Secretarial Order 3352 dated May 17, 2017 (National
Petroleum Reserve – Alaska), which is referred to in “Final Report:
 Review of the Department of the Interior Actions that Potentially
Burden Domestic Energy,” 82 *Fed. Reg.* 50532 (November 1, 2017), and
the record of decision signed on December 31, 2020, entitled “National
Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Record of
Decision,” which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the
National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska Integrated Activity Plan Final
Environmental Impact Statement,” 85 *Fed. Reg.* 38388 (June 26, 2020);

\(xv\)     reinstate the following Public Land Orders in their original
form:

1.  Public Land Order No. 7899, signed by the Secretary of the Interior
    on January 11, 2021;
    1.    Public Land Order No. 7900, signed by the Secretary of the
        Interior on January 16, 2021;

    <!-- -->

    1.    Public Land Order No. 7901, signed by the Secretary of the
        Interior on January 16, 2021;

    <!-- -->

    1.    Public Land Order No. 7902, signed by the Secretary of the
        Interior on January 15, 2021;

    <!-- -->

    1.    Public Land Order No. 7903, signed by the Secretary of the
        Interior on January 16, 2021; and

    <!-- -->

    1.    any other such Public Land Order that the Secretary of the
        Interior determines would further the policy interests described
        in section 2 of this order.

(xvi)    immediately review all Department of the Interior guidance
regarding the taking of Alaska Native lands into trust and all Public
Land Orders withdrawing lands for selection by Alaska Native
Corporations to determine if any such agency action should be revoked to
ensure the Department of the Interior’s actions are consistent with the
Alaska Statehood Act of 1958 (Public Law 85-508), the Alaska National
Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) (16 U.S.C. 3101 *et seq.*), the
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act of 1971 (43 U.S.C. 1601, *et seq*.),
the Alaska Land Transfer Acceleration Act (Public Law 108-452), and the
Alaska Native Vietnam-era Veterans Land Allotment Program under section
1629g-1 of title 43, United States Code.

\(xvii\)   rescind the record of decision “Central Yukon Record of
Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan,” signed on November 12,
2024, which is referred to in “Notice of Availability of the Record of
Decision and Approved Resource Management Plan for the Central Yukon
Resource Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 89
*Fed. Reg.* 92716 (November 22, 2024);

(xviii)  reimplement the draft resource management plan and
environmental impact statement referenced in the National Park Service
notice entitled “Notice of Availability for the Central Yukon Draft
Resource Management Plan/Environmental Impact Statement, Alaska,” 85
*Fed. Reg.* 80143 (December 11, 2020);

\(xix\)    rescind the National Park Service final rule entitled
“Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves,” 89 *Fed. Reg.*
55059 (July 3, 2024), and reinstate the National Park Service final rule
entitled “Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves,” 85 *Fed.
Reg.* 35181 (June 9, 2020), in its original form;

\(xx\)     deny the pending request to the United States Fish and
Wildlife Service to an establish indigenous sacred site in the Coastal
Plain of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge;

\(xxi\)    immediately conduct a review of waterways in the State of
Alaska and direct the Bureau of Land Management, in consultation with
the State of Alaska, to provide recommendations of navigable waterways
subject to the equal footing doctrine and the Submerged Lands Act of
1953, as amended, 43 U.S.C. 1301 *et seq.*, and prepare Recordable
Disclaimers of Interest pursuant to section 315 of the Federal Land
Policy and Management Act of 1976, 43 U.S.C. 1745, to restore ownership
of said waterways to the State as appropriate;

\(xxii\)   direct all bureaus of the Department of the Interior to
consider the Alaskan cultural significance of hunting and fishing and
the statutory priority of subsistence management required by the ANILCA,
to conduct meaningful consultation with the State fish and wildlife
management agencies prior to enacting land management plans or other
regulations that affect the ability of Alaskans to hunt and fish on
public lands, and to ensure to the greatest extent possible that hunting
and fishing opportunities on Federal lands are consistent with similar
opportunities on State lands; and

(xxiii)  identify and assess, in collaboration with the Secretary of
Defense, the authorities and public and private resources necessary to
immediately achieve the development and export of energy resources from
Alaska — including but not limited to the long-term viability of the
Trans-Alaska Pipeline System and the associated Federal right-of-way as
an energy corridor of critical national importance — to advance the
Nation’s domestic and regional energy dominance, and submit that
assessment to the President.

\(c\)  In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this
section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall place a temporary moratorium
on all activities and privileges authorized by the final rule and record
of decision entitled  “Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation;
National Forest System Lands in Alaska,” 88 *Fed. Reg*. 5252 (January
27, 2023), in order to review such rule and record of decision in light
of alleged legal deficiencies and for consideration of relevant public
interests and, as appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of
such deficiencies, interests, and environmental impacts.  Further, the
Secretary of Agriculture shall reinstate the final rule entitled
“Special Areas; Roadless Area Conservation; National Forest System Lands
in Alaska,” 85 *Fed. Reg.* 68688 (October 29, 2020).

\(d\)  In addition to the actions outlined in subsection (a) of this
section, the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Assistant
Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, shall render all assistance
requested by the Governor of Alaska to facilitate the clearing and
maintenance of transportation infrastructure, consistent with applicable
law.  All such requests for assistance shall be transmitted to the
Secretary of Defense, Secretary of the Interior, and Assistant to the
President for Economic Policy for approval prior to initiation.

\(e\)  The Assistant Secretary of the Army for Civil Works, under the
direction of the Secretary of the Army, shall immediately review,
revise, or rescind any agency action that may in any way hinder, slow or
otherwise delay any critical project in the State of Alaska.

\(f\)  The Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of
the Interior, shall immediately review, revise or rescind any agency
action that may in any way hinder, slow or otherwise delay any critical
project in the State of Alaska.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
