---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:13:58-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:42:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/temporary-withdrawal-of-all-areas-on-the-outer-continental-shelf-from-offshore-wind-leasing-and-review-of-the-federal-governments-leasing-and-permitting-practices-for-wind-projects/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Temporary Withdrawal of All Areas on the Outer Continental Shelf from Offshore\
  \ Wind Leasing and Review of the Federal Government\u2019s Leasing and Permitting\
  \ Practices for Wind Projects"
---
 
January 20, 2025

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

THE SECRETARY OF AGRICULTURE

               THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY

THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION

   AGENCY

SUBJECT:                  Temporary Withdrawal of All Areas on the Outer

Continental Shelf from Offshore Wind Leasing and

Review of the Federal Government’s Leasing and

Permitting Practices for Wind Projects

Section 1.  Temporary Withdrawal of Areas.  Consistent with the
principles of responsible public stewardship that are entrusted to this
office, with due consideration for a variety of relevant factors,
including the need to foster an energy economy capable of meeting the
country’s growing demand for reliable energy, the importance of marine
life, impacts on ocean currents and wind patterns, effects on energy
costs for Americans –- especially those who can least afford it –- and
to ensure that the United States is able to maintain a robust fishing
industry for future generations and provide low cost energy to its
citizens, I hereby direct as follows:

Under the authority granted to me in section 12(a) of the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1341(a), I hereby withdraw from
disposition for wind energy leasing all areas within the Offshore
Continental Shelf (OCS) as defined in section 2 of the Outer Continental
Shelf Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1331.  This withdrawal shall go into effect
beginning on January 21, 2025, and shall remain in effect until this
Presidential Memorandum is revoked.

To the extent that an area is already withdrawn from disposition for
wind energy leasing, the area’s withdrawal is extended for a time period
beginning on January 21, 2025, until this Presidential Memorandum is
revoked.

This withdrawal temporarily prevents consideration of any area in the
OCS for any new or renewed wind energy leasing for the purposes of
generation of electricity or any other such use derived from the use of
wind.  This withdrawal does not apply to leasing related to any other
purposes such as, but not limited to, oil, gas, minerals, and
environmental conservation.

Nothing in this withdrawal affects rights under existing leases in the
withdrawn areas.  With respect to such existing leases, the Secretary of
the Interior, in consultation with the Attorney General as needed, shall
conduct a comprehensive review of the ecological, economic, and
environmental necessity of terminating or amending any existing wind
energy leases, identifying any legal bases for such removal, and submit
a report with recommendations to the President, through the Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy.

Sec. 2.  Temporary Cessation and Immediate Review of Federal Wind
Leasing and Permitting Practices**.  **(a)  In light of various alleged
legal deficiencies underlying the Federal Government’s leasing and
permitting of onshore and offshore wind projects, the consequences of
which may lead to grave harm — including negative impacts on
navigational safety interests, transportation interests, national
security interests, commercial interests, and marine mammals — and in
light of potential inadequacies in various environmental reviews
required by the National Environmental Policy Act to lease or permit
wind projects, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, and the heads of all other relevant
agencies, shall not issue new or renewed approvals, rights of way,
permits, leases, or loans for onshore or offshore wind projects pending
the completion of a comprehensive assessment and review of Federal wind
leasing and permitting practices.  The Secretary of the Interior shall
lead that assessment and review in consultation with the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce,
through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the
Secretary of Energy, and the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency.  The assessment shall consider the environmental
impact of onshore and offshore wind projects upon wildlife, including,
but not limited to, birds and marine mammals.  The assessment shall also
consider the economic costs associated with the intermittent generation
of electricity and the effect of subsidies on the viability of the wind
industry.

\(b\)  In light of criticism that the Record of Decision (ROD) issued by
the Bureau of Land Management on December 5, 2024, with respect to the
Lava Ridge Wind Project Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), as
approved by the Department of the Interior, is allegedly contrary to the
public interest and suffers from legal deficiencies, the Secretary of
the Interior shall, as appropriate, place a temporary moratorium on all
activities and rights of Magic Valley Energy, LLC, or any other party
under the ROD, including, but not limited to, any rights-of-way or
rights of development or operation of any projects contemplated in the
ROD.  The Secretary of the Interior shall review the ROD and, as
appropriate, conduct a new, comprehensive analysis of the various
interests implicated by the Lava Ridge Wind Project and the potential
environmental impacts.

\(c\)  The Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Energy, and the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall assess the
environmental impact and cost to surrounding communities of defunct and
idle windmills and deliver a report to the President, through the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, with their findings and
recommended authorities to require the removal of such windmills.

\(d\)  The Attorney General may, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, provide notice of this order to any court with
jurisdiction over pending litigation related to any aspect of the
Federal leasing or permitting of onshore or offshore wind projects or
the Lava Ridge Wind Project, and may, in the Attorney General’s
discretion, request that the court stay the litigation or otherwise
delay further litigation, or seek other appropriate relief consistent
with this order, pending the completion of the actions described in
subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this section, as applicable.

This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations. 

This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. You
are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal
Register.*
