---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 20:36:54-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:34:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/unleashing-american-energy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Unleashing American Energy
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: 

Section 1.  Background***.***  America is blessed with an abundance of
energy and natural resources that have historically powered our Nation’s
economic prosperity.  In recent years, burdensome and ideologically
motivated regulations have impeded the development of these resources,
limited the generation of reliable and affordable electricity, reduced
job creation, and inflicted high energy costs upon our citizens.  These
high energy costs devastate American consumers by driving up the cost of
transportation, heating, utilities, farming, and manufacturing, while
weakening our national security.

It is thus in the national interest to unleash America’s affordable and
reliable energy and natural resources.  This will restore American
prosperity —- including for those men and women who have been forgotten
by our economy in recent years.  It will also rebuild our Nation’s
economic and military security, which will deliver peace through
strength.

Sec. 2.  Policy. * *It is the policy of the United States:

\(a\)  to encourage energy exploration and production on Federal lands
and waters, including on the Outer Continental Shelf, in order to meet
the needs of our citizens and solidify the United States as a global
energy leader long into the future;

\(b\)  to establish our position as the leading producer and processor
of non-fuel minerals, including rare earth minerals, which will create
jobs and prosperity at home, strengthen supply chains for the United
States and its allies, and reduce the global influence of malign and
adversarial states;

\(c\)  to protect the United States’s economic and national security and
military preparedness by ensuring that an abundant supply of reliable
energy is readily accessible in every State and territory of the Nation;

\(d\)  to ensure that all regulatory requirements related to energy are
grounded in clearly applicable law;

\(e\)  to eliminate the “electric vehicle (EV) mandate” and promote true
consumer choice, which is essential for economic growth and innovation,
by removing regulatory barriers to motor vehicle access; by ensuring a
level regulatory playing field for consumer choice in vehicles; by
terminating, where appropriate, state emissions waivers that function to
limit sales of gasoline-powered automobiles; and by considering the
elimination of unfair subsidies and other ill-conceived
government-imposed market distortions that favor EVs over other
technologies and effectively mandate their purchase by individuals,
private businesses, and government entities alike by rendering other
types of vehicles unaffordable;           

\(f\)  to safeguard the American people’s freedom to choose from a
variety of goods and appliances, including but not limited to
lightbulbs, dishwashers, washing machines, gas stoves, water heaters,
toilets, and shower heads, and to promote market competition and
innovation within the manufacturing and appliance industries;

\(g\)  to ensure that the global effects of a rule, regulation, or
action shall, whenever evaluated, be reported separately from its
domestic costs and benefits, in order to promote sound regulatory
decision making and prioritize the interests of the American people;

\(h\)  to guarantee that all executive departments and agencies
(agencies) provide opportunity for public comment and rigorous,
peer-reviewed scientific analysis; and

\(i\)  to ensure that no Federal funding be employed in a manner
contrary to the principles outlined in this section, unless required by
law.  

Sec. 3.  Immediate Review of All Agency Actions that Potentially Burden
the Development of Domestic Energy Resources.  (a)  The heads of all
agencies shall review all existing regulations, orders, guidance
documents, policies, settlements, consent orders, and any other agency
actions (collectively, agency actions) to identify those agency actions
that impose an undue burden on the identification, development, or use
of domestic energy resources — with particular attention to oil, natural
gas, coal, hydropower, biofuels, critical mineral, and nuclear energy
resources — or that are otherwise inconsistent with the policy set forth
in section 2 of this order, including restrictions on consumer choice of
vehicles and appliances.    

\(b\)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the head of each agency
shall, in consultation with the director of the Office of Management and
Budget (OMB) and the National Economic Council (NEC), develop and begin
implementing action plans to suspend, revise, or rescind all agency
actions identified as unduly burdensome under subsection (a) of this
section, as expeditiously as possible and consistent with applicable
law.  The head of any agency who determines that such agency does not
have agency actions described in subsection (a) of this section shall
submit to the Director of OMB a written statement to that effect and,
absent a determination by the Director of OMB that such agency does have
agency actions described in this subsection, shall have no further
responsibilities under this section.

\(c\)  Agencies shall promptly notify the Attorney General of any steps
taken pursuant to subsection (a) of this section so that the Attorney
General may, as appropriate:

(i)   provide notice of this Executive Order and any such actions to any
court with jurisdiction over pending litigation in which such actions
may be relevant; and

(ii)  request that such court stay or otherwise delay further
litigation, or seek other appropriate relief consistent with this order,
pending the completion of the administrative actions described in this
order.

\(d\)  Pursuant to the policy outlined in section 2 of this order, the
Attorney General shall consider whether pending litigation against
illegal, dangerous, or harmful policies should be resolved through stays
or other relief.

Sec. 4.  Revocation of and Revisions to Certain Presidential and
Regulatory Actions*. * (a)  The following are revoked and any offices
established therein are abolished:

\(i\)     Executive Order 13990 of January 20, 2021 (Protecting Public
Health and the Environment and Restoring Science to Tackle the Climate
Crisis);

\(ii\)    Executive Order 13992 of January 20, 2021 (Revocation of
Certain Executive Orders Concerning Federal Regulation);

\(iii\)   Executive Order 14008 of January 27, 2021 (Tackling the
Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad);

\(iv\)    Executive Order 14007 of January 27, 2021 (President’s Council
of Advisors on Science and Technology);

\(v\)     Executive Order 14013 of February 4, 2021 (Rebuilding and
Enhancing Programs to Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of
Climate Change on Migration);

\(vi\)    Executive Order 14027 of May 7, 2021 (Establishment of the
Climate Change Support Office);

\(vii\)   Executive Order 14030 of May 20, 2021 (Climate-Related
Financial Risk);

\(viii\)  Executive Order 14037 of August 5, 2021 (Strengthening
American Leadership in Clean Cars and Trucks);

\(ix\)    Executive Order 14057 of December 8, 2021 (Catalyzing Clean
Energy Industries and Jobs Through Federal Sustainability);

\(x\)     Executive Order 14072 of April 22, 2022 (Strengthening the
Nation’s Forests, Communities, and Local Economies);

\(xi\)    Executive Order 14082 of September 12, 2022 (Implementation of
the Energy and Infrastructure Provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act
of 2022); and

\(xii\)   Executive Order 14096 of April 21, 2023 (Revitalizing Our
Nation’s Commitment to Environmental Justice for All).

\(b\)  All activities, programs, and operations associated with the
American Climate Corps, including actions taken by any agency shall be
terminated immediately.  Within one day of the date of this order, the
Secretary of the Interior shall submit a letter to all parties to the
“American Climate Corps Memorandum of Understanding” dated December 2023
to terminate the memorandum, and the head of each party to the
memorandum shall agree to the termination in writing.  

\(c\)  Any assets, funds, or resources allocated to an entity or program
abolished by subsection (a) of this section shall be redirected or
disposed of in accordance with applicable law.  

\(d\)  The head of any agency that has taken action respecting offices
and programs in subsection (a) shall take all necessary steps to ensure
that all such actions are terminated or, if necessary, appropriate, or
required by law, that such activities are transitioned to other agencies
or entities.  

\(e\)  Any contract or agreement between the United States and any third
party on behalf of the entities or programs abolished in subsection (a)
of this section, or in furtherance of them, shall be terminated for
convenience, or otherwise, as quickly as permissible under the law. 

Sec. 5.  Unleashing Energy Dominance through Efficient Permitting.  (a)
 Executive Order 11991 of May 24, 1977 (Relating to protection and
enhancement of environmental quality) is hereby revoked.

\(b\)  To expedite and simplify the permitting process, within 30 days
of the date of this order, the Chairman of the Council on Environmental
Quality (CEQ) shall provide guidance on implementing the National
Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et seq.*, and propose
rescinding CEQ’s NEPA regulations found at 40 CFR 1500 *et seq.*

\(c\)  Following the provision of the guidance, the Chairman of CEQ
shall convene a working group to coordinate the revision of agency-level
implementing regulations for consistency. The guidance in subsection (b)
and any resulting implementing regulations must expedite permitting
approvals and meet deadlines established in the Fiscal Responsibility
Act of 2023 (Public Law 118-5).  Consistent with applicable law, all
agencies must prioritize efficiency and certainty over any other
objectives, including those of activist groups, that do not align with
the policy goals set forth in section 2 of this order or that could
otherwise add delays and ambiguity to the permitting process.

\(d\) * *The Secretaries of Defense, Interior, Agriculture, Commerce,
Housing and Urban Development, Transportation, Energy, Homeland
Security, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA), the Chairman of CEQ, and the heads of any other relevant agencies
shall undertake all available efforts to eliminate all delays within
their respective permitting processes, including through, but not
limited to, the use of general permitting and permit by rule.  For any
project an agency head deems essential for the Nation’s economy or
national security, agencies shall use all possible authorities,
including emergency authorities, to expedite the adjudication of Federal
permits.  Agencies shall work closely with project sponsors to realize
the ultimate construction or development of permitted projects.

\(e\)  The Director of the NEC and the Director of the Office of
Legislative Affairs shall jointly prepare recommendations to Congress,
which shall:

(i)   facilitate the permitting and construction of interstate energy
transportation and other critical energy infrastructure, including, but
not limited to, pipelines, particularly in regions of the Nation that
have lacked such development in recent years; and

\(ii\)  provide greater certainty in the Federal permitting process,
including, but not limited to, streamlining the judicial review of the
application of NEPA.

Sec. 6.  Prioritizing Accuracy in Environmental Analyses.  (a)  In all
Federal permitting adjudications or regulatory processes, all agencies
shall adhere to only the relevant legislated requirements for
environmental considerations and any considerations beyond these
requirements are eliminated.  In fulfilling all such requirements,
agencies shall strictly use the most robust methodologies of assessment
at their disposal and shall not use methodologies that are arbitrary or
ideologically motivated.

\(b\) The Interagency Working Group on the Social Cost of Greenhouse
Gases (IWG), which was established pursuant to Executive Order 13990, is
hereby disbanded, and any guidance, instruction, recommendation, or
document issued by the IWG is withdrawn as no longer representative of
governmental policy including: 

\(i\)    the Presidential Memorandum of January 27, 2021 (Restoring
Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and Evidence-Based
Policymaking);  

\(ii\)   the Report of the Greenhouse Gas Monitoring and Measurement
Interagency Working Group of November 2023 (National Strategy to Advance
an Integrated U.S. Greenhouse Gas Measurement, Monitoring, and
Information System); 

\(iii\)  the Technical Support Document of February 2021 (Social Cost of
Carbon, Methane, and Nitrous Oxide Interim Estimates under Executive
Order 13990); and

\(iv\)   estimates of the social cost of greenhouse gases, including the
estimates for the social cost of carbon, the social cost of methane, or
the social cost of nitrous oxide based, in whole or in part, on the
IWG’s work or guidance.

\(c\)  The calculation of the “social cost of carbon” is marked by
logical deficiencies, a poor basis in empirical science, politicization,
and the absence of a foundation in legislation.  Its abuse arbitrarily
slows regulatory decisions and, by rendering the United States economy
internationally uncompetitive, encourages a greater human impact on the
environment by affording less efficient foreign energy producers a
greater share of the global energy and natural resource market.
 Consequently, within 60 days of the date of this order, the
Administrator of the EPA shall issue guidance to address these harmful
and detrimental inadequacies, including consideration of eliminating the
“social cost of carbon” calculation from any Federal permitting or
regulatory decision.

\(d\)  Prior to the guidance issued pursuant to subsection (c) of this
section, agencies shall ensure estimates to assess the value of changes
in greenhouse gas emissions resulting from agency actions, including
with respect to the consideration of domestic versus international
effects and evaluating appropriate discount rates, are, to the extent
permitted by law, consistent with the guidance contained in OMB Circular
A-4 of September 17, 2003 (Regulatory Analysis).

\(e\)  Furthermore, the head of each agency shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, initiate a process to make such changes
to any rule, regulation, policy or action as may be necessary to ensure
consistency with the Regulatory Analysis.

\(f\)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Administrator of
the EPA, in collaboration with the heads of any other relevant agencies,
shall submit joint recommendations to the Director of OMB on the
legality and continuing applicability of the Administrator’s findings,
“Endangerment and Cause or Contribute Findings for Greenhouse Gases
Under Section 202(a) of the Clean Air Act,” Final Rule, 74 FR 66496
(December 15, 2009).

Sec. 7.  Terminating the Green New Deal.* * (a)  All agencies shall
immediately pause the disbursement of funds appropriated through the
Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (Public Law 117-169) or the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (Public Law 117-58), including
but not limited to funds for electric vehicle charging stations made
available through the National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula
Program and the Charging and Fueling Infrastructure Discretionary Grant
Program, and shall review their processes, policies, and programs for
issuing grants, loans, contracts, or any other financial disbursements
of such appropriated funds for consistency with the law and the policy
outlined in section 2 of this order.  Within 90 days of the date of this
order, all agency heads shall submit a report to the Director of the NEC
and Director of OMB that details the findings of this review, including
recommendations to enhance their alignment with the policy set forth in
section 2.  No funds identified in this subsection (a) shall be
disbursed by a given agency until the Director of OMB and Assistant to
the President for Economic Policy have determined that such
disbursements are consistent with any review recommendations they have
chosen to adopt.

\(b\)  When procuring goods and services, making decisions about leases,
and making other arrangements that result in disbursements of Federal
funds, agencies shall prioritize cost-effectiveness, American workers
and businesses, and the sensible use of taxpayer money, to the greatest
extent.  The Director of OMB shall finalize and circulate guidelines to
further implement this subsection.

\(c\)  All agencies shall assess whether enforcement discretion of
authorities and regulations can be utilized to advance the policy
outlined in section 2 of this order.  Within 30 days of the date of this
order, each agency shall submit a report to the Director of OMB
identifying any such instances.

Sec. 8. * *Protecting America’s National Security.(a) The Secretary of
Energy is directed restart reviews of applications for approvals of
liquified natural gas export projects as expeditiously as possible,
consistent with applicable law.  In assessing the “Public Interest” to
be advanced by any particular application, the Secretary of Energy shall
consider the economic and employment impacts to the United States and
the impact to the security of allies and partners that would result from
granting the application.

\(b\)  With respect to any proposed deepwater port for the export of
liquefied natural gas (project) for which a favorable record of decision
(ROD) has previously been issued pursuant to the Deepwater Port Act of
1974 (DWPA), 33 U.S.C. 1501 *et seq.*, the Administrator of the Maritime
Administration (MARAD) shall, within 30 days of the date of this order
and consistent with applicable law, determine whether any refinements to
the project proposed subsequent to the ROD are likely to result in
adverse environmental consequences that substantially differ from those
associated with the originally-evaluated project so as to present a
seriously different picture of the foreseeable adverse environmental
consequences (seriously different consequences).  In making this
determination, MARAD shall qualitatively assess any difference in
adverse environmental consequences between the project with and without
the proposed refinements, including any potential consequences not
addressed in the final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which shall
be considered adequate under NEPA notwithstanding any revisions to NEPA
that may have been enacted following the final EIS.  MARAD shall submit
this determination, together with a detailed justification, to the
Secretary of Transportation and to the President.

(c)  Pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, if MARAD determines
that such refinements are not likely to result in seriously different
consequences, it shall include in that determination a description of
the refinements to supplement and update the ROD, if necessary and then
no later than 30 additional days, he shall issue a DWPA license.

(d)  If MARAD determines, with concurrence from the Secretary of
Transportation, that such proposed refinements are likely to result in
seriously different consequences, it shall, within 60 days after
submitting such determination, issue an Environmental Assessment (EA)
examining such consequences and, with respect to all other environmental
consequences not changed due to project refinements, shall reaffirm the
conclusions of the final EIS.  Within 30 days after issuing the EA,
MARAD shall issue an addendum to the ROD, if necessary, and shall,
within 30 additional days, issue a DWPA license consistent with the ROD.

Sec. 9. * *Restoring America’s Mineral Dominance*. * (a)  The Secretary
of the Interior, Secretary of Agriculture, Administrator of the EPA,
Chairman of CEQ, and the heads of any other relevant agencies, as
appropriate, shall identify all agency actions that impose undue burdens
on the domestic mining and processing of non-fuel minerals and undertake
steps to revise or rescind such actions.

\(b\)  The Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture shall reassess
any public lands withdrawals for potential revision.

\(c\)  The Secretary of the Interior shall instruct the Director of the
U.S. Geological Survey to consider updating the Survey’s list of
critical minerals, including for the potential of including uranium.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Interior shall prioritize efforts to
accelerate the ongoing, detailed geologic mapping of the United States,
with a focus on locating previously unknown deposits of critical
minerals.

\(e\)  The Secretary of Energy shall ensure that critical mineral
projects, including the processing of critical minerals, receive
consideration for Federal support, contingent on the availability of
appropriated funds.

\(f\)  The United States Trade Representative shall assess whether
exploitative practices and state-assisted mineral projects abroad are
unlawful or unduly burden or restrict United States commerce.

\(g\)  The Secretary of Commerce shall assess the national security
implications of the Nation’s mineral reliance and the potential for
trade action.

\(h\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall assess the quantity and
inflow of minerals that are likely the product of forced labor into the
United States and whether such inflows pose a threat to national
security and, within 90 days of the date of this order, shall provide
this assessment to the Director of the NEC.

\(i\)  The Secretary of Defense shall consider the needs of the United
States in supplying and maintaining the National Defense Stockpile,
review the legal authorities and obligations in managing the National
Defense Stockpile, and take all appropriate steps to ensure that the
National Defense Stockpile will provide a robust supply of critical
minerals in event of future shortfall.

\(j\)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State,
Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Labor, the United States Trade
Representative, and the heads of any other relevant agencies, shall
submit a report to the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy
that includes policy recommendations to enhance the competitiveness of
American mining and refining companies in other mineral-wealthy nations.

\(k\)  The Secretary of State shall consider opportunities to advance
the mining and processing of minerals within the United States through
the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue.

Sec. 10.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\) This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\) This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
