---
date: '2025-01-06'
modified_time: 2025-01-06 10:16:38-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-06 10:16:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/06/memorandum-on-the-withdrawal-of-certain-areas-of-the-united-states-outer-continental-shelf-from-oil-or-natural-gas-leasing-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United\_States Outer\
  \ Continental Shelf from Oil or Natural Gas\_Leasing"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR

SUBJECT:       Withdrawal of Certain Areas of the United States Outer
Continental Shelf from Oil or Natural Gas Leasing

Consistent with principles of responsible public stewardship, and with
due consideration of the irreplaceable marine and coastal environments,
including wildlife and wildlife habitat, of the Bering Sea; and
independently with due consideration of the vulnerability of these
ecosystems and coastal communities, where limited or no oil and natural
gas development has yet occurred, to oil spills; and independently with
due consideration of the national need to curtail, mitigate, build
resilience against, and adapt to the devastating and irreversible
consequences of climate change for the human environment and for the
marine and coastal environments, I hereby direct as follows:

Under the authority granted to me in section 12(a) of the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act, 43 U.S.C. 1341(a), I hereby withdraw from
disposition by oil or natural gas leasing for a time period without
specific expiration the remaining areas that are part of the Northern
Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area, designated in Executive Order 13754
of December 9, 2016 (Northern Bering Sea Climate Resilience), and that
are not currently withdrawn from disposition by leasing.  The Northern
Bering Sea Climate Resilience Area includes waters within the United
States Exclusive Economic Zone bounded to the north by the seaward
boundary of the Bering Straits Native Corporation established pursuant
to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.);
to the south by the southern boundaries of the Northern Bering Sea
Research Area, the St. Matthew Habitat Conservation Area, and the
Nunivak-Kuskokwim Habitat Conservation Area; and to the west by the
maritime boundary delimited by the Agreement Between the United States
of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Maritime
Boundary, signed at Washington, June 1, 1990.  This withdrawal does not
affect the prior withdrawal made in the Norton Basin Planning Area by
Executive Order 13754, or the withdrawal of the North Aleutian Planning
Area by the Presidential Memorandum of December 16, 2014 (Withdrawal of
Certain Areas of the United States Outer Continental Shelf from Leasing
Disposition).

The boundaries of the withdrawn areas are more specifically delineated
in the attached map.  The map forms a part of this memorandum.  The
withdrawal directed by this memorandum prevents consideration of the
withdrawn areas for any future oil or natural gas leasing for purposes
of exploration, development, or production.

Nothing in this withdrawal affects rights under existing leases in the
withdrawn areas.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
