---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:54:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/delivering-emergency-price-relief-for-american-families-and-defeating-the-cost-of-living-crisis/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Delivering Emergency Price Relief for American Families and Defeating the Cost-of-Living
  Crisis
---
 
Over the past 4 years, the Biden Administration’s destructive policies
inflicted an historic inflation crisis on the American people.  The
Biden Administration not only exploded Government spending, artificially
and unsustainably stimulating demand, but it simultaneously made
necessary goods and services scarce through a crushing regulatory burden
and radical policies designed to weaken American production.
 Hardworking families today are overwhelmed by the cost of fuel, food,
housing, automobiles, medical care, utilities, and insurance.

In particular, the assault on plentiful and reliable American energy
through unnecessary and illegal regulatory demands has driven up the
cost of transportation and manufacturing.  In addition, the unlawful
regulatory mandate on companies to effectively eliminate many or most
gas-powered vehicles has resulted in artificial price increases on those
popular vehicles to subsidize electric vehicles disfavored by
consumers. 

Moreover, many Americans are unable to purchase homes due to
historically high prices, in part due to regulatory requirements that
alone account for 25 percent of the cost of constructing a new home
according to recent analysis.

In sum, unprecedented regulatory oppression from the Biden
Administration is estimated to have imposed almost $50,000 in costs on
the average American household, whereas my first-term agenda reduced
regulatory costs by almost $11,000 per household.  It is critical to
restore purchasing power to the American family and improve our quality
of life.

I hereby order the heads of all executive departments and agencies to
deliver emergency price relief, consistent with applicable law, to the
American people and increase the prosperity of the American worker.
 This shall include pursuing appropriate actions to:  lower the cost of
housing and expand housing supply; eliminate unnecessary administrative
expenses and rent-seeking practices that increase healthcare costs;
eliminate counterproductive requirements that raise the costs of home
appliances; create employment opportunities for American workers,
including drawing discouraged workers into the labor force; and
eliminate harmful, coercive “climate” policies that increase the costs
of food and fuel.  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy shall report to me and
every 30 days thereafter, on the status of the implementation of this
memorandum. 
