---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 20:37:50-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:37:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/realigning-the-united-states-refugee-admissions-program/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Realigning the United States Refugee Admissions Program
---
 
REALIGNING THE United States REFUGEE ADMISSIONS PROGRAM

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*, and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  Over the last 4 years, the United States has been
inundated with record levels of migration, including through the U.S.
Refugee Admissions Program (USRAP).  Cities and small towns alike, from
Charleroi, Pennsylvania, and Springfield, Ohio, to Whitewater,
Wisconsin, have seen significant influxes of migrants.  Even major urban
centers such as New York City, Chicago, and Denver have sought Federal
aid to manage the burden of new arrivals.  Some jurisdictions, like New
York and Massachusetts, have even recently declared states of emergency
because of increased migration.

The United States lacks the ability to absorb large numbers of migrants,
and in particular, refugees, into its communities in a manner that does
not compromise the availability of resources for Americans, that
protects their safety and security, and that ensures the appropriate
assimilation of refugees.  This order suspends the USRAP until such time
as the further entry into the United States of refugees aligns with the
interests of the United States.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to ensure that
public safety and national security are paramount considerations in the
administration of the USRAP, and to admit only those refugees who can
fully and appropriately assimilate into the United States and to ensure
that the United States preserves taxpayer resources for its citizens.
 It is also the policy of the United States that, to the extent
permitted by law and as practicable, State and local jurisdictions be
granted a role in the process of determining the placement or settlement
in their jurisdictions of aliens eligible to be admitted to the United
States as refugees.

Sec. 3.  Realignment of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.  (a)  I
hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8
U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that entry into the United States of
refugees under the USRAP would be detrimental to the interests of the
United States.  I therefore direct that entry into the United States of
refugees under the USRAP be suspended — subject to the exceptions set
forth in subsection (c) of this section — until a finding is made in
accordance with section 4 of this order.  This suspension shall take
effect at 12:01 am eastern standard time on January 27, 2025.

(b)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall suspend decisions on
applications for refugee status, until a finding is made in accordance
with section 4 of this order.

(c)  Notwithstanding the suspension of the USRAP imposed pursuant to
subsections (a) and (b) of this section, the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security may jointly determine to admit aliens to
the United States as refugees on a case-by-case basis, in their
discretion, but only so long as they determine that the entry of such
aliens as refugees is in the national interest and does not pose a
threat to the security or welfare of the United States.

(d)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Attorney General, shall examine existing law to determine the extent to
which, consistent with applicable law, State and local jurisdictions may
have greater involvement in the process of determining the placement or
resettlement of refugees in their jurisdictions, and shall devise a
proposal to lawfully promote such involvement.  In all cases, the
Secretary of State and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
ensure that the State and local consultation requirements in 8 U.S.C.
1522(a)(2) are carried out with respect to all refugees admitted to the
United States.

Sec. 4.  Resumption of the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program.  Within 90
days of this order, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, shall submit a report to the President
through the Homeland Security Advisor regarding whether resumption of
entry of refugees into the United States under the USRAP would be in the
interests of the United States, in light of the policies outlined in
section 2 of this order.  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall submit further reports
every 90 days thereafter until I determine that resumption of the USRAP
is in the interests of the United States.

Sec. 5.  Revocation.  Executive Order 14013 of February 4, 2021
(Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs To Resettle Refugees and Planning for
the Impact of Climate Change on Migration), is hereby revoked.

Sec. 6.  Severability.  If any provision of this order, or the
application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its other
provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,     January 20, 2025.
