---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:29:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-accountability-to-policy-influencing-positions-within-the-federal-workforce/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring Accountability To Policy-Influencing Positions Within the Federal
  Workforce
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301, 3302, and
7511 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

  
            Section 1.  Purpose.  Article II of the United States
Constitution vests the President with the sole and exclusive authority
over the executive branch, including the authority to manage the Federal
workforce to ensure effective execution of Federal law.  A critical
aspect of this executive function is the responsibility to maintain
professionalism and accountability within the civil service.  This
accountability is sorely lacking today.  Only 41 percent of civil
service supervisors are confident that they can remove an employee who
engaged in insubordination or serious misconduct.  Even fewer
supervisors –- 26 percent — are confident that they can remove an
employee for poor performance.

Accountability is essential for all Federal employees, but it is
especially important for those who are in policy-influencing positions. 
These personnel are entrusted to shape and implement actions that have a
significant impact on all Americans.  Any power they have is delegated
by the President, and they must be accountable to the President, who is
the only member of the executive branch, other than the Vice President,
elected and directly accountable to the American people.  In recent
years, however, there have been numerous and well-documented cases of
career Federal employees resisting and undermining the policies and
directives of their executive leadership.  Principles of good
administration, therefore, necessitate action to restore accountability
to the career civil service, beginning with positions of a confidential,
policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.

Sec. 2.  Reinstatement of Prior Administration Policy.  Executive Order
13957 of October 21, 2020 (Creating Schedule F in the Excepted Service),
is hereby immediately reinstated with full force and effect, subject to
the amendments described in section 3 of this order; provided that the
date of this order shall be treated as the date of Executive Order
13957.

Sec. 3.  Amendments to Prior Administration Policy.  Executive Order
13957 is amended as follows:

\(a\)  replace the letter “F” throughout, when used to designate an
excepted service schedule, with the words “Policy/Career”;

\(b\)  in section 1:

\(i\)   remove the text between the words “make necessary” in the
seventh paragraph and “excepting such positions” in the eighth
paragraph; and

\(ii\)  insert the text “competitive service and the” immediately before
the words “adverse action procedures” in the eighth paragraph;

\(c\)  in section 4(a)(i), replace the word “Positions” with the words
“Career positions” in the final paragraph;

\(d\)  in section 4(b)(i), add the text “providing for the application
of Civil Service Rule 6.3(a) to Schedule Policy/Career positions and”
after the words “as appropriate”;

\(e\)  in section 5:

\(i\)   insert the words “recommend that the President” immediately
after the words “petition the Director to” in subsection (a)(i);

\(ii\)  insert the following text at the end of subsection (c):

“(vi)  directly or indirectly supervising employees in Schedule
Policy/Career positions; or

\(vii\)  duties that the Director otherwise indicates may be appropriate
for inclusion in Schedule Policy/Career.”; and

\(iii\)  amend subsection (d) to read “The Director shall promptly
recommend to the President which positions should be placed in Schedule
Policy/Career.”;

\(f\)  in section 6:

\(i\)   designate the existing text as new subsection  
“(a)”;

\(ii\)  insert a new subsection (b) that reads:  
“(b)  Employees in or applicants for Schedule Policy/Career positions
are not required to personally or politically support the current
President or the policies of the current administration. They are
required to faithfully implement administration policies to the best of
their ability, consistent with their constitutional oath and the vesting
of executive authority solely in the President.  Failure to do so is
grounds for dismissal.”

Sec. 4.  Conforming Regulatory Changes.  The Director of the Office of
Personnel Management (Director) shall promptly amend the Civil Service
Regulations to rescind all changes made by the final rule of April 9,
2024, “Upholding Civil Service Protections and Merit System Principles,”
89 *Fed. Reg.* 24982, that impede the purposes of or would otherwise
affect the implementation of Executive Order 13957.  Until such
rescissions are effectuated (including the resolution of any judicial
review), 5 CFR part 302, subpart F, 5 CFR 210.102(b)(3), and 5 CFR
210.102(b)(4) shall be held inoperative and without effect.

Sec. 5.  Additional Positions for Consideration.  Within 30 days of the
date of this order, the Director shall, after consultation with the
Executive Office of the President, issue guidance about additional
categories of positions that executive departments and agencies should
consider recommending for Schedule Policy/Career.

Sec. 6.  Revocation.  Executive Order 14003 of January 22, 2021
(Protecting the Federal Workforce), is hereby revoked, and any rules,
regulations, guidance, or other agency policies effectuated under
Executive Order 14003 shall not be enforced.  The heads of each
executive department and agency shall review and identify existing
agency actions relating to or arising under section 3(e)(v) and 3(f) of
Executive Order 14003 (relating to suspending, revising, or rescinding
revisions to discipline and unacceptable performance policies) and, as
soon as practicable, suspend, revise, or rescind such actions identified
in the review.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
