---
date: '2025-01-08'
published_time: 2025-01-08 11:07:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/08/executive-order-on-taking-additional-steps-with-respect-to-the-situation-in-the-western-balkans/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Taking Additional Steps with Respect to the Situation in\
  \ the Western\_Balkans"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) (NEA), section 212(f)
of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code,

I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America, in
view of events in the Western Balkans, including continued attempts by
individuals to challenge the sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Western Balkans nations, to undermine post-war agreements and
institutions, to engage in significant corruption that erodes the rule
of law and trust in democratic governance, and to evade United States
Government sanctions, and in order to take additional steps with respect
to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219 of June 26,
2001 (Blocking Property of Persons Who Threaten International
Stabilization Efforts in the Western Balkans), as amended by Executive
Order 13304 of May 28, 2003 (Termination of Emergencies With Respect to
Yugoslavia and Modification of Executive Order 13219 of June 26, 2001),
and expanded in scope by Executive Order 14033 of June 8, 2021 (Blocking
Property and Suspending Entry Into the United States of Certain Persons
Contributing to the Destabilizing Situation in the Western Balkans),
hereby order:

Section 1.  Amendments to Executive Order 14033. Executive Order 14033
is hereby amended by striking section 1 and inserting, in lieu thereof,
the following:

“Section 1.  (a)  All property and interests in property that are in the
United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that are
or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United States
person of the following persons are blocked and may not be transferred,
paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:  any person determined
by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of
State:

\(i\)     to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, actions or policies that
threaten the peace, security, stability, or territorial integrity of any
area or state in the Western Balkans;

\(ii\)    to be responsible for or complicit in, including by
involvement in developing, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or
attempted to engage in, actions or policies that undermine democratic
processes or institutions in the Western Balkans;

\(iii\)   to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, a violation of, or an act
that has obstructed or threatened the implementation of, any regional
security, peace, cooperation, or mutual recognition agreement or
framework or accountability mechanism, or to pose a significant risk of
committing such an act, related to the Western Balkans, including the
Prespa Agreement of 2018; the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001; United
Nations Security Council Resolution 1244; the Dayton Accords; or the
Conclusions of the Peace Implementation Conference Council held in
London in December 1995, including the decisions or conclusions of the
High Representative, the Peace Implementation Council, or its Steering
Board; or the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia,
or, with respect to the former Yugoslavia, the International Residual
Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals;

\(iv\)    to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, serious human rights abuse
in the Western Balkans;

\(v\)     to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, corruption related to the
Western Balkans, including corruption by, on behalf of, or otherwise
related to a government in the Western Balkans, or a current or former
government official at any level of government in the Western Balkans,
such as the misappropriation of public assets, expropriation of private
assets for personal gain or political purposes, or bribery;

\(vi\)    to be a leader, official, or member of an entity, including a
government entity, that has engaged in, or attempted to engage in, any
of the activities described in subsections (1)(a)(i)-(v) of this order,
or whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this
order;

\(vii\)   to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial,
material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or in
support of, any person whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order;

\(viii\)  to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to
act for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, any person whose
property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;

(ix)    to own or control, directly or indirectly, any person whose
property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order;
or

\(x\)     to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to subsections (1)(a)(i)-(v)
of this order.

\(b\)  The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply except
to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted before the date of this order.”

Sec. 2.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other persons.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 8, 2025.
