---
date: '2025-01-28'
modified_time: 2025-01-28 17:51:40-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-28 17:22:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/protecting-children-from-chemical-and-surgical-mutilation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Protecting Children from Chemical and Surgical Mutilation
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Policy and
Purpose</span>.  Across the country today, medical professionals are
maiming and sterilizing a growing number of impressionable children
under the radical and false claim that adults can change a child’s sex
through a series of irreversible medical interventions.  This dangerous
trend will be a stain on our Nation’s history, and it must end.

Countless children soon regret that they have been mutilated and begin
to grasp the horrifying tragedy that they will never be able to conceive
children of their own or nurture their children through breastfeeding.
 Moreover, these vulnerable youths’ medical bills may rise throughout
their lifetimes, as they are often trapped with lifelong medical
complications, a losing war with their own bodies, and, tragically,
sterilization.

Accordingly, it is the policy of the United States that it will not
fund, sponsor, promote, assist, or support the so-called “transition” of
a child from one sex to another, and it will rigorously enforce all laws
that prohibit or limit these destructive and life-altering procedures.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Definitions.</span>
 For the purposes of this order:

\(a\)  The term “child” or “children” means an individual or individuals
under 19 years of age.

\(b\)  The term “pediatric” means relating to the medical care of a
child.

\(c\)  The phrase “chemical and surgical mutilation” means the use of
puberty blockers, including GnRH agonists and other interventions, to
delay the onset or progression of normally timed puberty in an
individual who does not identify as his or her sex; the use of sex
hormones, such as androgen blockers, estrogen, progesterone, or
testosterone, to align an individual’s physical appearance with an
identity that differs from his or her sex; and surgical procedures that
attempt to transform an individual’s physical appearance to align with
an identity that differs from his or her sex or that attempt to alter or
remove an individual’s sexual organs to minimize or destroy their
natural biological functions.  This phrase sometimes is referred to as
“gender affirming care.”

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.  Ending Reliance on
Junk Science.</span>  (a)  The blatant harm done to children by chemical
and surgical mutilation cloaks itself in medical necessity, spurred by
guidance from the World Professional Association for Transgender Health
(WPATH), which lacks scientific integrity.  In light of the scientific
concerns with the WPATH guidance:

\(i\)   agencies shall rescind or amend all policies that rely on WPATH
guidance, including WPATH’s “Standards of Care Version 8”; and 

\(ii\)  within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services (HHS) shall publish a review of the existing
literature on best practices for promoting the health of children who
assert gender dysphoria, rapid-onset gender dysphoria, or other
identity-based confusion.

\(b\)  The Secretary of HHS, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, shall use all available methods to increase the quality
of data to guide practices for improving the health of minors with
gender dysphoria, rapid-onset gender dysphoria, or other identity-based
confusion, or who otherwise seek chemical or surgical mutilation.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Defunding Chemical and
Surgical Mutilation</span>.  The head of each executive department or
agency (agency) that provides research or education grants to medical
institutions, including medical schools and hospitals, shall, consistent
with applicable law and in coordination with the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, immediately take appropriate steps to ensure
that institutions receiving Federal research or education grants end the
chemical and surgical mutilation of children.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  Additional Directives
to the Secretary of HHS.</span>  (a)  The Secretary of HHS shall,
consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate actions to end the
chemical and surgical mutilation of children, including regulatory and
sub-regulatory actions, which may involve the following laws, programs,
issues, or documents:

\(i\)    Medicare or Medicaid conditions of participation or conditions
for coverage;

\(ii\)   clinical-abuse or inappropriate-use assessments relevant to
State Medicaid programs;

\(iii\)  mandatory drug use reviews;

\(iv\)   section 1557 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act;

\(v\)    quality, safety, and oversight memoranda;

\(vi\)   essential health benefits requirements; and

\(vii\)  the Eleventh Revision of the International Classification of
Diseases and other federally funded manuals, including the Diagnostic
and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition.

\(b\)  The Secretary of HHS shall promptly withdraw HHS’s March 2, 2022,
guidance document titled “HHS Notice and Guidance on Gender Affirming
Care, Civil Rights and Patient Privacy” and, in consultation with the
Attorney General, issue new guidance protecting whistleblowers who take
action related to ensuring compliance with this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 6.  TRICARE</span>.  The
Department of Defense provides health insurance, through TRICARE, to
nearly 2 million individuals under the age of 18.  As appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, the Secretary of Defense shall commence
a rulemaking or sub-regulatory action to exclude chemical and surgical
mutilation of children from TRICARE coverage and amend the TRICARE
provider handbook to exclude chemical and surgical mutilation of
children.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 7.  Requirements for
Insurance Carriers.</span>  The Director of the Office of Personnel
Management, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall:

\(a\)  include provisions in the Federal Employee Health Benefits (FEHB)
and Postal Service Health Benefits (PSHB) programs call letter for the
2026 Plan Year specifying that eligible carriers, including the Foreign
Service Benefit Plan, will exclude coverage for pediatric transgender
surgeries or hormone treatments; and

\(b\)  negotiate to obtain appropriate corresponding reductions in FEHB
and PSHB premiums.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 8.  Directives to the
Department of Justice</span>.  The Attorney General shall:

\(a\)  review Department of Justice enforcement of section 116 of title
18, United States Code, and prioritize enforcement of protections
against female genital mutilation;

(b) convene States’ Attorneys General and other law enforcement officers
to coordinate the enforcement of laws against female genital mutilation
across all American States and Territories; 

\(c\)  prioritize investigations and take appropriate action to end
deception of consumers, fraud, and violations of the Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act by any entity that may be misleading the public about
long-term side effects of chemical and surgical mutilation;

\(d\)  in consultation with the Congress, work to draft, propose, and
promote legislation to enact a private right of action for children and
the parents of children whose healthy body parts have been damaged by
medical professionals practicing chemical and surgical mutilation, which
should include a lengthy statute of limitations; and

\(e\)  prioritize investigations and take appropriate action to end
child-abusive practices by so-called sanctuary States that facilitate
stripping custody from parents who support the healthy development of
their own children, including by considering the application of the
Parental Kidnapping Prevention Act and recognized constitutional rights.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 9.  Enforcing Adequate
Progress.</span>  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the heads of
agencies with responsibilities under this order shall submit a single,
combined report to the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy,
detailing progress in implementing this order and a timeline for future
action.  The Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall
regularly convene the heads of agencies with responsibilities under this
order (or their designees) to coordinate and prepare for this
submission.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 10.  Severability. </span>
If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to
any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this order and the application of any of its other provisions to any
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 11.  General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)    the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)   the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 28, 2025.
