---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:18:36-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:46:18-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/protecting-the-united-states-from-foreign-terrorists-and-othernational-security-and-public-safety-threats/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Protecting The United States From Foreign Terrorists And Other National Security
  And Public Safety Threats
---
 
PROTECTING THE UNITED STATES FROM FOREIGN TERRORISTS AND OTHER

NATIONAL SECURITY AND PUBLIC SAFETY THREATS

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*, and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Policy and Purpose.  (a)  It is the policy of the United
States to protect its citizens from aliens who intend to commit
terrorist attacks, threaten our national security, espouse hateful
ideology, or otherwise exploit the immigration laws for malevolent
purposes.

\(b\)  To protect Americans, the United States must be vigilant during
the visa-issuance process to ensure that those aliens approved for
admission into the United States do not intend to harm Americans or our
national interests.  More importantly, the United States must identify
them before their admission or entry into the United States.  And the
United States must ensure that admitted aliens and aliens otherwise
already present in the United States do not bear hostile attitudes
toward its citizens, culture, government, institutions, or founding
principles, and do not advocate for, aid, or support designated foreign
terrorists and other threats to our national security.

Sec. <u>2</u>.  Enhanced Vetting and Screening Across Agencies.

\(a\)  The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of
National Intelligence, shall promptly:

\(i\)    identify all resources that may be used to ensure that all
aliens seeking admission to the United States, or who are already in the
United States, are vetted and screened to the maximum degree possible;

\(ii\)   determine the information needed from any country to adjudicate
any visa, admission, or other benefit under the INA for one of its
nationals, and to ascertain whether the individual seeking the benefit
is who the individual claims to be and that the individual is not a
security or public-safety threat;

\(iii\)  re-establish a uniform baseline for screening and vetting
standards and procedures, consistent with the uniform baseline that
existed on January 19, 2021, that will be used for any alien seeking a
visa or immigration benefit of any kind; and

\(iv\)   vet and screen to the maximum degree possible all aliens who
intend to be admitted, enter, or are already inside the United States,
particularly those aliens coming from regions or nations with identified
security risks.

\(b\)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State,
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the
Director of National Intelligence shall jointly submit to the President,
through the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security, a report:

\(i\)   identifying countries throughout the world for which vetting and
screening information is so deficient as to warrant a partial or full
suspension on the admission of nationals from those countries pursuant
to section 212(f) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)); and

\(ii\)  identifying how many nationals from those countries have entered
or have been admitted into the United States on or since January 20,
2021, and any other information the Secretaries and Attorney General
deem relevant to the actions or activities of such nationals since their
admission or entry to the United States.

\(c\)  Whenever information is identified that would support the
exclusion or removal of any alien described in subsection 2(b), the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take immediate steps to exclude or
remove that alien unless she determines that doing so would inhibit a
significant pending investigation or prosecution of the alien for a
serious criminal offense or would be contrary to the national security
interests of the United States.

Sec. 3.  Additional Measures to Protect the Nation.  As soon as
possible, but no later than 30 days from the date of this order, the
Secretary of State, in coordination with the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National
Intelligence, shall also:

\(a\)  Evaluate and adjust all existing regulations, policies,
procedures, and provisions of the Foreign Service Manual, or guidance of
any kind pertaining to each of the grounds of inadmissibility listed in
sections 212(a)(2)-(3) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)-(3)), to ensure
the continued safety and security of the American people and our
constitutional republic;

\(b\)  Ensure that sufficient safeguards are in place to prevent any
refugee or stateless individual from being admitted to the United States
without undergoing stringent identification verification beyond that
required of any other alien seeking admission or entry to the United
States;

\(c\)  Evaluate all visa programs to ensure that they are not used by
foreign nation-states or other hostile actors to harm the security,
economic, political, cultural, or other national interests of the United
States;

\(d\)  Recommend any actions necessary to protect the American people
from the actions of foreign nationals who have undermined or seek to
undermine the fundamental constitutional rights of the American people,
including, but not limited to, our Citizens’ rights to freedom of speech
and the free exercise of religion protected by the First Amendment, who
preach or call for sectarian violence, the overthrow or replacement of
the culture on which our constitutional Republic stands, or who provide
aid, advocacy, or support for foreign terrorists;

\(e\)  Ensure the devotion of adequate resources to identify and take
appropriate action for offenses described in 8 U.S.C. 1451;

\(f\)  Evaluate the adequacy of programs designed to ensure the proper
assimilation of lawful immigrants into the United States, and recommend
any additional measures to be taken that promote a unified American
identity and attachment to the Constitution, laws, and founding
principles of the United States; and

\(g\)  Recommend any additional actions to protect the American people
and our constitutional republic from foreign threats.

Sec. <u>4</u>.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20 2025.
