---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:17:11-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:51:27-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/defending-women-from-gender-ideology-extremism-and-restoring-biological-truth-to-the-federal-government/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Defending Women From Gender Ideology Extremism And Restoring Biological Truth
  To The Federal Government
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 7301 of title 5,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  Across the country, ideologues who deny the
biological reality of sex have increasingly used legal and other
socially coercive means to permit men to self-identify as women and gain
access to intimate single-sex spaces and activities designed for women,
from women’s domestic abuse shelters to women’s workplace showers.  This
is wrong.  Efforts to eradicate the biological reality of sex
fundamentally attack women by depriving them of their dignity, safety,
and well-being.  The erasure of sex in language and policy has a
corrosive impact not just on women but on the validity of the entire
American system.  Basing Federal policy on truth is critical to
scientific inquiry, public safety, morale, and trust in government
itself.

This unhealthy road is paved by an ongoing and purposeful attack against
the ordinary and longstanding use and understanding of biological and
scientific terms, replacing the immutable biological reality of sex with
an internal, fluid, and subjective sense of self unmoored from
biological facts.  Invalidating the true and biological category of
“woman” improperly transforms laws and policies designed to protect
sex-based opportunities into laws and policies that undermine them,
replacing longstanding, cherished legal rights and values with an
identity-based, inchoate social concept.

Accordingly, my Administration will defend women’s rights and protect
freedom of conscience by using clear and accurate language and policies
that recognize women are biologically female, and men are biologically
male. 

Sec. 2.  Policy and Definitions.  It is the policy of the United States
to recognize two sexes, male and female.  These sexes are not changeable
and are grounded in fundamental and incontrovertible reality.  Under my
direction, the Executive Branch will enforce all sex-protective laws to
promote this reality, and the following definitions shall govern all
Executive interpretation of and application of Federal law and
administration policy:

\(a\)  “Sex” shall refer to an individual’s immutable biological
classification as either male or female.  “Sex” is not a synonym for and
does not include the concept of “gender identity.”

\(b\)  “Women” or “woman” and “girls” or “girl” shall mean adult and
juvenile human females, respectively.

\(c\)  “Men” or “man” and “boys” or “boy” shall mean adult and juvenile
human males, respectively.

\(d\)  “Female” means a person belonging, at conception, to the sex that
produces the large reproductive cell.

\(e\)  “Male” means a person belonging, at conception, to the sex that
produces the small reproductive cell.

\(f\)  “Gender ideology” replaces the biological category of sex with an
ever-shifting concept of self-assessed gender identity, permitting the
false claim that males can identify as and thus become women and vice
versa, and requiring all institutions of society to regard this false
claim as true.  Gender ideology includes the idea that there is a vast
spectrum of genders that are disconnected from one’s sex.  Gender
ideology is internally inconsistent, in that it diminishes sex as an
identifiable or useful category but nevertheless maintains that it is
possible for a person to be born in the wrong sexed body.

\(g\)  “Gender identity” reflects a fully internal and subjective sense
of self, disconnected from biological reality and sex and existing on an
infinite continuum, that does not provide a meaningful basis for
identification and cannot be recognized as a replacement for sex.

Sec. 3.  Recognizing Women Are Biologically Distinct From Men.  (a)
 Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services shall provide to the U.S. Government, external partners,
and the public clear guidance expanding on the sex-based definitions set
forth in this order.

\(b\)  Each agency and all Federal employees shall enforce laws
governing sex-based rights, protections, opportunities, and
accommodations to protect men and women as biologically distinct sexes.
 Each agency should therefore give the terms “sex”, “male”, “female”,
“men”, “women”, “boys” and “girls” the meanings set forth in section 2
of this order when interpreting or applying statutes, regulations, or
guidance and in all other official agency business, documents, and
communications.

\(c\)  When administering or enforcing sex-based distinctions, every
agency and all Federal employees acting in an official capacity on
behalf of their agency shall use the term “sex” and not “gender” in all
applicable Federal policies and documents.

\(d\)  The Secretaries of State and Homeland Security, and the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management, shall implement changes to
require that government-issued identification documents, including
passports, visas, and Global Entry cards, accurately reflect the
holder’s sex, as defined under section 2 of this order; and the Director
of the Office of Personnel Management shall ensure that applicable
personnel records accurately report Federal employees’ sex, as defined
by section 2 of this order.

\(e\)  Agencies shall remove all statements, policies, regulations,
forms, communications, or other internal and external messages that
promote or otherwise inculcate gender ideology, and shall cease issuing
such statements, policies, regulations, forms, communications or other
messages.  Agency forms that require an individual’s sex shall list male
or female, and shall not request gender identity.  Agencies shall take
all necessary steps, as permitted by law, to end the Federal funding of
gender ideology.

\(f\)  The prior Administration argued that the Supreme Court’s decision
in *Bostock v. Clayton County* (2020), which addressed Title VII of the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, requires gender identity-based access to
single-sex spaces under, for example, Title IX of the Educational
Amendments Act.  This position is legally untenable and has harmed
women.  The Attorney General shall therefore immediately issue guidance
to agencies to correct the misapplication of the Supreme Court’s
decision in *Bostock v. Clayton County* (2020) to sex-based distinctions
in agency activities.  In addition, the Attorney General shall issue
guidance and assist agencies in protecting sex-based distinctions, which
are explicitly permitted under Constitutional and statutory precedent.

\(g\)  Federal funds shall not be used to promote gender ideology.  Each
agency shall assess grant conditions and grantee preferences and ensure
grant funds do not promote gender ideology.

Sec. 4.  Privacy in Intimate Spaces*. * (a)  The Attorney General and
Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that males are not detained
in women’s prisons or housed in women’s detention centers, including
through amendment, as necessary, of Part 115.41 of title 28, Code of
Federal Regulations and interpretation guidance regarding the Americans
with Disabilities Act.

\(b\)  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall prepare and
submit for notice and comment rulemaking a policy to rescind the final
rule entitled “Equal Access in Accordance with an Individual’s Gender
Identity in Community Planning and Development Programs” of September
21, 2016, 81 FR 64763, and shall submit for public comment a policy
protecting women seeking single-sex rape shelters. 

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall ensure that the Bureau of Prisons
revises its policies concerning medical care to be consistent with this
order, and shall ensure that no Federal funds are expended for any
medical procedure, treatment, or drug for the purpose of conforming an
inmate’s appearance to that of the opposite sex.

\(d\)  Agencies shall effectuate this policy by taking appropriate
action to ensure that intimate spaces designated for women, girls, or
females (or for men, boys, or males) are designated by sex and not
identity.

Sec. 5.  Protecting Rights.  The Attorney General shall issue guidance
to ensure the freedom to express the binary nature of sex and the right
to single-sex spaces in workplaces and federally funded entities covered
by the Civil Rights Act of 1964.  In accordance with that guidance, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Labor, the General Counsel and Chair
of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and each other agency
head with enforcement responsibilities under the Civil Rights Act shall
prioritize investigations and litigation to enforce the rights and
freedoms identified.

Sec. 6.  Bill Text.  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the
Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs shall present to the
President proposed bill text to codify the definitions in this order.

Sec. 7.  Agency Implementation and Reporting.  (a)  Within 120 days of
the date of this order, each agency head shall submit an update on
implementation of this order to the President, through the Director of
the Office of Management and Budget.  That update shall address:

\(i\)   changes to agency documents, including regulations, guidance,
forms, and communications, made to comply with this order; and

\(ii\)  agency-imposed requirements on federally funded entities,
including contractors, to achieve the policy of this order.

\(b\)  The requirements of this order supersede conflicting provisions
in any previous Executive Orders or Presidential Memoranda, including
but not limited to Executive Orders 13988 of January 20, 2021, 14004 of
January 25, 2021, 14020 and 14021 of March 8, 2021, and 14075 of June
15, 2022.  These Executive Orders are hereby rescinded, and the White
House Gender Policy Council established by Executive Order 14020 is
dissolved.

\(c\)  Each agency head shall promptly rescind all guidance documents
inconsistent with the requirements of this order or the Attorney
General’s guidance issued pursuant to this order, or rescind such parts
of such documents that are inconsistent in such manner.  Such documents
include, but are not limited to:

\(i\)    “The White House Toolkit on Transgender Equality”;

\(ii\)   the Department of Education’s guidance documents including:

(A)  “2024 Title IX Regulations: Pointers for Implementation” (July
2024);

(B)  “U.S. Department of Education Toolkit: Creating Inclusive and
Nondiscriminatory School Environments for LGBTQI+ Students”;

(C)  “U.S. Department of Education Supporting LGBTQI+ Youth and Families
in School” (June 21, 2023);

(D)  “Departamento de Educación de EE.UU.  Apoyar a los jóvenes y
familias LGBTQI+ en la escuela” (June 21, 2023);

(E)  “Supporting Intersex Students: A Resource for Students, Families,
and Educators” (October 2021);

(F)  “Supporting Transgender Youth in School” (June 2021);

(G)  “Letter to Educators on Title IX’s 49th Anniversary” (June 23,
2021);

(H)  “Confronting Anti-LGBTQI+ Harassment in Schools: A Resource for
Students and Families” (June 2021);

(I)  “Enforcement of Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 With
Respect to Discrimination Based on Sexual Orientation and Gender
Identity in Light of Bostock v. Clayton County” (June 22, 2021);

(J)  “Education in a Pandemic: The Disparate Impacts of COVID-19 on
America’s Students” (June 9, 2021); and

(K)  “Back-to-School Message for Transgender Students from the U.S.
Depts of Justice, Education, and HHS” (Aug. 17, 2021);

\(iii\)  the Attorney General’s Memorandum of March 26, 2021 entitled
“Application of *Bostock v. Clayton County* to Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972″; and

\(iv\)  the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission’s “Enforcement
Guidance on Harassment in the Workplace” (April 29, 2024).

Sec. 8.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)    the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)   the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

\(d\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its provisions to any
other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
