---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:16:08-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:56:36-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/reforming-the-federal-hiring-process-and-restoring-merit-to-government-service/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Reforming The Federal Hiring Process And Restoring Merit To Government Service
---
 
REFORMING THE FEDERAL HIRING PROCESS AND RESTORING MERIT TO GOVERNMENT
SERVICE

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including sections 3301, 3302, and
7511 of title 5, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Policy.  American citizens deserve an excellent and
efficient Federal workforce that attracts the highest caliber of civil
servants committed to achieving the freedom, prosperity, and democratic
rule that our Constitution promotes.  But current Federal hiring
practices are broken, insular, and outdated.  They no longer focus on
merit, practical skill, and dedication to our Constitution.  Federal
hiring should not be based on impermissible factors, such as one’s
commitment to illegal racial discrimination under the guise of “equity,”
or one’s commitment to the invented concept of “gender identity” over
sex.  Inserting such factors into the hiring process subverts the will
of the People, puts critical government functions at risk, and risks
losing the best-qualified candidates.

By making our recruitment and hiring processes more efficient and
focused on serving the Nation, we will ensure that the Federal workforce
is prepared to help achieve American greatness, and attracts the talent
necessary to serve our citizens effectively.  By significantly improving
hiring principles and practices, Americans will receive the Federal
resources and services they deserve from the highest-skilled Federal
workforce in the world.

Sec. 2.  Federal Hiring Plan*.*  (a)  Within 120 days of the date of
this order, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, in
consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, and the
Administrator of the Department of Government Efficiency (DOGE), shall
develop and send to agency heads a Federal Hiring Plan that brings to
the Federal workforce only highly skilled Americans dedicated to the
furtherance of American ideals, values, and interests.

\(b\)  This Federal Hiring Plan shall:

\(i\)    prioritize recruitment of individuals committed to improving
the efficiency of the Federal government, passionate about the ideals of
our American republic, and committed to upholding the rule of law and
the United States Constitution;

\(ii\)   prevent the hiring of individuals based on their race, sex, or
religion, and prevent the hiring of individuals who are unwilling to
defend the Constitution or to faithfully serve the Executive Branch;

\(iii\)  implement, to the greatest extent possible, technical and
alternative assessments as required by the Chance to Compete Act of
2024;

\(iv\)   decrease government-wide time-to-hire to under 80 days;

\(v\)    improve communication with candidates to provide greater
clarity regarding application status, timelines, and feedback, including
regular updates on the progress of applications and explanations of
hiring decisions where appropriate;

\(vi\)   integrate modern technology to support the recruitment and
selection process, including the use of data analytics to identify
trends, gaps, and opportunities in hiring, as well as leveraging digital
platforms to improve candidate engagement; and

\(vii\)  ensure Department and Agency leadership, or their designees,
are active participants in implementing the new processes and throughout
the full hiring process.

\(c\)  This Federal Hiring Plan shall include specific agency plans to
improve the allocation of Senior Executive Service positions in the
Cabinet agencies, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of
Management and Budget, the Small Business Administration, the Social
Security Administration, the National Science Foundation, the Office of
Personnel Management, and the General Services Administration, to best
facilitate democratic leadership, as required by law, within each
agency.

\(d\)  The Federal Hiring Plan shall provide specific best practices for
the human resources function in each agency, which each agency head
shall implement, with advice and recommendations as appropriate from
DOGE.

Sec. 3.  Accountability and Reporting.  (a)  The Director of the Office
of Personnel Management shall establish clear performance metrics to
evaluate the success of these reforms, and request agency analysis on a
regular basis.

\(b\)  The Office of Personnel Management shall consult with Federal
agencies, labor organizations, and other stakeholders to monitor
progress and ensure that the reforms are meeting the needs of both
candidates and agencies.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)    the authority granted by law to an executive department,
agency, or the head thereof;

\(ii\)   the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals;
or

(iii)  the functions of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System or the Federal Open Market Committee relating to its conduct of
monetary policy.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
