---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-21 11:40:55-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:42:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-accountability-for-career-senior-executives/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring Accountability for Career Senior Executives
---
 
January 20, 2025

MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES  

SUBJECT:       Restoring Accountability for Career Senior

Executives 

Career Senior Executive Service (SES) officials are charged to “ensure
that the executive management of the Government of the United States is
responsive to the needs, policies, and goals of the Nation and otherwise
is of the highest quality,” as required by section 3131 of title 5,
United States Code.  SES officials have enormous influence over the
functioning of the Federal Government, and thus the well-being of
hundreds of millions of Americans.  

As the Constitution makes clear, and as the Supreme Court of the United
States has reaffirmed, “the ‘executive Power’ — all of it — is ‘vested
in a President,’ who must ‘take Care that the Laws be faithfully
executed.’”  *Seila Law LLC v. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau*,
591 U.S. 197, 203 (2020).  “Because no single person could fulfill that
responsibility alone, the Framers expected that the President would rely
on subordinate officers for assistance.”  *Id.* at 203–04.  

The President’s power to remove subordinates is a core part of the
Executive power vested by Article II of the Constitution and is
necessary for the President to perform his duty to “take Care that the
Laws be faithfully executed.”  Because SES officials wield significant
governmental authority, they must serve at the pleasure of the
President. 

Only that chain of responsibility ensures that SES officials are
properly accountable to the President and the American people.  If
career SES officials fail to faithfully fulfill their duties to advance
the needs, policies, and goals of the United States, the President must
be able to rectify the situation and ensure that the entire Executive
Branch faithfully executes the law.  For instance, SES officials who
engage in unauthorized disclosure of Executive Branch deliberations,
violate the constitutional rights of Americans, refuse to implement
policy priorities, or perform their duties inefficiently or negligently
should be held accountable. 

The President must be able to trust that the Executive Branch will work
together in service of the Nation.  My Administration will restore a
“government of the people, by the people, for the people.”  Therefore: 

\(a\)  Within 30 days of the signing of this memorandum, the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), in coordination with the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), shall issue SES
Performance Plans that agencies must adopt;

\(b\)  Agency heads, who along with their senior staff manage career SES
officials as one of their core functions, shall use all available
authorities to reinvigorate the SES system and prioritize
accountability;

\(c\)  Each agency head shall, as necessary and appropriate and
consistent with the procedural requirements of section 3395 of title 5,
United States Code, reassign agency SES members to ensure their
knowledge, skills, abilities, and mission assignments are optimally
aligned to implement my agenda;  

\(d\)  Each agency head should terminate its existing Executive
Resources Board (ERB), institute a new or interim ERB, and assign senior
noncareer officials to chair and serve on the board as a majority
alongside career members;

\(e\)  Each agency head should terminate its existing Performance Review
Board membership and re-constitute membership with individuals committed
to full enforcement of SES performance evaluations that promote and
assure an SES of the highest caliber; and

\(f\)  Any agency head who becomes aware of an SES official whose
performance or continued occupancy of the position is inconsistent with
either the principles reaffirmed in this Order or their duties to the
Nation under section 3131 of title 5, United States Code, shall
immediately take all appropriate actions, up to and including removal of
that official, with the support of OPM and OMB.  Restoring an
accountable government workforce is a top priority of my Administration.
   
