---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:25:48-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:10:27-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/application-of-protecting-americans-from-foreign-adversary-controlled-applications-act-to-tiktok/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Application Of Protecting Americans From Foreign Adversary Controlled Applications
  Act To TikTok
---
 
APPLICATION OF PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM FOREIGN ADVERSARY CONTROLLED
APPLICATIONS ACT TO TIKTOK

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Policy.  The Protecting Americans from Foreign Adversary
Controlled Applications Act (the “Act”) (Pub. L. 118-50, div. H)
regulates “foreign adversary controlled applications,” specifically
those operated by TikTok and any other subsidiary of its China-based
parent company, ByteDance Ltd., on national security grounds.

Section 2(a) of the Act prohibits entities from distributing,
maintaining, or updating certain defined foreign adversary controlled
applications within the territory of the United States by providing (A)
services for such distribution, maintenance, or updates by means of an
online mobile application store or other marketplace; or (B) internet
hosting services to enable the distribution, maintenance, or updating of
such applications.  Section 2(g) of the Act defines “Foreign Adversary
Controlled Application” to include websites, desktop applications,
mobile applications, and augmented or immersive technology applications
operated directly or indirectly by ByteDance Ltd. or TikTok.  Under
section 2(a) of the Act, the prohibitions of the Act with respect to
these entities became effective on January 19, 2025.

I have the unique constitutional responsibility for the national
security of the United States, the conduct of foreign policy, and other
vital executive functions.  To fulfill those responsibilities, I intend
to consult with my advisors, including the heads of relevant departments
and agencies on the national security concerns posed by TikTok, and to
pursue a resolution that protects national security while saving a
platform used by 170 million Americans.  My Administration must also
review sensitive intelligence related to those concerns and evaluate the
sufficiency of mitigation measures TikTok has taken to date.

The unfortunate timing of section 2(a) of the Act — one day before I
took office as the 47th President of the United States — interferes with
my ability to assess the national security and foreign policy
implications of the Act’s prohibitions before they take effect.  This
timing also interferes with my ability to negotiate a resolution to
avoid an abrupt shutdown of the TikTok platform while addressing
national security concerns.  Accordingly, I am instructing the Attorney
General not to take any action to enforce the Act for a period of 75
days from today to allow my Administration an opportunity to determine
the appropriate course forward in an orderly way that protects national
security while avoiding an abrupt shutdown of a communications platform
used by millions of Americans.

Sec. 2.  Action*.*  (a)  I hereby order the Attorney General not to take
any action on behalf of the United States to enforce the Act for 75 days
from the date of this order, to permit my Administration an opportunity
to determine the appropriate course of action with respect to TikTok.
 During this period, the Department of Justice shall take no action to
enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for any
noncompliance with the Act, including for distributing, maintaining, or
updating (or enabling the distribution, maintenance, or updating) of any
foreign adversary controlled application as defined in the Act.  In
light of this direction, even after the expiration of the
above-specified period, the Department of Justice shall not take any
action to enforce the Act or impose any penalties against any entity for
any conduct that occurred during the above-specified period or any
period prior to the issuance of this order, including the period of time
from January 19, 2025, to the signing of this order.

(b)  The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to issue
written guidance to implement the provisions of subsection (a).

\(c\)  I further order the Attorney General to issue a letter to each
provider stating that there has been no violation of the statute and
that there is no liability for any conduct that occurred during the
above-specified period, as well as for any conduct from the effective
date of the Act until the issuance of this Executive Order.

(d)  Because of the national security interests at stake and because
section 2(d) of the Act vests authority for investigations and
enforcement of the Act only in the Attorney General, attempted
enforcement by the States or private parties represents an encroachment
on the powers of the Executive.  The Attorney General shall exercise all
available authority to preserve and defend the Executive’s exclusive
authority to enforce the Act.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions*.*  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
