---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:25:15-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:27:04-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/withdrawing-the-united-states-from-the-worldhealth-organization/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Withdrawing The United States From The World Health Organization
---
 
WITHDRAWING THE UNITED STATES FROM THE WORLD

HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered: 

Section 1**.**  Purpose*.  *The United States noticed its withdrawal
from the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2020 due to the
organization’s mishandling of the COVID-19 pandemic that arose out of
Wuhan, China, and other global health crises, its failure to adopt
urgently needed reforms, and its inability to demonstrate independence
from the inappropriate political influence of WHO member states.  In
addition, the WHO continues to demand unfairly onerous payments from the
United States, far out of proportion with other countries’ assessed
payments.  China, with a population of 1.4 billion, has 300 percent of
the population of the United States, yet contributes nearly 90 percent
less to the WHO.  

Sec. 2**.**  Actions*.*  (a) * *The United States intends to withdraw
from the WHO.  The Presidential Letter to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations signed on January 20, 2021, that retracted the United
States’ July 6, 2020, notification of withdrawal is revoked.

(b)  Executive Order 13987 of January 25, 2021 (Organizing and
Mobilizing the United States Government to Provide a Unified and
Effective Response to Combat COVID–19 and to Provide United States
Leadership on Global Health and Security), is revoked.

\(c\)  The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
shall establish directorates and coordinating mechanisms within the
National Security Council apparatus as he deems necessary and
appropriate to safeguard public health and fortify biosecurity.

(d)  The Secretary of State and the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget shall take appropriate measures, with all practicable speed,
to:

\(i\)    pause the future transfer of any United States Government
funds, support, or resources to the WHO;

\(ii\)   recall and reassign United States Government personnel or
contractors working in any capacity with the WHO; and  

\(iii\)  identify credible and transparent United States and
international partners to assume necessary activities previously
undertaken by the WHO.

\(e\)  The Director of the White House Office of Pandemic Preparedness
and Response Policy shall review, rescind, and replace the 2024 U.S.
Global Health Security Strategy as soon as practicable. 

Sec. 3.  Notification.  The Secretary of State shall immediately inform
the Secretary-General of the United Nations, any other applicable
depositary, and the leadership of the WHO of the withdrawal.

Sec. 4.  Global System Negotiations.  While withdrawal is in progress,
the Secretary of State will cease negotiations on the WHO Pandemic
Agreement and the amendments to the International Health Regulations,
and actions taken to effectuate such agreement and amendments will have
no binding force on the United States.  

Sec. 5.  General Provisions*.*  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect: 

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or 

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals. 

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations. 

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
