---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-21 18:17:18-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 21:07:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/designating-cartels-and-other-organizations-as-foreign-terrorist-organizations-and-specially-designated-global-terrorists/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Designating Cartels And Other Organizations As Foreign Terrorist Organizations
  And Specially Designated Global Terrorists
---
 
DESIGNATING CARTELS AND OTHER ORGANIZATIONS AS FOREIGN TERRORIST
ORGANIZATIONS AND SPECIALLY DESIGNATED GLOBAL TERRORISTS

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*, the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA),50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*. it is
hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  This order creates a process by which certain
international cartels (the Cartels) and other organizations will be
designated as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, consistent with section
219 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1189), or Specially Designated Global
Terrorists, consistent with IEEPA (50 U.S.C. 1702) and Executive Order
13224 of September 23, 2001 (Blocking Property and Prohibiting
Transactions With Persons Who Commit, Threaten to Commit, or Support
Terrorism), as amended.

(a)  International cartels constitute a national-security threat beyond
that posed by traditional organized crime, with activities encompassing:

\(i\)    convergence between themselves and a range of extra-hemispheric
actors, from designated foreign-terror organizations to antagonistic
foreign governments;

(ii)   complex adaptive systems, characteristic of entities engaged in
insurgency and asymmetric warfare; and

(iii)  infiltration into foreign governments across the Western
Hemisphere.

The Cartels have engaged in a campaign of violence and terror throughout
the Western Hemisphere that has not only destabilized countries with
significant importance for our national interests but also flooded the
United States with deadly drugs, violent criminals, and vicious gangs.

The Cartels functionally control, through a campaign of assassination,
terror, rape, and brute force nearly all illegal traffic across the
southern border of the United States.  In certain portions of Mexico,
they function as quasi-governmental entities, controlling nearly all
aspects of society.  The Cartels’ activities threaten the safety of the
American people, the security of the United States, and the stability of
the international order in the Western Hemisphere.  Their activities,
proximity to, and incursions into the physical territory of the United
States pose an unacceptable national security risk to the United States.

(b)  Other transnational organizations, such as Tren de Aragua (TdA) and
La Mara Salvatrucha (MS-13) pose similar threats to the United States. 
Their campaigns of violence and terror in the United States and
internationally are extraordinarily violent, vicious, and similarly
threaten the stability of the international order in the Western
Hemisphere.

(c)  The Cartels and other transnational organizations, such as TdA and
MS-13, operate both within and outside the United States.  They present
an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign
policy, and economy of the United States.  I hereby declare a national
emergency, under IEEPA, to deal with those threats.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to ensure the
total elimination of these organizations’ presence in the United States
and their ability to threaten the territory, safety, and security of the
United States through their extraterritorial command-and-control
structures, thereby protecting the American people and the territorial
integrity of the United States.

Sec. 3.  Implementation.  (a)  Within 14 days of the date of this order,
the Secretary of State shall take all appropriate action, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of National
Intelligence, to make a recommendation regarding the designation of any
cartel or other organization described in section 1 of this order as a
Foreign Terrorist Organization consistent with 8 U.S.C. 1189 and/or a
Specially Designated Global Terrorist consistent with 50 U.S.C. 1702 and
Executive Order 13224.

(b)  Within 14 days of the date of this order, the Attorney General and
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, to make operational
preparations regarding the implementation of any decision I make to
invoke the Alien Enemies Act, 50 U.S.C. 21 *et seq*., in relation to the
existence of any qualifying invasion or predatory incursion against the
territory of the United States by a qualifying actor, and to prepare
such facilities as necessary to expedite the removal of those who may be
designated under this order.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE, 

    January 20, 2025. 
