---
date: '2025-01-23'
modified_time: 2025-01-24 14:07:25-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-23 15:53:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/declassification-of-records-concerning-the-assassinations-of-president-john-f-kennedy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Declassification of Records Concerning the Assassinations of President John
  F. Kennedy
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy and Purpose.  More than 50 years after the
assassinations of President John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy,
and the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., the Federal Government has
not released to the public all of its records related to those events.
 Their families and the American people deserve transparency and truth.
 It is in the national interest to finally release all records related
to these assassinations without delay.

The President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of
1992 required all records related to the assassination of President
Kennedy to be publicly disclosed in full by October 26, 2017, unless the
President certifies that:  (i) continued postponement is made necessary
by an identifiable harm to the military defense, intelligence
operations, law enforcement, or conduct of foreign relations; and (ii)
the identifiable harm is of such gravity that it outweighs the public
interest in disclosure.  President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records
Collection Act of 1992, section 5(g)(2)(D), Public Law 102-526, 106
Stat. 3443, 3448–49, codified at 44 U.S.C. 2107 note.

I previously accepted proposed redactions from executive departments and
agencies (agencies) in 2017 and 2018, but ordered the continued
re-evaluation of those remaining redactions.  See Temporary
Certification for Certain Records Related to the Assassination of
President John F. Kennedy, 82 Fed. Reg. 50,307–08 (Oct. 31, 2017);
Certification for Certain Records Related to the Assassination of
President John F. Kennedy, 83 Fed. Reg. 19, 157–58 (Apr. 26, 2018).  In
the Presidential Memorandum of April 26, 2018, I also ordered agencies
to re-review each of those redactions over the next 3 years and disclose
information that no longer warrants continued withholding under the
standard set forth in section 5(g)(2)(D) of the President John F.
Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992.

President Biden issued subsequent certifications with respect to these
records in 2021, 2022, and 2023, which gave agencies additional time to
review the records and withhold information from public disclosure.  See
Temporary Certification Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain
Records Related to the Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 86
Fed. Reg. 59,599 (Oct. 22, 2021); Certifications Regarding Disclosure of
Information in Certain Records Related to the Assassination of President
John F. Kennedy, 87 Fed. Reg. 77,967 (Dec. 15, 2022); Certification
Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain Records Related to the
Assassination of President John F. Kennedy, 88 Fed. Reg. 43,247 (June
30, 2023).

I have now determined that the continued redaction and withholding of
information from records pertaining to the assassination of President
John F. Kennedy is not consistent with the public interest and the
release of these records is long overdue.  And although no Act of
Congress directs the release of information pertaining to the
assassinations of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., I have determined that the release of all records in
the Federal Government’s possession pertaining to each of those
assassinations is also in the public interest.

     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Declassification
and Disclosure. </span> (a)  Within 15 days of the date of this order,
the Director of National Intelligence and the Attorney General shall, in
coordination with the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs and the Counsel to the President, present a plan to the
President for the full and complete release of records relating to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy.

     (b)  Within 45 days of the date of this order, the Director of
National Intelligence and the Attorney General shall, in coordination
with the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs and
the Counsel to the President, review records related to the
assassinations of Senator Robert F. Kennedy and the Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr., and present a plan to the President for the full and
complete release of these records.

    <span style="text-decoration: underline"> Sec. 3.  General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 23, 2025.
