---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 19:00:57-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:55:01-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/putting-america-first-in-international-environmental-agreements/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Putting America First In International Environmental Agreements
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

**Section 1.  Purpose.**  The United States must grow its economy and
maintain jobs for its citizens while playing a leadership role in global
efforts to protect the environment.  Over decades, with the help of
sensible policies that do not encumber private-sector activity, the
United States has simultaneously grown its economy, raised worker wages,
increased energy production, reduced air and water pollution, and
reduced greenhouse gas emissions.  The United States’ successful track
record of advancing both economic and environmental objectives should be
a model for other countries.

In recent years, the United States has purported to join international
agreements and initiatives that do not reflect our country’s values or
our contributions to the pursuit of economic and environmental
objectives.  Moreover, these agreements steer American taxpayer dollars
to countries that do not require, or merit, financial assistance in the
interests of the American people.

**Sec. 2.  Policy.  **It is the policy of my Administration to put the
interests of the United States and the American people first in the
development and negotiation of any international agreements with the
potential to damage or stifle the American economy.  These agreements
must not unduly or unfairly burden the United States.

**Sec. 3.  Implementation.**  (a)  The United States Ambassador to the
United Nations shall immediately submit formal written notification of
the United States’ withdrawal from the Paris Agreement under the United
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.  The notice shall be
submitted to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Depositary
of the Agreement, attached as Appendix A.  The United States will
consider its withdrawal from the Agreement and any attendant obligations
to be effective immediately upon this provision of notification. 

\(b\)  The United States Ambassador to the United Nations shall
immediately submit written formal notification to the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, or any relevant party, of the United States’
withdrawal from any agreement, pact, accord, or similar commitment made
under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change.

\(c\)  The United States Ambassador to the United Nations, in
collaboration with the Secretary of State and Secretary of the Treasury,
shall immediately cease or revoke any purported financial commitment
made by the United States under the United Nations Framework Convention
on Climate Change.

\(d\)  Immediately upon completion of the tasks listed in subsections
(a), (b), and (c), the United States Ambassador to the United Nations,
in collaboration with the Secretary of State and Secretary of the
Treasury shall certify a report to the Assistant to the President for
Economic Policy and Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs that describes in detail any further action required to achieve
the policy objectives set forth in section 2 of this order.

\(e\)  The U.S. International Climate Finance Plan is revoked and
rescinded immediately.  The Director of the Office of Management and
Budget shall, within 10 days of this order, issue guidance for the
rescission of all frozen funds.

\(f\)  Within 30 days of this order, the Secretary of State, Secretary
of the Treasury, Secretary of Commerce, Secretary of Health and Human
Services, Secretary of Energy, Secretary of Agriculture, Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, Administrator of the U.S. Agency
for International Development, Chief Executive Officer of the
International Development Finance Corporation, Chief Executive Officer
of the Millennium Challenge Corporation, Director of the U.S. Trade and
Development Agency, President of the Export-Import Bank, and head of any
other relevant department or agency shall submit a report to the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs that details their actions to
revoke or rescind policies that were implemented to advance the
International Climate Finance Plan.

\(g\)  The Secretary of State, Secretary of Commerce, and the head of
any department or agency that plans or coordinates international energy
agreements shall henceforth prioritize economic efficiency, the
promotion of American prosperity, consumer choice, and fiscal restraint
in all foreign engagements that concern energy policy.

**Sec. 4.  General Provisions***.*  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented in a manner consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or any other persons.

THE WHITE HOUSE, January 20, 2025.
