---
date: '2025-01-31'
modified_time: 2025-02-05 00:19:14-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-31 00:19:02-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/unleashing-prosperity-through-deregulation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Unleashing Prosperity Through Deregulation
---
 
UNLEASHING PROSPERITY THROUGH DEREGULATION

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Budget and
Accounting Act of 1921, as amended (31 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq*.), and in
order to promote prudent financial management and alleviate unnecessary
regulatory burdens, it is hereby ordered: 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose.
</span> The ever-expanding morass of complicated Federal regulation
imposes massive costs on the lives of millions of Americans, creates a
substantial restraint on our economic growth and ability to build and
innovate, and hampers our global competitiveness.  Despite the magnitude
of their impact, these measures are often difficult for the average
person or business to understand, as they require synthesizing the
collective meaning not just of formal regulations but also rules,
memoranda, administrative orders, guidance documents, policy statements,
and interagency agreements that are not subject to the Administrative
Procedure Act, further increasing compliance costs and the risk of costs
of non-compliance.  It is the policy of my Administration to
significantly reduce the private expenditures required to comply with
Federal regulations to secure America’s economic prosperity and national
security and the highest possible quality of life for each citizen.  To
that end, it is important that for each new regulation issued, at least
10 prior regulations be identified for elimination.  This practice is to
ensure that the cost of planned regulations is responsibly managed and
controlled through a rigorous regulatory budgeting process.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Policy.</span>  It is
the policy of the executive branch to be prudent and financially
responsible in the expenditure of funds, from both public and private
sources, and to alleviate unnecessary regulatory burdens placed on the
American people. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.  Regulatory Cap for
Fiscal Year 2025.</span>  (a)  Unless prohibited by law, whenever an
executive department or agency (agency) publicly proposes for notice and
comment or otherwise promulgates a new regulation, it shall identify at
least 10 existing regulations to be repealed.

\(b\)  For fiscal year 2025, which is in progress, the heads of all
agencies are directed to ensure that the total incremental cost of all
new regulations, including repealed regulations, being finalized this
year, shall be significantly less than zero, as determined by the
Director of the Office of Management and Budget (Director), unless
otherwise required by law or instructions from the Director.

\(c\)  In furtherance of the requirement of subsection (a) of this
section, any new incremental costs associated with new regulations
shall, to the extent permitted by law, be offset by the elimination of
existing costs associated with at least 10 prior regulations.

\(d\)  The Director shall provide the heads of agencies with guidance on
the implementation of this section.  Such guidance shall address, among
other things, processes for standardizing the measurement and estimation
of regulatory costs; standards for determining what qualifies as new and
offsetting regulations; standards for determining the costs of existing
regulations that are considered for elimination; processes for
accounting for costs in different fiscal years; methods to oversee the
issuance of rules with costs offset by savings at different times or
different agencies; and emergencies and other circumstances that might
justify individual waivers of the requirements of this section.  The
Director shall consider phasing in and updating these requirements.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Annual Regulatory Cost
Submissions to the Office of Management and Budget.</span>  Beginning
with the Regulatory Plans, as required under Executive Order 12866 of
September 30, 1993 (Regulatory Planning and Review), as amended, or any
successor order for fiscal year 2026, and for each fiscal year
thereafter:

\(a\)  The head of each agency shall identify on an aggregated basis,
for regulations that increase incremental cost, the offsetting
regulations described in section 3(c) of this order, and provide the
agency’s best approximation of the total costs or savings associated
with each new regulation or repealed regulation.

\(b\)  Each regulation approved by the Director during the Presidential
budget process shall be included in the Unified Regulatory Agenda
required under Executive Order 12866, as amended, or any successor
order.  Unless otherwise required by law, no regulation shall be added
to or removed from the Unified Regulatory Agenda without the approval of
the Director.  To accomplish the purposes of this order, the Director
may also require additions to the Unified Regulatory Agenda and
Regulatory Plan.

\(c\)  Unless otherwise required by law, no regulation shall be issued
by an agency if it was not included in the most recent version or update
of the published Unified Regulatory Agenda as required under Executive
Order 12866, as amended, or any successor order, unless the issuance of
such regulation was approved in advance in writing by the Director.

\(d\)  During the Presidential budget process, the Director shall
identify to agencies a total amount of incremental costs that will be
allowed for each agency in issuing new regulations and repealing
regulations for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2025.  No regulations
exceeding the agency’s total incremental cost allowance will be
permitted in that fiscal year, unless required by law or approved in
writing by the Director.  The total incremental cost allowance may allow
an increase or require a reduction in total regulatory cost.

\(e\)  The Director shall provide the heads of agencies with guidance on
the implementation of the requirements in this section.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  Definition.
</span> For purposes of this order, the term “regulation” or “rule”
means an agency statement of general or particular applicability and
future effect designed to implement, interpret, or prescribe law or
policy or to describe the procedure or practice requirements of an
agency, including, without limitation, regulations, rules, memoranda,
administrative orders, guidance documents, policy statements, and
interagency agreements, regardless of whether the same were enacted
through the processes in the Administrative Procedure Act, but does not
include:

\(a\)  regulations issued with respect to a military, national security,
homeland security, foreign affairs, or immigration-related function of
the United States;

\(b\)  regulations related to agency organization, management, or
personnel; or

\(c\)  any other specific regulation or category of regulations exempted
by the Director, who shall exempt those regulations or categories of
regulations that impose minimal costs or burdens on the private sector
or that are requested to be exempted by the Assistant to the President
and Chief of Staff or the Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of
Staff for Policy.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 6.  Implementation.</span>
 (a)  The Director is charged with implementing this order, including by
providing agencies with updated guidance on implementing the ten-for-one
rule described in section 3(a) of this order, including processes for
identifying regulations for elimination, determining what constitutes,
generally and specifically, a “rule” or “regulation” for purposes of
this order, estimating and standardizing regulatory costs, and ensuring
compliance with the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable
laws.  

\(b\)  The Director shall revoke OMB Circular No. A-4 of November 9,
2023 (Regulatory Analysis), and all accompanying appendices, guidelines,
and documents, and shall reinstate the prior version of Circular A-4,
issued on September 17, 2003; and 

(c)  The Secretary of the Treasury and the Director shall reinstate the
Memorandum of Agreement between the Department of the Treasury and the
Office of Management and Budget of April 11, 2018, regarding review of
tax regulations under Executive Order 12866.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 7.  Severability. </span>
If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to
any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 8.  General Provisions.
</span> (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or 

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 31, 2025.
