---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:44:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/the-organization-for-economic-co-operation-and-development-oecd-global-tax-deal-global-tax-deal/
tags: presidential-actions
title: The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) Global Tax
  Deal (Global Tax Deal)
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

THE PERMANENT REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES TO THE ORGANIZATION
FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT

SUBJECT:                  The Organization for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) Global Tax Deal (Global Tax Deal)

The OECD Global Tax Deal supported under the prior administration not
only allows extraterritorial jurisdiction over American income but also
limits our Nation’s ability to enact tax policies that serve the
interests of American businesses and workers.  Because of the Global Tax
Deal and other discriminatory foreign tax practices, American companies
may face retaliatory international tax regimes if the United States does
not comply with foreign tax policy objectives.  This memorandum
recaptures our Nation’s sovereignty and economic competitiveness by
clarifying that the Global Tax Deal has no force or effect in the United
States.

Section 1.  *Applicability of the Global Tax Deal*.  The Secretary of
the Treasury and the Permanent Representative of the United States to
the OECD shall notify the OECD that any commitments made by the prior
administration on behalf of the United States with respect to the Global
Tax Deal have no force or effect within the United States absent an act
by the Congress adopting the relevant provisions of the Global Tax Deal.
 The Secretary of the Treasury and the United States Trade
Representative shall take all additional necessary steps within their
authority to otherwise implement the findings of this memorandum.

Sec. 2.  Options for Protection from Discriminatory and Extraterritorial
Tax Measures.  The Secretary of the Treasury in consultation with the
United States Trade Representative shall investigate whether any foreign
countries are not in compliance with any tax treaty with the United
States or have any tax rules in place, or are likely to put tax rules in
place, that are extraterritorial or disproportionately affect American
companies, and develop and present to the President, through the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, a list of options for
protective measures or other actions that the United States should adopt
or take in response to such non-compliance or tax rules.  The Secretary
of the Treasury shall deliver findings and recommendations to the
President, through the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy,
within 60 days.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or its head; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to budgetary,
administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.
