---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:19:59-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:45:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/protecting-the-american-people-against-invasion/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Protecting The American People Against Invasion
---
 
PROTECTING THE AMERICAN PEOPLE AGAINST INVASION

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq*.) and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  Over the last 4 years, the prior administration
invited, administered, and oversaw an unprecedented flood of illegal
immigration into the United States.  Millions of illegal aliens crossed
our borders or were permitted to fly directly into the United States on
commercial flights and allowed to settle in American communities, in
violation of longstanding Federal laws.

Many of these aliens unlawfully within the United States present
significant threats to national security and public safety, committing
vile and heinous acts against innocent Americans.  Others are engaged in
hostile activities, including espionage, economic espionage, and
preparations for terror-related activities.  Many have abused the
generosity of the American people, and their presence in the United
States has cost taxpayers billions of dollars at the Federal, State, and
local levels.

Enforcing our Nation’s immigration laws is critically important to the
national security and public safety of the United States.  The American
people deserve a Federal Government that puts their interests first and
a Government that understands its sacred obligation to prioritize the
safety, security, and financial and economic well-being of Americans.

This order ensures that the Federal Government protects the American
people by faithfully executing the immigration laws of the United
States.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to faithfully
execute the immigration laws against all inadmissible and removable
aliens, particularly those aliens who threaten the safety or security of
the American people.  Further, it is the policy of the United States to
achieve the total and efficient enforcement of those laws, including
through lawful incentives and detention capabilities.

Sec. 3.  Faithful Execution of the Immigration Laws.  In furtherance of
the policies described in section 2 of this order:

\(a\)  Executive Order 13993 of January 20, 2021 (Revision of Civil
Immigration Enforcement Policies and Priorities), Executive Order 14010
of February 2, 2021 (Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework To
Address the Causes of Migration, To Manage Migration Throughout North
and Central America, and To Provide Safe and Orderly Processing of
Asylum Seekers at the United States Border), Executive Order 14011 of
February 2, 2021 (Establishment of Interagency Task Force on the
Reunification of Families), and Executive Order 14012 of February 2,
2021 (Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems and Strengthening
Integration and Inclusion Efforts for New Americans) are hereby revoked;
and

\(b\)  Executive departments and agencies (agencies) shall take all
appropriate action to promptly revoke all memoranda, guidance, or other
policies based on the Executive Orders revoked in section 3(a) of this
order and shall employ all lawful means to ensure the faithful execution
of the immigration laws of the United States against all inadmissible
and removable aliens.

Sec. 4.  Civil Enforcement Priorities.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security shall take all appropriate action to enable the Director of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, the Commissioner of U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, and the Director of U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services to set priorities for their agencies that protect
the public safety and national security interests of the American
people, including by ensuring the successful enforcement of final orders
of removal.  Further, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure
that the primary mission of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement’s
Homeland Security Investigations division is the enforcement of the
provisions of the INA and other Federal laws related to the illegal
entry and unlawful presence of aliens in the United States and the
enforcement of the purposes of this order.

Sec. 5.  Criminal Enforcement Priorities.  The Attorney General, in
coordination with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall take all appropriate action to prioritize the
prosecution of criminal offenses related to the unauthorized entry or
continued unauthorized presence of aliens in the United States.

Sec. 6.  Federal Homeland Security Task Forces.  (a)  The Attorney
General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all
appropriate action to jointly establish Homeland Security Task Forces
(HSTFs) in all States nationwide.

(b)  The composition of each HSTF shall be subject to the direction of
the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security, but shall
include representation from any other Federal agencies with law
enforcement officers, or agencies with the ability to provide logistics,
intelligence, and operational support to the HSTFs, and shall also
include representation from relevant State and local law enforcement
agencies.  The heads of all Federal agencies shall take all appropriate
action to provide support to the Attorney General and the Secretary of
Homeland Security to ensure that the HSTFs fulfill the objectives in
subsection (c) of this section, and any other lawful purpose that
fulfills the policy objectives of this order.

(c)  The objective of each HSTF is to end the presence of criminal
cartels, foreign gangs, and transnational criminal organizations
throughout the United States, dismantle cross-border human smuggling and
trafficking networks, end the scourge of human smuggling and
trafficking, with a particular focus on such offenses involving
children, and ensure the use of all available law enforcement tools to
faithfully execute the immigration laws of the United States.

(d)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
take all appropriate action to provide an operational command center to
coordinate the activities of the HSTFs and provide such support as they
may require, and shall also take all appropriate action to provide
supervisory direction to their activities as may be required.

Sec. 7.  Identification of Unregistered Illegal Aliens.  The Secretary
of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and
the Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to:

\(a\)  Immediately announce and publicize information about the legal
obligation of all previously unregistered aliens in the United States to
comply with the requirements of part VII of subchapter II of chapter 12
of title 8, United States Code;

(b)  Ensure that all previously unregistered aliens in the United States
comply with the requirements of part VII of subchapter II of chapter 12
of title 8, United States Code; and

\(c\)  Ensure that failure to comply with the legal obligations of part
VII of subchapter II of chapter 12 of title 8, United States Code, is
treated as a civil and criminal enforcement priority.

Sec. 8.  Civil Fines and Penalties.  (a)  The Secretary of Homeland
Security, in coordination with the Secretary of Treasury, shall take all
appropriate action to ensure the assessment and collection of all fines
and penalties that the Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized by
law to assess and collect from aliens unlawfully present in the United
States, including aliens who unlawfully entered or unlawfully attempted
to enter the United States, and from those who facilitate such aliens’
presence in the United States.

(b)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to
the President regarding their progress implementing the requirements of
this section and recommending any additional actions that may need to be
taken to achieve its objectives.

Sec. 9.  Efficient Removals of Recent Entrants and Other Aliens.  The
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action,
pursuant to section 235(b)(1)(A)(iii)(I) of the INA (8 U.S.C.
1225(b)(1)(A)(iii)(I)), to apply, in her sole and unreviewable
discretion, the provisions of section 235(b)(1)(A)(i) and (ii) of the
INA to the aliens designated under section 235(b)(1)(A)(iii)(II).
 Further, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly take
appropriate action to use all other provisions of the immigration laws
or any other Federal law, including, but not limited to sections 238 and
240(d) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1228 and 1229a(d)), to ensure the efficient
and expedited removal of aliens from the United States.

Sec. 10.  Detention Facilities.  The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall promptly take all appropriate action and allocate all legally
available resources or establish contracts to construct, operate,
control, or use facilities to detain removable aliens.  The Secretary of
Homeland Security, further, shall take all appropriate actions to ensure
the detention of aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law
pending the outcome of their removal proceedings or their removal from
the country, to the extent permitted by law.

Sec. 11.  Federal-State Agreements.  To ensure State and local law
enforcement agencies across the United States can assist with the
protection of the American people, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall, to the maximum extent permitted by law, and with the consent of
State or local officials as appropriate, take appropriate action,
through agreements under section 287(g) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1357(g)) or
otherwise, to authorize State and local law enforcement officials, as
the Secretary of Homeland Security determines are qualified and
appropriate, to perform the functions of immigration officers in
relation to the investigation, apprehension, or detention of aliens in
the United States under the direction and the supervision of the
Secretary of Homeland Security.  Such authorization shall be in addition
to, rather than in place of, Federal performance of these duties.  To
the extent permitted by law, the Secretary of Homeland Security may
structure each agreement under section 287(g) of the INA (8 U.S.C.
1357(g)) in the manner that provides the most effective model for
enforcing Federal immigration laws in that jurisdiction.

Sec. 12.  Encouraging Voluntary Compliance with the Law.  The Secretary
of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action, in coordination
with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, and subject to
adequate safeguards, assurances, bonds, and any other lawful measure, to
adopt policies and procedures to encourage aliens unlawfully in the
United States to voluntarily depart as soon as possible, including
through enhanced usage of the provisions of section 240B of the INA (8
U.S.C. 1229c), international agreements or assistance, or any other
measures that encourage aliens unlawfully in the United States to depart
as promptly as possible, including through removals of aliens as
provided by section 250 of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1260).

Sec. 13.  Recalcitrant Countries.  The Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to:

\(a\)  Cooperate and effectively implement, as appropriate, the
sanctions provided by section 243(d) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1253(d)), with
the Secretary of State, to the maximum extent permitted by law, ensuring
that diplomatic efforts and negotiations with foreign states include the
foreign states’ acceptance of their nationals who are subject to removal
from the United States; and

\(b\)  Eliminate all documentary barriers, dilatory tactics, or other
restrictions that prevent the prompt repatriation of aliens to any
foreign state.  Any failure or delay by a foreign state to verify the
identity of a national of that state shall be considered in carrying out
subsection (a) this section, and shall also be considered regarding the
issuance of any other sanctions that may be available to the United
States.

Sec. 14.  Visa Bonds.  The Secretary of Treasury shall take all
appropriate action, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, to establish a system to facilitate the
administration of all bonds that the Secretary of State or the Secretary
of Homeland Security may lawfully require to administer the provisions
of the INA.

Sec. 15.  Reestablishment of the VOICE Office and Addressing Victims of
Crimes Committed by Removable Aliens.  The Secretary of Homeland
Security shall direct the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs
Enforcement (ICE) to take all appropriate and lawful action to
reestablish within ICE an office to provide proactive, timely, adequate,
and professional services to victims of crimes committed by removable
aliens, and those victims’ family members.  The Attorney General shall
also ensure that the provisions of 18 U.S.C. 3771 are followed in all
Federal prosecutions involving crimes committed by removable aliens.

Sec. 16.  Addressing Actions by the Previous Administration.  The
Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall promptly take all appropriate action, consistent with
law, to rescind the policy decisions of the previous administration that
led to the increased or continued presence of illegal aliens in the
United States, and align any and all departmental activities with the
policies set out by this order and the immigration laws.  Such action
should include, but is not limited to:

\(a\)  ensuring that the parole authority under section 212(d)(5) of the
INA (8 U.S.C. 1182(d)(5)) is exercised on only a case-by-case basis in
accordance with the plain language of the statute, and in all
circumstances only when an individual alien demonstrates urgent
humanitarian reasons or a significant public benefit derived from their
particular continued presence in the United States arising from such
parole;

\(b\)  ensuring that designations of Temporary Protected Status are
consistent with the provisions of section 244 of the INA (8 U.S.C.
1254a), and that such designations are appropriately limited in scope
and made for only so long as may be necessary to fulfill the textual
requirements of that statute; and

\(c\)  ensuring that employment authorization is provided in a manner
consistent with section 274A of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1324a), and that
employment authorization is not provided to any unauthorized alien in
the United States.

Sec. 17.  Sanctuary Jurisdictions.  The Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall, to the maximum extent possible
under law, evaluate and undertake any lawful actions to ensure that
so-called “sanctuary” jurisdictions, which seek to interfere with the
lawful exercise of Federal law enforcement operations, do not receive
access to Federal funds.  Further, the Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall evaluate and undertake any other
lawful actions, criminal or civil, that they deem warranted based on any
such jurisdiction’s practices that interfere with the enforcement of
Federal law.

Sec. 18.  Information Sharing.  (a)  The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall promptly issue guidance to ensure maximum compliance by Department
of Homeland Security personnel with the provisions of 8 U.S.C. 1373 and
8 U.S.C. 1644 and ensure that State and local governments are provided
with the information necessary to fulfill law enforcement, citizenship,
or immigration status verification requirements authorized by law; and

(b)  The Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action
to stop the trafficking and smuggling of alien children into the United
States, including through the sharing of any information necessary to
assist in the achievement of that objective.

Sec. 19.  Funding Review.  The Attorney General and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall:

\(a\)  Immediately review and, if appropriate, audit all contracts,
grants, or other agreements providing Federal funding to
non-governmental organizations supporting or providing services, either
directly or indirectly, to removable or illegal aliens, to ensure that
such agreements conform to applicable law and are free of waste, fraud,
and abuse, and that they do not promote or facilitate violations of our
immigration laws;

\(b\)  Pause distribution of all further funds pursuant to such
agreements pending the results of the review in subsection (a) of this
section;

\(c\)  Terminate all such agreements determined to be in violation of
law or to be sources of waste, fraud, or abuse and prohibit any such
future agreements;

\(d\)  Coordinate with the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget to ensure that no funding for agreements described in subsection
(c) of this section is included in any appropriations request for the
Department of Justice or the Department of Homeland Security; and

\(e\)  Initiate clawback or recoupment procedures, if appropriate, for
any agreements described in subsection (c) of this section.

Sec. 20.  Denial of Public Benefits to Illegal Aliens.  The Director of
the Office of Management and Budget shall take all appropriate action to
ensure that all agencies identify and stop the provision of any public
benefits to any illegal alien not authorized to receive them under the
provisions of the INA or other relevant statutory provisions.

Sec. 21.  Hiring More Agents and Officers.  Subject to available
appropriations, the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the Director of
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, shall take all appropriate
action to significantly increase the number of agents and officers
available to perform the duties of immigration officers.

Sec. 22.  Severability.  It is the policy of the United States to
enforce this order to the maximum extent possible to advance the
interests of the United States. Accordingly:

\(a\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to
any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby; and

\(b\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid because
of the failure to follow certain procedures, the relevant executive
branch officials shall implement those procedural requirements to
conform with existing law and with any applicable court orders.

Sec. 23.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)  the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

     January 20, 2025.
