---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 21:05:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/03/executive-order-providing-an-order-of-succession-within-the-department-of-justice/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of\_\
  Justice"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies
Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 *et seq.* (the “Act”), it
is hereby ordered that:

Section1.  Order of Succession.  Subject to the provisions of section 2
of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act, the
following officials of the Department of Justice, in the order listed,
shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office of
Attorney General during any period in which the Attorney General, the
Deputy Attorney General, the Associate Attorney General, and any
officers designated by the Attorney General pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 508 to
act as Attorney General have died, resigned, or otherwise become unable
to perform the functions and duties of the office of Attorney General,
until such time as at least one of the officers mentioned above is able
to perform the functions and duties of that office:

\(a\)  United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York;

\(b\)  United States Attorney for the District of Arizona;

\(c\)  United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois; and

\(d\)  United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii.

Sec. 2.  Exceptions.  (a)  No individual who is serving in an office
listed in section 1(a)–(d) of this order in an acting capacity shall, by
virtue of so serving, act as Attorney General pursuant to this order.

\(b\)  No individual who is serving in an office listed in section
1(a)–(d) of this order shall act as Attorney General unless that
individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

\(c\)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this
order in designating an acting Attorney General.

Sec. 3.  Revocation.  Executive Order 13787 of March 31, 2017 (Providing
an Order of Succession Within the Department of Justice), is hereby
revoked.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    January 3, 2025.
