---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-21 14:41:30-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 21:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/guaranteeing-the-states-protection-against-invasion/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Guaranteeing The States Protection Against Invasion
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby proclaim:

An essential feature of any sovereign nation is the existence of
territorial boundaries and the inherent authority to decide who and what
may cross those boundaries.  The Supreme Court of the United States has
described this power as a “fundamental act of sovereignty,” which “stems
not alone from legislative power but is inherent in the executive power
to control the foreign affairs of the nation.”  *U.S. ex rel. Knauff v.
Shaughnessy*, 338 U.S. 537, 542 (1950).  The Supreme Court has
recognized the inherent right and duty of the Executive Branch to defend
our national sovereignty, stating that “\[w\]hen Congress prescribes a
procedure concerning the admissibility of aliens, it is not dealing
alone with a legislative power.  It is implementing an inherent
executive power.”  *Id.*

The Congress has, in establishing “an uniform Rule of Naturalization,”
created a complex and comprehensive Federal scheme in the Immigration
and Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq*., to control the entry
and exit of people and goods across the borders of the United States. 
In routine circumstances, this complex and comprehensive scheme can
protect the national sovereignty of the United States by facilitating
the admission of individuals whose presence serves the national interest
and preventing the admission of those who do not, such as those aliens
who pose threats to public health, section 212(a)(1) of the INA, 8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(1); safety, section 212(a)(2) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)); and
national security, section 212(a)(3) (8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(3)).  Prospective
immigrants who use the visa system are screened for such health, safety,
and security concerns while outside of the United States, and are not
permitted to enter the United States until they establish that they are
eligible to be admitted as a matter of law and should be admitted as a
matter of discretion.

But screening under those provisions of the INA can be wholly
ineffective in the border environment, where access to necessary
information is limited for aliens who have traveled from countries
around the world to enter the United States illegally, or when the
system is overwhelmed, leading to the unauthorized entry of innumerable
illegal aliens into the United States.

Due to significant information gaps — particularly in the border
environment — and processing times, Federal officials do not have the
ability to verify with certainty the criminal record or
national-security risks associated with the illegal entry of every alien
at the southern border, as required by section 212(a)(2)-(3) of the INA,
8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2)-(3).  Nor do aliens who illegally cross the southern
border readily provide comprehensive background information from their
home countries to Federal law enforcement officials.

The public safety and national security risks in such an environment are
heightened by the presence of, and control of territory by,
international cartels and other transnational criminal organizations on
the other side of the southern border, as well as terrorists and other
malign actors who intend to harm the United States and the American
people.  And the risks associated with these issues are greatly
exacerbated when the number of aliens illegally crossing the southern
border increases to levels that prevent actual operational control of
the border.

The same is true for public health, where the Federal Government
currently lacks an effective operational capability to screen all
illegal aliens crossing the southern border for communicable diseases of
public-health concern, as required by section 212(a)(1) of the INA, 8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(1).  Effectively no aliens who illegally enter the United
States provide Federal officials at the southern border with their
comprehensive health information, as a lawful immigrant would.  As a
result, innumerable aliens potentially carrying communicable diseases of
public health significance illegally cross the southern border and enter
communities across the United States.

Over the last 4 years, at least 8 million illegal aliens were
encountered along the southern border of the United States, and
countless millions more evaded detection and illegally entered the
United States.  The sheer number of aliens entering the United States
has overwhelmed the system and rendered many of the INA’s provisions
ineffective, including those previously described that are intended to
prevent aliens posing threats to public health, safety, and national
security from entering the United States.  As a result, millions of
aliens who potentially pose significant threats to health, safety, and
national security have moved into communities nationwide.

This ongoing influx of illegal aliens across the southern border of the
United States has placed significant costs and constraints upon the
States, which have collectively spent billions of dollars in providing
medical care and related human services, and have spent considerable
amounts on increased law enforcement costs associated with the presence
of these illegal aliens within their boundaries.

In joining the Union, the States agreed to surrender much of their
sovereignty and join the Union in exchange for the Federal Government’s
promise in Article IV, Section 4 of the U.S. Constitution, to “protect
each of \[the States\] against Invasion.”  I have determined that the
current state of the southern border reveals that the Federal Government
has failed in fulfilling this obligation to the States and hereby
declare that an invasion is ongoing at the southern border, which
requires the Federal Government to take measures to fulfill its
obligation to the States.

The INA provides the President with certain emergency tools.  For
example, it states that “\[w\]henever the President finds that the entry
of any aliens or of any class of aliens into the United States would be
detrimental to the interests of the United States, he may by
proclamation, and for such period as he shall deem necessary, suspend
the entry of all aliens or any class of aliens as immigrants or
nonimmigrants, or impose on the entry of aliens any restrictions he may
deem to be appropriate.”  8 U.S.C. 1182(f).  This statute “exudes
deference to the President in every clause.”  *Trump v. Hawaii*, 585
U.S. 667, 684 (2018).  Further, the INA renders it unlawful for “any
alien to depart from or enter or attempt to depart from or enter the
United States except under such reasonable rules, regulations, and
orders, and subject to such limitations and exceptions as the President
may prescribe.”  8 U.S.C. 1185(a)(1).

Historically, Presidents have used these statutory authorities to deny
entry of designated classes and categories of aliens into the United
States through ports of entry.  But if the President has the power to
deny entry of any alien into the United States, and to impose any
restrictions as he may deem appropriate, this authority necessarily
includes the right to deny the physical entry of aliens into the United
States and impose restrictions on access to portions of the immigration
system, particularly when the number of aliens illegally crossing the
southern border prevents the Federal Government from obtaining
operational control of the border.

The INA does not, however, occupy the Federal Government’s field of
authority to protect the sovereignty of the United States, particularly
in times of emergency when entire provisions of the INA are rendered
ineffective by operational constraints, such as when there is an ongoing
invasion into the States.  The President’s inherent powers to control
the borders of the United States, including those deriving from his
authority to control the foreign affairs of the United States,
necessarily include the ability to prevent the physical entry of aliens
involved in an invasion into the United States, and to rapidly
repatriate them to an alternative location.  Only through such measures
can the President guarantee the right of each State to be protected
against invasion.

By the power vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United
States, I have determined that the current situation at the southern
border qualifies as an invasion under Article IV, Section 4 of the
Constitution of the United States.  Accordingly, I am issuing this
Proclamation based on my express and inherent powers in Article II of
the Constitution of the United States, and in faithful execution of the
immigration laws passed by the Congress, and suspending the physical
entry of aliens involved in an invasion into the United States across
the southern border until I determine that the invasion has concluded.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and section 301 of title 3,
United States Code, hereby direct as follows:

Section 1.  Suspension of Entry.  I hereby proclaim, pursuant to
sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a),
that the entry into the United States on or after the date of this order
of aliens engaged in the invasion across the southern border is
detrimental to the interests of the United States.  I therefore direct
that entry into the United States of such aliens be suspended until I
issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased.

Sec. 2.  Imposition of Restrictions on Entry for Aliens Invading the
United States.  I hereby proclaim, pursuant to sections 212(f) and
215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), that aliens engaged in
the invasion across the southern border of the United States on or after
the date of this proclamation are restricted from invoking provisions of
the INA that would permit their continued presence in the United States,
including, but not limited to, section 208 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1158,
until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has
ceased.

Sec. 3.  Suspension of and Restriction on Entry for Aliens Posing Public
Health, Safety, or National Security Risks.  I hereby proclaim, pursuant
to sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a),
that the entry into the United States, on or after the date of this
order, of any alien who fails, before entering the United States, to
provide Federal officials with sufficient medical information and
reliable criminal history and background information as to enable
fulfillment of the requirements of sections 212(a)(1)-(3) of the INA, 8
U.S.C. 1182(a)(1)-(3), is detrimental to the interests of the United
States.  I therefore direct that entry into the United States of such
aliens be suspended and restrict their access to provisions of the INA
that would permit their continued presence in the United States,
including, but not limited to, section 208 of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1158.

Sec. 4.  Constitutional Suspension of Physical Entry.  Under the
authorities provided to me under Article II of the Constitution of the
United States, including my control over foreign affairs, and to
effectuate the guarantee of protection against invasion required by
Article IV, Section 4, I hereby suspend the physical entry of any alien
engaged in the invasion across the southern border of the United States,
and direct the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the
Secretary of State and the Attorney General, to take appropriate actions
as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of this proclamation,
until I issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has
ceased.

Sec. 5.  Operational Actions to Repel the Invasion.  The Secretary of
Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of State and the
Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action to repel,
repatriate, or remove any alien engaged in the invasion across the
southern border of the United States on or after the date of this order,
whether as an exercise of the suspension power in section 212(f) and
215(a) of the INA, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), or as an exercise of my
delegated authority under the Constitution of the United States, until I
issue a finding that the invasion at the southern border has ceased.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.
