---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:21:59-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:40:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-the-death-penalty-and-protecting-public-safety/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring The Death Penalty And Protecting Public Safety
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  Capital punishment is an essential tool for
deterring and punishing those who would commit the most heinous crimes
and acts of lethal violence against American citizens.  Before, during,
and after the founding of the United States, our cities, States, and
country have continuously relied upon capital punishment as the ultimate
deterrent and only proper punishment for the vilest crimes.  Our
Founders knew well that only capital punishment can bring justice and
restore order in response to such evil.  For this and other reasons,
capital punishment continues to enjoy broad popular support.

Yet for too long, politicians and judges who oppose capital punishment
have defied and subverted the laws of our country.  At every turn, they
seek to thwart the execution of lawfully imposed capital sentences and
choose to enforce their personal beliefs rather than the law.  When
President Biden took office in 2021, he allowed his Department of
Justice to issue a moratorium on Federal executions, in defiance of his
duty to faithfully execute the laws of the United States that provide
for capital punishment.  And on December 23, 2024, President Biden
commuted the sentences of 37 of the 40 most vile and sadistic rapists,
child molesters, and murderers on Federal death row:  remorseless
criminals who brutalized young children, strangled and drowned their
victims, and hunted strangers for sport.  He commuted their sentences
even though the laws of our Nation have always protected victims by
applying capital punishment to barbaric acts like theirs.  Judges who
oppose capital punishment have likewise disregarded the law by falsely
claiming that capital punishment is unconstitutional, even though the
Constitution explicitly acknowledges the legality of capital punishment.

These efforts to subvert and undermine capital punishment defy the laws
of our nation, make a mockery of justice, and insult the victims of
these horrible crimes.  The Government’s most solemn responsibility is
to protect its citizens from abhorrent acts, and my Administration will
not tolerate efforts to stymie and eviscerate the laws that authorize
capital punishment against those who commit horrible acts of violence
against American citizens.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  It is the policy of the United States to ensure that
the laws that authorize capital punishment are respected and faithfully
implemented, and to counteract the politicians and judges who subvert
the law by obstructing and preventing the execution of capital
sentences.

Sec. 3.  Federal Capital Punishment.  (a)  The Attorney General shall
pursue the death penalty for all crimes of a severity demanding its use.

\(b\) In addition to pursuing the death penalty where possible, the
Attorney General shall, where consistent with applicable law, pursue
Federal jurisdiction and seek the death penalty regardless of other
factors for every federal capital crime involving:

\(i\)   The murder of a law-enforcement officer; or

\(ii\)  A capital crime committed by an alien illegally present in this
country.

The Attorney General shall encourage State attorneys general and
district attorneys to bring State capital charges for all capital crimes
with special attention to the crimes described in Subsections (i) and
(ii), regardless of whether the federal trial results in a capital
sentence.

\(d\)  The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to modify
the Justice Manual based on the policy and purpose set forth in this
Executive Order.

\(e\)  The Attorney General shall evaluate the places of imprisonment
and conditions of confinement for each of the 37 murderers whose Federal
death sentences were commuted by President Biden, and the Attorney
General shall take all lawful and appropriate action to ensure that
these offenders are imprisoned in conditions consistent with the
monstrosity of their crimes and the threats they pose.  The Attorney
General shall further evaluate whether these offenders can be charged
with State capital crimes and shall recommend appropriate action to
state and local authorities.

Sec. 4.  Preserving Capital Punishment in the States.  (a)  The Attorney
General shall take all necessary and lawful action to ensure that each
state that allows capital punishment has a sufficient supply of drugs
needed to carry out lethal injection.

\(b\) The Attorney General shall take all appropriate action to approve
or deny any pending request for certification made by any State under 28
U.S.C. 2265.

Sec. 5.  Seeking The Overruling of Supreme Court Precedents That Hinder
Capital Punishment.  The Attorney General shall take all appropriate
action to seek the overruling of Supreme Court precedents that limit the
authority of State and Federal governments to impose capital punishment.

Sec. 6.  Prosecuting Crime to Protect Communities.  (a)  The Attorney
General shall appropriately prioritize public safety and the prosecution
of violent crime, and take all appropriate action necessary to dismantle
transnational criminal activity in the United States.

\(b\)  To ensure the fullest protection of American communities from
violence, the Attorney General shall encourage state attorneys general
and district attorneys to adopt policies and practices aligned with
subsection (a).  Federal law enforcement should coordinate with State
and local law enforcement where possible to facilitate these objectives.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
