---
date: '2025-01-27'
modified_time: 2025-01-29 09:05:55-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-27 22:27:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/the-national-day-of-remembrance-of-the-80th-anniversary-of-the-liberation-of-auschwitz-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: The National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of
  Auschwitz, 2025
---
 
Today marks the 80th anniversary of the liberation of
Auschwitz-Birkenau, the Nazi concentration camp in Poland that stood at
the center of the Holocaust and focus for their systematic slaughter of
the Jewish people.     Between 1940 and 1945, more than one million
Jews, religious leaders, disabled persons, and other innocent victims
were viciously and mercilessly executed in Auschwitz at the hands of the
evil Nazi regime — culminating in one of the darkest chapters in human
history.  On this solemn day, America joins the Jewish community, the
people of Poland, and the entire world in mourning the lives lost, the
souls battered, the heroes forgotten, and the countless men and women
who gave their lives for the cause of <u>f</u>reedom.

Over those 5 gruesome years at Auschwitz, mothers and fathers lost their
children, daughters and sons lost their parents, and wives and husbands
lost their soulmates to the deadly scourge of anti-Semitism — leaving an
unfillable void in their hearts.  

To those who lost family members and loved ones, we pray that Almighty
God will grant you comfort and strength.  To those who survived the
atrocities at Auschwitz, we honor your courage, we salute your
sacrifice, and we offer you our enduring love and unceasing gratitude.
 And to every person touched by the calamities of the Holocaust, we give
you our unwavering devotion and eternal promise to never forget the
evils that took place during that dark time in history.

Sadly, despite decades of wisdom shared by survivors, years of
reflection on the depravities committed, and decades of progress towards
peace, the poison of anti-Semitism still courses through the veins of
cowards in dark corners of the world.  So today, we renew our promise
that anti-Semitism has no place in a civilized society, no place in our
foreign policy, and no place in the United States of America.

In the years since the liberation of Auschwitz on this day eight decades
ago, the grave offenses that took place during the Holocaust and the
cries of the Jewish people have echoed throughout the halls of history.
 In the wake of the oppression, persecution, and injustice committed at
Auschwitz and elsewhere in Europe, the Jewish people gallantly
persevered to re-found their homeland in the modern State of Israel —
our mighty friend.  To this day, the Jewish people proudly represent the
peak of human tenacity and the pinnacle of human triumph.

As we commemorate this somber occasion, we pay tribute to the undying
spirit of the Jewish community.  We reaffirm our commitment to educating
our children and every future generation about the horrors that took
place within the confines of Auschwitz and other concentration and death
camps.  We renew our resolve to end anti-Semitism and religious bigotry
of all forms.  We proudly reassert our strong bonds of friendship with
the State of Israel.  And we declare the timeless truth that every human
being is a child of God and inherently worthy of dignity and respect.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 27, 2025, as a
National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of the Liberation of
Auschwitz.  On this day, I call upon every American citizen to observe
this day with programs, ceremonies, and prayers commemorating the
victims of the Holocaust and honoring the sacrifices of the men and
women who helped liberate the victims of the Nazis at Auschwitz.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-seventh day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
