---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:20:55-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:43:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/reevaluating-and-realigning-united-states-foreign-aid/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Reevaluating And Realigning United States Foreign Aid
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose*. * The United States foreign aid industry and
bureaucracy are not aligned with American interests and in many cases
antithetical to American values.  They serve to destabilize world peace
by promoting ideas in foreign countries that are directly inverse to
harmonious and stable relations internal to and among countries.

Sec. 2.  Policy*.*  It is the policy of United States that no further
United States foreign assistance shall be disbursed in a manner that is
not fully aligned with the foreign policy of the President of the United
States. * *

Sec. 3.  (a)  *90-day pause in United States foreign development
assistance for assessment of programmatic efficiencies and consistency
with United States foreign policy. * All department and agency heads
with responsibility for United States foreign development assistance
programs shall immediately pause new obligations and disbursements of
development assistance funds to foreign countries and implementing
non-governmental organizations, international organizations, and
contractors pending reviews of such programs for programmatic efficiency
and consistency with United States foreign policy, to be conducted
within 90 days of this order.  The Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
shall enforce this pause through its apportionment authority.

\(b\)  *Reviews of United States foreign assistance programs.  *Reviews
of each foreign assistance program shall be ordered by the responsible
department and agency heads under guidelines provided by the Secretary
of State, in consultation with the Director of OMB.

\(c\)  *Determinations.  *The responsible department and agency heads,
in consultation with the Director of OMB, will make determinations
within 90 days of this order on whether to continue, modify, or cease
each foreign assistance program based upon the review recommendations,
with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.

\(d\)  *Resumption of paused development assistance funding. * New
obligations and disbursements of foreign development assistance funds
may resume for a program prior to the end of the 90-day period if a
review is conducted, and the Secretary of State or his designee*,* in
consultation with the Director of OMB*,* decide to continue the program
in the same or modified form.  Additionally, any other new foreign
assistance programs and obligations must be approved by the Secretary of
State or his designee, in consultation with the Director of OMB.

\(e\)  *Waiver.*  The Secretary of State may waive the pause in Section
3(a) for specific programs.  

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
