---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:20:23-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 21:20:22-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-names-that-honor-american-greatness/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Restoring Names That Honor American Greatness
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose and Policy.  It is in the national interest to
promote the extraordinary heritage of our Nation and ensure future
generations of American citizens celebrate the legacy of our American
heroes.  The naming of our national treasures, including breathtaking
natural wonders and historic works of art, should honor the
contributions of visionary and patriotic Americans in our Nation’s rich
past. 

Sec. 2.  Appointments to the U.S. Board on Geographic Names.  (a) 
Within seven days of the date of this order, each agency head with
authority to appoint members to the Board on Geographic Names (Board)
pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 364a, shall review their respective appointees and
consider replacing those appointees in accordance with applicable law.

(b)  The Secretary of the Interior shall review and consider additional
appointments to the Board to assist in fulfilling all aspects of this
order, subject to all applicable laws.

(c)  With respect to all applications for naming and renaming submitted
to the newly constituted Board, the Board shall advance the policy
established in section 1 of this order to honor the contributions of
visionary and patriotic Americans and may update its principles,
policies, and procedures as needed to achieve this policy.

(d)  Where Congressional action is required to establish a renaming in
public law, following Board approval on renaming, the Board shall
provide guidance to all relevant Federal agencies to use the
Board-approved name in the interim in federal documents and achieve
consistency across the federal government.

Sec. 3.  Renaming of Mount McKinley.  (a)  President William McKinley,
the 25th President of the United States, heroically led our Nation to
victory in the Spanish-American War.  Under his leadership, the United
States enjoyed rapid economic growth and prosperity, including an
expansion of territorial gains for the Nation.  President McKinley
championed tariffs to protect U.S. manufacturing, boost domestic
production, and drive U.S. industrialization and global reach to new
heights.  He was tragically assassinated in an attack on our Nation’s
values and our success, and he should be honored for his steadfast
commitment to American greatness.

In 1917, the country officially honored President McKinley through the
naming of North America’s highest peak.  Yet after nearly a century,
President Obama’s administration, in 2015, stripped the McKinley name
from federal nomenclature, an affront to President McKinley’s life, his
achievements, and his sacrifice.

This order honors President McKinley for giving his life for our great
Nation and dutifully recognizes his historic legacy of protecting
America’s interests and generating enormous wealth for all Americans.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the
Interior shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through 364f, reinstate
the name “Mount McKinley.”  The Secretary shall subsequently update the
Geographic Names Information System (GNIS) to reflect the renaming and
reinstatement of Mount McKinley.  The national park area surrounding
Mount McKinley shall retain the name Denali National Park and Preserve.

(c)  The Secretary of the Interior shall work with Alaska Native
entities and state and local organizations to adopt names for landmarks
to honor the history and culture of the Alaskan people.

Sec. 4.  Gulf of America.  (a)  The area formerly known as the Gulf of
Mexico has long been an integral asset to our once burgeoning Nation and
has remained an indelible part of America.  The Gulf was a crucial
artery for America’s early trade and global commerce.  It is the largest
gulf in the world, and the United States coastline along this remarkable
body of water spans over 1,700 miles and contains nearly 160 million
acres.  Its natural resources and wildlife remain central to America’s
economy today.  The bountiful geology of this basin has made it one of
the most prodigious oil and gas regions in the world, providing roughly
14% of our Nation’s crude-oil production and an abundance of natural
gas, and consistently driving new and innovative technologies that have
allowed us to tap into some of the deepest and richest oil reservoirs in
the world.  The Gulf is also home to vibrant American fisheries teeming
with snapper, shrimp, grouper, stone crab, and other species, and it is
recognized as one of the most productive fisheries in the world, with
the second largest volume of commercial fishing landings by region in
the Nation, contributing millions of dollars to local American
economies.  The Gulf is also a favorite destination for American tourism
and recreation activities.  Further, the Gulf is a vital region for the
multi-billion-dollar U.S. maritime industry, providing some of the
largest and most impressive ports in the world.  The Gulf will continue
to play a pivotal role in shaping America’s future and the global
economy, and in recognition of this flourishing economic resource and
its critical importance to our Nation’s economy and its people, I am
directing that it officially be renamed the Gulf of America.

(b)  As such, within 30 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
the Interior shall, consistent with 43 U.S.C. 364 through 364f, take all
appropriate actions to rename as the “Gulf of America” the U.S.
Continental Shelf area bounded on the northeast, north, and northwest by
the States of Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama and Florida and
extending to the seaward boundary with Mexico and Cuba in the area
formerly named as the Gulf of Mexico.  The Secretary shall subsequently
update the GNIS to reflect the renaming of the Gulf and remove all
references to the Gulf of Mexico from the GNIS, consistent with
applicable law.  The Board shall provide guidance to ensure all federal
references to the Gulf of America, including on agency maps, contracts,
and other documents and communications shall reflect its renaming.

Sec. 5.  Additional Action.  The Secretary of Interior may solicit
public and intergovernmental input regarding additional patriots to
honor, particularly in light of America’s semiquincentennial
celebration, and shall recommend action to me, through the Assistant to
the President for Domestic Policy.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
