---
date: '2025-01-23'
published_time: 2025-01-23 15:48:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/strengthening-american-leadership-in-digital-financial-technology/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Strengthening American Leadership in Digital Financial Technology
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to promote United
States leadership in digital assets and financial technology while
protecting economic liberty, it is hereby ordered as follows:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose and
Policies. </span> (a)  The digital asset industry plays a crucial role
in innovation and economic development in the United States, as well as
our Nation’s international leadership.  It is therefore the policy of my
Administration to support the responsible growth and use of digital
assets, blockchain technology, and related technologies across all
sectors of the economy, including by:

\(i\)    protecting and promoting the ability of individual citizens and
private-sector entities alike to access and use for lawful purposes open
public blockchain networks without persecution, including the ability to
develop and deploy software, to participate in mining and validating, to
transact with other persons without unlawful censorship, and to maintain
self-custody of digital assets;

\(ii\)   promoting and protecting the sovereignty of the United States
dollar, including through actions to promote the development and growth
of lawful and legitimate dollar-backed stablecoins worldwide;

\(iii\)  protecting and promoting fair and open access to banking
services for all law-abiding individual citizens and private-sector
entities alike;

\(iv\)   providing regulatory clarity and certainty built on
technology-neutral regulations, frameworks that account for emerging
technologies, transparent decision making, and well-defined
jurisdictional regulatory boundaries, all of which are essential to
supporting a vibrant and inclusive digital economy and innovation in
digital assets, permissionless blockchains, and distributed ledger
technologies; and

\(v\)    taking measures to protect Americans from the risks of Central
Bank Digital Currencies (CBDCs), which threaten the stability of the
financial system, individual privacy, and the sovereignty of the United
States, including by prohibiting the establishment, issuance,
circulation, and use of a CBDC within the jurisdiction of the United
States.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.
* *Definitions*.*</span> * *(a)  For the purpose of this order, the term
“digital asset” refers to any digital representation of value that is
recorded on a distributed ledger, including cryptocurrencies, digital
tokens, and stablecoins.

\(b\)  The term “blockchain” means any technology where data is:

\(i\)    shared across a network to create a public ledger of verified
transactions or information among network participants;

\(ii\)   linked using cryptography to maintain the integrity of the
public ledger and to execute other functions;

\(iii\)  distributed among network participants in an automated fashion
to concurrently update network participants on the state of the public
ledger and any other functions; and

\(iv\)   composed of source code that is publicly available.

\(c\)  “Central Bank Digital Currency” means a form of digital money or
monetary value, denominated in the national unit of account, that is a
direct liability of the central bank.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3. ** **Revocation of
Executive Order 14067 and Department of the Treasury Framework of July
7, 2022.</span>* * (a)  Executive Order 14067 of March 9, 2022 (Ensuring
Responsible Development of Digital Assets) is hereby revoked.

\(b\)  The Secretary of the Treasury is directed to immediately revoke
the Department of the Treasury’s “Framework for International Engagement
on Digital Assets,” issued on July 7, 2022.

\(c\)  All policies, directives, and guidance issued pursuant to
Executive Order 14067 and the Department of the Treasury’s Framework for
International Engagement on Digital Assets are hereby rescinded or shall
be rescinded by the Secretary of the Treasury, as appropriate, to the
extent they are inconsistent with the provisions of this order.

\(d\)  The Secretary of the Treasury shall take all appropriate measures
to ensure compliance with the policies set forth in this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Establishment of the
President‘s Working Group on Digital Asset Markets.* * </span>(a)  There
is hereby established within the National Economic Council the
President’s Working Group on Digital Asset Markets (Working Group).  The
Working Group shall be chaired by the Special Advisor for AI and Crypto
(Chair).  In addition to the Chair, the Working Group shall include the
following officials, or their designees:

\(i\)     the Secretary of the Treasury;

\(ii\)    the Attorney General;

\(iii\)   the Secretary of Commerce;

\(iv\)    the Secretary of Homeland Security;

\(v\)     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

\(vi\)    the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;

\(vii\)   the Assistant to the President for National Economic Policy
(APEP);

\(viii\)  the Assistant to the President for Science and Technology;

\(ix\)    the Homeland Security Advisor;

(x)     the Chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; and

(xi)    the Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading

Commission.

\(xii\)   As appropriate and consistent with applicable law, the Chair
may invite the heads of other executive departments and agencies
(agencies), or other senior officials within the Executive Office of the
President, to attend meetings of the Working Group, based on the
relevance of their expertise and responsibilities.

\(b\)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Department of the
Treasury, the Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and other relevant agencies, the heads of which are included
in the Working Group, shall identify all regulations, guidance
documents, orders, or other items that affect the digital asset sector.
 Within 60 days of the date of this order, each agency shall submit to
the Chair recommendations with respect to whether each identified
regulation, guidance document, order, or other item should be rescinded
or modified, or, for items other than regulations, adopted in a
regulation.

\(c\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Working Group
shall submit a report to the President, through the APEP, which shall
recommend regulatory and legislative proposals that advance the policies
established in this order.  In particular, the report shall focus on the
following:

\(i\)   The Working Group shall propose a Federal regulatory framework
governing the issuance and operation of digital assets, including
stablecoins, in the United States.  The Working Group’s report shall
consider provisions for market structure, oversight, consumer
protection, and risk management.

\(ii\)  The Working Group shall evaluate the potential creation and
maintenance of a national digital asset stockpile and propose criteria
for establishing such a stockpile, potentially derived from
cryptocurrencies lawfully seized by the Federal Government through its
law enforcement efforts.

\(d\)  The Chair shall designate an Executive Director of the Working
Group, who shall be responsible for coordinating its day-to-day
functions.  On issues affecting the national security, the Working Group
shall consult with the National Security Council.

\(e\)  As appropriate and consistent with law, the Working Group shall
hold public hearings and receive individual expertise from leaders in
digital assets and digital markets.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  Prohibition of Central
Bank Digital Currencies. </span>

(a)  Except to the extent required by law, agencies are hereby
prohibited from undertaking any action to establish, issue, or promote
CBDCs within the jurisdiction of the United States or abroad.

\(b\)  Except to the extent required by law, any ongoing plans or
initiatives at any agency related to the creation of a CBDC within the
jurisdiction of the United States shall be immediately terminated, and
no further actions may be taken to develop or implement such plans or
initiatives.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 6.
 Severability*. *</span> (a)  If any provision of this order, or the
application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its
provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected
thereby.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 7.  General
Provisions. </span> (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person. 

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 23, 2025.
