---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 18:54:33-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:54:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/hiring-freeze/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Hiring Freeze
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby order a freeze on the
hiring of Federal civilian employees, to be applied throughout the
executive branch.  As part of this freeze, no Federal civilian position
that is vacant at noon on January 20, 2025, may be filled, and no new
position may be created except as otherwise provided for in this
memorandum or other applicable law.  Except as provided below, this
freeze applies to all executive departments and agencies regardless of
their sources of operational and programmatic funding.

This order does not apply to military personnel of the armed forces or
to positions related to immigration enforcement, national security, or
public safety.  Moreover, nothing in this memorandum shall adversely
impact the provision of Social Security, Medicare, or Veterans’
benefits.  In addition, the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management (OPM) may grant exemptions from this freeze where those
exemptions are otherwise necessary.

Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB), in consultation with the Director
of OPM and the Administrator of the United States DOGE Service (USDS),
shall submit a plan to reduce the size of the Federal Government’s
workforce through efficiency improvements and attrition.  Upon issuance
of the OMB plan, this memorandum shall expire for all executive
departments and agencies, with the exception of the Internal Revenue
Service (IRS).  This memorandum shall remain in effect for the IRS until
the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Director of OMB
and the Administrator of USDS, determines that it is in the national
interest to lift the freeze.

Contracting outside the Federal Government to circumvent the intent of
this memorandum is prohibited.

In carrying out this memorandum, the heads of executive departments and
agencies shall seek efficient use of existing personnel and funds to
improve public services and the delivery of these services.
 Accordingly, this memorandum does not prohibit making reallocations to
meet the highest priority needs, maintain essential services, and
protect national security, homeland security, and public safety.

This memorandum does not limit the nomination and appointment of
officials to positions requiring Presidential appointment or Senate
confirmation, the appointment of officials to non-career positions in
the Senior Executive Service or to Schedule A or C positions in the
Excepted Service, the appointment of officials through temporary
organization hiring authority pursuant to section 3161 of title 5,
United States Code, or the appointment of any other non-career employees
or officials if approved by agency leadership appointed by the
President.  Moreover, it does not limit the hiring of personnel where
such a limit would conflict with applicable law.

This memorandum does not abrogate any collective bargaining agreement in
effect on the date of this memorandum.
