---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 18:42:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/03/executive-order-providing-an-order-of-succession-within-the-department-of-the-treasury/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of\
  \ the\_Treasury"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies
Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 *et seq*. (the “Act”), it
is hereby ordered that: 

     Section 1.  Order of Succession*.*  Subject to the provisions of
section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act,
the following officials of the Department of the Treasury, in the order
listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office
of Secretary of the Treasury (Secretary) during any period in which both
the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury have died,
resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties
of the office of Secretary: 

     (a)  Any Under Secretary of the Treasury, in order of seniority
based on date of appointment to such position;

     (b)  General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury;

     (c)  Any Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury or any Assistant
Secretary of the Treasury appointed by the President by and with the
consent of the Senate, in order of seniority based on date of
appointment to such position;

     (d)  Chief of Staff;

     (e)  Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management;

     (f)  Fiscal Assistant Secretary;

     (g)  Commissioner of Internal Revenue, Internal Revenue Service;

     (h)  Commissioner, Bureau of the Fiscal Service;

     (i)  Deputy Commissioner, Financing and Operations, Bureau of the
Fiscal Service; and

     (j)  Deputy Commissioner, Internal Revenue Service.

     Sec. 2.  Exceptions.  (a)  No individual who is serving in an
office listed in section 1(a)–(j) of this order in an acting capacity
shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to this order.

     (b)  No individual who is serving in an office listed in section
1(a)–(j) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that individual is
otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

     (c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this
order in designating an acting Secretary.

     Sec. 3.  Revocation.  Executive Order 13735 of August 12, 2016
(Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of the
Treasury), is hereby revoked.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 3, 2025.
