---
date: '2025-01-24'
modified_time: 2025-01-26 18:32:16-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-24 18:21:35-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/emergency-measures-to-provide-water-resources-in-california-and-improve-disaster-response-in-certain-areas/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Emergency Measures to Provide Water Resources in California and Improve Disaster
  Response in Certain Areas
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Policy.  For weeks, residents of the Los Angeles area have
watched raging fires consume their homes, belongings, beloved pets, and
childhood memories.  Almost immediately, firefighters were unable to
fight the blaze due to dry hydrants, empty reservoirs, and inadequate
water infrastructure.  Today, at least 28 people have lost their lives
and thousands more have lost everything else, with some damage estimates
calculating hundreds of billions of dollars in damage.

This tragedy affects the entire Nation, so it is in the Nation’s
interest to ensure that California has what it needs to prevent and
fight these fires and others in the future.  Therefore, it is the policy
of the United States to provide Southern California with necessary water
resources, notwithstanding actively harmful State or local policies. 
And it is the policy of the United States to assist Americans in
disaster areas through responsive policies that more effectively empower
them to rebuild and regain their livelihoods.

Sec. 2.  Overriding Disastrous California Policies.  (a)  The Secretary
of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of the Interior, and the
Secretary of Agriculture shall expeditiously take all measures,
consistent with all applicable authorities, to ensure adequate water
resources in Southern California.  Each shall report to me within 15
days on all authorities, including emergency authorities, available to
ensure, require, maintain, or use infrastructure necessary to fight and
prevent massive wildfires in Southern California. 

(b)  In particular, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of
Commerce shall immediately take actions to override existing activities
that unduly burden efforts to maximize water deliveries.  The Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall consider actions
including those consistent with the “No Action Alternative” in the Final
Environmental Impact Statement issued November 15, 2024, by the Bureau
of Reclamation on Long-term Operation of the Central Valley Project and
State Water Project.

\(c\)  The Secretary of the Interior, including through the Bureau of
Reclamation, shall utilize his discretion to operate the CVP to deliver
more water and produce additional hydropower, including by increasing
storage and conveyance, and jointly operating federal and state
facilities, to high-need communities, notwithstanding any contrary State
or local laws.  The Bureau of Reclamation shall take all available
measures to ensure that State agencies — including the California
Department of Water Resources — do not interfere with the Bureau of
Reclamation’s operation of the project to maximize water delivery to
high-need communities or otherwise, including but not limited to the
issuance of a new Record of Decision maximizing water deliveries and
consistent with the 2020 Record of Decision.

\(d\)  In accordance with section 6 of the Executive Order of January
20, 2025 (Declaring a National Energy Emergency)*,* the Secretary of the
Interior, through the Bureau of Reclamation, and in accordance with
section 1536 of title 16 United States Code, shall expedite action
related to any exemption under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (ESA),
16 U.S.C. 1531 *et seq.,* for the Long-Term Operation of the CVP and the
State Water Project for all applicable threatened and endangered
species.

\(e\)  The Secretary of the Interior shall promptly review, revise, or
rescind any regulations or procedures specific to implementation of
section 1536 of title 16 United States Code, as needed and consistent
with applicable law, to conform with the plain meaning of the statute.

(f)  The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall
identify all ongoing or potential major water-supply and storage
projects within the State of California for which they have joint
responsibility under the ESA or individual responsibilities under the
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321 *et
seq.*

\(g\)  For each such project identified under subsection (f), the
Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce shall each
designate one federal official to coordinate each agency’s respective
NEPA and ESA compliance responsibilities. Within 30 days from the date
of this order, each designated official shall identify any regulatory
hurdles that unduly burden each respective water project, identify any
recent changes in state or Federal law that may impact such projects
from a regulatory perspective (including Public Law 118-5), and shall
develop a proposed plan, for review by the Secretaries, to appropriately
suspend, revise, or rescind any regulations or procedures that unduly
burden such projects and are not necessary to protect the public
interest or otherwise comply with the law.  In so doing, each designated
federal official will coordinate and share all appropriate information
that will enable improved efficiencies.  For the purposes of this order,
“unduly burden” means to unnecessarily obstruct, delay, curtail, impede
or otherwise impose significant costs on the permitting, utilization,
transmission, delivery, or supply of water resources and water
infrastructure.

Sec. 3.  Ending the Subsidization of California’s Mismanagement.  (a)
The Director of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) shall review
all Federal programs, projects, and activities for all relevant agencies
that impact land management, water availability, water supply, water
storage and delivery, water infrastructure, and disaster preparedness
and response.

\(b\)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, to ensure that State
and local jurisdictions promote sensible land management practices and
reliable water supply for all Americans, the Secretary of the Interior,
the Secretary of Agriculture, and the Secretary of Commerce shall
jointly report to the President, through the Assistant to the President
for Domestic Policy and Assistant to the President for Economic Policy,
regarding California State and local policies or practices inconsistent
with sound disaster prevention and response.

\(c\)  The Director of OMB, in consultation with the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy and Assistant to the President for
Economic Policy, shall recommend appropriate action to the President,
regarding:

\(i\)   any lack of compliance by California with the terms of existing
Federal grants, contracts, or other financial assistance to States or
localities; and

\(ii\)  beneficial additional terms that may be added with respect to
any future Federal programs, projects, or activities to ensure sound
disaster prevention and response.

Sec. 4.  Additional Actions to Help Los Angeles Families.  (a)  Housing
Displaced Families.  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and
the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA,
shall expeditiously provide an Integrated Federal Housing Strategy and
Implementation Plan to the Director of OMB and the Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs that expedites options for
housing relief to survivors displaced by wildfires in California. 

\(b\)  Expediting Waste Removal*.*  Within 5 days from the date of this
order, to accelerate the rebuilding of areas devastated by the recent
Los Angeles wildfires, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA, and the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall develop and
execute a plan to expedite the bulk removal of contaminated and general
debris.

\(c\)  Effectively Using Grants to Improve Fire Preparedness*.*  The
Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Administrator of FEMA, shall
immediately implement a plan to enable the timely and appropriate use of
Federal preparedness grants for the City of Los Angeles.  As of the date
of this order, the city has yet to use the majority of its $213 million
allotment that has accrued since fiscal year 2021.  These Federal
preparedness grants shall not be used to support illegal aliens.  The
Attorney General, in coordination with the FEMA Administrator, shall
investigate the misuse of these grants by the City of Los Angeles and
take appropriate action to address such misuse.

Sec. 5.  Additional Actions to Help North Carolina Families.  (a)
 Clearing Roads*. * To accelerate rebuilding and community recovery, the
Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Homeland Security, acting
through the Administrator of FEMA, and the Administrator of the Small
Business Administration shall immediately take all necessary and
appropriate measures, including through direct assistance, loans, and
other available means, to expedite roadway clearance or rebuilding,
including the section of Interstate 40 in North Carolina that remains
closed, and the repair or rebuilding of roads and bridges on private
property in areas of North Carolina affected by Hurricane Helene.

\(b\)  Housing Displaced Families*. * The Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development and the Secretary of Homeland Security, through the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall
immediately provide an Integrated Federal Housing Strategy and
Implementation Plan to the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
that expedites options for housing relief to survivors displaced by
Hurricane Helene.

Sec. 6. General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 24, 2025.
