---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:22:56-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:33:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/clarifying-the-militarys-role-in-protecting-the-territorial-integrity-of-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Clarifying The Military\u2019s Role In Protecting The Territorial Integrity\
  \ Of The United States"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose*.*  (a)  As Chief Executive and as Commander in
Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States, I have no more solemn
responsibility than protecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity
of the United States along our national borders.  The protection of a
nation’s territorial integrity and national boundaries is paramount for
its security.

\(b\)  The Armed Forces of the United States have played a long and
well-established role in securing our borders against threats of
invasion, against unlawful forays by foreign nationals into the United
States, and against other transnational criminal activities that violate
our laws and threaten the peace, harmony, and tranquility of the Nation.
 These threats have taken a variety of forms over our Nation’s history,
but the Armed Forces have consistently played an integral role in
protecting the sovereignty of the United States.

\(c\)  Threats against our Nation’s sovereignty continue today, and it
is essential that the Armed Forces staunchly continue to participate in
the defense of our territorial integrity and sovereignty.  A National
Emergency currently exists along the southern border of the United
States.  Unchecked unlawful mass migration and the unimpeded flow of
opiates across our borders continue to endanger the safety and security
of the American people and encourage further lawlessness.  Accordingly,
through this order, I am acting in accordance with my solemn duty to
protect and defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the
United States along our national borders.

Sec. 2.  Policy*.*  It is the policy of the United States to ensure that
the Armed Forces of the United States prioritize the protection of the
sovereignty and territorial integrity of the United States along our
national borders.

Sec. 3.  Implementation*.*  The Secretary of Defense shall: 

\(a\)  No later than 10 days from the effective date of this order,
deliver to the President a revision to the Unified Command Plan that
assigns United States Northern Command (USNORTHCOM) the mission to seal
the borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and
security of the United States by repelling forms of invasion including
unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and
trafficking, and other criminal activities.

\(b\)  On the effective date of this order, add the following
requirements to the Contingency Planning Guidance and Guidance for the
Employment of the Force:

\(i\)    A Level 3 planning requirement for USNORTHCOM to seal the
borders and maintain the sovereignty, territorial integrity, and
security of the United States by repelling forms of invasion, including
unlawful mass migration, narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and
trafficking, and other criminal activities, with a commander’s estimate
due to the Secretary of Defense within 30 days of the effective date of
this order.

(ii)   A campaign planning requirement for USNORTHCOM to provide
steady-state southern border security, seal the border, and maintain the
sovereignty, territorial integrity, and security of the United States by
repelling forms of invasion, including unlawful mass migration,
narcotics trafficking, human smuggling and trafficking, and other
criminal activities.

(iii)  Continuous assessments of all available options to protect the
sovereign territory of the United States from mass unlawful entry and
impingement on our national sovereignty and security by foreign nations
and transnational criminal organizations.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
