---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:16:47-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:54:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/ending-radical-and-wasteful-government-dei-programs-and-preferencing/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Ending Radical And Wasteful Government DEI Programs And Preferencing
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose and Policy.  The Biden Administration forced illegal
and immoral discrimination programs, going by the name “diversity,
equity, and inclusion” (DEI), into virtually all aspects of the Federal
Government, in areas ranging from airline safety to the military.  This
was a concerted effort stemming from President Biden’s first day in
office, when he issued Executive Order 13985, “Advancing Racial Equity
and Support for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government.”

Pursuant to Executive Order 13985 and follow-on orders, nearly every
Federal agency and entity submitted “Equity Action Plans” to detail the
ways that they have furthered DEIs infiltration of the Federal
Government.  The public release of these plans demonstrated immense
public waste and shameful discrimination.  That ends today.  Americans
deserve a government committed to serving every person with equal
dignity and respect, and to expending precious taxpayer resources only
on making America great.

Sec. 2.  Implementation.  (a)  The Director of the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB), assisted by the Attorney General and the Director of
the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), shall coordinate the
termination of all discriminatory programs, including illegal DEI and
“diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility” (DEIA) mandates,
policies, programs, preferences, and activities in the Federal
Government, under whatever name they appear.  To carry out this
directive, the Director of OPM, with the assistance of the Attorney
General as requested, shall review and revise, as appropriate, all
existing Federal employment practices, union contracts, and training
policies or programs to comply with this order.  Federal employment
practices, including Federal employee performance reviews, shall reward
individual initiative, skills, performance, and hard work and shall not
under any circumstances consider DEI or DEIA factors, goals, policies,
mandates, or requirements.

\(b\)  Each agency, department, or commission head, in consultation with
the Attorney General, the Director of OMB, and the Director of OPM, as
appropriate, shall take the following actions within sixty days of this
order:

\(i\)    terminate, to the maximum extent allowed by law, all DEI, DEIA,
and “environmental justice” offices and positions (including but not
limited to “Chief Diversity Officer” positions); all “equity action
plans,” “equity” actions, initiatives, or programs, “equity-related”
grants or contracts; and all DEI or DEIA performance requirements for
employees, contractors, or grantees.

(ii)   provide the Director of the OMB with a list of all:

\(A\)  agency or department DEI, DEIA, or “environmental justice”
positions, committees, programs, services, activities, budgets, and
expenditures in existence on November 4, 2024, and an assessment of
whether these positions, committees, programs, services, activities,
budgets, and expenditures have been misleadingly relabeled in an attempt
to preserve their pre-November 4, 2024 function;

\(B\)  Federal contractors who have provided DEI training or DEI
training materials to agency or department employees; and

\(C\)  Federal grantees who received Federal funding to provide or
advance DEI, DEIA, or “environmental justice” programs, services, or
activities since January 20, 2021.

\(iii\)  direct the deputy agency or department head to:

\(A\) assess the operational impact (e.g., the number of new DEI hires)
and cost of the prior administration’s DEI, DEIA, and “environmental
justice” programs and policies; and

\(B\) recommend actions, such as Congressional notifications under 28
U.S.C. 530D, to align agency or department programs, activities,
policies, regulations, guidance, employment practices, enforcement
activities, contracts (including set-asides), grants, consent orders,
and litigating positions with the policy of equal dignity and respect
identified in section 1 of this order.  The agency or department head
and the Director of OMB shall jointly ensure that the deputy agency or
department head has the authority and resources needed to carry out this
directive.

\(c\)  To inform and advise the President, so that he may formulate
appropriate and effective civil-rights policies for the Executive
Branch, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy shall convene
a monthly meeting attended by the Director of OMB, the Director of OPM,
and each deputy agency or department head to:

\(i\)    hear reports on the prevalence and the economic and social
costs of DEI, DEIA, and “environmental justice” in agency or department
programs, activities, policies, regulations, guidance, employment
practices, enforcement activities, contracts (including set-asides),
grants, consent orders, and litigating positions;

\(ii\)   discuss any barriers to measures to comply with this order; and

\(iii\)  monitor and track agency and department progress and identify
potential areas for additional Presidential or legislative action to
advance the policy of equal dignity and respect.

Sec. 3.  Severability.  If any provision of this order, or the
application of any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to
be invalid, the remainder of this order and the application of its
provisions to any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,    

January 20, 2025.
