---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 20:43:35-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:43:34-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/organization-of-the-national-security-council-and-subcommittees/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Organization of the National Security Council and Subcommittees
---
 
January 20, 2025

National Security Presidential Memorandum/NSPM-1

SUBJECT:       Organization of the National Security Council

and Subcommittees

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby direct the following:

As President, my highest priority and responsibility is to ensure the
safety and security of the United States and its people.  The national
and homeland security threats facing the United States are complex and
rapidly evolving.  These issues often do not fit neatly into the
categories that single departments and agencies are designed to
optimally address, a fact recognized and exploited by our strategic
competitors and adversaries in their adoption of whole-of-government and
even whole-of-society approaches.

The United States Government’s decision-making structures and processes
to address national security challenges must therefore be equally
adaptive and comprehensive.  They must be able to competently design and
execute cooperative and integrated interagency solutions to address
these problems, and protect and advance the national interests of the
United States.  Therefore, to advise and assist me in this endeavor, I
hereby direct that my system for national security policy development,
decision-making, implementation, and monitoring shall be organized as
set forth in this Memorandum.  This Memorandum prevails over any prior
orders, directives, memoranda, or other Presidential guidance related to
the organization of the National Security Council (NSC or Council).

A.  The National Security Council and Supporting Staff

1\.  *Functions, Responsibilities, and Chairs.*

\(a\)  *Functions and Responsibilities. * The National Security Act of
1947, as amended (the Act), established the NSC to advise the President
with respect to the integration of domestic, foreign, and military
policies relating to national security.  The Homeland Security Council
(HSC) has the distinct purpose of advising the President on matters
pertaining to homeland security.  The NSC shall convene as the HSC on
topic areas agreed to in advance by the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs (National Security Advisor) and the Assistant
to the President for Homeland Security (Homeland Security Advisor).
 Along with its subordinate committees and staff, the NSC shall be the
President’s principal means for coordinating Executive departments and
agencies in the development and implementation of national and homeland
security policies, strategies, activities, and functions, their
integration across departments and agencies within their purview, and
for long-term strategic planning.

(b)  *Chairs.*  The President will chair the NSC.  When the President is
absent from a meeting of the Council, he may appoint a Cabinet-level
official to chair.

2.  *NSC Staffing Responsibilities of the National Security Advisor.*

\(a\) * Role of the National Security Advisor. * The National Security
Advisor shall be responsible, as appropriate and at the President’s
direction, for determining the agenda for the NSC, ensuring that the
necessary papers are prepared, and recording and communicating Council
actions and Presidential decisions in a timely manner.  

(b)  *Role of the Homeland Security Advisor.*  When convened as the HSC,
the duties referenced in subsection (2)(a) shall be the responsibility
of the Homeland Security Advisor. 

3.*  Designating NSC Members, Attendees, and Invitees.*

(a)  *Membership. * The NSC membership consists of the statutory members
set forth in section 101(c)(1) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 3021(c)(1)):

and additional members hereby designated by the President pursuant to
section 101(c)(1) of the Act:

When the NSC convenes as the HSC, members shall also include:

13\) The Homeland Security Advisor.

(b)  *NSC Meeting Attendees.  *The National Security Advisor retains the
discretion to determine the attendee list for all meetings of the NSC,
including by requesting the attendance of any senior official of the
Executive Branch.  The Homeland Security Advisor retains this same
discretion when the NSC convenes as the HSC.  This discretion shall be
exercised based on the policy relevance of attendees to the issues being
considered, the need for secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing
requirements, and other considerations.

As regular practice, the National Security Advisor and Homeland Security
Advisor shall include as additional non-voting attendees:

\(c\)  *NSC Regular Invitees.*  Unless specifically restricted, these
officials are invited to attend any NSC and HSC meeting as non-voting
advisors:

4.  *Right to Propose Agenda Items.*

Any NSC member attending a meeting in a voting capacity may propose, in
advance and in accordance with a timeline set by the National Security
Advisor or his designee, agenda items for their
consideration.[<sup>\[1\]</sup>](https://applewebdata:/8FB8E730-A67D-4501-AFE6-0027E9FCF6C5#_ftn1)
 The National Security Advisor will determine whether to include these
items on the agenda.  The Homeland Security Advisor shall have this same
discretion when the Council is convened as the HSC.

5.  *The National Security Council Staff.*

\(a\)  *Staff Fusion.*  There is a single NSC staff within the Executive
Office of the President (EOP) that serves both the NSC on national
security matters and the HSC when the Council is considering homeland
security matters.  The staff is headed by a single Executive Secretary,
in accordance with section 101(e)(1) of the National Security Act of
1947 (50 U.S.C. 3021(e)(1)) and section 905 of the Homeland Security Act
of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 495).

\(b\)  *Purpose.*  The purposes of the National Security Advisor and
subordinate staff are to

\(i\)    advise and assist the President in the course of conducting
activities that relate to or affect the carrying out of the President’s
constitutional, statutory, or other official or ceremonial duties
pertaining to national or homeland security, pursuant to the
Presidential Records Act of 1978, as
amended;[<sup>\[2\]</sup>](https://applewebdata:/8FB8E730-A67D-4501-AFE6-0027E9FCF6C5#_ftn2)

\(ii\)   advise and assist the other members of the NSC (and the NSC
when convening as the HSC), and others in the White House;

\(iii\)  help the President plan and set priorities, in accordance with
section II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan
No. 1 of 1977;

\(iv\)   advise and make recommendations to the President with respect
to, and establish, integrated domestic, foreign, and military policies
and procedures for the departments, agencies, and functions of the
Government relating to national and homeland security, pursuant to
sections 2 and 101(b)(1) of the Act (50 U.S.C. 3002, 3021(b)(1));

\(v\)    coordinate, facilitate, monitor, oversee, and review
Administration policies and their implementation with respect to
national security, and make resulting recommendations to the President;

\(vi\)   help the President resolve major conflicts among departments
and agencies with regard to national security, in accordance with
section II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan
No. 1 of 1977.

\(c\)  *Fair, Balanced, and Thorough Processes.*  In accordance with
sections I and II of the Message of the President in the Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1977, the NSC staff shall ensure that the processes it
organizes, coordinates, and manages fairly and thoroughly gather the
facts, intelligence, and other relevant information necessary to NSC
decisions; fully analyze the issues; consider a full range of views and
options; assess the prospects, risks, costs, and implications of each
option; and distill these options for the President, other NSC
principals, and senior officials participating in the subsidiary
committees of the NSC or HSC, in a fair, balanced, and organized way.
 The National Security Advisor and subordinate NSC staff shall represent
the views and differences of NSC principals and other senior officials
to the President with accuracy and fidelity.

\(d\)  *Policy Development.*  In accordance with sections I and II of
the Message of the President in the Reorganization Plan No. 1 of
1977,[<sup>\[8\]</sup>](https://applewebdata:/8FB8E730-A67D-4501-AFE6-0027E9FCF6C5#_ftn8)
the NSC staff shall facilitate the development and refinement of
interagency policy options, and develop additional options besides those
proposed by departments and agencies as necessary, both to complement,
supplement, and enhance their work, and to offer the President and other
NSC principals and other senior officials a sufficiently broad menu of
operationally feasible options for consideration, deliberation, and
decision.

B.  The Principals Committee

1.  *Principals Committee Establishment.*

\(a\)  (i)  *Functions and Responsibilities.*  The Principals Committee
(PC) shall continue to serve as the Cabinet-level senior interagency
forum for considering policy issues that affect the national security
interests of the United States.  The PC shall develop options and
recommendations for the President on national security and homeland
security matters requiring the President’s attention, and with the
Committee’s full consensus shall set priorities, issue policy guidance,
and facilitate coordination and integration on national security policy
and implementation issues as appropriate that do not require
Presidential attention.[<sup>\[9\]</sup>](https://%5B)  Issues involving
matters that are statutorily authorized for decision by a principal, or
delegated to a principal by the President, can be coordinated and
decided by the principals without requiring Presidential attention.

\(ii\)  *Voting and NSC Referral.  *Consensus is reached when all voting
(i.e., non-advisory) attendees present either vote affirmatively for the
same decisional option or formally abstain, and all such votes shall be
recorded and minuted.  Issues for which the Committee fails to reach
consensus shall be referred to the NSC for decision, with a formal
nonconcurrence required by at least one non-advisory attendee present
for such a referral.  Whether an issue requires Presidential attention,
and the Committee attendees’ positions on the issue itself, shall be
separately polled.  If a voting attendee does not concur with the
determination that Presidential consideration is not required, the issue
shall be referred, along with the results of the PC’s deliberation on
the issue itself and its recommendations, to deliberation by the NSC.

\(b\)  *Role of the National Security Advisor.*  The PC shall be
convened and chaired by the National Security Advisor.  The Chair shall
determine the agenda, location, and meeting materials, in consultation
with the appropriate attendees.

\(c\)  *Substitute Chairs.*  At his sole discretion, the National
Security Advisor may delegate authority to convene and chair or co-chair
the PC to an appropriate attendee of the NSC or EOP policy council
senior official.  The Homeland Security Advisor, who is Chair when the
PC considers matters that would be raised to the NSC convening as the
HSC, may similarly delegate such duties.

\(d\)  *Right to Propose Agenda Items.  *Any PC member attending in a
voting capacity may propose, in advance and in accordance with a
timeline set by the Chair, agenda items for consideration by the PC.
 The Chair will determine which, if any, shall be included.

2\.  *Executive Secretary Responsibilities and Process.*

\(a\)  *Responsibilities.*  The Executive Secretary shall ensure that
the necessary papers are prepared, serve as executive secretary of the
PC, and shall record and communicate accurately, and in a timely manner,
the Committee’s conclusions and decisions, what was not decided, and any
responsibilities for implementation by departments and agencies or
taskings to the Deputies Committee or subsidiary policy coordination
committees that have been agreed or assigned, if
appropriate.[<sup>\[10\]</sup>](https://encoded-592c9deb-987b-4562-aa3c-9fa3d37d83e9.uri/https%3a%2f%2f%5b1)
 The Executive Secretary shall generally be assisted in these tasks by
the senior directors and other NSC staff by the senior directors and
other NSC staff.

\(b\)  *Dispute Resolution Process.*  If a PC voting attendee disputes
that the conclusions or decisions of the PC were correctly minuted, this
must be communicated in writing to the Executive Secretary and the
National Security Advisor (and any substitute Chair if appropriate)
within three business days, although those officials may allow
additional time if exigent or extenuating circumstances require it.  If
resolution of the dispute cannot be achieved, and any necessary amended
report of the PC proceedings was issued within a week of the dispute
being communicated, the disputing attendee may appeal the matter to the
White House Chief of Staff or, should that official so designate, to the
White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy, whose decision shall be
final.

3\.  *Principals Committee Attendees and Invitees.*

\(a\)  *Principals Committee Attendees.*

\(i\)    The National Security Advisor retains the discretion to
determine the attendee list for all PC meetings on national security.
 The Homeland Security Advisor retains this same discretion when
chairing the PC.  This discretion shall be exercised based on the policy
relevance of attendees to the issues being considered, the need for
secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing needs, and other considerations.
 As regular practice, the National Security Advisor and Homeland
Security Advisor shall include as additional non-voting attendees:

1\)  The Director of National Intelligence;

2\)  The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;

3\)  The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency;

4\)  The Principal Deputy National Security Advisor;

5\)  the National Security Advisor to the Vice President; and

6\)  The Executive Secretary (principal notetaker).

\(ii\)   *PC Regular Invitees.*  Unless specifically restricted, these
officials are invited to attend any PC meeting as non-voting advisors:

\(iii\)  *Staffing Invitees.  *At the discretion of the Chair, staff
members of the NSC or other appropriate EOP policy councils may be
invited to attend specific PC meetings to assist the Executive Secretary
in the performance of their executive secretary duties.

C.  The Deputies Committee

1.  *Deputies Committee Establishment.*

(a)  *Functions and Responsibilities.*  The Deputies Committee (DC)
shall continue to serve as the senior sub-Cabinet interagency forum for
consideration of and, where appropriate, decision making on, policy
issues that affect the national security interests of the United States.
 The DC shall review and monitor the work of the interagency national
security process, including the interagency groups established pursuant
to section D below.  The DC shall work to ensure that issues brought
before the NSC, the NSC when convening as the HSC, and the PC have been
properly analyzed and prepared for decision.  The DC shall also focus
significant attention on monitoring the implementation of these policies
and decisions and shall conduct periodic reviews of the Administration’s
major national security and foreign policy initiatives.

\(b\)  *Role of the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor.*  The DC
shall be convened and chaired by the Principal Deputy National Security
Advisor.  The Chair shall determine the location, agenda, and meeting
materials in consultation with the DC attendees.

\(c\)  *Substitute Chairs.*  At his sole discretion, the Principal
Deputy National Security Advisor may delegate authority to convene and
chair or co-chair the DC to an appropriate regular attendee of the DC or
other appropriate EOP official.  The Deputy Assistant to the President
for Homeland Security (Deputy Homeland Security Advisor) shall chair
meetings when considering issues that would be raised when the NSC is
convened as the HSC.  The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor has similar
delegatory authority.

\(d\)  *Right to Propose Agenda Items.*  Any DC member attending in a
voting capacity may propose, in advance and in accordance with a
timeline set by the Chair, agenda items for consideration by the DC.
 The Chair will determine which, if any, shall be included.

2.  *Executive Secretary Responsibilities and Process.*

\(a\)  *General*.  The Executive Secretary shall ensure that the
necessary papers are prepared, and shall record and communicate
accurately, and in a timely manner, the Committee’s conclusions and
decisions, what was not decided, and any responsibilities for
implementation by departments and agencies or taskings to subsidiary
policy coordination committees that have been agreed or assigned, if
appropriate.  The Executive Secretary shall generally be assisted in
this task by the senior directors and other NSC staff.

\(b\)  *Dispute Resolution Process. * If a DC voting attendee disputes
that the conclusions or decisions of the DC were correctly minuted, this
must be communicated in writing to the Executive Secretary and the
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor or the Deputy Homeland
Security Advisor, as relevant, within three business days, although
those officials may allow additional time if exigent or extenuating
circumstances require it.  If resolution of the dispute cannot be
achieved, and any necessary amended report of the PC proceedings issued
within a week of the dispute being communicated, the disputing attendee
may appeal the matter to the White House Chief of Staff, or should that
official so designate, the White House Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy,
whose decision shall be final.

3.  *Designating Deputies Committee Regular Attendees and Invitees.*

(a)  *Deputies Committee Attendees.*  The Principal Deputy National
Security Advisor retains the discretion to determine the attendee list
for all DC meetings.  

The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor retains this same discretion when
chairing DC meetings.  This discretion shall be exercised based on the
policy relevance of attendees to the issues being considered, the need
for secrecy on sensitive matters, staffing needs, and other
considerations.

As regular practice, the Principal Deputy National Security Advisor
shall include as DC attendees:

When homeland security issues are on the DC agenda, the DC’s regular
attendees will also include:

11)  The Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security; and

12\) The Deputy Homeland Security Advisor (chair).

\(b\)  *DC Regular Invitees.*  These officials are invited to attend any
DC meeting:

D.  Policy Coordination Committees

Management of the development and implementation of national security
policies by multiple Executive departments and agencies typically shall
be accomplished by Policy Coordination Committees (PCCs), with
participation primarily occurring at the Assistant Secretary level.  As
the main day-to-day fora for interagency coordination and integration of
national security policies, PCCs shall develop and provide policy
options and analyses for consideration by higher echelon committees of
the national security system.  PCCs shall ensure timely responses to,
and implementation and monitoring of, decisions, directives, objectives,
instructions, inquiries, tasking, and policy guidance of and by the
President, National Security Advisor, and the higher-echelon committees
of the national security system.

PCCs shall be established at the direction of the National Security
Advisor or Homeland Security Advisor, in consultation with the White
House Chief of Staff or her designee.  Members of the NSC staff will
chair the PCCs.

PCCs shall review, coordinate, integrate, and monitor the implementation
of Presidential decisions in their respective national security and
homeland security policy areas.  The Chair of each PCC, in consultation
with the Executive Secretary, shall invite representatives of
departments and agencies to attend meetings of the PCC where
appropriate.  The Chair of each PCC, with the agreement of the Executive
Secretary, may establish subordinate working groups to assist that PCC
in the performance of its duties.

Interagency Policy Committees (IPCs) chartered under the aegis of the
process established by National Security Memorandum-2 (NSM–2) may
continue to be operated as PCCs by the NSC staff until renewed or
discontinued by the National Security Advisor.

E.  General

(a)  The President and the Vice President may attend any meeting of any
entity established by or under this directive.

(b)  This document is part of a series of National Security Policy
Memoranda, which have replaced both National Security Memoranda and
National Security Study Memoranda as the instrument for communicating
relevant Presidential decisions.  This directive shall supersede all
other existing Presidential directives and guidance on the organization
or support of the NSC and the HSC where they conflict, including
National Security Memorandum–2 of February 4, 2021 (Memorandum on
Renewing the National Security Council System), which is hereby revoked.
 This document shall be interpreted in concert with any Presidential
directives governing other policy councils and offices in the EOP
mentioned herein, and with any Presidential directives signed hereafter
that implement this document or those Presidential directives.
