---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 18:33:28-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/03/executive-order-providing-an-order-of-succession-within-the-department-of-agriculture/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of\_\
  Agriculture"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the Federal
Vacancies Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 *et seq*. (the
“Act”), it is hereby ordered that:

     Section 1.  Order of Succession.  (a)  Subject to the provisions of
section 2 of this order, and to the limitations set forth in the Act,
the following officials of the Department of Agriculture, in the order
listed, shall act as and perform the functions and duties of the office
of Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary) during any period in which both
the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Agriculture have died,
resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the functions and duties
of the office of Secretary:

\(i\)     Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm Production and
Conservation;

\(ii\)    Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food, Nutrition, and
Consumer Services;

\(iii\)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and
Environment;

\(iv\)    Under Secretary of Agriculture for Research, Education, and
Economics;

\(v\)     Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development;

\(vi\)    Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety;

\(vii\)   Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory
Programs;

(viii)  Under Secretary of Agriculture for Trade and Foreign
Agricultural Affairs;

(ix)    General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture;

(x)     Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Congressional Relations and
Intergovernmental Affairs);

(xi)    Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture;

(xii)   Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Civil Rights); 

(xiii)  Assistant Secretary of Agriculture (Administration);

\(xiv\)   Chief of Staff, Office of the Secretary;

(xv)    State Executive Directors of the Farm Service Agency for the
States of Kansas, Missouri, and Iowa, in order of seniority fixed by
length of unbroken service as State Executive Director of that State;

(xvi)   Director, Office of Budget and Program Analysis; and

\(xvii\)  Chief, United States Forest Service.

(b)  If any two or more individuals designated in subsection (a)(xv) of
this section were sworn in to, or commenced service in, their respective
offices on the same day, precedence shall be determined by the
alphabetical order of the State in which the individual serves.

     Sec. 2.  Exceptions.  (a)  No individual who is serving in an
office listed in section 1(a)(i)-(xvii) of this order in an acting
capacity shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Secretary pursuant to
this order.

     (b)  No individual who is serving in an office listed in section
1(a)(i)-(xvii) of this order shall act as Secretary unless that
individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

     (c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this order, the President
retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart from this
order in designating an acting Secretary.

     Sec. 3.  Revocation*.*  Executive Order 13612 of May 21, 2012
(Providing an Order of Succession Within the Department of Agriculture),
is hereby revoked.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 3, 2025.
