---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:24:46-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:30:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/holding-former-government-officials-accountablefor-election-interference-and-improper-disclosure-of-sensitive-governmental-information/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Holding Former Government Officials Accountable For Election Interference And
  Improper Disclosure Of Sensitive Governmental Information
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  In the closing weeks of the 2020 Presidential
campaign, at least 51 former intelligence officials coordinated with the
Biden campaign to issue a letter discrediting the reporting that
President Joseph R. Biden’s son had abandoned his laptop at a computer
repair business.  Signatories of the letter falsely suggested that the
news story was part of a Russian disinformation campaign.

Before being issued, the letter was sent to the CIA Prepublication
Classification Review Board, the body typically assigned to formally
evaluate the sensitive nature of documents prior to publication.  Senior
CIA officials were made aware of the contents of the letter, and
multiple signatories held clearances at the time and maintained ongoing
contractual relationships with the CIA.

Federal policymakers must be able to rely on analysis conducted by the
Intelligence Community and be confident that it is accurate, crafted
with professionalism, and free from politically motivated engineering to
affect political outcomes in the United States.  The signatories
willfully weaponized the gravitas of the Intelligence Community to
manipulate the political process and undermine our democratic
institutions.  This fabrication of the imprimatur of the Intelligence
Community to suppress information essential to the American people
during a Presidential election is an egregious breach of trust
reminiscent of a third world country.  And now the faith of Americans in
all other patriotic intelligence professionals who are sworn to protect
the Nation has been imperiled.

National security is also damaged by the publication of classified
information.  Former National Security Advisor John R. Bolton published
a memoir for monetary gain after he was terminated from his White House
position in 2019.  The book was rife with sensitive information drawn
from his time in government.  The memoir’s reckless treatment of
sensitive information undermined the ability of future presidents to
request and obtain candid advice on matters of national security from
their staff.  Publication also created a grave risk that classified
material was publicly exposed.

To remedy these abuses of the public trust, this Order directs the
revocation of any active or current security clearances held by:  (i)
the former intelligence officials who engaged in misleading and
inappropriate political coordination with the 2020 Biden presidential
campaign; and (ii) John R. Bolton.

Sec. 2.  Policy.  (a)  It is the policy of the United States to ensure
that the Intelligence Community not be engaged in partisan politics or
otherwise used by a U.S. political campaign for electioneering
purposes.  The term “Intelligence Community” has the meaning given the
term in section 3003 of title 50, United States Code.

\(b\)  It is the policy of the United States that individuals who hold
government-issued security clearances should not use their clearance
status to influence U.S. elections.

\(c\)  It is the policy of the United States that classified information
not be publicly disclosed in memoirs, especially those published for
personal monetary gain.

Sec. 3.  Implementation.  (a)  Effective immediately, the Director of
National Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, shall revoke any current or active clearances held
by the following individuals:

              (1)  James R. Clapper Jr.

              (2)  Michael V. Hayden

              (3)  Leon E. Panetta

              (4)  John O. Brennan

              (5)  C. Thomas Fingar

              (6)  Richard H. Ledgett Jr.

              (7)  John E. McLaughlin

              (8)  Michael J. Morell

              (9)  Michael G. Vickers

              (10) Douglas H. Wise

              (11) Nicholas J. Rasmussen

              (12) Russell E. Travers

              (13) Andrew Liepman

              (14) John H. Moseman

              (15) Larry Pfeiffer

              (16) Jeremy B. Bash

              (17) Rodney Snyder

              (18) Glenn S. Gerstell

              (19) David B. Buckley

              (20) Nada G. Bakos

              (21) James B. Bruce

              (22) David S. Cariens

              (23) Janice Cariens

              (24) Paul R. Kolbe

              (25) Peter L. Corsell

              (26) Roger Z. George

              (27) Steven L. Hall

              (28) Kent Harrington

              (29) Don Hepburn

\(30\) Timothy D. Kilbourn

              (31) Ronald A. Marks

              (32) Jonna H. Mendez

              (33) Emile Nakhleh

              (34) Gerald A. O’Shea

              (35) David Priess

              (36) Pamela Purcilly

              (37) Marc Polymeropoulos

              (38) Chris Savos

              (39) Nick Shapiro

              (40) John Sipher

              (41) Stephen B. Slick

              (42) Cynthia Strand

              (43) Greg Tarbell

              (44) David Terry

              (45) Gregory F. Treverton

              (46) John D. Tullius

              (47) David A. Vanell

              (48) Winston P. Wiley

              (49) Kristin Wood

              (50) John R. Bolton

Two signatories, Patty Patricia A. Brandmaeir and Brett Davis, are
deceased.

(b)  Within 90 days of this order, the Director of National
Intelligence, in consultation with the Director of the Central
Intelligence Agency, shall submit a report to the President through the
National Security Advisor that details:

\(i\)    any additional inappropriate activity that occurred within the
Intelligence Community, by anyone contracted by the Intelligence
Community or by anyone who held a security clearance, related to the
letter signed by the 51 former intelligence officials;

\(ii\)   recommendations to prevent the Intelligence Community or anyone
who works for or within it from inappropriately influencing domestic
elections; and

\(iii\)  any disciplinary action—including the termination of security
clearances—that should be taken against anyone who engaged in
inappropriate conduct related to the letter signed by the 51 former
intelligence officials.

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,     January 20, 2025.
