---
date: '2025-01-29'
published_time: 2025-01-29 17:31:42-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/expanding-educational-freedom-and-opportunity-for-families/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Expanding Educational Freedom and Opportunity for Families
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and to improve the education,
well-being, and future success of America’s most prized resource, her
young citizens, it is hereby ordered:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose.</span>
 Parents want and deserve the best education for their children.  But
too many children do not thrive in their assigned, government-run K-12
school.  According to this year’s National Assessment of Educational
Progress (NAEP), 70 percent of 8th graders were below proficient in
reading, and 72 percent were below proficient in math.  Moreover,
geographically based school assignments exacerbate the cost of housing
in districts with preferred schools, straining the finances of millions
of American families sacrificing for their children’s futures.   
  
When our public education system fails such a large segment of society,
it hinders our national competitiveness and devastates families and
communities.  For this reason, more than a dozen States have enacted
universal K-12 scholarship programs, allowing families — rather than the
government — to choose the best educational setting for their children.
 These States have highlighted the most promising avenue for education
reform:  educational choice for families and competition for
residentially assigned, government-run public schools.  The growing body
of rigorous research demonstrates that well-designed education-freedom
programs improve student achievement and cause nearby public schools to
improve their performance.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Policy.</span>  It is
the policy of my Administration to support parents in choosing and
directing the upbringing and education of their children.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.  Guidance on Supporting
State-based K-12 Educational Choice.</span>  Within 60 days of the date
of this order, the Secretary of Education shall issue guidance regarding
how States can use Federal formula funds to support K-12 educational
choice initiatives.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Encouraging Education
Freedom through Discretionary Grant Programs.</span>  (a)  The Secretary
of Education shall include education freedom as a priority in
discretionary grant programs, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law.   
(b)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Labor
and the Secretary of Education shall review their respective
discretionary grant programs and each submit a plan to the President,
through the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, that
identifies, evaluates, and makes recommendations regarding using
relevant discretionary grant programs to expand education freedom for
America’s families and teachers.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  Expanding
Opportunities for Low-Income, Working Families.</span>  Within 90 days
of the date of this order, the Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall issue guidance regarding whether and how States receiving block
grants for families and children from the Department, including the
Child Care and Development Block Grant (CCDGB), can use them to expand
educational choice and support families who choose educational
alternatives to governmental entities, including private and faith-based
options.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 6.  Helping Military
Families.</span>  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the
Secretary of Defense shall review any available mechanisms under which
military-connected families may use funds from the Department of Defense
to attend schools of their choice, including private, faith-based, or
public charter schools, and submit a plan to the President describing
such mechanisms and the steps that would be necessary to implement them
beginning in the 2025-26 school year.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 7.  Helping Children
Eligible for Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) Schools. </span> Within 90
days of the date of this order, the Secretary of the Interior shall
review any available mechanisms under which families of students
eligible to attend BIE schools may use their Federal funding for
educational options of their choice, including private, faith-based, or
public charter schools, and submit a plan to the President describing
such mechanisms and the steps that would be necessary to implement them
for the 2025-26 school year.  The Secretary shall report on the current
performance of BIE schools and identify educational options in nearby
areas.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 8.  General
Provisions.</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.  
(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.
