---
date: '2025-01-20'
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:50:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/establishing-and-implementing-the-presidents-department-of-government-efficiency/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Establishing And Implementing The President\u2019s \u201CDepartment Of Government\
  \ Efficiency\u201D"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose.  This Executive Order establishes the Department of
Government Efficiency to implement the President’s DOGE Agenda, by
modernizing Federal technology and software to maximize governmental
efficiency and productivity.

Sec. 2.  Definitions.  As used in this order:

\(a\) * *“Agency” has the meaning given to it in section 551 of title 5,
United States Code, except that such term does not include the Executive
Office of the President or any components thereof.

(b)  “Agency Head” means the highest-ranking official of an agency, such
as the Secretary, Administrator, Chairman, or Director, unless otherwise
specified in this order.

Sec. 3.  DOGE Structure.  (a)  *Reorganization and Renaming of the
United States Digital Service.  *The United States Digital Service is
hereby publicly renamed as the United States DOGE Service (USDS) and
shall be established in the Executive Office of the President.

\(b\) * Establishment of a Temporary Organization*.  There shall be a
USDS Administrator established in the Executive Office of the President
who shall report to the White House Chief of Staff. There is further
established within USDS, in accordance with section 3161 of title 5,
United States Code, a temporary organization known as “the U.S. DOGE
Service Temporary Organization”.  The U.S. DOGE Service Temporary
Organization shall be headed by the USDS Administrator and shall be
dedicated to advancing the President’s 18-month DOGE agenda.  The U.S.
DOGE Service Temporary Organization shall terminate on July 4, 2026. The
termination of the U.S. DOGE Service Temporary Organization shall not be
interpreted to imply the termination, attenuation, or amendment of any
other authority or provision of this order.

\(c\) * DOGE Teams*.  In consultation with USDS, each Agency Head shall
establish within their respective Agencies a DOGE Team of at least four
employees, which may include Special Government Employees, hired or
assigned within thirty days of the date of this Order. Agency Heads
shall select the DOGE Team members in consultation with the USDS
Administrator.  Each DOGE Team will typically include one DOGE Team
Lead, one engineer, one human resources specialist, and one attorney.
 Agency Heads shall ensure that DOGE Team Leads coordinate their work
with USDS and advise their respective Agency Heads on implementing the
President ‘s DOGE Agenda.

Sec. 4.  *Modernizing Federal Technology and Software to Maximize
Efficiency and Productivity*.  (a)  The USDS Administrator shall
commence a Software Modernization Initiative to improve the quality and
efficiency of government-wide software, network infrastructure, and
information technology (IT) systems.  Among other things, the USDS
Administrator shall work with Agency Heads to promote inter-operability
between agency networks and systems, ensure data integrity, and
facilitate responsible data collection and synchronization.

\(b\)  Agency Heads shall take all necessary steps, in coordination with
the USDS Administrator and to the maximum extent consistent with law, to
ensure USDS has full and prompt access to all unclassified agency
records, software systems, and IT systems.  USDS shall adhere to
rigorous data protection standards.

(c)  This Executive Order displaces all prior executive orders and
regulations, insofar as they are subject to direct presidential
amendment, that might serve as a barrier to providing USDS access to
agency records and systems as described above.

Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

      January 20, 2025.
