---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:24:11-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:30:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/declaring-a-national-emergency-at-the-southern-border-of-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Declaring A National Emergency At The Southern Border Of The United States
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, I hereby proclaim:

America’s sovereignty is under attack.  Our southern border is overrun
by cartels, criminal gangs, known terrorists, human traffickers,
smugglers, unvetted military-age males from foreign adversaries, and
illicit narcotics that harm Americans, including America.

This invasion has caused widespread chaos and suffering in our country
over the last 4 years.  It has led to the horrific and inexcusable
murders of many innocent American citizens, including women and
children, at the hands of illegal aliens.  Foreign criminal gangs and
cartels have begun seizing control of parts of cities, attacking our
most vulnerable citizens, and terrorizing Americans beyond the control
of local law enforcement.  Cartels control vast territories just south
of our southern border, effectively controlling who can and cannot
travel to the United States from Mexico. Hundreds of thousands of
Americans have tragically died from drug overdoses because of the
illicit narcotics that have flowed across the southern border.

This assault on the American people and the integrity of America’s
sovereign borders represents a grave threat to our Nation.

Because of the gravity and emergency of this present danger and imminent
threat, it is necessary for the Armed Forces to take all appropriate
action to assist the Department of Homeland Security in obtaining full
operational control of the southern border.

To protect the security and safety of United States citizens, to protect
each of the States against invasion, and to uphold my duty to take care
that the laws be faithfully executed, it is my responsibility as
President to ensure that the illegal entry of aliens into the United
States via the southern border be immediately and entirely stopped.

As Commander in Chief, I have no more solemn duty than to protect the
American people.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 201 and 301 of the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), hereby declare that
a national emergency exists at the southern border of the United States,
and that section 12302 of title 10, United States Code, is invoked and
made available, according to its terms, to the Secretaries of the
military departments concerned, subject to the direction of the
Secretary of Defense.  To provide additional authority to the Department
of Defense to support the Federal Government’s response to the emergency
at the southern border, I hereby declare that this emergency requires
use of the Armed Forces and, in accordance with section 301 of the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1631), that the construction
authority provided in section 2808 of title 10, United States Code, is
invoked and made available, according to its terms, to the Secretary of
Defense and, at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, to the
Secretaries of the military departments.  I hereby direct as follows:

Section 1.  Deployment of Personnel and Resources.  The Secretary of
Defense, or the Secretary of each relevant military department, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, shall order as many
units or members of the Armed Forces, including the Ready Reserve and
the National Guard, as the Secretary of Defense determines to be
appropriate to support the activities of the Secretary of Homeland
Security in obtaining complete operational control of the southern
border of the United States.  The Secretary of Defense shall further
take all appropriate action to facilitate the operational needs of the
Secretary of Homeland Security along the southern border, including
through the provision of appropriate detention space, transportation
(including aircraft), and other logistics services in support of
civilian-controlled law enforcement operations.

Sec. 2.  Additional Physical Barriers.  The Secretaries of Defense and
Homeland Security shall immediately take all appropriate action,
consistent with law, including 10 U.S.C. 2214, to construct additional
physical barriers along the southern border.  To the extent possible,
the Secretaries of Defense and Homeland Security shall coordinate with
any Governor of a State that is willing to assist with the deployment of
any physical infrastructure to improve operational security at the
southern border.

Sec. 3.  Unmanned Aerial Systems.  The Secretary of Transportation and
the Federal Communications Commission shall, consistent with applicable
law, consider waiving all applicable Federal Aviation Administration and
Federal Communications Commission regulations or policies, respectively,
that restrict the Department of Homeland Security’s ability to counter
unmanned aerial systems within 5 miles of the southern border.

Sec. 4.  Revision of Policies and Strategies.  The Secretary of Defense
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the
Attorney General, shall take all appropriate action, consistent with
law, to prioritize the impedance and denial of the unauthorized physical
entry of aliens across the southern border of the United States, and to
ensure that use of force policies prioritize the safety and security of
Department of Homeland Security personnel and of members of the Armed
Forces.

Sec. 5.  Revocation.  Proclamation 10142 of January 20, 2021
(Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Southern Border of the
United States and Redirection of Funds Diverted to Border Wall
Construction), is hereby revoked.

Sec. 6.  Reporting Requirement.  (a)  Within 30 days of the date of this
proclamation, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the President,
through the Homeland Security Advisor, a report outlining all actions
taken to fulfill the requirements and objectives of this proclamation;
and

(b)  Within 90 days of the date of this proclamation, the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a joint
report to the President about the conditions at the southern border of
the United States and any recommendations regarding additional actions
that may be necessary to obtain complete operational control of the
southern border, including whether to invoke the Insurrection Act of
1807.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with applicable
law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.
