---
date: '2025-01-31'
modified_time: 2025-02-03 09:26:42-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-31 18:44:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/limiting-lame-duck-collective-bargaining-agreements-that-improperly-attempt-to-constrain-the-new-president/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Limiting Lame-Duck Collective Bargaining Agreements That Improperly Attempt
  to Constrain the New President
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Limiting Lame-Duck Collective Bargaining Agreements That
Improperly Attempt to Constrain the New President

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 7301 of title 5,
United States Code, it is hereby ordered:  
  
Section 1.  Policy and Purpose*.*  In the final days of the prior
administration’s tenure, it purposefully finalized collective bargaining
agreements (CBAs) with Federal employees in an effort to harm my
Administration by extending its wasteful and failing policies beyond its
time in office.  For example, the Department of Education negotiated a
CBA on January 17, 2025 — 3 days before I took office — that generally
prohibits the agency from returning remote employees to their offices.  
  
Such last-minute, lame-duck CBAs, which purport to bind a new President
to his predecessor’s policies, run counter to America’s system of
democratic self-government.  CBAs quickly negotiated to include extreme
policies on the eve of a new administration are purposefully designed to
circumvent the will of the people and our democracy.  Such CBAs inhibit
the President’s authority to manage the executive branch by tying his
hands with inefficient and ineffective practices.  The Supreme Court has
explained that a President “cannot choose to bind his successors by
diminishing their powers.”  
  
Therefore, it is the policy of the executive branch that CBAs executed
in the 30 days prior to the inauguration of a new President, and that
purport to remain in effect despite the inauguration of a new President
and administration, shall not be approved.  
  
Sec. 2.  Standards for CBA Duration.  (a)  No executive department or
agency (agency) or agency employees shall make a CBA governing
conditions of employment in the 30 days prior to a change in
Presidential administrations that:  
  
(i)    creates new contractual obligations;  
  
(ii)   makes substantive changes to existing agreements; or  
  
(iii)  extends the duration of an existing agreement.  
  
(b)  Subsection (a) of this section applies only to the extent that its
requirements do not prevent CBAs from rolling over under existing
contractual provisions.  
  
(c)  To the extent that subordinate agency personnel have executed a CBA
that violates the requirements of subsection (a) of this section, but
the applicable agency head has not yet approved such agreement pursuant
to 5 U.S.C. 7114(c), such agency head shall promptly disapprove such
agreement as inconsistent with the requirements of this memorandum.   
  
(d)  The requirements of this section do not apply to CBAs that
primarily cover law enforcement officers, as that term is used in 18
U.S.C. 1515(a)(4).  
  
Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  If the Federal Labor Relations Authority or a court of competent
jurisdiction issues a final judgment holding that section 2(d) of this
memorandum would prevent this memorandum from being considered a
Government-wide rule or regulation for purposes of 5 U.S.C. 7117(a)(1),
section 2(d) of this memorandum shall be severed and rendered
inoperative thereby and given no force or effect.  
  
(d)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(e)  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management is authorized
and directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.
