---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 21:22:31-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 20:39:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/securing-our-borders/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Securing Our Borders
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Immigration and
Nationality Act (INA), 8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq.*, and section 301 of title
3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered:

Section 1.  Purpose*. * Over the last 4 years, the United States has
endured a large-scale invasion at an unprecedented level.  Millions of
illegal aliens from nations and regions all around the world
successfully entered the United States where they are now residing,
including potential terrorists, foreign spies, members of cartels,
gangs, and violent transnational criminal organizations, and other
hostile actors with malicious intent.

Deadly narcotics and other illicit materials have flowed across the
border while agents and officers spend their limited resources
processing illegal aliens for release into the United States.  These
catch-and-release policies undermine the rule of law and our
sovereignty, create substantial risks to public safety and security, and
divert critical resources away from stopping the entry of contraband and
fugitives into the United States.  

We have limited information on the precise whereabouts of a great number
of these illegal aliens who have entered the United States over the last
4 years.

This cannot stand.  A nation without borders is not a nation, and the
Federal Government must act with urgency and strength to end the threats
posed by an unsecured border.

One of my most important obligations is to protect the American people
from the disastrous effects of unlawful mass migration and resettlement.

My Administration will marshal all available resources and authorities
to stop this unprecedented flood of illegal aliens into the United
States.

Sec. 2.  Policy*.*  It is the policy of the United States to take all
appropriate action to secure the borders of our Nation through the
following means:  

\(a\)  Establishing a physical wall and other barriers monitored and
supported by adequate personnel and technology;

\(b\)  Deterring and preventing the entry of illegal aliens into the
United States;

(c)  Detaining, to the maximum extent authorized by law, aliens
apprehended on suspicion of violating Federal or State law, until such
time as they are removed from the United States;

\(d\)  Removing promptly all aliens who enter or remain in violation of
Federal law;

(e)  Pursuing criminal charges against illegal aliens who violate the
immigration laws, and against those who facilitate their unlawful
presence in the United States;

\(f\)  Cooperating fully with State and local law enforcement officials
in enacting Federal-State partnerships to enforce Federal immigration
priorities; and

\(g\)  Obtaining complete operational control of the borders of the
United States.

Sec. 3.  Physical Barriers.  The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary
of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to deploy and
construct temporary and permanent physical barriers to ensure complete
operational control of the southern border of the United States.

Sec. 4.  Deployment of Personnel.  (a)  The Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate and lawful
action to deploy sufficient personnel along the southern border of the
United States to ensure complete operational control; and

\(b\)  The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
take all appropriate action to supplement available personnel to secure
the southern border and enforce the immigration laws of the United
States through the use of sections 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6) of the INA (8
U.S.C. 1103(a)(2) and (4)-(6)).

Sec. 5.  Detention.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all
appropriate actions to detain, to the fullest extent permitted by law,
aliens apprehended for violations of immigration law until their
successful removal from the United States.  The Secretary shall,
consistent with applicable law, issue new policy guidance or propose
regulations regarding the appropriate and consistent use of lawful
detention authority under the INA, including the termination of the
practice commonly known as “catch-and-release,” whereby illegal aliens
are routinely released into the United States shortly after their
apprehension for violations of immigration law.

Sec. 6.  Resumption of Migrant Protection Protocols.  As soon as
practicable, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with
the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, shall take all
appropriate action to resume the Migrant Protection Protocols in all
sectors along the southern border of the United States and ensure that,
pending removal proceedings, aliens described in section 235(b)(2)(C) of
the INA (8 U.S.C. 1225(b)(2)(C)) are returned to the territory from
which they came.

Sec. 7.  Adjusting Parole Policies.  The Secretary of Homeland Security
shall, consistent with applicable law, take all appropriate action to:

\(a\)  Cease using the “CBP One” application as a method of paroling or
facilitating the entry of otherwise inadmissible aliens into the United
States;

\(b\)  Terminate all categorical parole programs that are contrary to
the policies of the United States established in my Executive Orders,
including the program known as the “Processes for Cubans, Haitians,
Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans.”

\(c\)  Align all policies and operations at the southern border of the
United States to be consistent with the policy of Section 2 of this
order and ensure that all future parole determinations fully comply with
this order and with applicable law.

Sec. 8.  Additional International Cooperation.  The Secretary of State,
in coordination with the Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall take all appropriate action to facilitate additional
international cooperation and agreements, consistent with the policy of
Section 2, including entering into agreements based upon the provisions
of section 208(a)(2)(A) of the INA (8 U.S.C. 1158(a)(2)(A)) or any other
applicable provision of law.

Sec. 9.  DNA and Identification Requirements.  (a)  The Attorney General
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action
to fulfill the requirements of the DNA Fingerprint Act of 2005, title X
of Public Law 109-162, for all aliens detained under the authority of
the United States; and

\(b\)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate
action to use any available technologies and procedures to determine the
validity of any claimed familial relationship between aliens encountered
or apprehended by the Department of Homeland Security.

Sec. 10.  Prosecution of Offenses.  The Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take all appropriate action to
prioritize the prosecution of offenses that relate to the borders of the
United States, including the investigation and prosecution of offenses
that involve human smuggling, human trafficking, child trafficking, and
sex trafficking in the United States.

Sec. 11.  Additional Measures.  Within 14 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
provide recommendations to the President regarding the use of any other
authority to protect the United States from foreign threats and secure
the southern border.

Sec. 12.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025.
