---
date: '2025-01-03'
modified_time: 2025-01-03 18:30:50-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-03 18:30:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/03/memorandum-on-the-designation-of-officials-of-the-united-states-international-development-finance-corporation-to-act-as-chief-executive-officer/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the Designation of Officials of the United\_States International\
  \ Development Finance Corporation to Act as Chief Executive\_Officer"
---
 
SUBJECT:       Designation of Officials of the United States
International Development Finance Corporation to Act as Chief Executive
Officer

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the Federal Vacancies
Reform Act of 1998, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 3345 *et seq*. (the “Act”), it
is hereby ordered that:

     Section 1.  Order of Succession*.*  Subject to the provisions of
section 2 of this memorandum, and to the limitations set forth in the
Act, the following officials of the United States International
Development Finance Corporation (DFC), in the order listed, shall act as
and perform the functions and duties of the office of the Chief
Executive Officer of DFC during any period in which the Chief Executive
Officer has died, resigned, or otherwise become unable to perform the
functions and duties of the office of Chief Executive Officer:

     (a)  Deputy Chief Executive Officer;

     (b)  Head of Investment;

     (c)  Chief Operating Officer;

     (d)  Chief of Staff;

     (e)  Vice President and General Counsel;

     (f)  Senior Vice President for Investment;

     (g)  Senior Vice President for Management;

     (h)  Deputy General Counsel for Policy, Monitoring, and Corporate
Affairs; and

     (i)  Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance.

     Sec. 2.  Exceptions.  (a)  No individual who is serving in an
office listed in section 1 of this memorandum in an acting capacity
shall, by virtue of so serving, act as Chief Executive Officer pursuant
to this memorandum.

     (b)  No individual who is serving in an office listed in section 1
of this memorandum shall act as Chief Executive Officer unless that
individual is otherwise eligible to so serve under the Act.

     (c)  Notwithstanding the provisions of this memorandum, the
President retains discretion, to the extent permitted by law, to depart
from this memorandum in designating an acting Chief Executive Officer.

     Sec. 3.  Revocation.  The Presidential Memorandum of January 8,
2021 (Providing an Order of Succession Within the United States
International Development Finance Corporation), is hereby revoked.

     Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall
be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     (d)  You are authorized and directed to publish this memorandum in
the *Federal Register*.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
