---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 08:02:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2025/01/03/order-regarding-the-proposed-acquisition-of-united-states-steel-corporation-by-nippon-steel-corporation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Order Regarding the Proposed Acquisition of United\_States Steel Corporation\
  \ by Nippon Steel\_Corporation"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 721 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (section 721), 50 U.S.C.
4565, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Findings.  I hereby make the following findings:

(a)  There is credible evidence that leads me to believe that (1) Nippon
Steel Corporation, a corporation organized under the laws of Japan
(Nippon Steel); (2) Nippon Steel North America, Inc., a New York
corporation (Nippon Steel NA); and (3) 2023 Merger Subsidiary, Inc., a
Delaware corporation (together with Nippon Steel and Nippon Steel NA,
the Purchasers), through the proposed acquisition by the Purchasers of
United States Steel Corporation, a Delaware corporation (U.S. Steel),
might take action that threatens to impair the national security of the
United States; and

\(b\)  Provisions of law, other than section 721 and the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.), do not, in my
judgment, provide adequate and appropriate authority for me to protect
the national security in this matter.

     Sec. 2.  Actions Ordered and Authorized.  On the basis of the
findings set forth in section 1 of this order, considering the factors
set forth in subsection 721(f) of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as
appropriate, and pursuant to my authority under applicable law,
including section 721, I hereby order that:

\(a\)  The proposed acquisition of U.S. Steel by the Purchasers
(Proposed Transaction) is prohibited, and any substantially similar
transaction between the Purchasers and U.S. Steel, whether effected
directly or indirectly by the Purchasers, through the Purchasers’
shareholders or shareholders’ immediate, intermediate, or ultimate
foreign person beneficial owners, or through the Purchasers’ partners,
subsidiaries, or affiliates is also prohibited.

\(b\)  The Purchasers and U.S. Steel shall take all steps necessary to
fully and permanently abandon the Proposed Transaction no later than 30
days after the date of this order, unless such date is extended by the
Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States (CFIUS), on such
conditions as CFIUS may require.  Immediately upon completion of all
steps necessary to abandon the Proposed Transaction, the Purchasers and
U.S. Steel shall certify in writing to CFIUS that such abandonment has
been effected in accordance with this order and that all steps necessary
to fully and permanently abandon the Proposed Transaction have been
completed.

\(c\)  From the date of this order until the Purchasers and U.S. Steel
provide a certification of abandonment of the Proposed Transaction to
CFIUS pursuant to subsection (b) of this section, the Purchasers and
U.S. Steel shall certify to CFIUS on a weekly basis that they are in
compliance with this order and include with that certification a
description of all efforts to fully and permanently abandon the Proposed
Transaction, and a timeline for projected completion of remaining
actions necessary to effectuate the abandonment.

\(d\)  Any transaction or other instrument entered into or method
employed for the purpose of, or with the effect of, evading or
circumventing this order is prohibited.

\(e\)  Without limitation on the exercise of authority by any agency
under other provisions of law, and until such time as the Purchasers and
U.S. Steel provide a certification of abandonment of the Proposed
Transaction and such certification is verified to the satisfaction of
CFIUS, CFIUS is further authorized to implement measures it determines
necessary and appropriate with regard to the Proposed Transaction to
protect the national security of the United States, including measures
available to it under section 721 and its implementing regulations,
which include the remedies available for violations of any order,
agreement or condition entered into or imposed under section 721.

\(f\)  If any provision of this order, or the application of any
provision to any person or circumstances, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this order and the application of its other provisions to
any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.  If
any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to any
person or circumstances, is held to be invalid because of the lack of
certain procedural requirements, the relevant executive branch officials
shall implement those procedural requirements.

\(g\)  The Attorney General is authorized to take any steps necessary to
enforce this order.

     Sec. 3.  Reservation.  I hereby reserve my authority to issue
further orders with respect to the Purchasers or U.S. Steel as shall in
my judgment be necessary to protect the national security of the United
States.

     Sec. 4.  Publication and Transmittal.  (a)  This order shall be
published in the *Federal Register*.

\(b\)  I hereby direct the Secretary of the Treasury to transmit a copy
of this order to the parties to the Proposed Transaction named in
section 1 of this order.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 3, 2025.
