---
date: '2025-01-27'
published_time: 2025-01-27 22:54:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/restoring-americas-fighting-force/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Restoring America\u2019s Fighting Force"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.  Purpose*.* </span>
As Chief Executive and as Commander in Chief, I am committed to
meritocracy and to the elimination of race-based and sex-based
discrimination within the Armed Forces of the United States.  No
individual or group within our Armed Forces should be preferred or
disadvantaged on the basis of sex, race, ethnicity, color, or creed.

Unfortunately, in recent years civilian and uniformed leadership alike
have implemented Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI) programs and
their attendant race and sex preferences within the Armed Forces.  These
actions undermine leadership, merit, and unit cohesion, thereby eroding
lethality and force readiness.  They also violate Americans’ consciences
by engaging in invidious race and sex discrimination.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.  Policy*.*</span>  It
is the policy of my Administration that the Department of Defense, the
Department of Homeland Security with regard to the United States Coast
Guard (USCG), and every element of the Armed Forces should operate free
from any preference based on race or sex.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.  Definitions*.*</span> 
(a)  A “DEI office” means an office, division, job, or other unit of an
institution established for the purpose of:

\(i\)   influencing hiring or employment practices at the institution
with respect to race, sex, color, or ethnicity, other than through the
use of color-blind and sex-neutral hiring processes; or

\(ii\)  promoting differential treatment of or providing special
benefits to individuals on the basis of race, sex, color, or ethnicity.

\(b\)  The term “gender ideology” has the meaning given to that term in
section 2(f) of the Executive Order of January 20, 2025, (Defending
Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological Truth to
the Federal Government).

\(c\)  The term “divisive concepts” has the meaning given to that term
in section 2(a) of Executive Order 13950 of September 22, 2020
(Combating Race and Sex Stereotyping).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.  Abolishing the DEI
Bureaucracy*.*</span>  The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of
Homeland Security shall abolish every DEI office within the Department
of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security with regard to the
USCG, respectively, including any vestiges of DEI offices, such as
sub-offices, programs, elements, or initiatives established to promote a
race-based preferences system that subverts meritocracy, perpetuates
unconstitutional discrimination, and promotes divisive concepts or
gender ideology.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.  Department of Defense
Internal Review*.*</span>  The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an
internal review that documents actions taken in pursuit of DEI
initiatives, including all instances of race and sex discrimination and
activities designed to promote a race- or sex-based preferences system.
 The report shall be delivered to the Secretary of Defense within 90
days of the date of this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 6.  Protecting American
Values. </span> (a)  The Department of Defense and the Armed Forces,
including any educational institution operated or controlled thereby,
are prohibited from promoting, advancing, or otherwise inculcating the
following un-American, divisive, discriminatory, radical, extremist, and
irrational theories:

\(i\)    “divisive concepts,” as defined in section 3(c) of this order,
and “race or sex stereotyping,” or “race or sex scapegoating” as both
terms are defined in section 2 of Executive Order 13950, as amended;

\(ii\)   that America’s founding documents are racist or sexist; and

\(iii\)  “gender ideology,” as defined in section 3(b) of this order.

\(b\)  The Department of Defense and the Armed Forces shall not hire
employees, contractors, or consultants to teach the theories set forth
in subsection (a) of this section.

\(c\)  The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall carefully review the leadership, curriculum, and instructors of
the United States Service Academies and other defense academic
institutions associated with their respective Departments to ensure
alignment with this order.  In addition, these institutions shall be
required to teach that America and its founding documents remain the
most powerful force for good in human history.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 7.
 Implementation*.*</span>  (a)  The Secretary of Defense and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall issue detailed guidance for the
implementation of this order to their respective departments within 30
days of the date of this order.

\(b\)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Defense and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report
through the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy documenting the progress of
their respective Departments in implementing this order, and any
recommendations for action to fulfill the objectives of this order.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 8.  Severability. </span>
If any provision of this order, or the application of any provision to
any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
order and the application of its provisions to any other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. 

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 9.  General
Provisions*.*</span>  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 27, 2025.
