---
date: '2025-01-20'
modified_time: 2025-01-20 19:01:14-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-20 18:53:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/ending-the-weaponization-of-the-federal-government/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Ending The Weaponization Of The Federal Government
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and section 301 of title 3, United
States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Purpose*.*  The American people have witnessed the previous
administration engage in a systematic campaign against its perceived
political opponents, weaponizing the legal force of numerous Federal law
enforcement agencies and the Intelligence Community against those
perceived political opponents in the form of investigations,
prosecutions, civil enforcement actions, and other related actions. 
These actions appear oriented more toward inflicting political pain than
toward pursuing actual justice or legitimate governmental objectives.
 Many of these activities appear to be inconsistent with the
Constitution and/or the laws of the United States, including those
activities directed at parents protesting at school board meetings,
Americans who spoke out against the previous administration’s actions,
and other Americans who were simply exercising constitutionally
protected rights.

The prior administration and allies throughout the country engaged in an
unprecedented, third-world weaponization of prosecutorial power to upend
the democratic process.  It targeted individuals who voiced opposition
to the prior administration’s policies with numerous Federal
investigations and politically motivated funding revocations, which cost
Americans access to needed services.  The Department of Justice even
jailed an individual for posting a political meme.  And while the
Department of Justice has ruthlessly prosecuted more than 1,500
individuals associated with January 6, and simultaneously dropped nearly
all cases against BLM rioters.  

Therefore, this order sets forth a process to ensure accountability for
the previous administration’s weaponization of the Federal Government
against the American people.

Sec. 2.  Policy*.*  It is the policy of the United States to identify
and take appropriate action to correct past misconduct by the Federal
Government related to the weaponization of law enforcement and the
weaponization of the Intelligence Community.

Sec. 3.  Ending the Weaponization of the Federal Government.  (a)  The
Attorney General, in consultation with the heads of all departments and
agencies of the United States, shall take appropriate action to review
the activities of all departments and agencies exercising civil or
criminal enforcement authority of the United States, including, but not
limited to, the Department of Justice, the Securities and Exchange
Commission, and the Federal Trade Commission, over the last 4 years and
identify any instances where a department’s or agency’s conduct appears
to have been contrary to the purposes and policies of this order, and
prepare a report to be submitted to the President, through the Deputy
Chief of Staff for Policy and the Counsel to the President, with
recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken to fulfill
the purposes and policies of this order.

\(b\)  The Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the
heads of the appropriate departments and agencies within the
Intelligence Community, shall take all appropriate action to review the
activities of the Intelligence Community over the last 4 years and
identify any instances where the Intelligence Community’s conduct
appears to have been contrary to the purposes and policies of this
order, and prepare a report to be submitted to the President, through
the Deputy Chief of Staff for Policy and the National Security Advisor,
with recommendations for appropriate remedial actions to be taken to
fulfill the purposes and policies of this order.  The term “Intelligence
Community” has the meaning given the term in section 3003 of title 50,
United States Code.

(c)  In furtherance of these policies, departments and agencies are
directed to comply with applicable document-retention policies and legal
obligations.  Instances of noncompliance with document-retention
policies or legal obligations will be referred to the Attorney General. 

Sec. 4.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    January 20, 2025. 
