---
date: '2024-07-30'
published_time: 2024-07-30 17:02:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2024/07/30/bills-signed-h-r-1105-s-227-s-1973-s-3249-s-3285-s-3706-s-4548/
tags: legislation
title: "Bills Signed: H.R. 1105, S. 227, S. 1973, S. 3249, S. 3285, S. 3706, S.\_\
  4548"
---
 
On Tuesday, July 30, 2024, the President signed into law:  
   
H.R. 1105, the “Debbie Smith Act of 2023,” which authorizes
appropriations to the Department of Justice for each of FYs 2024-2029 in
the amount of $151 million for the Debbie Smith DNA Backlog Grant
Program;

Thank you to Representatives Wagner, Cohen, Hunt, and Cline, and
Senators Cornyn, Graham and Klobuchar for their leadership. Thank you to
the late Representative Sheila Jackson Lee and the late Senator Dianne
Feinstein for their leadership as well.

S. 227, the “Improving Access to Our Courts Act,” which adds Alpine,
Texas, and Mount Vernon, Washington, to the list of locations where
court may be held in the Western District of Texas and in the Western
District of Washington;

Thank you to Senators Cornyn, Murray, Cruz and Cantwell, and
Representatives Gonzales, Rick Larsen, and DelBene for their
leadership.  
   
S. 1973, the “All-American Flag Act,” which prohibits, with certain
specified exceptions, Federal agencies from purchasing U.S. flags that
are not domestically manufactured;

Thank you to Senators Brown, Collins, Manchin and Peters, and
Representatives Sorensen and Mace for their leadership.  
   
S. 3249, which designates the outpatient clinic of the Department of
Veterans Affairs in Wyandotte County, Kansas City, Kansas, as the
Captain Elwin Shopteese VA Clinic;

Thank you to Senators Moran and Marshall, Representative LaTurner, and
the entire Kansas delegation for their leadership.  
   
S. 3285, which renames the community-based outpatient clinic of the
Department of Veterans Affairs in Butte, Montana, as the Charlie Dowd VA
Clinic;

Thank you to Senator Daines and Representative Zinke for their
leadership.  
   
S. 3706, the ” Victims’ Voices Outside and Inside the Courtroom
Effectiveness Act or the Victims’ VOICES Act,” which requires defendants
convicted of certain Federal crimes, including violent crimes, to make
restitution to a person who has assumed the rights of a victim; and

Thank you to Senators Cornyn, Blumenthal, Blackburn and Whitehouse, and
Representatives Hageman, McBath, Moran and Hank Johnson for their
leadership.  
   
S. 4548, the “Foreign Extortion Prevention Technical Corrections Act,”
which amends the Foreign Extortion Prevention Act (FEPA) enacted as part
of the 2024 National Defense Authorization Act and prohibits foreign
officials from demanding bribes.

Thank you to Senators Whitehouse and Tillis for their leadership.

\###
