---
date: '2023-08-16'
modified_time: 2023-08-15 19:49:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-16 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/08/16/the-economics-of-public-investment-crowding-in-private-investment/
tags: blog
title: "The Economics of Public Investment Crowding in Private\_Investment"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

## Introduction

President Biden’s economic vision—Bidenomics—is centered around making
smart public investments, empowering and educating workers, and
promoting fair competition to lower costs and help small businesses
thrive. As described in a [recent
report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/)
on the economic case for the first pillar of Bidenomics, Investing in
America, this includes supporting critical sectors where private
industry, on its own, has not made sufficient investments to meet our
core economic and national security interests.

Through comprehensive [supply
chain](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/)
[reviews](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/08/report-card-two-years-of-building-stronger-supply-chains-and-a-more-resilient-economy/)
and an all-of-government strategy to combat the climate crisis, the
Biden-Harris Administration has identified three areas that particularly
need investment—infrastructure, semiconductors, and clean energy. In
these three areas, it is in the United States’ national and economic
interest to have sufficient domestic production capacity. Decades of
disinvestment in these areas have hollowed out communities and deprived
the U.S. economy of the productivity gains, increased growth, and
high-[quality jobs](https://www.nber.org/papers/w30332) that come from
investing in these strategic sectors.

To reverse this trend, the President worked with Congress to pass the
set of policies that comprise the Investing in America agenda—the
American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and
Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act—which invests in
infrastructure, semiconductor manufacturing, and clean energy. This
agenda includes two kinds of investment policies: *incentives to
invest*—government funds that encourage a certain action (e.g., tax
credits for facilities producing electricity from renewable energy)—and
*direct investments*—government funds that directly pay for something
(e.g., a government grant to modernize the electrical grid). These
investment policies that make up the Investing in America
agenda—described simply as “investments” in the rest of this brief—were
designed to work together, with integrated benefits. For example,
semiconductors
[are](https://poweramericainstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/PowerAmerica_Roadmap_4.2_April-2020-Public-Version.pdf)
[critical](https://www.semiconductors.org/advanced-semiconductors-enable-cleaner-more-efficient-use-of-energy/)
[inputs](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2022-02/Semiconductor%20Supply%20Chain%20Report%20-%20Final.pdf)
for clean energy technologies, and a national charging network is
critical for the widespread use of electric vehicles.

The long-run effects of these public investments ultimately depend on
whether private investment flows into the industries. While the economic
literature has pointed to cases where public investments can [crowd
out](https://fraser.stlouisfed.org/files/docs/historical/frbchi/workingpapers/frbchi_workingpaper_1988-10.pdf)
private investment, there are circumstances when public investments
mobilize (“crowd in”) private investments. Now, new [economic
literature](https://www.nber.org/papers/w31538) is developing to explain
when and how this occurs. This brief examines the circumstances under
which there is a positive relationship between public and private
investment.

With a focus on these three laws, this issue brief lays out:

-   The need for investment in key infrastructure and industries like
    semiconductors and clean energy;
-   How the Investing in America agenda is designed to catalyze
    additional private sector investment;
-   Recent signs of private sector response to the Investing in America
    agenda and proof that the laws are reaching the intended results of
    mobilizing private sector activity.

## The Need for Investment

Significant public and private investments are needed to support the
creation of durable, thriving domestic semiconductor and clean energy
industries that meet our climate and national security goals, including
in developing and building new infrastructure. In clean energy, for
example, the International Energy Agency (IEA) and the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development estimate that [$4
trillion](https://www.iea.org/reports/world-energy-outlook-2021/mobilising-investment-and-finance)
and [$6.9
trillion](https://www.oecd.org/environment/cc/climate-futures/policy-highlights-financing-climate-futures.pdf),
respectively of *annual* global investments may be needed to meet the
Paris Agreement’s emissions reduction target; both organizations also
conclude that public investment alone will be insufficient to reach this
target.

The President’s agenda has put the United States on a path to make
historically large investments in these industries and the
infrastructure that supports them. This represents only a fraction of
the global total required to reach these goals. The
[IEA](https://www.iea.org/articles/the-cost-of-capital-in-clean-energy-transitions)
estimates that to globally reach Net Zero by 2050, 70 percent of global
clean energy investments will likely need to come from the private
sector—including from utility and energy companies, clean energy
developers, and financing institutions like banks or venture capital
(Figure 1).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-82079" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1950px) 100vw, 1950px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png 1950w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=615,415 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=768,518 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=1270,856 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=1536,1036 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=550,370 550w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=475,320 475w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=949,640 949w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=1898,1280 1898w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=1038,700 1038w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure1.png?resize=114,76 114w"
width="1950" height="1315" />
</figure>

Looking at specific clean energy technologies, recent analyses show that
significant investments will be necessary to ensure nascent industries
become commercially viable and can help us meet President Biden’s
emissions reduction goals. For advanced nuclear, clean hydrogen, carbon
management, and long duration energy storage technologies, the
Department of Energy’s [Liftoff to Commercialization
Reports](https://liftoff.energy.gov/) provide some initial
industry-informed estimates of the necessary private and public
investments needed to deploy these nascent technologies.

For example, the [clean hydrogen
report](https://liftoff.energy.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/20230320-Liftoff-Clean-H2-vPUB.pdf)
outlines that in the United States, $105–235 billion of investments are
needed between now and 2030 to reach the U.S. goal of producing 10
million metric tons per year of clean hydrogen in 2030 (Figure 2). These
investments will be spread along the value chain, with roughly half for
midstream and end-use infrastructure. As of January 2023, already
announced projects represent $21 billion in planned investment, leaving
an investment gap of $85-$215 billion that are still required across the
hydrogen value chain, including for midstream infrastructure
(distribution and storage) and end-use applications (e.g., steel,
chemicals, refining).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-82080" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2145px) 100vw, 2145px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png 2145w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=615,416 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=768,520 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=1270,859 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=1536,1039 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=2048,1385 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=473,320 473w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=946,640 946w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=1892,1280 1892w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=1038,702 1038w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure2.png?resize=114,76 114w"
width="2145" height="1451" />
</figure>

## Public Investments Can Mobilize Private Investments

As outlined above, in infrastructure, clean energy, and domestic
semiconductor manufacturing, there is a need for significant public and
private investments to meet core U.S. economic and national security
goals. Through his Investing in America agenda, President Biden has made
a series of public investments, which are designed to crowd in private
investment in these critical areas.

A growing body of scholarship
[supports](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/109114210102900101)
a positive role for public investments to mobilize private investments.
This includes
[economic](https://www.oecd-ilibrary.org/docserver/67d221b8-en.pdf?expires=1683610243&id=id&accname=ocid49017102b&checksum=17CC3D852BB7EC97166D32FC817CBD9D)
[research](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2021/04/23/innovation-investment-and-inclusion-accelerating-the-energy-transition-and-creating-good-jobs/)
that
[has](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0301421522003597)
[shown](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/page/files/20160225_cea_final_clean_energy_report.pdf)
[empirically](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0301421512000043)
how public investments are effective in advancing renewable energy goals
and industrial policy priorities. For example, Dina Azhgaliyeva and
coauthors [estimate](https://doi.org/10.1080/14693062.2022.2069664) the
positive effects of government investment in renewable energy—through
government R&D expenditures, feed-in tariffs, and taxes—on private
investment.

The economic literature suggests that targeted public investments can
play an important role in coordinating complementary private investments
in
[industry](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/sites/scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/the_new_economics_of_ip_080123.pdf),
[infrastructure](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/02692170903426104),
and
[workforce](https://academic.oup.com/mit-press-scholarship-online/book/18310/chapter-abstract/176336874?redirectedFrom=fulltext).
In addition, public investments can provide additional
[certainty](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0304405X13000925/)
for the private sector and help overcome market failures
[like](https://www.jstor.org/stable/44280167)
[financial](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w17512/w17512.pdf)
[frictions](https://cowles.yale.edu/sites/default/files/2023-06/ottonello_winberry_2023.pdf)
that may impede the development of early
[industries](https://conference.nber.org/conf_papers/f176376.pdf). This
crowding in of private investments is more likely to occur in certain
contexts, including when the economy is not at full capacity and in the
presence of spillover benefits or bottlenecks that limit returns for the
private sector.

Crowding in may involve shifts in investment across sectors. Depending
on the state of the economy, public spending could theoretically
increase private investment in one sector but reduce it in another.
Thus, given the scale and speed of the necessary private investments in
clean energy and semiconductor industries, it is possible that public
investments might cause a shift of capital from one sector to another
(i.e., a reallocation of capital but a still-positive aggregate net
change). This would be consistent with the first-order goal of the
Investing in America agenda: to channel private investment in order to
advance specific national priorities.

Past examples from the [biotechnology
industry](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/green_industrial_policy.pdf),
the pharmaceutical [industry](https://www.pnas.org/content/115/10/2329),
the [information technology
sector](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/740768/the-entrepreneurial-state-by-mariana-mazzucato/),
and clean energy technologies like
[wind](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0959378021001382)
and
[solar](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0301421522003597)
illustrate how public investments can unleash private sector
innovation—lowering costs, improving quality, and supporting domestic
production of critical goods. Along the way, these public investments in
strategic industries enabled the development and growth of companies
like [Tesla](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/tesla) and
[Apple](https://www.penguinrandomhouse.com/books/740768/the-entrepreneurial-state-by-mariana-mazzucato/).
As described below, the investments from the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act are designed to
build on lessons learned from the past and crowd in private investment
in semiconductors and clean energy technologies.

### Incentivizing Increased Supply

When goods have strong positive externalities—such as decreasing our
carbon emissions, improving supply chain resilience, or promoting
national security—the market can underprovide, as private actors do not
experience all of the social benefits of their production. In these
instances, government action, such as by lowering the cost of production
for the firm, can correct the failure of the market to provide
sufficient supply and improve overall
[welfare](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/ERP-2022.pdf).

The President’s Investing in America agenda includes numerous
intersecting investments to support increased supply of critical goods
that the market has underprovided. For example, it includes billions for
facilities that remove, use, and store carbon; nuclear energy plants;
the electrical grid; facilities that process battery materials; and
more, through the [Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/guidebook/).

Likewise, through the CHIPS and Science Act, the Department of Commerce
now provides grants and other incentives to semiconductor companies to
build fabrication plants and plants producing materials and equipment
used in semiconductor production in the United States. The Commerce
Department will prioritize providing federal funding for companies
seeking to make
[new](https://www.nist.gov/chips/frequently-asked-questions)
[investments](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2023/02/28/CHIPS_NOFO-1_Catalyzing_Pvt_Investment_Fact_Sheet.pdf)—ones
that companies can reasonably demonstrate would not otherwise have
occurred without government as a partner. The Investing in America
agenda also includes billions of dollars for semiconductor [research and
development](https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2023/04/chips-america-outlines-vision-national-semiconductor-technology-center)
and for workforce training. Investing in early-stage research and
development and workforce training also has [positive spillover
effects](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/719908) for the
private sector, lowering costs for firms.

Similarly, the Inflation Reduction Act includes [tax
credits](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/clean-energy-tax-provisions/)
to support investment in and deployment of clean energy, including to
manufacture components for clean energy, battery components, and
critical minerals that private markets had underinvested in. The
Inflation Reduction Act updates and extends tax credits for clean energy
production and investment to lower the costs of power generation.
Starting in 2025, these credits become
[technology-neutral](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2022-10/IRA-Energy-Summary_web.pdf):
the government sets the criteria in line with societal goals—to get the
tax credit, facilities must produce energy with zero greenhouse gas
emissions—but it does not dictate the technology that must be used to do
so. This allows the market to do what it does best—finding the most
efficient, cost-effective technologies to produce this energy.

These funding streams, combined, are designed to de-risk new
technologies, support the development of necessary infrastructure, and
more, making new technologies and domestic manufacturing
cost-competitive.

### Sending Demand Signals

Other public investments function by sending a clear demand signal to
the private sector, spurring private investments to meet the anticipated
demand. For example, the Investing in America agenda includes [tax
credits](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-guidebook/)
to increase consumer demand for electric vehicles and support
energy-efficient upgrades to homes, including the installation of heat
pumps or energy-efficient windows and doors. Likewise, the
Administration is supporting the
[purchase](https://www.transit.dot.gov/lowno) of low- or no-emission
buses to help reduce emissions and support private sector investments in
electric buses.

The federal government’s purchasing power, and that of other public
entities, can also be an important tool for seeding demand in nascent
industries. The [Federal Buy Clean
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/index.html), for
instance, is working to leverage the $650 billion annual purchasing
power of the federal government to build a market for low-carbon
construction materials critical for reducing emissions from
hard-to-abate sectors of the economy. [Twelve
states](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/08/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-advances-cleaner-industrial-sector-to-boost-american-manufacturing-and-cut-emissions/)
have joined the Administration to launch a Federal-State Buy Clean
Partnership to use their own purchasing power further advance the use of
low-carbon construction materials.

Additionally, [domestic content
bonuses](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-drop/n-23-38.pdf) in the
legislation—along with the [Build America, Buy America
act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/management/made-in-america/build-america-buy-america-act-federal-financial-assistance/)—support
domestic manufacturing by increasing demand for inputs like iron and
steel manufactured in the United States.

### Solving Coordination Problems

Other challenges can threaten the commercial viability of clean energy
technologies. For example, although electric vehicle charging often
occurs at home, consumers may be hesitant to purchase an electric
vehicle without a robust
[network](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/689702) of
accessible
[chargers](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/stock/files/policies_for_electrifying_the_light-duty_vehicle_fleet_in_the_united_states.pdf)
across the country to support long-distance travel. At the same time, it
may not be profitable for companies to produce EV chargers if consumers
are slow to adopt electric vehicles. This creates a
“[chicken-and-egg](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/689702)”
[problem](https://scholar.harvard.edu/sites/scholar.harvard.edu/files/stock/files/cole_et_al_policies_for_electrifying_ldvs_forthcoming_aerpp.pdf)—while
it would be optimal for consumers to adopt EVs and for businesses to
install EV chargers simultaneously, neither party has an incentive to
act without the other.

The President’s Investing in America agenda aims to overcome this
challenge by providing incentives to both parties at the same time.
Public sector leadership enables the private sector to move ahead with
making the necessary investments in both clean vehicles and EV charging
infrastructure. Federal investments and Made-in-America policies for EV
charging have spurred over $24 billion in private commitments, from new
plants to manufacture chargers to new partnerships to deploy them.
Recently, seven automakers announced their intent to build
[30,000](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/business/energy-environment/electric-vehicles-fast-chargers-automakers.html)
high powered fast chargers across North America, which would roughly
double the current fast charging network. 

The “chicken-and-egg” dynamic can also hinder private investment in
industries through workforce challenges. For example, new industries may
experience challenges when neither employers nor the public sector have
sufficiently invested in training workers so that they are equipped with
the skills necessary to meet new levels of projected labor demand in the
industry. Market failures sometimes prevent firms from implementing
training even in the face of labor demand. For example, when investments
in training are not the norm, there can be collective action
[challenges](https://academic.oup.com/mit-press-scholarship-online/book/18310/chapter-abstract/176336874?redirectedFrom=fulltext)
because if only one firm invests in training workers, other firms may
hire away the workers and reap the benefits of that training. And in
order for workers themselves to invest in training, they need to see
high-quality jobs—with good pay, stable trajectories, and the option for
upward mobility. In new or growing industries, there may be limited
examples to show workers that the industry will provide them with
high-quality jobs over the course of their career.

In the face of these challenges, the federal government is partnering
with employers and other stakeholders—including unions, community and
technical colleges, high schools, state and local governments, and
others—to develop and invest in sector-based strategies for robust,
equitable workforce development. For example, the Administration’s
[Infrastructure Talent Pipeline
Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-celebrates-new-commitments-toward-equitable-workforce-development-for-infrastructure-jobs/)
garnered over 350 commitments to expand equitable workforce development
in broadband, construction, and electrification. In parallel, the
Administration has taken action to stand up high-quality [Registered
Apprenticeship](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
and career and technical education programs. This is on top of other
efforts to
[connect](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
workers and employers with quality training programs, centered in places
that have seen significant public and private sector investments as a
result of recent legislation.

By investing in the underlying infrastructure and working with employers
to develop and support workforce training programs, the government can
support the private sector in overcoming hurdles like a lack of
infrastructure or a limited supply of trained workers, enabling the
private sector to make more investment in key technologies.

### Unlocking private capital

Because of how nascent they are, frontier technologies often find it
challenging to
[access](https://conference.nber.org/conf_papers/f176376.pdf)
traditional (lower-cost) capital markets, like project debt from banks
or project equity from other investors. This means these technology
projects have less access to capital, which would be leveraged to boost
returns (and make them more attractive to investors), accelerate the
infrastructure and ecosystem buildout, and deliver the socioeconomic
benefits promised by the technology.

While this, in part, can be due to issues like the lack of existing
workforce and infrastructure discussed above, these technologies are
also perceived as having
[greater](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy06osti/38723.pdf)
[credit](https://www.moodysanalytics.com/-/media/article/2018/Credit-Risk-Management-for-Renewables-Energy-Project-Finance.pdf)
[risk](https://www.iea.org/articles/the-cost-of-capital-in-clean-energy-transitions).
The challenges are twofold. First-of-a-kind projects are sometimes more
likely to experience large uncertainties in actual equipment
manufacturing costs, construction timing and costs, revenue streams
(especially if they involve new business models and use cases), or
ongoing operating and maintenance expenses. Second, the novelty of
frontier technologies can limit institutional investments in their own
capacities to understand, assess, and underwrite investments or loans in
the space. Because of this, traditional financing institutions may be
hesitant to underwrite [clean energy
technology](https://crsreports.congress.gov/product/pdf/R/R42152)
projects that do not yet have a more extensive track record at scale.

At the same time, more generally, manufacturing competes with other
sectors—like software—that offer higher returns with fewer upfront
capital investments. Manufacturing investments can take longer to pay
off and may need sizeable upfront capital investments beyond the scope
of certain investors like venture capital groups. Therefore, the
industry tends to have
[less](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/ineap/MEP_Capital_Needs_Assessment_Final.pdf)
[access](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/315988451_Advanced_Manufacturing_A_New_Policy_Challenge?enrichId=rgreq-c2533925cfd446813a5f47e7e801daaf-XXX&enrichSource=Y292ZXJQYWdlOzMxNTk4ODQ1MTtBUzo2MzIxMjIxMjE0MDQ0MTZAMTUyNzcyMTA2NjAyMA%3D%3D&el=1_x_3&_esc=publicationCoverPdf)
to capital from investors.

Government investments in the Investing in America agenda help reduce
these credit risks and enable private capital to flow into clean energy
and manufacturing markets. Currently, this is being implemented through
offices like the Department of Energy [Loan Programs
Office](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/loan-programs-office) and [Office of
Clean Energy
Demonstrations](https://www.energy.gov/oced/office-clean-energy-demonstrations)—along
with investments in domestic manufacturing of semiconductors,
requirements for domestic manufacturing of certain infrastructure
inputs, and more. The Office of Clean Energy Demonstrations can provide
financial assistance for first-of-a-kind commercial scale demonstrations
that
[prove](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/08/09/the-economics-behind-the-presidents-economic-agenda/)
the technology works in real-world conditions and at scale. Similarly,
the Loan Programs Office fills a key gap in the commercialization
pathway by providing loans and loan guarantees to emerging clean energy
projects that private lenders like banks are challenged in lending to.
By supporting nascent yet promising technologies at a time when private
financing institutions do not, the government carves a
[path](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.20150808) for
clean energy projects to scale, demonstrate viability, and eventually
unlock private capital—spurring greater private investment.

### Measuring the Success of Crowding in Private Investments

Measuring the success of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda
in spurring private investment will be an ongoing effort. The
investments that compose the Investing in America agenda are spread over
the course of a decade; their full effects will play out over years, not
months. In the near-term, the Administration is monitoring a set of
economic indicators which, taken together, point to an increase in
private sector investment and associated growth. Currently, the
available data and analyses allow only for preliminary, *descriptive*
assessments. More time and data will allow for analyses of the *causal*
effects of the Investing in America agenda on investment and growth.

### Near-term indicators

In the near-term, there are a variety of descriptive data that will
indicate whether public and private investment is flowing to the
identified industries. This includes announcements of planned
investments, which are being tracked by the [Department of
Energy](https://www.energy.gov/investments-american-made-energy) for
U.S. battery, solar, and off-shore wind manufacturing; in the White
House tracking of [Investing in
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/) progress; and by a
[number](https://www.charged-the-book.com/) of 
[private](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/investment-tracker/)
[entities](https://www.bluegreenalliance.org/resources/clean-energy-supply-chain-analysis/).
Additionally, Census’ [Value of Construction Put in Place
Survey](https://www.census.gov/construction/c30/c30index.html) provides
monthly estimates of the total dollar value of construction work
aggregated at the national level since 1960. Finally, the Bureau of
Economic Analysis provides
[data](https://www.bea.gov/news/2023/gross-domestic-product-second-quarter-2023-advance-estimate)
on private nonresidential investment in manufacturing construction,
which can be used to assess the share of GDP growth comprised of
manufacturing construction investment.

These data point to a surge of private sector investment in related
industries. There has been a wave of recent announced
[commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/) by businesses to
invest in sectors targeted by Investing in America legislation. Since
President Biden took office, companies have announced investments
totaling $503 billion (Figure 3). These clean energy and manufacturing
commitments include $231 billion for semiconductors and electronics,
$133 billion for electric vehicles and batteries, and $103 billion for
clean energy, among other investments. According to a *Financial Times*
[analysis](https://www.ft.com/content/b6cd46de-52d6-4641-860b-5f2c1b0c5622),
in the six months that followed the passage of CHIPS Act and the
Inflation Reduction Act, companies announced more than 75 large-scale
manufacturing investments in the United States.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-82081" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1306px) 100vw, 1306px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png 1306w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=615,508 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=768,634 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=1270,1048 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=388,320 388w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=775,640 775w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure3.png?resize=1030,850 1030w"
width="1306" height="1078" />
</figure>

Of course, we need to track whether these announcements are followed up
with actual investment. In the first several years of implementation of
CHIPS and IRA, investment funds should flow towards construction,
followed by investment in new equipment. In later years, we expect funds
will flow towards manufacturing itself (through, for example, the
purchase of manufacturing inputs or the hiring of workers). Given the
scale of the public investment, we ultimately expect the Investing in
America agenda to spur trillions in private sector investment. [Goldman
Sachs](https://www.goldmansachs.com/intelligence/pages/the-us-is-poised-for-an-energy-revolution.html#:~:text=The%20U.S.%20Inflation%20Reduction%20Act%20%28IRA%29%20will%20spur,15%20years%20ago%2C%20according%20to%20Goldman%20Sachs%20Research.)
estimates that the Inflation Reduction Act alone will unlock $3 trillion
in private sector investments over the next decade.

In the latest data, we see indications of an uptick in construction
investment, as overall inflation-adjusted spending on the construction
of manufacturing facilities, depicted in Figure 4, now sits at a
six-plus decade high. This spending has risen 85 percent since January
2021, accompanying the passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the
CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, which include
tax incentives and direct funding to boost manufacturing construction.
Much of this growth is [driven by a
boom](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities)
in spending on construction for electronics manufacturing, which reached
$101 billion (in 2022 dollars) in June 2023, representing 56 percent of
all manufacturing construction spending that month and a more than
tenfold increase since the President took office.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-82083" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2161px) 100vw, 2161px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png 2161w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=615,455 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=768,568 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=1270,940 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=1536,1137 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=2048,1515 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=432,320 432w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=865,640 865w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=1730,1280 1730w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure4-1.png?resize=1038,768 1038w"
width="2161" height="1599" />
</figure>

Preliminary data suggest that GDP growth is increasingly composed of
growth in manufacturing construction. In the second quarter of 2023,
private investment in manufacturing construction contributed nearly 0.4
p.p. to real GDP growth according to the Bureau of Economic Analysis’
Advance Estimate (Figure 5). This contribution amounted to the largest
contribution of investment in manufacturing structures to real GDP
growth in more than [40
years](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/07/27/the-advance-estimate-of-second-quarter-real-gdp/).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-82084" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2145px) 100vw, 2145px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png 2145w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=615,440 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=768,549 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=1270,908 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=1536,1098 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=2048,1464 2048w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=448,320 448w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=895,640 895w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=1791,1280 1791w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Crowding-in-Brief_Figure5.png?resize=1038,742 1038w"
width="2145" height="1533" />
</figure>

As a result of trends in construction and infrastructure growth
supported by the President’s agenda, Morgan Stanley improved its [GDP
forecast](https://www.morganstanley.com/ideas/gdp-forecast-increase-2023)
into 2024. Similarly, J.P. Morgan has
[said](https://www.jpmorgan.com/insights/outlook/economic-outlook/the-opportunity-in-renewed-us-industrial-policy)
that the Investing in America agenda “represent\[s\] the largest U.S.
commitment to industrial policy since the Cold War” and has the
potential to create “exciting, long-term investment opportunities.” And
Goldman Sachs has
[predicted](https://www.goldmansachs.com/intelligence/pages/gs-research/us-inflation-reduction-act/report.pdf)
that the Inflation Reduction Act will “accelerate both investment and
innovation,” particularly for batteries and energy efficiency.

## Conclusion

As laid out in a recent [case
paper](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/),
Bidenomics makes targeted public investments in industries like
semiconductors and clean energy that are critical for U.S. economic and
national security. However, successfully building these industries in
the United States requires both public and private investment. Thus,
consistent with the economic literature—which indicates that public
investments can successfully crowd in private investments—President
Biden’s Investing in America agenda has been designed to encourage
private-sector investments. The early evidence suggests that the private
sector is already responding to this agenda, with
[rising](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities)
spending on construction of manufacturing facilities and over [$500
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
announced private investment since President Biden took office. Ongoing
data collection and analysis will be necessary to continue tracking the
progress of these major government investments.

<a
href="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/The-Economics-of-Public-Investment-Crowding-in-Private-Investment_08162023_DOWNLOAD.pdf"
class="wp-block-file__button wp-element-button" download="">Download
PDF</a>
