---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-28'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 23:42:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/28/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-american-families-plan/
published_time: 2021-04-28 05:00:00-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the American Families\_\
  Plan"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(April 27, 2021)

7:01 P.M. EDT

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, everyone, and thank you for joining
us.  This evening, we’re joined by senior administration officials to
give you an embargoed preview of President Biden’s American Families
Plan, which will be unveiled tomorrow.

This call is on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials,” and the contents will be embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern,
tomorrow, April 28th.  By joining this call, you are agreeing to these
ground rules. 

Just for your awareness, and not for reporting, joining us today will be
\[senior administration officials\].

You should soon receive an embargoed factsheet providing an overview of
the American Families Plan.  This factsheet is also embargoed until 5:00
A.M. tomorrow.

At the end, we’ll open it for a few questions.  You can press the “raise
hand” button, and we will try to get to your question.  With that, I’ll
turn it over now to our speaker.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi Everyone.  Thanks for joining us
tonight.  \[Senior administration official\] and I wanted to take a few
minutes to walk you through the contours of the American Family Plan,
which the President will unveil tomorrow night in the joint address.

The American Rescue Plan is already changing the course of the pandemic
and providing immediate relief to families and communities across the
country.  But the President knows we need to do more to build a stronger
economy that doesn’t leave anyone behind. 

The American Jobs Plan and the Families Plan are once-in-a-generation
investments in our nation’s future.  The American Jobs Plan will create
millions of good jobs, rebuild our country’s physical infrastructure and
workforce, and spark innovation and manufacturing here at home.

The American Families Plan invests in our children and our families,
helping families cover the expenses that so many struggle with now:
lowering health insurance premiums; cutting child poverty; and producing
a larger, more productive, and healthier workforce in the years ahead.

So let me go through some of the details before turning it over.

First, the American Family Plan will add at least four years of free
education for every student.  It will make transformational investments
from early childhood to higher education so that all children, young —
so that all children and young people are able to learn and grown and
gain the skills they need.

Specifically, it will provide universal high-quality preschool to all 3-
and 4-year-olds.  It will provide two years of free community college to
all Americans who wish to attend.  It will provide up to $1,400 in
additional assistance to low-income students by expanding the maximum
Pell Grant.  That’s about a 20 percent expansion. 

It will invest in making college more affordable for low-income students
and students at Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal
Colleges and Universities, and other Minority-Serving Institutions; and
provide grants to these institutions to create or expand educational
programs in high-demand fields.

And the American Families Plan is going to invest in completion and
retention activities at colleges and universities that serve high
numbers of low-income students and where the challenge of graduation
remains real.

The plan will also invest in our teachers, improving teacher training
and support so that our schools become engines of growth at every
level.  It will address teacher shortages, which have only gotten more
critical in the context of the pandemic.  It’ll improve teacher
preparation and strengthen pipelines for teachers of color. 

It’ll help teachers earn credentials in high-demand areas like special
ed, bilingual education, and certifications that improve teacher
performance.  And it’ll support programs that leverage teachers as
leaders, such as high-quality mentorship programs for new teachers and
teachers of color.

Thirdly — secondly — I’m sorry — the plan also provides direct support
to children and families by investing in affordable childcare by
providing direct support to families to ensure that low- and
middle-income families can pay no more than 70 — excuse me — no more
than 7 percent of their income on high-quality childcare. 

It will invest in the childcare workforce, funding childcare providers
and their workers, ensuring a $15 minimum wage is in effect for early
childhood staff, along with improved training.  And it will direct
support to workers and families in the form of a national comprehensive
paid family and medical leave program so that workers can better manage
their job, their health, and their family. 

The American Families Plan, thirdly, also tackles the nutritional needs
of children by expanding the summer benefits to all eligible children
nationwide — these are children who have free and reduced school lunches
and breakfasts during the school year — and expanding that meal program
to the summer on an ongoing basis.  And this will reach an estimated 9.3
million children.

It will also expand the number of schools that are able — in low-income
areas — to provide free and reduced school lunches.  And it’ll launch a
billion-dollar healthy foods incentive demonstration.  All of which are
aimed at not just tackling hunger, but improving nutrition and long-term
health outcomes for today’s children and tomorrow’s adults.

On the tax side, finally, the Families Plan will extend key tax cuts
that were in the American Rescue Plan that benefit, in particular,
lower- and middle-income workers and families.

And these include, extending the Affordable Care Act tax credits, which
were in the ARP, permanently, in order to permanently lower health
insurance premiums.  The average relief that is provided under, now, the
ARP, which would be extended, amounts to an estimated average of $50 per
person per month.  And that will benefit some 9 million people. 

Next, it extends the Child Tax Credit increases in the ARP through 2025
and it makes the CTC permanently and fully refundable.  It permanently
increases tax credits to support families with childcare needs,
including making permanent the temporary Child and Dependent Care Tax
Credit expansion that was in the ARP. 

And, finally, it’ll makes permanent the Earned Income Tax Credit
Expansion for Childless Workers, which was also in the ARP, which has
benefitted 17 million low-wage workers, many of whom were essential
workers, including cashiers, cooks, delivery drivers, food workers, and
childcare workers. 

So those are the key elements of the Families Plan on the investments
side.  And let me turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to
talk about how we finance these investments.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey.  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And good to be with all of you tonight.  So, I want to make
one point about the overall economic framing of the package and then
talk about the overall cost, and then — and then — and offsets. 

The first point that I want to make is just to underscore a point that
\[senior administration official\] made, which is: We view the American
Families Plan as a core element of President Biden’s strategy to build
back better and generate a strong and inclusive economy for the future.

There is a wealth of economic research that shows that the investments
proposed in the American Families Plan will yield significant economic
returns, boosting productivity and economic growth; producing a larger,
more productive, and healthier workforce on a sustained basis; and
generating savings to state and the fed- — of states and the federal
government.

This evidence is overwhelming — evidence that a dollar invested in
high-quality early childhood programs results in more than $7 in
benefits, including increased wages, improved health, reduce cli- —
crime, similar paid parental leave.  It shows it keeps mothers in the
workforce, increasing labor force participation, boosting economic
growth.  And providing sustained tax credits for families with children
has been found to yield a lifetime of benefits, ranging from higher
educational attainment to higher lifetime earnings. 

In short, these are about the highest value economic investments we can
make for our future economic competitiveness.  In total, the plan that
\[senior administration official\] just outlined — the American Families
Plan — consists of about $1 trillion in investments over a 10-year
period and $800 billion in tax cuts for American families and workers. 

And alongside the American Families Plan, the President will be
proposing a set of measures to make sure the wealthiest Americans pay
the taxes that they owe, while also ensuring that no one making less
than $400,000 per year will see their taxes go up. 

And these reforms are fundamentally about fairness in the tax code.  And
in combination with the American Jobs Plan, which produces deficit
reduction through corporate tax reform, all of these investments would
be fully paid for over a 15-year period. 

Just to speak specifically about the tax reform provisions the President
will speak to and propose alongside the American Families Plan: First,
tax enforcement.  Just for a little bit of context: From 2011 to 2018,
the audit rate for those making over a million dollars per year fell by
80 percent. 

In America, today, taxpayers are more likely to be audited if they live
in the Mississippi Delta than if they live on Park Avenue.  The
President’s plan would change this and really get at a fundamental
element of fairness in the tax code — making sure that the taxpayers are
paying the taxes they already owe — with two significant steps. 

The first would be to require financial institutions to report
information on account flows so that earnings from investment and
business activity are subject to more of the reporting, like wages of
the vast majority of working Americans already are. 

The second would be to increase investment in the IRS through mandatory
funding that would ensure that additional resources go toward enforcing
tax compliance among those with the highest incomes. 

I want to underscore that, as part of this plan, audit rates for
Americans making less than $400,000 a year would not increase relative
to recent years.  The focus of these steps will be to focus additional
capabilities and resources on large companies, businesses, estates and
higher-income individuals where the — the majority of the underreporting
and tax non-compliance currently is. 

Second, the President’s — will propose to — to reverse the 2017 tax cuts
reduction of the top individual income tax rate, returning that top rate
to 39.6 percent — a change that would apply only to the top 1 percent of
taxpayers. 

Third, for households making over a million dollars a year, the
President’s plan would tax capital gains at the same rate as ordinary
income.  This change —  some of you may be sick of me — hearing me say
this — will only apply to the top three tenths of 1 percent of
taxpayers.  Not the top 1 percent.  Not the top one half of 1 percent. 
Only three out of every thousand taxpayers.

By equalizing the treatment of capital gains and ordinary income, this
plan would also eliminate the so-called “carried interest loophole,”
which allows private equity managers to report their earned income as
carried interest and enjoy lower capital gains rates. 

And fourth, the President’s plan would address the very significant
loophole in our existing tax code that allows the — the wealthiest
Americans to entirely avoid income taxes on their gains by holding
assets for their entire lifetime and passing it on to their heirs.  This
is sometimes referred to — this is technically a step-up basis.  This
will also enhance our ability to actually rate — raise revenue from the
capital gains system. 

This reform will be designed with explicit protections so that
family-owned businesses and farms will not have to pay taxes when they
give — when given to heirs who continue to run those businesses. 

The — the basic logic for these last two changes is about rewarding work
in our tax code and not just wealth — something that the President has
spoken to on the campaign and as President consistently.  The conceptual
framework for equalizing the tax treatment of capital gains and ordinary
income is neither new nor — new nor — nor novel.  It was a key feature
of President Reagan’s tax reform where he increased capital gains rate
to match the personal income tax rate. 

So those are the — those are the key elements of the tax reforms that
the President will be proposing — again, alongside the American Families
Plan — to lay out a framework for how to make these critical investments
in our future economic competitiveness in a way that is fiscally sound. 

And we’ll be encouraging, as he has in the context of the Job Plan, an
openness to others’ ideas and an openness to a conversation, but a
commitment that these are investments that we can’t afford not to make
as a country. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you so much.  You can
press the raise hand button, and we will try to get to your question.  I
see some hands are already raised.  So we’ll open it up now. 

And just a reminder that the contents of this call are on background,
attributable to “senior administration officials,” and under embargo
until 5:00 a.m. Eastern. 

Q    Thanks so much for doing this call.  My question is the timeline
for all of this.  I was looking at the factsheet and listening. 

So, when it comes to universal pre-K, you know, the help with childcare,
and also the Community College payments — when would these things
actually come to pass?  Like when would this be set up?  Over — is there
a deadline?  Can you walk through some of when — if the — if this bill
was passed, when some of this would happen? 

And also just following up on that: Can you just generally address how
you plan to convince lawmakers in Congress to embrace some of these tax
increases?  Especially considering that there’s already talk that — from
Republicans and some Democrats, that some of these tax increases are
nonstarters?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me start, perhaps, with the first
part of your question on the programs, and \[senior administration
official\] and I will answer that.  And then \[Senior administration
official\] will want to talk about the tax side further. 

But the broad — in the broadest sense, these are generational
investments in our future — in the future of our families, in the future
of our kids.  And as \[senior administration official\] outlined, they
pay enormous dividends, each of them.  And, you know, it’s a wise
investment in our collective future by any economic standard.

But getting to your particular question, Ayesha, and — broadly speaking,
this is a 10-year program — the American Families Plan.  That’s the
window.  And you know, many of these things will become permanent.  They
— they phase in at different times in different ways. 

So, some are immediate.  Some, like paid leave, have a ramp-up.  Some
have, you know, like pre-K — you know, a different share that is paid
overtime on a sliding basis by states starting at a, you know, low end,
the amount that states pay, and as time goes on, an expectation that
they will pay more.

So, we can — we can go through each of those in a bit of depth, but it’s
not uniform, and it’s — it depends on the program.  \[Senior
administration official\], do you want to add anything?

I don’t know if you are on mute.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry.  Can you hear me now?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Yeah, exactly –exactly what you
said, \[senior administration official\] — that there — each will be
different.  But some of them, like the childcare program, will be
building on an existing infrastructure at the state-level based on an
existing program — program called the Child Care Development Block
Grant. 

So, there — they’ll still be a need to scale up capacity, but there’s an
infrastructure that exists.  Some of them will have to phase it in as —
as we partner with states to put in place these new generational
programs that will come into place over the 10-year window. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Yeah, let me just quickly pick
up on the issue of taxes.  Look, the President’s plan makes clear where
he believes we should be reducing tax burden and where he thinks we
should appropriately increase the — increase taxes. 

His plan is about cutting taxes for middle-class families, for
childcare, for healthcare, and for families.  And he believes that we
should — we should do that in a fiscally responsible way, first and
foremost, by making sure the wealthiest Americans actually pay the taxes
they already owe. 

There is broad support among the American people for this approach. 
There’s broad support from the American people for the investments that
the — that these resources will go to.  And what you’ll hear the
President explain tomorrow night is, if — if people have other ideas
about how to — to finance these critical investments, he is open to
hearing them. 

If people have other approaches that they want to put on the table,
that’s the process he wants to encourage.  But he — but he — he believes
that, you know, these issues of fa- — of tax fairness, of making sure
that people actually pay the taxes that they already owe, are — are
fundamental and necessary. 

And we’ve heard from, you know, former IRS commissioners in Republican
and Democratic administrations about these persistent challenges. 

So that’s the plan that he’s going to be put- — putting forward, and
he’s going to seek other people’s inputs on where they would prioritize
and what that reflects in terms of the values they want to — they want
to — they want to drive. 

Q    Hey, thank you very much.  I wanted to ask about the pre-K
proposal.  It is described as universal, so I just want to confirm: That
would be available to families at all income levels and there would not
be any sort of cap in terms of more affluent families taking advantage
of the program. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That is correct. 

Q    Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  One thing that’s
not in the plan — I know you’ve been asked to do it — was to repeal the
$10,000 cap on state and local tax deductions, which, while most of the
benefits may go to millionaire — to millionaires, it also affects a lot
of middle-class homeowners in high-tax states like New Jersey, New York,
California.  Why is that not part of the plan — a raising of the cap?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Look, the — the elements of the
plan the President will lay out tomorrow will reflect his approach on
where we need to invest in children and families and then how are — what
is — what are fair and smart ways to pay for that.

The SALT deduction, obviously, is something that costs money.  And so,
we — we recognize and have heard from others who are prioritizing that,
and that’ll be part of the conversation going forward. 

The President’s plan is really about where he would prioritize
investments in children and families, and then ideas for how to offset
that — the cost of those investments. 

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for taking my question.  I know you said it’s a
10-year plan in terms of how it’s going to be implemented, but I’m
wondering if you could give a little bit more clarification on when the
administration might want to see this passed. 

And at the same note — it’s probably, I guess, a related question, if
anything: When do you — when do you hope parts of this plan go into
effect immediately?  Like, is there a priority list of what needs to
happen first? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We’d like to see it pass as soon as
possible.  (Laughs.)  That one’s a — simple.  And, no, all of this
begins at passage, Yamiche.  It’s a question of how they — how it ramps
up.  And some things are immediate — for example, you know, the increase
in Pell Grant would be immediate for those — you know, if it were passed
over the summer, presumably in the next fiscal year. 

So — and other things begin immediately, but take some time to fully
ramp up, like paid family and medical leave.  In the early years,
there’ll be not as many weeks of paid family and medical leave.  By the
10th year, it would be the full 12 weeks — 12 weeks for all different
types of leave. 

Q    Hi, everybody.  Thanks for doing this.  So, in the — in the
document, you describe the universal pre-K as a partnership with
states.  And I am wondering, given the experience with Medicaid
expansion under the ACA, both for the universal pre-K and the community
college, do states have to agree to participate in order for people in
that state to gain benefits here?  Or will this be available in every
state regardless of what governors choose to do — both sides, universal
pre-K and the community college.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to take that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, in both of those programs, it is
— they are contemplated to be federal-state partnerships.  But we are
also — have provisions so that if a state does not participate, we would
work directly with a locality on preschool.  And with respect to
community colleges, we’d look for ways to partner with institutions in
those states. 

That said, you know, that — both preschool and community college is
something that has received a lot of bipartisan support at the state
level.  For example, in Tennessee, through leadership from a Republican
governor, there’s — there was a move to make community college free. 
There’s Republican governors that have embraced universal preschool.  So
we’re hopeful that we’ll be able to fully realize the program with
partnerships with states. 

Q    Thanks very much.  I’m wondering if you could tell us — the same
question about community colleges was for pre-K — is it a universal
benefit that doesn’t depend on family income?  And also, roughly, on the
community college and the pre-K programs, what’s the — what’s the share
of state versus federal contribution?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, it’s a universal benefit —
community college.  And, \[senior administration official\], do you want
to talk about the second part of the question?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  With respect to both programs —
the state contribution — it’s a little bit different under each.  But
with respect to preschool: starts with the state covering 10 percent of
the cost and phases-in over time to about 50 percent of the cost. 

And then for community college, it’s a little bit different.  It depends
on the cost of tuition in that — in that state.  It’s — the federal
share would be — we took the average cost of community college, and the
federal share is — is designed, at full implementation, to be 75 percent
of that cost, which would mean the state would cover the other 25
percent. 

But states would have the ability to spend more, obviously.  And states
would be expected to maintain their current contribution to their
post-secondary system.  So, they couldn’t take this money and reduce the
amount that they’re contributing to post-secondary education. 

Q    Hi.  Thanks.  I wanted to ask about healthcare.  You’ve gotten a
lot of letters from congressional Democrats across the ideological
spectrum pushing for both lowering the Medicare eligibility age and
including drug pricing legislation in this package.  It looks to me
like, other than the ACA subsidy extension, those big healthcare things
are not in here.  So, I wonder if you could address why they’re not? 
Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  The American Families Plan makes the
critical investment in ensuring that the premium reductions that were
provided for — for two years under the American Rescue Plan are made
permanent.  And that is one of the most impactful investments we can
make, both in terms of reducing the costs of health insurance for those
who buy it on their own, as well as making it more accessible and thus
expanding coverage to those who have not previously had health
insurance.

The President has been very, very clear that he remains fully committed
to negotiations to reduce prescription drug prices — that, you will hear
him reiterate as a very top priority and something he deems urgent. 

And, you know, the flip side of that is that, you know, by reducing
prescription drug prices, not only do you provide relief to millions of
Americans who are buying prescription drugs every day, but you’re also
generating revenue that can be applied to both expanding coverage to
those places in the country that have coverage gaps still, but also
expanding the benefits of Medicare itself.

Q    Hi, there.  Thanks so much.  I really appreciate it.  I was hoping
maybe you could explain, on the childcare piece of this: Who exactly
would this apply to?  Do you envision an income cutoff?  It doesn’t make
clear to me who — who will be getting the benefits?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Good question.  \[Senior
administration official\], why don’t you take this one too?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, with respect to the program
that — that provides direct support to families: It would provide
support on a sliding scale for families up to 150 percent of state
median income.  So, basically, targeting low-income and middle-income
families. 

And the amount that they would pay for childcare would be capped at 7
percent of their income.  Very low-income families, the — the support
would fully cover the cost of childcare.  And the amount provided would
be tied to high-quality care.  So — so we’d be able to cover the cost of
high-quality care. 

We’re also proposing — and that — that benefit would be for care
connected with small children — so children from zero to five; so think
prior to school age.  It would also provide for wraparound care for
those attending preschool, including the new Universal Preschool
Program.  So, those programs that they don’t cover the full amount of
time that a family needs — that program would help to provide families
with support. 

We also, though, would make permanent the expansion of the Child and
Dependent Care Tax Credit, which was included in the Rescue Plan.  Under
that proposal, it would be a refundable tax credit, so low-income
families could — could participate in that program.  And families up to
$125,000 in income per year could qualify for the maximum benefit, which
is $4,000 for one child or dependent, and $8,000 for two or more
dependents. 

That tax credit does —  if you make more than $125,000 per year, you
could still get and qualify for a partial credit, but it does phase out
at $400,000 a year. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you, \[Senior
administration official.\]  So, thank you, everyone.  One more reminder
that the contents of this call are under embargo until 5:00 a.m.
tomorrow Eastern, and on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  Please reach out to me and others on our
press team if you have any additional questions.  Have a great night. 

7:34 P.M. EDT
