---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 14:27:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/23/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-31/
published_time: 2021-04-23 14:16:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:01 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning, and thank you for joining us.  Today, Dr.
Walensky will provide an update on the state of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci
will highlight the latest science, and Dr. Murthy will share an update
on our efforts to strengthen vaccine confidence.  
  
But first, I want to step back to provide an overview of where we are in
our vaccination program, and where we’re headed as we enter our next
phase.   
  
Our vaccination efforts to date have focused on significantly increasing
the pace of vaccination.  That required creating the infrastructure —
the people and the places — for a first-of-its-kind nationwide
vaccination program.  It also meant creating sufficient vaccine supply
that did not previously exist.   
  
We have seen these efforts pay off.  We have 75,000 places for Americans
to get vaccinated.  Importantly, now 90 percent of all Americans live
within five miles of a vaccination site.  By the end of May, we’ll have
enough vaccine supply for every adult who wants one.   
  
And thanks to President Biden’s directive, everyone 16 and over is now
eligible to get a vaccine.  And as we announced on Wednesday, we
delivered 200 million shots in less than 100 days — an incredible
American achievement.  
  
This crucial milestone of 200 million shots in less than 100 days
enabled more than 52 percent of adults across the country to have at
least one shot.  That’s more than 135 million Americans who are on their
way to being protected from this virus.  And more than 80 percent of
invidid- — individuals — sorry — 65 years and older now have at least
one shot.   
  
Importantly, seniors accounted for 80 percent of COVID deaths.  But now,
we’ve seen an 80 percent reduction in deaths and a 70 percent reduction
in hospitalization among seniors, proving just how effective vaccination
is in preventing death and severe disease.   
  
This significant progress in a short period of time is a direct result
of our deliberate, whole-of-government, wartime effort.   
  
So where do we go from here?  The next phase of our vaccination program
has four key areas of focus.  First, we will continue to vaccinate
millions of Americans each day.  As you can see on our vaccination
report, our current seven-day average is 2.9 million shots — nearly 3
million shots per day.   
  
Going forward, we expect daily vaccination rates will moderate and
fluctuate.  We’ve gotten vaccinations to the most at-risk and those most
eager to get vaccinated as quickly as possible.  And we will continue
those efforts, but we know reaching other populations will take time and
focus.   
  
Second, we will continue to increase accessibility and make it easier
and easier for Americans to get a shot.  I noted a moment ago that 90
percent of Americans have a vaccine site within five miles of where they
live.  And we are working with states, businesses, doctors, local
pharmacies, and other partners to make it even easier for people across
the country to get vaccinated.   
  
We took a very important step on this front earlier this week by calling
on all employers to give paid time off for vaccination, and announcing a
tax credit for small- and medium-sized businesses to do this more
easily.  No one should lose a single dollar from their paycheck in order
to get vaccinated.   
  
Further, just as employers are effective at helping Americans get
vaccinated, so too are doctors.  People look to their doctors for
medical information and advice.  Estimates show that about 90 percent of
doctors have gotten at least one shot, which makes doctors a powerful
and important messenger.   
  
We are working with doctors to encourage their patients to get
vaccinated.  And we’re working with states to get primary care providers
vaccine doses so more Americans can get vaccinated at their doctor’s
office the same way they are accustomed to getting other
vaccinations.   
  
You will also see us focusing on other ways to make it as easy as
possible for Americans to get a shot, including encouraging walk-up
availability at pharmacies and other vaccination sites and providing
transportation options for those who need them.   
  
Third, now that everyone 16 and over is eligible for a free COVID shot
across the nation, we are laser focused on educating the public about
these lifesaving vaccines.  As Americans have seen their friends,
family, and neighbors get vaccinated, confidence has increased.  And
over the coming days and weeks, we will double down on getting the facts
to the American people about COVID-19, about the protection vaccines
offer, and the critical path vaccines play in us getting back to our
normal way of life.   
  
To be clear, we have always known strengthening vaccine confidence was
key to getting Americans vaccinated.  Dr. Murthy will discuss these
efforts in more detail, but they include funding for state and community
groups, resources for local messengers, and partnerships with key voices
to elevate the importance of vaccinations.   
  
Finally, as we have since the start of the administration, we continue
to place equity at the center of everything we do.  We are committed to
reaching everyone in our response and ensuring everyone has equitable
access to vaccines by expanding our Community Health Center program,
deploying more mobile and pop-up clinics, providing transportation
options, and meeting people where they are.   
  
To that end, we’re opening two new federally-run vaccination sites today
in Kentucky, with a combined capacity of 7,000 shots per week.   
  
To close, we are excited about the tremendous progress to date and the
opportunity ahead of us.  Because of the vaccination program we have
built, we are further along than many predicted.  That’s a very good
thing.  It means we’re closer to returning to normal.   
  
While we know the next phase of the vaccination program will involve
improving access, increasing confidence, ensuring equity — it won’t be
easy, but neither was getting to 200 million shots in arms in less than
100 days.  But we did it.  And that’s a cause for a moment of
reflection.  It’s what America is capable of when we come together and
all of us do our part.   
  
With that, let me turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good morning, everyone.  I’m glad
to be back with you again today.  Let’s begin with an overview of the
data.   
  
Yesterday, CDC reported nearly 63,000 cases of COVID-19.  Our average
seven-day is going down — 62,500 per day.  This is a 10 percent drop in
average cases from the prior week and a hopeful trend.   
  
The seven-day average of admissions is 50 — 5,600, and is just a small
increase of 1.6 percent from the prior week.  
  
And the seven-day average of daily deaths has decreased slightly to
about 691 per day.  Again, a number that’s going in the right
direction.   
  
Today, I’d like to take a moment and celebrate one of the tremendous
milestones we, as a country, achieved this week.  As of today, 66
percent of the U.S. population age over — 65 and over is now fully
vaccinated.  This is over 36 million Americans who are protected from
COVID-19.   
  
And it’s so important that we’re protecting those over age 65.  They
have borne the brunt of the pandemic and, without a vaccine, are at high
risk for severe disease, hospitalization, and death.  We are well on our
way to have one of our most vulnerable populations fully protected
against this deadly virus, and that is a reason to celebrate.  
  
This achievement has been the result of combined efforts between CDC,
FEMA, and among the human — and the Health Resources and Services
Administration or “HRSA”; state governments and private-sector
partnerships; and, importantly, you, as individuals who are, one at a
time, rolling up your sleeves to get vaccinated.  
  
With ongoing partnerships, we are working as quickly as possible to get
the rest of the country vaccinated.  
  
As we look at the data on vaccine coverage, it’s important for us to
dive deeper into what we are seeing across the country.  
  
We see on this map that vaccine coverage is not uniform across the
country.  Please note, we have state-level data but not county-level
data for Texas and Hawaii.   
  
Otherwise, looking county by county, there are some unsettling gaps in
our coverage.  Some areas are doing very well with greater than 65
percent coverage for those over the age of 65, as indicated by dark
blue; but many areas have far less coverage, less than 47 percent, as
indicated by the lightest shaded areas.    
  
Because this virus is an opportunist, we anticipate that the areas of
lightest vaccine coverage now might be where the virus strikes next. 
And, with modest protection of our oldest population, many more deaths
could ensure.   
  
So, while we have some reason to celebrate, we also have the potential,
indeed, the need to do more to protect more people now.   
  
On the CDC’s Data Tracker website, we provide disease data down to the
county level.  This allows you to join us and learn how the virus might
be spreading in your community, and also what percent of your county is
vaccinated.  Vaccination is about protecting ourselves from COVID-19. 
It’s also about protecting those in your community, our family, our
friends, and our neighbors.   
  
Now that everyone is eligible to receive a vaccine, please help turn
your count- — county toward more protection and a darker shade of blue. 
The healthier our families are, the healthier we will be as a nation.   
  
Moving on, I want to share a new study that was published this week by
CDC scientists.  On Wednesday, the New England Journal of Medicine
published the preliminary findings of post-COVID-19 vaccine surveillance
in pregnant persons.  Clinical trials of COVID-19 vaccines did not
include pregnant people, leaving us with limited data on the safety of
vaccination in pregnant people and babies to date.   
  
Through county — country-wide surveillance, using the CDC v-safe app and
the v-safe Pregnancy Registry, as well as the Vaccine Adverse Event sys-
— Reporting System, we were able to follow over 35,000 pregnant people
who were vaccinated.  
  
Pregnant people experienced the same side effects as others following
vaccination.  We were also able to follow, in detail, more than 3,900
pregnant women, and over 800 of whom have completed their
pregnancies.   
  
Importantly, no safety concerns were observed for people vaccinated in
the third trimester or safety concerns for their babies.   
  
As such, CDC recommends that pregnant people receive the COVID-19
vaccine.  We know that this is a deeply personal decision, and I
encourage people to talk to their doctors or primary care providers to
determine what is best for them and for their baby.   
  
I started today by saying we have many tremendous milestones to
celebrate this week.  In addition to over 65 percent of Americans over
the age of 65 being vaccinated, this is also the week we hit 200 million
vaccines in less than 100 days, and the week when all Americans aged 16
and older are eligible for vaccination.   
  
I encourage all younger people to follow the example of older Americans
and to get vaccinated.  And regardless of your age, please be an
ambassador for your neighbors and loved ones by encouraging and
assisting them to get vaccinated themselves.   
  
With that, I’ll turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  So, I’ll switch topics
now from vaccines to therapeutics.  
  
Can I have the first slide, please?  
  
Just three days ago, my colleague and I published a paper in Med, which
is a new journal from Cell Press, essentially reviewing the therapeutic
landscape.  And one of the important points that we made was that the
results from one stage of disease should not be extrapolated between
disease stages, even though we’re getting more and more candidates that
have been shown to have some positive effect in clinical trials.   
  
Next slide.  
  
Taking this from the guidelines panel that I mentioned to this group at
a prior press briefing: If you look at the color-coded boxes on the
left, they represent disease severity — from people as outpatients who
are not hospitalized, to people who are hospitalized but don’t require
supplemental oxygen, to those requiring supplemental oxygen, to those
requiring high-flow devices or noninvasive ventilation, to the final
most extreme of those requiring mechanical ventilation.  
  
And there are different therapies that have either been approved by the
FDA or have been given an emergency use authorization or that have
common practice like dexamethasone.  
  
So again, as I did before, I encourage physicians to check out the
treatment guidelines if you have any questions about treatment.   
  
Next slide.   
  
This slide is interesting because what it tells us — it is — it is now,
here, plotting the case-fatality rate over time in the United States and
throughout the world.  Noting here that the case-fatality rate of
individuals has come down, very, very likely due to best practices being
implemented — namely, knowing how to — taking care of patients better,
but also the introduction of a number of therapies into the care of
individuals.  
  
Next slide.  
  
I showed this at a previous briefing — when you talk about direct
antiviral therapies are being targeted against vulnerable points in the
replication cycle.  And as I mentioned to you a few weeks ago, there are
several of these that are now in various stages of trial.  
  
But I want to mention, just very briefly today, that there are three new
clinical trials that have started over the past week.  
  
Next slide.   
  
First is a trial called ACTIV-6, which is a randomized, placebo-controll
trial that are looking at seven existing prescription and
over-the-counter medications that participants will self-administer.  We
know this is going on in clinical practice.  We’re going to try and find
out if they actually work.  And these include things like vitamin D,
fluvoxamine, and others.   
  
Next slide.   
  
The second trial is a Phase II/III called ACTIV-2, which is an
interesting trial of a polyclonal antibody that has been derived from
the immunization of transgenic cows that will be placed into a
therapeutic protocol involving a number of other agents, as shown on the
bottom of this slide.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And then, finally, there’s a clinical trial of therapeutics for severely
ill individuals.  It’s randomized.  It’s blinded.  It’s placebo
control.  And it’s going to study Zyesami — which is a synthetic version
of a vasoactive peptide — and remdesivir alone and in combination
against a placebo.   
  
So, as you can see, there are a number of things going on right now in
the area of therapeutics.  And as we go along the weeks and months to
come, we’ll be updating you on not only the clinical trials, but any
important results that have come.  
  
With that, I’ll hand it over to Dr. Murthy.   
  
DR. MURTHY:  Well, thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  And it’s good to be
with all of you again this morning.  
  
We know that vaccine confidence has been building in our country since
the end of last year, early January.  And the vast majority of people in
the country now are either vaccinated or want to be vaccinated soon.   
  
But with that said, we want to continue very hard our efforts to ensure
that we are getting information to people and empowering them with
knowledge about the COVID-19 vaccines so that they can ultimately make
decisions for themselves and their families and protect themselves from
COVID-19.   
  
Today, I want to share with you two updates related to our “We Can Do
This” public education campaign.  The first — building on research that
we know shows that people want to ask questions about the vaccine
directly to healthcare professionals, including their doctors — we are
launching the “We Can Do This: Live,” which is an initiative to connect
people with facts on vaccines from medical experts in the places where
they already consume content online.   
  
So we’re pairing doctors, scientists, and health officials with
influencers and organizations with accounts that can reach millions of
Americans through events like Instagram Live Q&As and social media
account takeovers.  
  
Some of the people and organizations who have agreed to share their
platforms with us include Barbara Corcoran and Mark Cuban, from ABC’s
“Shark Tank”; Eva Longoria, the actress; Walter Kim, President of the
National Association of Evangelicals; and also organizations including
NASCAR, the NBA, and the WNBA, and there are many more in this list as
well.   
  
The goal here is to reach audiences who may not be following the news or
government accounts or medical doctors or scientists.  And if we put
doctors and experts directly into their feeds on the platforms that
people are already following, we believe we can help get trusted
information from trusted sources to people where they already are.  It’s
just one more way that we’re seeking to build confidence in the
vaccines.   
  
The second update I want to share with you is: Several weeks ago, we
launched the COVID-19 Community Corps, which is a nationwide grassroots
network of health professionals; community organizations; rural, union,
and faith leaders; and Americans from all walks of life.  And the goal
here was to step up and protect our communities with vaccine education
and empowerment, working with local partners.   
  
Now, the Community Corps continues to grow, and I want to highlight for
you some stories that we’ve been hearing about the work from a few of
those organizations.  One member, Meals on Wheels, is now working with
local governments, pharmacies, and other community partners to host
vaccination clinics at senior centers and to offer mobile vaccinations
to reach those who are homebound.  
  
Another member, the Catholic Health Association, is promoting the
acceptance of COVID-19 vaccines through their \#LoveThyNeighbor social
media campaign, and they’re disseminating this also through publications
and webinars.   
  
The National Association of Manufacturers and the Manufacturing
Institute — which are both members of the COVID-19 Community — community
— they have partnered with the University of Florida’s Center for Public
Interest Communications to research what messages work best to
communicate about vaccines with manufacturing teams and communities.   
  
And on Monday, earlier this week, Dr. Ala Stanford, the founder of Black
Doctors COVID-19 Consortium, spoke with the Corps and with me about her
work in Philadelphia testing, informing, and ultimately vaccinating tens
of thousands of people in the Philadelphia area.   
  
All of this is in addition to the initiatives that we’ve shared with you
in the past: the digital and TV and radio campaigns we have to get
information out to the public, the more than $3 billion that we are now
moving to get to local communities to help support local organizations
in their efforts to get people vaccinated.   
  
Look, I know that COVID has separated many of us physically, and what’s
really encouraging and inspiring to me is just how many people, despite
that separation, have actually stepped up to help one another.  It’s
really what we need now to bring this pandemic to an end.   
  
And I know, also, at these briefings, we share with you what the
government is doing to address the pandemic, and there’s a lot happening
in that department.  But to truly turn this pandemic around requires
more than government action.  It’s going to require each of us to take
action as well, not only to protect ourselves, but to protect other
people in our lives.   
  
I mean, ultimately, I believe that this is one of those moments where we
have to decide who we are as a country: Are we 300 million people who
happen to live in the same place?  Or are we fellow Americans who
recognize we’re stronger when we care for and protect one another?   
  
And my family and countless other immigrants came to this country,
whether it was a few years ago or a few generations ago, because many of
us believe that America at its best was a community where people looked
out for one another, where they were tied together by common values and
common concerns.  And I still believe that that’s who we are at our
best.   
  
And that’s why I’m urging every person in our country not only to get
vaccinated, but to go one step further and help the people you love get
vaccinated.  Make sure they have an appointment, help them get answers
to their questions, and lead by example and show them that you are
getting vaccinated too.   
  
If we do this together, we will turn this pandemic around.  And I
believe, in the process, we will protect our families, our communities,
and our country.   
  
Thank you for your time, and we’ll look forward to your questions.  Back
to you, Jeff.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  Let’s open it up for
questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you, and we only have time for a few questions today,
so please keep your questions to one question.   
  
Shannon Pettypiece at NBC.   
  
Q    Hi, so if the pause on the J&J vaccine is lifted but there is this
link determined — the committee does determine that there — there is a
link with this severe adverse event in the J&J vaccine, even if
incredibly rare, how do you see the J&J vaccine fitting into your
campaign going forward?   
  
Because I know there’s going to be some people who say, “Well, there’s
two vaccines that aren’t linked to any rare conditions, so why should we
be using the J&J vaccine at all if you have two vaccines that don’t have
any, you know, even rare side effect associated with them?”   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Walensky.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Shannon.  So, I’m not
going to get ahead of the ACIP.  We’ve been doing a lot of work over the
last week to identify any additional cases, and to do — and to conduct
some risk-benefit analysis.  And part of that risk-benefit analysis is
who would prefer or wouldn’t otherwise have access to two-dose vaccines
and really wants the J&J vaccine or would otherwise not get it.   
  
That risk-benefit analysis will be presented to the ACIP today.  I think
the FDA and I both feel strongly — and the CDC feels strongly — that we
need to act swiftly after that analysis.  But I do think that there’s
plenty of people who are interested in the J&J vaccine, if just for
convenience, as well as for a single-dose option.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Tommy Christopher at Mediaite.  
  
Tommy, you’re unmuted.   
  
All right, let’s go to the next question.  We will go to Josh Wingrove
at Bloomberg.   
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking the time.  Jeff, can you give us an
update, quickly, on Emergent?  Is it day or weeks or months before you
think that an EUA is possible there?   
  
And broadly, can you talk a little bit more about the President’s
remarks earlier this week about sharing vaccine doses with other
countries?   
  
I’m sure you’ve seen, in particular, India is on — is having a terrible
time right now.  That is a country that has been shipping AstraZeneca
doses to other nations, now has quite a problem in its own backyard. 
Will the U.S. consider now sharing its AstraZeneca doses — which are, of
course, not authorized for use here yet — with either countries that
would have expected them otherwise from India or to India directly? 
Thank you.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So in terms of Johnson & Johnson and the Baltimore
facility: You know, as we’ve talked about, Josh, this is a process
between the FDA and the companies, and we expect J&J to work through
this with the FDA.  You know, our vaccination program was never built on
one vaccine.  We have plenty of vaccine supply of Pfizer and Moderna. 
There are tens of millions of doses already out in the country — of
Moderna and Pfizer — ready to be administered.  And now, as we’ve
talked, about all adults — all individuals 16 and over are eligible for
a shot.  So we have plenty of vaccine supply to have all adults get
vaccinated.   
  
As to India, I will first have Dr. Fauci comment on the — on the
situation, which I know is a difficult situation — a very difficult
situation in India.   
  
Dr. Fauci.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Thank you, Jeff.  Yes, obviously, India is going
through a very terrible situation right now.  They’ve had, yesterday,
the largest number of cases that has ever been reported by any country. 
They have a situation there where there are variants that have arisen. 
We have not yet fully characterized the variants and the relationship
between the ability of the vaccines to protect, but we’re assuming,
clearly, that they need vaccines.   
  
The CDC is helping out by consulting with them — as they have in other
countries in which there are situations — and giving technical
assistance.  But it is a dire situation that we’re trying to help in any
way we can.  We just have to see how things go.   
  
And obviously, they need to get their people vaccinated because that’s
the only way we’re going to turn that around.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, I’ll just add that we have a longstanding commitment
to India’s public health and are, as Dr.  Fauci said, working closely
with them in the COVID-19 response.  The Quad partnership and team is
providing assistance across government to the country.   
  
And, you know, this is a global pandemic, and India demonstrates the
risk of what can happen if we don’t get the pandemic under control
everywhere.  And it’s why we made the biggest investment in COVAX and we
are committed to sharing vaccine supply.  As our confidence around our
supply increases, we will explore those options.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question —  
  
DR. FAUCI:  The thing, Jeff, that’s important is that early on, when we
were not seeing countries in the — lower- and middle-income countries
that didn’t have as many infections, that people would say, “Maybe
there’s something special about climate, about this, about the youth.” 
I think what this is telling us — in Africa and in India — that when you
have a global pandemic, it is a global pandemic and there are no
countries that are really safe from it.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Brenda Goodman at WebMD.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  Jeff, you described a lot of
the things that the government is doing to try to help make vaccinations
more accessible for people.  And I’m wondering if there’s been any
discussion as — speaking in economic terms, as the market kind of
becomes saturated for vaccinate — for vaccines for people who want them,
if you’ve discussed offering any incentives, financial or otherwise, to
help kind of move the movable middle — people that might be on the
fence?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, I think the — the incentives here are clear: These
vaccines save people’s lives.  And we talked about the decrease — the 80
percent decrease in deaths for people over 65.  That’s so critical
because, sadly, people over 65 accounted for 80 percent of COVID
deaths.  There’s also been a 70 percent decrease in hospitalization.  So
we need to make sure that vaccines are accessible and easy to find and
to get your shot — convenient.   
  
At the same time, we need to continue to build vaccine confidence, as
Dr. Murthy talked about; answer questions about safety and efficacy; and
make sure that we continue to have equity at the center of everything
that we do.  But I think the case for getting vaccinated is compelling. 
We need to make sure that people have the information that they need to
make that decision, and that hopefully people get vaccinated as soon as
possible now that it is everybody 16 and older’s turn to get
vaccinated.  
  
Thank you for joining today.  And we look forward to briefing next
week.  
  
11:32 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/COVID-Press-Briefing_23April2021-_for-transcript.pdf>
