---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-05'
modified_time: 2021-04-05 18:12:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/05/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-5-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-05 18:12:04-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 5,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:37 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  All right.  Just one update for all of you at the
top.

The President is always — is obviously quite focused on the American
Jobs Plan that he just announced last week.  As you all know, he’s
already had two bipartisan congressional meetings on infrastructure in
the Oval Office, and he plans to continue speaking with leaders from
both sides of the aisle to get their input, either on the phone this
week or when they return.  He looks forward to welcoming members to the
Oval Office again. 

And this work is being supported, of course, by the Jobs Cabinet.  Many
of you may have seen members of the Jobs Cabinet out over the weekend,
speaking on your airwaves directly to the American people. 

And the Jobs Cabinet members have also been active and engaging with
members of Congress on both sides of the aisle, and they will continue
to play that role over the course of the coming weeks and months. 

So, Jobs Cabinet members to date have made 56 calls to the 28 Democrats
and 28 Republicans who are the chairs and ranking members on relevant
committees.  They have held — we’ve held briefings with the entire House
and Senate invited.  The House briefing had 124 representatives on,
including 31 Republicans. 

Senior White House officials have briefed bipartisan working groups in
both chambers, including the group of 20 senators and the Problem
Solvers Caucus.  And as I noted, the President looks forward to
welcoming members when they return next week.

With that, Alex, go ahead.

Q    Great, thanks.  I have a couple of questions on the infrastructure
and jobs plan, and then one item for immigration.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    To start, the jobs plan has been receiving opposition from both the
left and the right.  On the right, this weekend, Senator Roy Blunt said
that it would be an easy bipartisan win if the bill were more narrowly
focused.  So why not reduce the bill down to just infrastructure and
take out planks like the care workers and the electric vehicle aspects?

And then, in addition to that, on the left, Senator Joe Manchin said
today that he can’t support a 28 percent tax increase on corporations. 
So is the White House open to lowering that?  He said the highest he
would support is 25 percent.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, on the infrastructure question, let me say that
some Republicans — who have been vocal — think investing in water
systems and replacing pipes so Americans can have clean drinking water
is not infrastructure, but the President does. 

Some don’t think investing in high-speed rail is infrastructure; the
President does.  Some believe building charging stations to support
America’s electric vehicle future is not infrastructure; he believes it
is.

Some don’t believe that America’s broadband capacity, which is one third
of the American — of American — the American people, I should say, don’t
have access to broadband, and improving those lines and expanding that
access is not infrastructure; the President does. 

Some believe that addressing the issue of America’s supply chain so that
we’re never again at the mercy of China or any other nation is not
investing in infrastructure; the President disagrees. 

Some don’t believe that rebuilding schools so that they’re safe and
asbestos-free isn’t investing in infrastructure; the President
disagrees. 

And finally, some don’t think that building a support system to take
care of elderly parents or kids with disabilities at home so people can
go back into the workforce — some of those 2 million women who have left
the workforce during the pandemic — some think that that is not
investing in the infrastructure — our workforce of this country that are
the backbone of this country; the President disagrees. 

But, with all that being said, he is — welcomes their ideas, hopes he
puts them for — hopes they put them forward.  And he looks forward to
having conversations with members of both parties about how to address
the long-outdated effort to update our infrastructure.

Q    And then on Manchin: Is the White House open to reducing the
corporate tax rate?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President felt it was responsible to
propose a way to pay for his proposal.  That’s exactly what he did.  He
knows some members think it’s too big.  Some think it’s too — too
small.  Frankly, there have been folks who have come out on both sides,
which we fully expected.  He knows that some will come forward with
different ways to pay for this package, and some may have views that it
shouldn’t be paid for at all. 

So we fully expect that from Senator Manchin and other members, and we
expect the question of how to pay for the package, if we should pay for
the package, to be part of the discussion moving forward.

Q    So the White House is open to that conversation?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re open to hearing ideas and proposals from members, and
we encourage them to put them forward.

Q    Okay.  And then, on immigration: We released a poll earlier today
that suggests that 25 percent of Americans — only 25 percent — approve
of the way that the President is handling the situation at the border
with respect to unaccompanied minors.  So does this poll suggest that
the President needs to reevaluate his approach to that issue?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, if I read the poll correctly, it also had 59 percent
of Americans believing that unaccompanied children should be treated
safely and be protected in that way.  And 65 percent supported the
reunification of families. 

There’s no question this is a difficult challenge, and the President
believes he was elected to address hard problems.  And his focus, right
now, is on expediting processing at the border, opening up additional
facilities, addressing the root causes, and restarting programs to
incentivize kids from applying from within their countries.  So that’s
his focus right now. 

Q    So is the issue just a messaging issue then?  I mean, how do you
explain the fact that Americans are not in favor of what the President
is doing at the border?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure that’s an accurate depiction of the poll, given
that there was — about one-third of the people who replied didn’t have
an opinion at all.  So —

Q    Forty percent said that they did not approve though.

MS. PSAKI:  Fair.  But also, a three — one third said they had no view. 

So I think that, right now, our focus is not on looking at the poll; it
is on implementing solutions, which is, no question, to address what is
— what we view as, no question, a difficult challenge and hoping that we
can ensure we are protecting these kids; we are continuing to reassert
to the region “the border is not open.”  The majority of people — of
 adults who come to the border are turned away.  Continuing to implement
programs in the region, whether it’s working with them to address root
causes or working with them to restart programs that can help kids from
— apply within country.  

That — we feel those are the ways we can help address what is, no
question, a challenging issue.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  First, I want to ask about the budget.  What’s the holdup
on releasing it?

MS. PSAKI:  We expect it to be soon.  It’s not the full budget, as you
know.  But just for clarity purposes, it’s a kind of discretionary
guidance.  But we hope it to be soon — that it will be soon.  We expect
it to be very soon.  I don’t have a timeline on that quite yet.

Q    Well, every previous White House has released at least a budget
blueprint or an outline, abbreviated budget by the end of February.  So
what’s the holdup here?  Why is the delay now stretching into April? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well there’s no question, as we talked about during the
transition, that we dealt with some impactful intransigence from the
outgoing political appointees.  We had some cooperation from the career
staff, but we didn’t have all of the information that we needed. 

As you all know, we also don’t have a budget director.  We have not had
a budget director confirmed.  We have now an acting budget director,
which is an important step forward.  But, again, we expect it to be
soon.  And as soon as we have a timeline, we will make sure you all
know.

Q    I also wanted to ask you a question about Major League Baseball. 
The League decided to move its All-Star Game out of Atlanta.  That’s
something that the President said he supported before.  Does he then
agree with their decision to move that game out of Atlanta because of
the voting law?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I wish I had had this with me on Friday because I got
asked a question, and there’s some help — what I thought would be
helpful context.  And I know you probably don’t have the transcript in
front of you. 

So when the President was asked during an ESPN interview last week, he
was asked the question: “Last week, Major League Baseball Players
Association Executive Director said that he would look forward to
discussing moving the All-Star Game from Atlanta in the wake of
Georgia’s governor signing into law a bill passed by the Republican-led
state legislature to overhaul how its state elections are run.  How do
you view this possibility of moving the All-Star Game out of Georgia?” 

And he said, quote, “I think today’s professional athletes are acting
incredibly responsible.  I would strongly support them doing that.” 

So he was not dictating for — what Major League Baseball should do, that
they should — dictating they should move the All-Star game.  That is —
was their decision.  They made that decision.  And as he stated earlier,
he certainly supports that.

Q    So he does support the decision to move the game then?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he supports them being able to make the decision and
respond to what their players ac- — you know, asks are, given many of
them are impacted, of course, by these laws.

Q    Okay.  And then just —

MS. PSAKI:  This law.

Q    — one more on vaccines.  So there’s a report over the weekend that
Governor DeSantis, in Florida, had been dealing with some sort — some
sort of improper dealings with the supermarket chain, Publix, as far as
distributing the vaccine.  So did those reports give the White House any
pause in working with Governor DeSantis in the vaccine program?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that — for those who weren’t
following this in Florida — one of the concerns we’ve had as we’ve
watched the data is that 17 percent of Florida’s population is African
American, but less than 7 percent of vaccinations have gone to African
Americans in the state.

That’s one of the reasons that we opened four FEMA sites in Miami,
Tampa, Jacksonville, and Orlando.  And these sites disproportionately
serve communities of color.  So we’ve been closely watching this data
and these statistics, as we would in any state across the country.  And
we took these specific actions for that purpose. 

We are not going to hurt the people of Florida just because of the steps
or actions of leadership.  And we will continue to take actions to
ensure that the vaccine is equitably distributed.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on the baseball All-Star Game, I know that you
made the point that he did not dictate the League move the All-Star game
out of Georgia, but he likes to say the words of a president matter; he
said he would strongly support if players in the League wanted to do
that.  And they did it.  So does he think that the PGA should move the
Masters Tournament, that begins this week, out of Georgia?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not here to call for anyone, on behalf of the President
or the Vice President or anyone, to take steps in reaction to the law in
Georgia.  The President was asked a direct question, and the context of
the question was also around the League meeting to discuss this exact
issue, and he answered the question.

Q    So, then, should we believe that if PGA Tour players, who are
arriving in Augusta this week or today to register for the tournament,
if they got together and decided — or talked about not participating,
that is something he would strongly support?  Or is there a difference
between the way he sees —

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure you will ask me that question — or him this
question.  But our focus is on doing what we can to advocate for making
voter — voting easier and more accessible around the country.  And
that’s where our efforts are going to be from the White House.

Q    Before the President said that he would strongly support moving the
All-Star game out of Georgia, did he consider the economic impact? 
Because the Cobb County Tourism CEO is saying they’re going to lose $100
million in lost business activity, 8,000 hotel rooms.  Did he think
about that before he said he would strongly support the move?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, he was doing an interview.  He was given the context,
as I just read out to you in full detail, of how the question was asked,
and he answered the question.

Q    Okay.  On immigration, 171,000 migrants were caught at the border
in March.  That’s up from 100,000 in February.  If the trend continues,
do you have a sense of how many migrants the United States can handle
this month?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first let me say that there have been numbers that
have been reported out there.  CBP has not released their final numbers;
we expect that to happen later this week.  And for full context, there
are numbers that, when they release them, will be out, like you cited —
some version of what you cited.  But those are reflecting of people
coming, and they — we should also be reflecting — and I hope I’m
encouraging people to do this — people who are turned away.  Because
again, single adults, based on your own reporting and everyone’s
reporting, continue to be — the vast majority continue to be turned away
at the border.

I don’t have any predictions about numbers that will come.  We’re
obviously taking steps, as I addressed in response to Alex’s question,
to address the root causes, put in place programs that people can
utilize to apply from in-country, send a clear message the border is not
open and that we’re turning away the majority of adults when they come
to the border.

Q    There is a separate report that — speaking about the adults, there
are 1,000 “got-aways,” mostly in Arizona — people who are seen,
detected, but they’re not chased because authorities are so busy
processing the families.  The Washington Post is reporting that some of
these people are carrying drugs.  Has the administration maybe reached
out to Mexico to try to stop the flow of drugs or help stop the flow of
drugs into American communities?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s always a part of our diplomatic conversations,
certainly through the State Department and other entities within the
government.  I’m happy to check on that specific reporting.  I had not
seen that report before I came out here. 

Q    Okay.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Great.  Go ahead, Kelly,

Q    In clarifying today, are you trying to roll back what the President
said about the All-Star game?

MS. PSAKI:  No, I’m trying to articulate clearly to everyone what he
said and what the context of his remarks were, the question that was
asked, and the full scope of his answer.  And I think it’s been
shorthanded, to no one’s fault, because it was — it’s been repeated a
bit without the full context. 

Q    And Mitch McConnell says that, “We are witnessing a coordinated
campaign by powerful and wealthy people to mislead” and to use the bully
pulpit about this law.  Will the White House say explicitly that it is
not trying to influence corporations or organizations to take action on
state-level decisions like this?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve conveyed it, and I’m happy to answer your question
directly.  We’ve not asked corporations to take specific actions. 
That’s not our focus here.  Our focus is on continuing to convey that
it’s important that voting is easier, not harder; that when there are
laws in place that make it harder, we certainly express an opposition to
those laws.

Q    A couple of foreign policy questions.  It’s now April 5th.  The
Afghanistan decision is due soon.  Obviously, troops and their families
are interested to know what the President’s decision will be.  What more
does he need before he can make or announce this decision?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as the President has said before, it will be tough to
meet the May 1st deadline for full withdrawal, for logistical reasons. 
We are continuing — he’s continuing to consult internally with his
national security team and advisors and, of course, also with our
partners and allies.

And, you know, he is not — he’s been working on these issues — foreign
policy issues, national security issues — for several decades now and,
of course, wants to take the time to make the right decision.

Q    So our expectation should be that it will go beyond May 1st with
the “tough to meet” portion of your answer?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he set the expectation it will be tough for a full
withdrawal, for logistical reasons, by that timeline.  And that
certainly has — also something that we’ve conveyed clearly to our
partners as well.  But in terms of what’s next, you know, he just wants
to take the time to make a decision.

Q    What’s the President’s level of concern about what’s happening in
Jordan, long an important country and an ally and a buffer against some
of the hotter events in that part of the world?  Is this something where
he would have any direct interaction at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  I would expect it would be through the State Department and
wouldn’t expect that.  We’re, of course, closely following the reports
out of Jordan.  We’ve been in touch, as an administration, with
Jordanian officials.  King Abdullah is a key partner of the United
States; he has our full support. 

Go ahead.

Q    So, on Ukraine — we talked about this on Friday — but the State
Department has now asked Russia to explain these provocations.  Does the
President have any plans to reach out to President Putin on this?  Has
it elevated to that level of concern?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls with President Putin to predict at
this point in time.  Last week, it was read out that national — that our
Secretary of State had a conversation with his counterpart; also, the
Secretary of Defense had a conversation with his counterpart. 

We remain concerned by the recent escalations of Russian aggressive —
Russian aggression and provocative actions in eastern Ukraine.  That’s
something we’re watching closely.  Of course, we’re aware of their — of
the Ukrainian military reports concerning Russian troop movements on
Ukraine’s border. 

But at this point, we’ve been in touch at the Secretary of State and
Secretary of Defense level, which is pretty high, as we all know, but I
don’t have any calls from the President to predict for you.

Q    Okay.  And just one more.

MS. PSAKI:  And he, of course, spoke with the — with the President of
Ukraine on Friday as well —

Q    That’s right.

MS. PSAKI:  — about this specific issue.

Q    Yes.  So, on the — on the front — on the tax front: I understand
that you are, you know, not willing to sort of close in on a specific
number that you might agree with Joe Manchin.  But have you done a
detailed analysis of what the delta would be; say, if you agreed to 25
percent, how much less income revenue would that distribute?  Are you
doing that, kind of, in a detailed analysis in preparation for these
negotiations?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I mean, first, I think it’s important to remind people
that the corporate tax rate we are proposing is lower than it was in
2017; in fact, it’s lower than it was from World War Two until 2017.  So
we are still proposing a rate that is lower than it has been for the
vast majority of time, since anyone in this room was alive, I think — or
around that amount of time.  So that’s our proposal.

Of course, what the President proposed — raising it to 28 percent — and
combined with the other tax proposals would pay for the totality of the
package.  That’s why he felt it was a responsible proposal to make. 

Sorry, this person was throwing me off outside for a second, but
everything is fine.  (Laughs.)

So that he felt it was responsible to make.  There will be different
ideas for payfors, right?  There will be different ideas for tax
proposals.  That will all need to be weighed by a range of questions,
including — with Congress and with leaders in Congress and outspoken
members in Congress about whether it should be paid for, over what
period of time, how much should be paid for, what the options are for
paying for it.  There are some that are proposing, as you all know, SALT
deductions and other areas that are not revenue raisers.

So this will be all a part of the discussion.  And, absolutely, our
economic team and number data crunchers will be crunching numbers as we
proceed, but we’re kind of in the early stages of these discussions at
this point in time.

Q    And just real quickly: On OMB, you mentioned that you don’t have a
budget director yet.  When do you anticipate that the President will
nominate someone to replace Neera Tanden?  And then I have one more
quick international one.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  And I should have conveyed — which I did, but I will
reiterate: We, of course, have an acting OMB director, Shalanda Young,
who is beloved by Capitol Hill, as you all know.  And so she is, of
course, playing a very important role.  But we didn’t have one for some
period of time because she was only recently confirmed as the deputy and
now the acting. 

I don’t have a personnel update for you in terms of the timeline for
nominating — formally nominating a replacement on OMB.

Q    A lot of people have said that they think Shalanda Young should
just get the job; I mean, that she should be nominated for the number
one job.  Can you say anything more that?

MS. PSAKI:  I would just say the President thinks so highly of her that
he’s nominated her to serve as the Deputy Director of OMB, which is also
an enormous job.  But I’ve been here long enough not to make predictions
of where he will land on a personnel announcement.

Q    On the international front —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — so the IMF and the World Bank —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — are meeting this week.  This is a big deal internationally.  One
of the issues that has come up is a — sort of a need to expand the debt
relief initiatives to beyond countries that are just the poorest
countries; that there are significant numbers of countries that are, you
know, middle-income countries.  Is this something that the President is
willing to take on?  And is this a message that he wants his officials
to send during these important meetings?

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  Well, there’s no question that the COVID-19
pandemic has deepened global economic inequality.  And as has already
been announced by the Treasury Department, we are working — the U.S.,
the United States — is working with IMF management and other members
toward a $650 billion general allocation to IMF member countries. 

It’s part of a package of broader international efforts to support the
global recovery.  It also includes robust support for the IMF,
multilateral development banks, debt relief in some cases, all alongside
countries taking necessary reform steps.  So we’re working closely with
the IMF and other member countries, given we are all working through the
impact of a global pandemic.

Q    You don’t want to say anything about expanding the universe of
countries that are going to get help?  Because right now it’s limited to
just poor countries. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah —

Q    Poorest countries.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I would point you to the Treasury Department for more
specifics beyond that. 

Go ahead, Anne.

Q    So one thing quickly, and then I have something else.  Is there any
update on when you or the President will release his latest medical
records, or any update on his plans to visit his medical provider?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an update.  I’m happy to check with our team
and see if there’s one we can provide you all soon, in short order.

Q    Anything more precise than “soon”?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll have to check with the team, and — before I give you a
specific timeline of when we’ll have that available. 

Q    And then, back on the MLB question: Given that, as you say, the
President supports the ability to make this decision, does he also
support other organizations or businesses making similar moves — which,
I guess, would broadly be called “boycotting” — other events in other
states should they pass similar laws?  I’m thinking here of Arizona and
others that may be considering similar voting restriction laws.

MS. PSAKI:  That’s not something we’re calling for from the White
House.  Our focus is on working with Congress to put in place voting
rights legislation, working with leaders in — who, like Stacey Abrams
and others, who are advocating for more expanded laws and more expanded
information out to people to make it easier to vote.  So those are
really — that’s really where our efforts are focused. 

Q    Although — I mean, some of this may be moving at a faster pace in
these states than you’re going to be able to get an omnibus national
voting rights law passed.  So there will be moments of — there’ll be
inflection moments here, between now and then, where other organizations
would be looking at making the same kinds of decisions that MLB made. 
Does the President think they should be able to make those decisions to
pull out of (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I mean, broadly speaking, of course the President and we all
believe private sector entities are going to make decisions, and that’s
their role to do so. 

What I’m conveying — what I can speak to is what our focus is on and
what our role is here from the White House and what his energies will be
directed toward, which is voting rights legislation, continuing to voice
and advocate for the need to make it easier, and not harder, to vote. 
That’s where he will be spending his time and effort, as will we in the
White House.

Q    And then, lastly, on Iran.  With the indirect talks beginning
tomorrow — I mean, here it is the first week of April.  This is a
foreign policy priority of the President’s through — all throughout the
campaign, really one of the very few specific things he said he wanted
to do.  Is he disappointed that it has taken this long to get to what
isn’t even a face-to- face negotiation?  And does he think that there’s
still time to pull a deal together before Iranian elections in June?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he knows, from living through it — as do you, from
covering it for many years — that diplomacy can take time, and sometimes
it is not at the pace that everyone would prefer.  And we certainly have
experience, as does he — from having been in the Obama-Biden
administration — of the time it took to work through a diplomatic
process.

I don’t have a prediction to make in terms of how long it will take. 
You’re right that, of course, what is happening in the coming days is
really focused on, you know, indirect talks that are happening through
the Europeans.  That is still, in our view, a step forward toward
diplomacy, and that remains our first objective.

Q    And does his position remain that the U.S. will not drop any
sanctions until Iran returns to full compliance?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, his position hasn’t changed on how he’s approaching,
or we should approach, the negotiations.  And we certainly expect that
the primary issues that will be discussed over the course of the coming
days are the nuclear steps that Iran would need to take in order to
return to compliance with the terms of the JCPOA and the sanctions
relief steps that the United States would need to take in order to
return to compliance as well.

But we’re just at the beginning of the talks, and we don’t anticipate
presently that there will be direct talks between the United States and
Iran through this process, though we remain certainly open to that
prospect. 

Go ahead.  I’ll come back to you, Kaitlan.  I’m sorry.  Go ahead.

Q    You mentioned, last week, on infrastructure that you’d like to see
progress on the bill by Memorial Day.  I’m wondering if you can just
define “progress.”  What do you want to see happen by Memorial Day?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I’m going to define progress more than, you
know, we hope members will be proposing ideas.  We hope that there will
be constructive discussions.  We hope that there’ll be committees
meeting.  But we’ll leave it to Hill leadership to define what progress
looks like.

Q    And just back on Senator Blunt’s proposal about a smaller package:
Is it out of the question for the White House to split up the
infrastructure package, or is that something the President would be
willing to do? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly expect it.  And it has played out that
some will believe that the package we proposed is too small; some will
believe it’s too big.  And we’re happy to have discussions with members
who have both points of view. 

But at the end of the day, the package that the President proposed makes
a historic investment in our nation’s infrastructure, rebuilds our
economy, helps create 19 million jobs.  And, you know, we’re hopeful
that others will come forward with ideas that are as bold and innovative
and will help do the same type of work for American workers and our
economy.

Q    And then, also, just one more on the American Families Plan.  I
think you said that you expected that — Biden to talk about that
sometime at the end of April.  I’m just wondering if you can give a
specific timeline on that.  And would the strategy there be to try to
pass that at the same time as infrastructure, or would you wait until
after an infrastructure package gets across the finish line? 

MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to — I’m not going to be able to outline the
legislative strategy for a package we haven’t proposed yet.  But I said
at the time “in the coming weeks,” but I don’t have anything more
specific than that at this point in time. 

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    Just to follow on Jordan: The budget, are we not going to get it
until there’s a budget director in place?

MS. PSAKI:  No, no.  I didn’t mean to convey that message.  He was
asking what the impact — what the delay was caused by, and largely, it
was caused by intransigence in part during the transition.  But also, we
didn’t have a confirmed budget director for a period of time, so that is
a factor too.  So that was answering that part of his question.

Q    So we’ll get the budget before there’s actually a budget director
in place.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’ll be a couple of different components.  And
these terms are so Washington, but here we are.  So there’s the
discretionary guidance, which would be the first piece of this — which
would be short, not a very long document; a skinny budget; and a longer
budget.  So there’s usually a couple different components that would
come out.

Q    Okay.  And back on infrastructure: The White House is saying that
they are open to alternative proposals from other lawmakers — Democrats
and Republicans — but Roy Blunt has put one forward.  It’s $600
billion.  It’s a more traditional definition of infrastructure.  So is
the White House open to anything that he has laid out in this proposal,
or — that he says he’s pitched directly to the White House? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what I was conveying is that it’s time for
people to be bolder and more forward-looking about what infrastructure
looks like. 

Infrastructure is not just the roads we get a horse and buggy across. 
Infrastructure is about broadband.  It’s about replacing lead pipes so
people have water.  It’s about rebuilding our schools.  And so, of
course, we’re happy to hear proposals, but, you know, I think this — the
definition of infrastructure we have a disagreement about. 

Q    So what is the White House’s definition of infrastructure exactly?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s what I went through earlier when Alex
asked the question, which is clearly a number of the items I just talked
about.  It is rebuilding schools.  It is rebuilding our nation’s
waterways.  It is ensuring that we can rebuild pipes so that we don’t
have kids with lead in their drinking water.  It is rebuilding the
backbone and the infrastructure of our workforce, because there are 2
million women who are out of the workforce who, hopefully, if we could
help them with caregiving, will be able to rejoin.

So there are a number of components that I outlined earlier but that we
believe define how we can invest in an innovative, forward-looking way
in our economy, in our workers, create jobs.  And that’s the proposal we
put forward and we look forward to having discussions about.

Q    So one thing that Senator Blunt proposed was paying for it, and
user fees and other revenue streams that’s not raising the corporate tax
rate.  And in this proposal that we have from the President: 8 years of
spending, 15 years of taxes.  So what happened?  What is his defense to
lawmakers who ask, “What happens when he’s not President and the
Congress is different and if they repealed those tax changes?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, then —

Q    How do you pay for it then?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, then — then I hope you’d be asking whoever is standing
right here — who might be a Republican — if they rolled them back, that
exact question at the time. 

But our view is that the corporate tax rate, which again is — we are
proposing it be at a rate that is still lower than it was in 2017 and
lower than it was from between World War Two and 2017.

Our view is that corporations can pay more, not that it should be on the
backs of consumers and the American people through user fees, which is
exactly what it would be.

Q    My last question is on what happened with Johnson & Johnson that is
— this vaccine being produced at the Emergent plant in Baltimore, not
too far away.  Of course, we saw what happened, you know, last week and
over the weekend where there was a mix-up in what would have amounted to
15 million one-shot doses, which is a lot for what we’re trying to do. 
So what was the President’s reaction to that?

MS. PSAKI:  To the — to the news?  What — well, I would first say that —

Q    To the fact that we’re not getting 15 million doses right now that
could have been made for American people.

MS. PSAKI:  Well it’s not exactly what happened, because we are still on
track to have the number of doses we need to vaccinate all adult
Americans by the end of May.  This was not even a facility that was
approved by the FDA.  So we were not betting on these doses; we were
betting on doses coming from Moderna, Pfizer.  And also, Johnson &
Johnson has assured us that we will be getting the 24 million doses that
they have promised in April.

At the same time, there were still steps — led through a process by HHS
— put in place, to take steps over the weekend to ensure that Johnson &
Johnson is the only drug that is being produced at this site, given that
the issue, as you well know, Kaitlan, was about the cross-contamination
of AstraZeneca and Johnson & Johnson. 

So there were still take — steps taken to address this moving forward,
but we were not betting on these to vaccinate the American public — the
adult Americans that we have assured people we will have enough doses by
the end of May.  We remain — we continue to believe we will.

Q    But is he worried that something like this happening can affect
vaccine hesitancy that we’re already seeing in the United States?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we haven’t seen that to date, but this is why the FDA
approval process is in place.  In many ways, it was the process working,
because the FDA had not approved this site.  There were steps taken to
address what some of the issues were.  And we also have a range of
contingency plans.

You know, when we all talk in here about, “Why did we order so many
doses?  Why aren’t we at the point where we are sharing doses with every
country around the world?” — part of it is because we need to plan for
things coming up.  Things like this come up. 

This is obviously, as you noted, a big number of doses, but there are —
we have to plan for a range of contingencies.  That’s exactly what we
did.  That’s one of the many reasons that we’re going to still be in a
place where we have enough vaccines for adult Americans by the end of
May.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    On infrastructure, does the President support the idea of a
possible second reconciliation if the White House proposal does not
receive any Republican support?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we believe with 80 percent of the public supporting
infrastructure investment, with even proposals coming forward supporting
components of the package, that if we start on areas where we agree, we
can move forward with bipartisan support.

Q    And any more background you can provide on which lawmakers,
specifically Republicans, the White House is reaching out to and
inviting to the White House for meetings?

MS. PSAKI:  Not yet.  I’m sure when we have a meeting set and we have
the members all confirmed, we’ll share the names with you, of course,
once that’s done.

Q    And one more on COVID.  With the rise of new variants, is the
administration investing in booster shots or ramp-up in production of
booster shots or research and development for a new vaccine to deal with
the many variants?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, one of the issues that we’ve been focused on
is, again, ensuring that we have flexibility as it relates to vaccine
doses that we have ordered.  That could include — now, the FDA is still
going through the process of approval for booster shots and determining,
of course, what’s needed and when.  We would — we would leave it to them
and the CDC, of course, to make that determination and announcement, but
we do have flexibility in the doses we’ve purchased, moving forward,
should that be a need.

Q    Just to clarify that point: Is Operation Warp Speed still in
effect, or would this be a continuation of that to address the
investment in additional vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, companies are still — are producing booster shots and
options.  They’re being — you know, they’re being reviewed by the FDA. 
So I’m not sure — that’s just a process that’s ongoing with companies
and HHS. 

Go — go ahead.  Oh, sorry, let me — let me just get around to everybody,
and then I’ll come back.  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, Chief of Staff Ron Klain said last week that President Biden
has asked the U.S. Department of Education to prepare a memo on the
President’s legal authority to cancel student debt.  What exactly has
the White House asked for here? 

And in the past, President Biden has said he would be prepared to write
off $10,000 in debt but not $50,000, like some liberals and Democrats
have asked for.  Is Biden rethinking his position?  And is he
reconsidering his position on the idea of canceling debt of students who
attended more expensive private schools?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, he continues to look — look forward to — he’d
welcome a bill signed by — or passed by Congress, I should say, to
cancel $10,000 in student debt.  And he’d be — happily sign that.  I
think that would naturally be the first step before it’s a larger amount
beyond there.

What Ron Klain was referring to is the fact that there’s an ongoing
review — it’s both a policy review and a legal review, so Department of
Education and Department of Justice — to look at what the options are
and what authority could be recommended to the President.  So that was
the process he was referring to.

Q    If he’s asking what options are available, does that mean whether
he could do it to $50,000?  And does that mean that it’s, therefore,
open as a possibility for the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, it’s — his pol- — his position hasn’t changed. 
There’s a review to take a look at what is possible with executive
authority.

Q    But he has indicated he doesn’t think that’s a good proposal. 
During the town hall back in February, he very much (inaudible) — he was
outspoken against the $50,000 threshold.  So where does he stand on that
at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  And, again, after that point in time, Ron Klain and others
have spoken with a range of leaders in Congress, and we’ve said many
times from this podium that there is an ongoing review of what the
options are that are possible under executive authority.  There’s also a
policy review, as would be expected, at the same time.  We haven’t ruled
out options, but that review is ongoing and there isn’t a conclusion of
it. 

Let me just go — go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  I have an infrastructure and a baseball question, if you
accept it. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay. 

Q    So, last week, the White House put out a factsheet about the
infrastructure plan that cited the Texas power outage  as evidence of
the urgent need to modernize the nation’s electric grid, which kind of
leaves the implication that Texas will get funding to upgrade its grid,
but I haven’t seen that specifically.  So can you offer assurance that
there actually would be money in this for Texas to modernize, upgrade,
weatherize its grid?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is, believe it or not — you will believe it, of
course — a very common question from a lot of reporters and media
outlets across the country.  We will — we will have some state
factsheets, I expect soon, that kind of break down some of the
specifics.  There are pieces like broadband access and other things, but
there’ll be a competitive bidding process once the bill is signed into
law.  And we probably won’t have more to say that specifically until

then. 

Q    So that — actually, that’s — I think that’s a really vague part of
the plan.  What do you mean by a “competitive bidding process”?  Is this
like — how do the top bridges or power grids get chosen?  I mean, is it
a formu- — do you envision a formula based on state population, or is a
federal department deciding which is a more critical project than
another?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s — we’re not quite there yet.  We just proposed this a
couple of days ago.  A “competitive bidding process” — which I think
most Americans would support — would mean that states or entities have
to apply for funding for rebuilding the infrastructure in their states
and through local communities or whatever it may be. 

What the tenets and the specific logistics of that competitive bidding
process would be, I’m sure there’ll be discussions.  Members will have
different views.  They’ll all be advocating for different projects; we
certainly expect that.  But we’re in the early stages of the process and
—

Q    So these congressional meetings, these are not about putting
specific projects on a list?  

MS. PSAKI:  No.

Q    Okay. 

My baseball question is: Today’s home opener for the Texas Rangers is
the first major league sports event since the pandemic started that —
excuse me — that allows an open — a full — a full house.  The President
called that a “mistake” last week.  Has he spoken to other team owners
to try to deter them and get them to hold off from having full-house
events?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls from the President to baseball team
owners to read out.  I would say that the President continues to
reiterate the need to follow public health guidelines.  There are
restrictions, as you well know, recommended, including on masking,
social distancing — which, of course, applies to having a full stadium —
and the importance of being vigilant, even while we’re at war with this
virus.  We have seen spikes in certain parts of the country, certain
regions in the country.  That’s something we’re closely watching.  And
just a reminder of how important it is to be vigilant.

Q    Are any of — very last question — are any federal assets going to
be used to track whether this event actually does lead to a spike?

MS. PSAKI:  I would send that question to the CDC.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  I have a question about immigration. 
President Biden has spoken publicly about how, during the Obama
administration, he worked with Central American countries and has talked
about how he was — helped negotiate getting $700 million in aid to help
those countries prevent the flow of migrants coming in to work.  What
lessons did the President learn from that experience that he’s applying
to dealing with the crisis now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think one of the reasons the President asked — and
tell me if this is answering your question — but one of the reasons the
President asked his Vice President to play a similar role that he played
is because he recognizes that unless we address the root causes in these
countries; unless we disincentivize young people, families leaving these
countries; we improve the economic conditions; we create spaces for them
to be in these countries that avoids the corruption that is in place in
many of the governments, we will continue to go through cycle after
cycle. 

Some of these programs — and, obviously, the funding was not advanced
during the last administration, and some of the programs were reversed. 

So, you know, his experience impacts him and affects him because he
knows we need to address the current challenges we’re having at the
border; those are immediate.  But in order to address it longer term, we
need to address the root causes in the countries.

Q    Is his expectation snapping back the funding that was cut during
the Trump administration, or are there additional things that he’s
expecting to see implemented?

MS. PSAKI:  In the region?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he’s proposed $4 billion in funding in his immigration
proposal, so he certainly believes that we need more.  It’s not just
reinstituting programs; we also need more, and we need to build from
there.  And he expects to, of course, be briefed by our envoy, who’s
going to be back and forth in the region; others who will be involved;
and of course, the Vice President, who will be very closely involved in
these conversations as well.

Q    And when can we expect — on climate — when can we expect to see the
U.S. commitments under the Paris agreement that the U.S. announced it
would reenter on February 4?  When can the public see what those U.S.
commitments are going to look like?

MS. PSAKI:  When — well, I expect when we have our Climate Summit in a
couple of weeks, there’ll be an update, and we’ll discuss more on a big,
national stage with the bully pulpit what — where we are going from
here, where we are, where we’re going from here.  And, of course, Gina
McCarthy and other members of our climate team — former Secretary John
Kerry — are hard at work on putting together plans and working to
implement.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Two questions.  First, in response to Kelly’s
question earlier, you reiterated the U.S.’s strong support for Jordan
and for King Abdullah as a strong ally.  Now, the reports about the
arrest of the deposed Crown Prince and 20 others are now 24 hours old. 
Has the President made any calls to the King in Amman reiterating that
support?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls to read out.  What I tried to convey
to Kelly was that those calls or those engagements would likely happen
out of the State Department at this point in time.

Q    All right.  The other thing on the infrastructure package: There is
a private memo that’s being circulated in the business community and to
some Republican senators that said that the $2.25 trillion price tag is
$1 trillion off, and that there’s many things in there that were omitted
in the initial discussion of the bill — notably, the $300 billion energy
tax credit, the $100 billion for the Green Bank — and that these things
would add $1 trillion to it.  This is being circulated on the Hill.  Do
you have any response to the charge that the President lowballed the
price tag on the infrastructure bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Sounds mysterious, the memo — the secret memo. 

Q    Well, confidential.

MS. PSAKI:  Are you saying — just so I understand your question, are you
saying there are things the President didn’t put in his proposal people
think he’s going to add to his proposal? 

Q    No, there’s things there that somebody went through it, or is
claiming to have gone through it, and added it up and came up with $1
trillion more than the President listed as the price tag.  So it is
actually $3.25 trillion as opposed to —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we laid out very specifically each component of the
package and how much we’re proposing.  So I would encourage you all to
get your calculators out and charge that up, and see how it compares to
the secret memo. 

Oh, wait — go ahead, in the back, and then we can come back around to
the front.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The CDC updated the COVID-related travel guidance
last Friday.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    Is the administration considering loosening some international
travel restriction?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to predict on that front.  Obviously,
that would be done by our health and medical experts, and we’d refer to
them for any timeline on the guidelines.

Q    And just a follow-up: Will you accept other vaccines that are
approved by other countries that’s not approved by FDA yet?

MS. PSAKI:  Will we accept them here in the United States?

Q    Yeah — as, like, qualified vaccines.

MS. PSAKI:  I may not be totally understanding your question.  We have —
we are — we have ordered supply from the three vaccines that have been
approved by the FDA.  That’s what we’re focused on distributing to the
American public.  So I would anticipate we continue to focus on the
vaccines that are FDA-approved. 

Go ahead.  You’ve been very patient.

Q    Thanks.  I just have a question that’s a follow-up to Kaitlan’s
question —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Sure.

Q    — on Emergent, and that’s about: What does it mean — now that J&J
is, sort of, taking over that facility wholesale, what does that mean
for the AstraZeneca vaccine?  And will it affect their ability to
manufacture here in the United States, or will that production
domestically now shrink?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we’re working with AstraZeneca to immediately
identify other facilities to continue their domestic manufacture of
AstraZeneca drug substance.  And several options are under
consideration.  As you know, it hasn’t been approved — AstraZeneca —
through the FDA yet.  Johnson & Johnson has, hence the importance of
Johnson & Johnson production continuing to be expedited. 

Q    Thanks.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.

Go ahead. 

Q    So, a SALT question.  Just trying to make certain I understand
where you are with taxation —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — on the individual level.  On Friday, in the President’s remarks
in the State Dining Room, he said, “I won’t raise a penny tax on a
family making less than $400,000 a year.”  Last week there were some
questions about this; you also included individuals.  So is it families,
joint filers, individuals?  Is that threshold determined?

MS. PSAKI:  It is — he will not raise taxes on any individual or family
making more than $400,000 a year.  We expect there’ll be more specifics
on what he’s proposing — some of the things that he’s talked about on
the campaign trail, as it relates to individuals, as we get closer to
the rollout of the Families Plan.

Go ahead.

Q    Was that me?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s you.

Q    Got it.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  And then —

Q    A quick one.  So, in California, as the school districts decide how
to reopen, the United Teachers of Los Angeles union, their members are
asking for free childcare for their own kids — for the teachers’ kids to
go back.  Does the White House think that that is something that they
should get?

MS. PSAKI:  I would point you to the State of California and the local
school districts to have those discussions.

Q    And then, just one more quick one on Georgia, to put a bow on it. 
Is the President going to change the way that he talks about the new
Georgia voting law?  Because in that interview that you referenced, he
said, the law would end voting “at five o’clock when working people are
just getting off.”  And he said it would end voting hours early so
working people can’t cast their vote after their shift is over. 

But the Washington Post gave that claim four Pinocchios because that
part of the law gives counties the option to extend voting hours.  And
so I’m just curious if the President is going to change the way that
he’s talking about it.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, fundamentally, the President doesn’t believe it should
be made harder to vote; he believes it should be easier.  And this bill
makes it harder to request and return an absentee ballot.  It collapses
the length of Georgia’s runoff election, making it harder for large
jurisdictions to offer early voting.  It imposes rigid new restrictions
on local officials’ ability to set polling hours to suit the needs of
voters in their county.  Those are all pieces of the bill. 

So his view is that we need to make it easier and not harder to vote,
and that will continue to be what he advocates for.

Q    But the thing he said has been determined by election law experts
to be not true.  So I’m just curious if he’s going to stop saying that.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think we can — the fact checkers will also
tell you that this bill does not make it easier for people across the
state of Georgia to vote, and that’s where he has concerns.

Go ahead.  Yeah. 

Q    On semiconductors, you’ve got this April 12th meeting up with —
coming up with senior officials, but also from industry.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Can you give us a list of companies that’ll be participating in
that? 

And then, there was a report out on Japanese media saying that the
President and the Japanese Prime Minister were working toward an
agreement of supply chain — shoring up the supply chain for
semiconductors.  Can you say anything more about what your — whether
there is some kind of agreement in the works and what you’re expecting
to come out of both of those meetings?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I expect when we get closer to the meeting, we
will have — and we have a confirmed list of participants, we will share
the list of companies and participants with you, but probably not until
we get much closer to that actual meeting. 

As it relates to Japan, as we’ve made clear, the U.S.-Japan alliance is
a cornerstone of peace, security, and prosperity in the region, and that
is one of the reasons why we’re working to deepen our close coordination
across a variety of areas, including supply chains, as Secretary of
State Blinken discussed with his counterpart last month. 

But in terms of specifics of those discussions and what’s possible in
the future, I just don’t have anything to preview for you at this point
in time.

Q    Sorry, can I just do one quick follow to Peter?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    The President does acknowledge that the new law doesn’t change
Election Day voting hours, right?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, Kaitlan, it also doesn’t expand them for early
voting, and makes early voting shorter.  So there are a lot of
components of the legislation he is concerned about, and that’s what he
was expressing.

Q    Right.  But does he — he does acknowledge that?

Because his comments had been confusing about closing it at 5:00 p.m.

MS. PSAKI:  That’s correct.

Q    So he does acknowledge that it doesn’t change the voting —

MS. PSAKI:  I think what’s important is to report on all of the
components that make it more difficult to vote in the package in the
legislation.

All right.  So, we have a special guest.  (Laughter.)  I will say that
we know that this is one of the events where people get to take their
children, family members, friends to.  And it’s not quite the same. 
We’ll do a big one next year, but we still wanted to have a visitor and
some special commemorative Easter eggs for all of you from — from the
President and the First Lady.

Q    Is the bunny taking questions?

MS. PSAKI:  Not today, but we’ll invite the bunny back for a future
briefing, as always.

But the bunny is wearing a mask.  Were you — take no — use every
opportunity.

Q    Is this the same bunny suit that Sean Spicer wore, do we know? 
(Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Uh, it does not look similar, but we’ll have to fact-check
that for you.  Different eyelashes.

Are we giving those out?

AIDE:  Yes, we’re going to save them with Chris.

MS. PSAKI:  All right.  Chris is going to be the bunny’s helper.  He
will be delivering eggs and make sure each of you get one and some
chocolates to take home to your loved ones.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

2:29 P.M. EDT
