---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 17:40:10-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/30/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-philadelphia-pa/
published_time: 2021-04-30 17:40:09-04:00
title: Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen Psaki Aboard Air Force One En Route Philadelphia,
  PA
---
 
1:13 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon.  Happy Friday.  Welcome to our trip to
Philadelphia to celebrate the 50th anniversary of Amtrak, a celebration
that is obviously close to the President’s heart.   
  
Two quick things at the top.  A new report released just yesterday by
the Institute on Taxation and Economic Policy found that the tax reform
proposals in the President’s American Families Plan would affect less
than 1 percent of U.S. taxpayers, even as they create a fairer tax
system.   
  
And as a reminder, the plan would also cut $800 billion in taxes for
lower- and middle-class Americans while making critical investments.  
  
On the week ahead. On Monday, the President and First Lady will travel
to Yorktown, Virginia, where they will visit schools as part of the
Getting America Back on Track Tour.   
  
On Tuesday, the President will deliver remarks on the COVID-19 response
and the state of vaccinations.  
  
On Thursday, he will travel for the fourth stop on the Getting America
Back on Track Tour. We’ll get details on that for you as soon as we have
them finalized.   
  
And, on Friday, he will deliver remarks on the economy.  
  
With that, Darlene.  
  
Q    Hi.  So, today, the CDC said that July 1st is a reasonable opening
day for New York City.  Does that affect the President — you know, he’s
talked about July 4th as being our freedom day from the virus.  Is there
any chance that he would move his timeline up to July 1st, given what
the CDC said?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, the CDC — as is the announcement today evidence
of — is constantly reviewing what is safe, what proposals are happening
in states, and what advice they can give broadly to the American
public.   
  
I expect the President will have more to say next week, and it will all
— as always, be based on the advice of our health and medical team.  But
our objective is to continue to provide advice, guidance, information to
the public about what is safe to do once they’re vaccinated.  
  
Q    So we can expect to hear more from him on Tuesday?  You said he’s
giving COVID remarks on Tuesday?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He can — you can expect more to hear from him next week, on
Tuesday, as I — as I mentioned — on our ongoing fight against the
pandemic.  And, of course, any advice and announcements he makes will be
based on the advice and counsel of our health and medical team.  
  
Q    Has the administration finished the North Korea policy review?  And
if so, what approach will they be taking?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure. I can confirm that we’ve completed our DPRK policy
review, which was thorough, rigorous, and inclusive.  We consulted
closely with outside experts and our predecessors from several previous
administrations, and our way forward draws from their lessons learned
and shared.   
  
Our goal remains the complete denu- — denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula. With a clear understanding that the efforts of the past four
administrations have not achieved this objective, our policy will not
focus on achieving a grand bargain, nor will it rely on strategic
patience.   
  
Our policy calls for a calibrated, practical approach that is open to
and will explore diplomacy with the DPRK, and to make practical progress
that increases the security of the United States, our allies, and
deployed forces.   
  
We have and will continue to consult with the Republic of Korea, Japan,
and other allies and partners at every step along the way.  
  
Q    When was the President briefed on the final review?  And has he
been speaking with allies since they’ve completed it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve been in close touch with allies and partners
through the process of the review.  And obviously, when he spoke — when
he met with Prime Minister Suga, just la- — two week — was it two weeks
ago? — two weeks ago, they discussed there and we’ve discussed at every
level as we’ve been conducting this review.  
  
Their input and also the approaches we’ve taken in the past have all
played a role in this effort.  Since — I don’t have — I’m not going to
have any details on when the President was r- — was briefed, but it’s
been an ongoing discussion.  
  
Q    Jen, are you planning to add a meeting between President Biden and
President Putin during the upcoming trip  
in Europe, in June?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As you know, the — that was a discussion the President had
during his call with President Putin, but I don’t have any updates on
the timing or of confirmation of the meeting at this point in time.  
  
Q    And if they do end up meeting, do you — what are they likely to
discuss?  Are there any — are there any dis- — anything you can share
with us on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I expect, if and when we have a meeting confirmed, we’ll
have more to talk about what an agenda would look like, but we’re not
quite there in the — at process yet.  
  
But broadly speaking, our focus is on ensuring we are working towards a
more stable and predictable relationship; that we raise concerns where
we have them, which we continue to have concerns, of course — including
about the detainment of Aleksey Navalny, including about military
buildup of troops on the border of Ukraine.   
  
But we also see there’s areas where we can work together on
denucleariza- — on Iran moving forward — on the Iran efforts —
diplomatic efforts as it relates to Iran through the P5+1.  
  
So I expect that to be in the pool of topics, but we’re not quite
there.  There’s not a meeting confirmed, nor a date or timeline.  If and
when there is, we’ll have more to say as we get close to it.  
  
Q  And I had a question on India as well.  Of course, the administration
announced $100 million in relief and assistance, and some of that is on
its way now to India.  Are there fresh talks with perhaps the private
sector?  I mean, what else — what more is the administration really
doing to help India?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me give you an update of what’s happened over the
last 24 hours.  So a military \[flight with USAID\] assistance
<s>flight</s> departed from Travis Air Force Base at 8:00 p.m. <s>last
night</s> \[April 28th\], with a cargo including 200 small oxygen
cylinders, 223 large oxygen cylinders, regulators, and pulse ox- —
oximeters.  I don’t — I don’t know what that is, but I will give you the
spelling.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Perfect.  Approximately 184,000 rapid diagnostic tests, and
a hu- — approximately 84,000 N95s.   
  
There’s a second military \[flight with USAID\] assistance <s>flight</s>
departed at midnight \[April 29\] with 17 large oxygen — oxygen
cylinders.  Both planes landed in India <s>today</s> \[over the last two
days\].  More will come.  
  
Secretary of State Tony Blinken called his counterpart to review ongoing
U.S. government efforts in support of the Indian government’s response. 
He also noted the outpouring of support from U.S. industries, our
ongoing discussions, nongovernmental institutions, and private
citizens.  
  
So we will continue to communicate with India about their needs, but
that’s an update of what we’ve just delivered in the last 24 hours.  
  
Q    Jen, the administration has been working with Central American
countries on the root causes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yep.  
  
Q    Can you give an update on any plans on providing vaccines to
countries such as Guatemala, Honduras, El Salvador who have requested
that kind of help?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, just as a reminder, we have made the decision,
of course, to provide — to — to provide 60 million doses over the coming
months of AstraZeneca because we don’t need that to address the pandemic
in our country.  
  
Right now, we have zero doses available.  We expect to have about 10
million doses available in the next couple of weeks, and then an
additional 50 million in the next few months.  There’s an ongoing
process through our national security and COVID and health teams right
now to determine the incoming requests, where the needs are around the
world, but we haven’t concluded that process quite yet.  
  
Q    A question from a colleague is asking that the United States has
been blocking a proposal, discussed at the WTO, to loosen <s>patient</s>
\[patent\] restrictions so that they can continue to manufacture some
vaccines.  Can you talk about that?  What is the plan?  Is there a
chance that the w- — that the United States will, kind of, lift those
restrictions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  So “patent” restrictions are you talking about?   Pat- —
patent?  Just to make sure.  
  
Q    I believe that’s correct.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  So what our objective is is to produce as much supply
for the global community as we can in a cost-effective manner.  And
there are a lot of ways to do that and considerations under way as we do
that.   
  
That could mean manufacturing more in the United States where we already
have facilities that are up and manufacture — and manufacturing these
vaccines.   
  
So, there hasn’t been a decision or recommendation that’s come yet from
USTR — and — one that’s come to the President, nor has been — there been
a decision made.   
  
But, our overall objective is to provide as much supply to the global
community and do that in a cost-effective manner.  And that’s our
consideration.  
  
Q    Jen, also, the number of minors in CBP detention facilities has
really gone down.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yep.  
  
Q    Does that mean — is the administration going to pull FEMA out of
that process of building up temporary HHS facilities, given hurricane
season is approaching?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  That’s an excellent question.  I think — I will check
with FEMA and check with our team to see if there’s a consideration of
that.  But right now, the work is ongoing.  As you know, there’s still
more work to be done.  Let me just provide, though, an update, since I
know you follow this closely, but just for others.   
  
So, as of a month ago, there were 5,667 \[sic\] — 5,767 children in CBP
custody.  There are now 954, as of new numbers that we’ve received.  As
of a month ago — or the end of March, I should say — there were — kids
were in CBP custody for about 133 hours; it’s now 28 hours.  So, there
has been some progress that has been made, as you referred to.   
  
There’s more work to be done.  We’re continuing to work to expedite kids
moving to family members and to sponsor homes.  But I will check in to
see if there’s any projected change in FEMA’s role.  
  
Q    Quick follow on that: So, there’s been reports by outlets as well
as organizations on the ground that the President’s Title 42 policy is
rapidly returning adults and some families to areas where the car- —
where cartel violence is rampant and kidnappings have been reported.  Is
the White House talking to the government of Mexico about addressing
those kidnappings that are happening as a result of the Title 42
policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, that those diplomatic
conversations would likely happen through counterparts at the State
Department.  That’s where the channels would happen.  There — obviously,
there’s also a call, I know, that Vice President Harris has scheduled
with the Mexican President, I think, next week; I will double check
that.   
  
But, the Title 42 policy is a public health policy meant to keep the
American people safe.  Obviously, our objective is to work in close
coordination with the Mexican government, with governments in Central
America to help address root causes.  We’ve obviously provided a great
deal of humanitarian and other assistance, but we’re going to continue
to discuss that through diplomatic channels.   
  
Q    Jen, how concerned is the White House about vaccine misinformation,
given what happened with Joe Rogan this week?  And can you talk about
what you’re doing to counteract that?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that our approach is to provide and flood
the zone with accurate information.  Obviously, that includes combating
misinformation when it comes across.   
  
But that’s one of the reasons that we have invested — we’re in the
process of investing $3 billion across the country in public campaigns. 
That includes empowering and funding programs at the local level, but it
also includes paid media.  It includes work that we’re doing through
social media channels as well, so that we can be the deliverers of
information and accurate information to the communities across the
country.  
  
Q    Do you foresee — you know, beyond what you’ve already announced
about addressing vaccine hesitancy — announcing further steps in the
future or doing more things to address it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  To address vaccine confidence or —  
  
Q    Vaccine hesitancy or just increased — like, the targeting that
you’re doing, especially with people that might be susceptible to, you
know, misinformation.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  We’re always evaluating what’s most effective.  We
look at the data, how communities are impacted by information that’s
being shared with them, where we see a downtick in communities being
open to taking the vaccine — or an uptick.   
  
The good news is that, according to recent polling, that in December the
— only about 30 percent — or just over 30 percent of the public were
open to taking the vaccine, and now it’s in the 60s.   
  
So, we’ve seen an increase in confidence.  We’ve also seen an increase
in confidence among communities that had a higher level of hesitancy. 
But, we will continue to make determinations about what the public
campaign should look like, what information should be disseminated and
distributed through our local partners as well.   
  
Q    Jen, the President of Mexico said today that the U.S. is
considering about — considering sending five — 5 million AstraZeneca
doses to Mexico alone.  Is that accurate?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will have to check with our team on that.  I had not heard
that report internally.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then are — is there any move to think about placing any
travel restrictions on travel to and from India, given the COVID
outbreak that’s happening there?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re always evaluating what steps need to be taken in order
to keep the American people safe, but I don’t have an update on that at
this moment.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, everyone.  Be safe.  
  
1:26 P.M. EDT
