---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-20'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 19:49:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/20/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-20-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-20 20:15:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 20,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:08 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Good afternoon.  All right, Secretary Fudge would have been
impressed with that response this morning.  (Laughter.)  We’re all
awake.  
  
A couple of items for all of you before we get started.  This afternoon,
the President will take a virtual tour of a Proterra electric bus and
battery manufacturing plant in Greenville, South Carolina.  He’ll be
joined by the Republican Mayor of Greenville, Knox White — of
Greenville.  Knox White is his name.  Sorry.  Undersca- — underscoring
the bipartisan support for the clean energy infrastructure investments
in the American Jobs Plan.  
  
During the visit today, the President will make three stops around the
manufacturing plant and speak to employees about different aspects of
the company’s work, including battery installation, body assembly, and
final inspection of the buses.  
  
The American Jobs Plan includes a total of $45 billion to accelerate the
adoption of zero-emission transit buses and school buses to achieve the
President’s goal for all U.S.-made buses to be zero-emissions by 2030. 
This includes $25 billion for zero-emissions transit vehicles and $20
billion for electric school buses.  
  
There are currently 475,000 yellow school buses — that sounded like a
lot to me — that serve 25 million children, and 95 percent of them are
powered by diesel.  And there are addition- — are nearly 85,000 transit
vehicles, including buses, that still run on diesel or gas, which are
linked to asthma and other health problems that hurt our communities.  
  
So replacing these buses with clean technologies will create good jobs,
support domestic manufacturing, tackle a major source of greenhouse gas
emissions, and improve the health for many around the country.  
  
Also, this morning, the — our COVID Coordinator, Jeff Zients, had his
weekly call with governors.  He announced that this week, 28 million
doses will go out across channels, with the vast majority going to
jurisdictions.  This is consistent with last week’s allocation.  
  
He also reminded the governors that there is a significant amount of
vaccine supply in the system and the federal government stands ready to
help states put shots into arms as quickly as possible.  
  
With that, Jonathan, why don’t you get us started.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just a few minutes ago in the Oval Office, the
President spoke about the trial of the Minneapolis Police officer, Derek
Chauvin.  And he says, quote, “I’m praying the verdict is the right
verdict.”  And then he says, “I think it’s,” quote, “overwhelming, in my
view.”  So, I have a couple questions on this if we could start
there.   
  
What precisely did the President mean?  What is “overwhelming”?  And
does this mean the President thinks the police officer should be
convicted on all counts?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has clearly been watching the trial
closely, as many Americans have been.  He was also moved by — he is
moved — he was moved by his conversations with the family yesterday.  He
knows the family.  And as somebody who has been impacted by grief
himself, that was a large part of their conversation — the conversation
he had just yesterday.  
  
As he also noted, the jury is sequestered, which is why he spoke to
this.  But I will — would expect that he will weigh in more — further
once there is a verdict.  And I’m not going to provide additional
analysis on what he meant.   
  
Q    You’re not able to clarify what is “overwhelming” — the evidence,
the case presented by the prosecution?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not going to get ahead of the outcome.  I expect when
there is a verdict, he will have more to say.   
  
Q    And will you — as you say, the President made note that he only
spoke out today because the jury was sequestered.  But, of course,
everyone else in Minneapolis and around the country could hear what he
said; they’d be in a position to hear what he said today.  We know there
are worries about unrest.  Is there now concern that the President’s
words could add to that if the, quote, “right verdict” is not reached?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that, regardless of the outcome,
the President has consistently called for peace.  And our focus, as
we’re working with state and local authorities, is on providing the
space for peaceful protest.  And that will be consistent regardless of
what the outcome of this verdict — of the verdict is.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then one more on this.  The judge overseeing the case
was pretty — in pretty harsh language, yesterday, sort of asked
politicians to not weigh in on the matter.  Is there concerns now that
this — the President’s comments — could be grounds for an appeal or even
causing a mistrial?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I wouldn’t — I think those were comments the judge
made yesterday.  Again, the jury is sequestered, which the President
also noted in his comments.  He certainly is not looking to influence,
but he has been touched by the impact on the family.  Hence, he called
the family yesterday and had that discussion.  And again, I expect he
will weigh in further once there is a verdict.  
  
Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just to follow up, the President has talked about
the importance of an independent judiciary.  Why is it appropriate for
him to weigh in on the verdict even though the jury is secluded?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t think — I don’t think he would see it as weighing
in on the verdict.  He was conveying what many people are feeling across
the country, which is compassion for the family, what a difficult time
this is — what a difficult time this is for many Americans across the
country who have been watching this trial very closely.   
  
The jury is sequestered.  That is different from where things stood just
yesterday, and he noted that in his comments as well.   
  
Q    He did call for the “right verdict,” though.  Why is it ever
appropriate to have any type of characterization before the jury has a
say, especially for the President of the United States?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, we’re going to wait for the jury to come to their
conclusion, and that is when he will have more extensive remarks about
the outcome.   
  
Q    This administration, this President has been very clear in
condemning rhetoric that it sees as adding to a climate of discord.  Is
it a double standard to not condemn or speak out against the comments by
Maxine Waters, even if she didn’t mean to imply violence?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the congresswoman has provided
further clarification of her own remarks, and I would certainly point
you to that.  
  
And if we’re looking — in this scenario, we’re looking at a family who
has lost someone.  They’ve just watched a trial.  They’ve seen the video
play over and over and over again.  Families across the country have
watched the trial, watched the video played over and over again.   
  
Clearly, the impact of trauma and the exhaustion is on communities of
color around the country more than it is on others.  And the President
recognizes this is an extremely painful issue and, of course, you know,
sympathizes with everyone who feels the grief of George Floyd’s passing
as well as the killings of so many other people of color at the hands of
law enforcement.   
  
And, you know, I think having a conversation with his family yesterday —
you know, as someone who has been through trauma himself — that was a
big part of their conversation, as I — I believe, George Floyd’s brother
also conveyed.  You know, you feel it — you feel it deeply in your
heart, and I think that his comments were a reflection of that.   
  
Q    And, very quickly, I know there was a lot of focus on trying to get
the George Floyd legislation passed in the Senate.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    It’s passed through the House.  Where does that stand?  And will
the President move that effort up in terms of his list of priorities,
particularly as he approaches his 100th day in office?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that addressing policing across the
country, addressing what he feel — racial injustice — what he feels is
one of the four major crises we’re facing as a country continues to be a
top priority for the President.  And certainly, moving the George Floyd
bill forward  
through the Senate — the President would be eager to have that happen
and eager to sign that bill into law.  And he is not only kept abreast
of it, he remains engaged in it with his team here and also directly.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, Josh.   
  
Q    May I ask you about —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, I’ll come back to you, Kristin.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    May I ask for an update on the President’s goal to reopen schools? 
Is his goal still, by the end of this month, to have a majority of
K-to-8 schools open at least one day a week?  And if so, does he think
he’ll hit that goal?  And to what extent is the administration worried
by some of the more recent outbreaks we’ve seen among older-age students
tied to these new variants of the virus?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, our goal remains to have the majority of
schools open five days a week.  And that is certainly something that is
being led — that effort — by our Secretary of Education, and they’ve
been providing regular updates.  There’s numbers that we look at on a
month-to-month basis.  We remain confident we can reach that goal.   
  
There are also, because of the CDC steps that they put out publicly — it
seems like months ago; maybe weeks ago is more accurate to say — we know
that those measures are effective and they can help mitigate risk in
schools.    
  
And our Department of Education and also, of course — is looking — is
working very closely with schools on implementing those and ensuring
kids can be safe.  But we remain confident about our path to reaching
that goal.   
  
Q    You’re pleased with the progress so far?  To what extent are you
concerned that rolling closures are going drag into the fall?  This is a
core promise of the President to get schools open where he can.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  And it remains a core promise.  It remains
something that his Secretary of Education is leading the effort on.   
  
I think the last data we’ve seen was from February, I believe — because
of the reporting requirements — which showed that there was an increased
number of schools that had — were open, and also an increased number of
schools that were open five days a week.  And so we feel we’re on the
right track.   
  
And these mitigation measures — including wearing masks, including
taking steps to provide social distancing opportunities, the money
that’s going out the door to schools and school districts that need that
assistance — are going to help us continue to make progress.   
  
Q    Okay.  And with regards to your comment around the call with
governors today: As you know, of course, the production of J&J has been
relying on that one plant in Baltimore coming up.  J&J is now no longer
citing its goal of delivering 100 million doses by the end of June. 
They’re saying they’ll deliver 100 million, but they’re not saying
when.   
  
How does this impact the President’s goal?  Of course, it was the
availability of those shots that led him to say that every American who
— there would be enough shots for every American by the end of May. 
What is his current goal?  And do you think that that plant will be
online soon, given the FDA’s involvement?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, of course, that’s going to — the second part of your
question, of course — it’s going to require FDA approval.  As you know,
there’s a meeting on Friday to determine what’s next as it relates to
J&J.  And, hopefully, we’ll learn more then.  We’ll see.   
  
But our goal — we remain confident in our ability to meet the needs that
we feel will be out there in the public by the end of May and we will
have enough vaccine for every American by the end of July without J&J. 
That is based on the supply that we’ve ordered from Moderna and
Pfizer.   
  
And Pfizer, as I know you’ve probably seen, has also announced that they
are going to work on expediting their own manufacturing and delivery of
their vaccine.  So we are confident we’ll be able to meet the demand in
the public.   
  
Now every American over 16 is eligible to receive the vaccine.  And our
focus is on encouraging — continuing to encourage people to get shots in
their arms.  
  
Q    And, sort of, one other quick one.  There was a report yesterday in
the Journal that the administration is considering reducing the amount
of nicotine that could be in cigarettes and also restricting or banning
menthol cigarettes altogether.  Is that something you can update us on,
about whether the administration favors either of these positions?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — I have seen the report, of course.  I don’t have
any policy previews — proposals to preview today.   We will review a
range of policy options in line with the President’s public health
goals.  But to reiterate, there are no policy proposals or decisions to
review today.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  One more question about the comments for
Congresswoman Waters.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    The House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy is accusing her of
inciting violence.  And then you had the judge, yesterday, calling her
words “abhorrent” and saying that she was being disrespectful of the
rule of law.  I just want to be very clear here: Does the White House
condone the Congresswoman’s comments?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, again, that the Congresswoman
clarified her own comments.  And what I can do is speak for the
President’s view, which is that it’s important to provide a space and an
opportunity for peaceful protest.  But protesting should be peaceful;
that’s something he has consistently advocated for, and he will
regardless of the outcome of the trial.  
  
Q    But she was calling on some protesters to perhaps get more
confrontational on the streets.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And she’s had additional comments since then, right?   
  
Q    Yes.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.   
  
Q    She has.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Which provided additional clarification.   
  
Q    But I guess my question is: Does the White House believe that those
kinds of comments are helpful in the middle of this trial that everybody
knows could lead to more violence and unrest?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I can speak to what the President’s point of
view is, which is that it’s important to provide an opportunity for
peaceful protest.  That’s what he’s continued to advocate for, what he
has consistently advocated for.   
  
But I would also say that when somebody provides a clarification for
their comments, that’s an important context to include in anybody’s
reporting.  
  
Q    I’d also like to ask a question about — since this is 4/20 and —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — Senator Chuck Schumer said from the Senate floor — he called it
the “unofficial American marijuana holiday.”  And he said that he now
supports legalizing marijuana on a national level.  Is this something
that President Biden would support?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President supports leaving decisions regarding
legalization for recreational use up to the states; rescheduling
cannabis as a Schedule II drug so researchers can study its positive and
negative impacts; and, at the federal level, he supports decriminalizing
marijuana use and automatically expunging any prior criminal records. 
He also supports legalizing medicinal marijuana.  So that’s his point of
view on the issue.   
  
Q    So if the House passed — the House and Senate pass a bill
legalizing marijuana at a federal level, would the President sign it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I just have outlined what his position is, which isn’t
the same as what the House and Senate have proposed, but they have not
yet passed a bill.   
  
Q    Okay.  One final —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Okay, go ahead.   
  
Q    Sorry, one final question, if I could.  Some people in prison on
marijuana charges are asking President Biden to keep his campaign
promise and release them.  Where is President Biden on keeping that
campaign promise?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think when I’m talking about resched- — rescheduling
cannabis as a Schedule II drug, so red- — that is also going to have an
impact on the criminal justice system as well.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  It’s clear the dividing lines on the traditional
infrastructure portions of the President’s job and infrastructure
package are the payfors.  And the President says he’s willing and open
to compromise.  Republicans seem willing to support new, higher — new
and higher user fees on — for Americans to use roads, bridges, and
airports.   
  
But the President has insisted that such fees violate his campaign
pledge not to raise taxes on Americans earning less than $400,000.  Is
the President’s idea of compromise just adjusting the corporate tax
rate, or is he willing to budge on these user fees?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President’s pledge — which you touched on,
which he outlined on the campaign and he has reiterated since — is that
he’s not going to raise taxes on people making <s>over</s> \[under\]
$400,000 a year.  He’s not going to budge on that pledge.  So that is a
line in the sand for him.   
  
But this package and this proposal is really about creating millions of
jobs.  It’s about investing in and modernizing our nation’s
infrastructure.  It’s about ensuring that caregivers have the support
that they need.  It’s about providing broadband access to Americans
across the country and leveling the playing field.  That’s what the
discussion should be about.   
  
He believes it should be paid for, and there are really two options:
Either you put the — put the burden on the backs of corporations that
can afford to pay more, or you put the burden on the backs of the
American people.  He’s happy to have a debate about that particular
issue.   
  
Q    Democratic lawmakers are calling on the Biden administration to
scrutinize potential back — bank mergers more aggressively, arguing the
Justice Department has approved too many, leading to higher fees for
consumers and reduced access.  Is the White House looking at this
issue?  And does it share those lawmakers’ comments, concerns?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve certainly seen the comments, and the President
supports competitive markets and thinks robust competition is good for
consumers and for innovation.  He has appointed and will continue to
appoint highly qualified people who are focused on vigorously enforcing
our antitrust laws.  That’s his — one of his objectives he looks at.  Of
course, the Department of Justice was — which handles these mergers, in
collaboration with the banking agencies — are probably the right sources
to look to for additional content or comment.  
  
Q    Sure.  And last question: There have been at least three fatal
crashes attributed to U.S. Tesla drivers using autopilots.  The NTSB has
urged regulators to be more aggressive in overseeing that technology. 
Is the White House engaged on this issue?  And do they share the opinion
of the NTSB?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know the Department of Transportation, as you noted,
is aware of these incidents involving Tesla vehicles and that the
National Highway Trans- — Traffic Safety Administration, otherwise known
as, well, NHTSA, immediately launched a special crash investigation team
to investigate the crash.   
  
They’re actively engaged with local law enforcement and Tesla to learn
more about the details of the crash and will take appropriate steps when
they have more information.  And, of course, they remain in touch, as
appropriate, with our teams on the gro- — and teams in the White
House.  
  
Q    Sure, but does the White House have any concerns or anything
specific —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s appropriate for it to be handled through NHTSA
and NTSB, so that’s where it’s being handled.   
  
Go ahead, Kaitlan.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Yesterday, you said the White House did not want to get
ahead of the jury’s deliberations, but, of course, the jury is still
deliberating.  So, what changed?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the jury is now sequestered, which is a significant
change.  And certainly, we want to allow them the space and time to
consider and make a decision about what they believe the verdict should
be.   
  
Q    Does the President still feel that he can come out after the
verdict and, regardless of what it is, tell people to accept it, given
he’s weighed in on what he thinks the verdict should be?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think anybody who’s been watching the
President — and you guys are probably tired of me saying that his
position is that he believes there should be space for peaceful
protest.  He’s been consistent in that.  That will be his point of view,
regardless of the outcome.   
  
That is what we’ve been communicating publicly, but also locally to
mayors, to governors, to local law enforcement as we’re communicating in
preparation.  So that’s consistently been his view.  And he’ll continue
to advocate that regardless of the outcome.   
  
Q    And so what made him want to weigh in today on this before the
verdict has come down?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think he was asked a question if I — if I — if I
followed it closely.   
  
Q    That was my question.  It was — I asked him what his message was —
was for the Floyd family, not what his — what he thought the verdict
should be.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, Kaitlan, you know, he, obviously, has been
following this trial quite closely, as many Americans have been.  He has
been — was obviously impacted by his conversation with the Floyd family
yesterday, as somebody who has lived through loss and trauma himself.   
  
And he certainly has his mind and his heart on — on what is happening
around the country, as people are digesting and watching these videos
and watching this trial go forward.   
  
So he knows that the jury is sequestered, as he noted in his comments,
which is certainly a different place from where it was yesterday.   
  
Q    And who is he consulting with about what his response should be
after the verdict does come down?  I know we talked about speaking with
state officials and local authorities, but who is — who are his advisors
that he’s speaking with about the right way to respond to the verdict,
regardless of what it is?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think that’s something that will come from the
President’s heart, and he will be prepared to speak to it in some form
or another — I don’t want to get ahead of what that format will look
like — when we know what the verdict looks like.  
  
Q    Okay.  And my last question: The U.S. Ambassador to Russia is now
coming home for, quote, “consultations” —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — of course, amid a pretty tense week with Russia.  Is he going to
be meeting with the President?  And can you confirm that, yes, he will
be going back to Russia?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, that is absolutely the intention.  He’s returning home
this week to visit his family — he hasn’t been home in about a year, I
believe; meet with members of the new administration with whom he has
not had a chance to consult with since he agreed to continue serving in
his post.   And he’ll return to Moscow soon.    
  
Q    Does that include the — a meeting with the President, though?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — I’m not — I’m not aware of that being on the
schedule, but it’s primarily to meet with new members of the team as the
administration has turned over and there’s new personnel at the State
Department, on the national security team, et cetera.    
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    Yes.  The President spoke with the Floyd family yesterday.  He
talked about the trial today.  What does he see as his role or
responsibility as President during these deliberations and then,
perhaps, as a verdict comes down?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, one, the President, as I’ve noted a little
bit in response to some earlier questions, is certainly — was touched by
and impacted by his conversation with the Floyd family yesterday.  He
met with them last year.  It’s a family he feels he knows a little bit,
and he is somebody who has been through a trauma and lost, himself.  
  
And so, if you put all the politics aside and all the — everything else,
that’s something that is an immediate, unfortunate bond between people
who have lost family members.    
  
He also understands this is an extremely painful moment for many people
in this country who are exhausted, who are tired of seeing one person
after another lose their life at the hands of law enforcement.  He’s —
he’s aware of that and the need for reform.  
  
So, I would say, you know, I’m not going to get ahead of what the
outcome is or what the verdict is.  And I would expect you’ll hear some
comment from the President; I don’t know what format that will look
like.  We’ll have to see what the verdict is once that is — that the —
it is concluded — the jury has made their decision, and that is
concluded.   
  
And we’ll see what his role is moving forward.  He’ll continue to call
for calm.  
  
Q    Okay.  And what is the — the White House’s goals for the Climate
Summit later this week?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    And were they pleased to hear that Vladimir Putin would be speaking
at it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  Well, we invited him to attend, as we did 39
other global leaders.  So, I would say, first, we’re going to have a
call — a briefing call later this evening to give you all a better
rundown of the schedule, the speaking — and what is planned for speaking
at the summit.  So I know there’s been kind of a mix of reporting out
there, but we’ll give you more of a full rundown later this evening.    
  
But the President’s goal is really to convene the world’s major
economies and other key voices to galvanize efforts to keep the vital
goal of limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius within reach.  And we
know we have had some backstep on that, which the United States has been
certainly a part of over the last couple of years.  We have a role to
play; he’ll certainly talk more about that.  
  
But during the summit, leaders will discuss mobilizing public- and
private-sector financing to drive the net-zero transition and to help
vulnerable countries cope with climate impacts.  Obviously, the world’s
larger economies, as you all know, have — have a sometimes greater
responsibility for themselves, but also in — for some other econ- — for
economies that are not as economically advanced in helping address these
issues.  
  
And he’ll also talk about — it’s an opportunity to also talk about the
economic benefits of climate action with a strong emphasis on job
creation and the importance of ensuring all communities and workers
benefit from this transition.  
  
So that’s — he’ll be talking about that, but it’s really an opportunity
and a forum to talk about how, as a global community, we can all come
together to address what he sees as one of the four crises of his
presidency.  
  
Q    Was Putin’s involvement important given the tensions between the
two nations right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for any large economy and
developed nation to participate in a climate summit because the world’s
largest emitters are of- — also, for the most part, aligned with the
world’s largest economies or the most populated countries.  And so —
hence, those are the people who are invited.   
  
And it just sends a message about the recognition that addressing
climate is — addressing the climate crisis is something that, even when
you have agreement — disagreements about other areas, you can — we can
agree on that.  
  
Q    Do we know if Xi Jinping will participate as well?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I believe that almost every leader who was invited is
attending, but they’ll give you more of a rundown of that later this
evening and a more detailed rundown of the speaking program as well.    
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Go ahead, Francesca.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  You just suggested that the format that the
President’s remarks would take after the Chauvin trial could depend on
the outcome of the trial.  The President hasn’t delivered a speech yet,
though, on race relations or policing.  So why not — and why wouldn’t
immediately after this trial, regardless of what the outcome is, be the
time for him to do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, again, that addressing race
relations and improving equity in this country is central to his
presidency and central to his focus every day.  And his actions, his
policies certainly play that out.    
  
I’m not going to get ahead of what the outcome of the trial will be. 
And I’m cer- — I’m just attempting to set an expectation about that —
that we’ll decide what’s appropriate and what the country needs to hear
once we know the verdict and once we see the outcome.    
  
Q    You also said that he’d been engaged directly on policing reform
legislation.  Has the President picked up the phone and called it any
Senate Republicans, such as Republican Senator Tim Scott, about policing
reform legislation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls to read out for you, but I can tell
you that, in his conversations with Democrats and Republicans — and he’s
spoken with many of both — he talks about a range of issues.    
  
I’ll also say that a lot of the work on the George Floyd Act is
happening on the Hill.  And the negotiations between members of the
Senate — you referenced Senator Scott; obviously, Senator Booker is
playing a vital role — they’re going to have to work together with other
members of the House to determine where there can be agreement and what
an outcome can look like and if they can come to agreement on that.    
  
That’s the status.  The President would love to have a bill come to his
desk so he can sign it into law.  
  
Q    But, last summer, policing legislation stalled because they
couldn’t come to a consensus on issues like qualified immunity, no-knock
warrants, as well as bans on chokeholds.  So what is the President’s
position on qualified immunity?  And does he think that Democrats should
agree to pass legislation that perhaps doesn’t ban no-knock warrants or
ban chokeholds, but would restrict their use in some capacity, such as
limiting federal funding or something like that, in order to get
Republican support for that bill and get a bill passed into law?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re going to allow Democrats and Republicans in the
Senate to negotiate amongst themselves about what they think a final
outcome or a final agreement could be.  And we’re certainly hopeful that
they’ll make progress in that, and the President is eager to sign
policing reform legislation into law.  
  
And, certainly, we recognize it stalled last year.  There’s been work
since then, and we’re hopeful that the President will be able to sign a
law.  
  
I can tell you that there are a number of steps that he has taken that
he can take as President and his Department of justice can take.  And
during the campaign, he emphasized the importance of the Department of
Justice using the authority he spearheaded as a senator to investigate
systemic police misconduct.  That doesn’t have to wait for Congress to
act.    
  
And, last week, Attorney General Garland reversed a Trump administration
memo that limited the use of consent decrees with respect to
investigation of police departments.    
  
The President also pledged to appoint DOJ leadership that would
prioritize pattern-or-practice investigations.   He has two critical
nominees pending who would do exactly that: Vanita Gupta and Kristen
Clarke.    
  
He, of course, supports, as I already noted, the George Floyd Act.   He
has also called, in his initial budget, for increasing funding for the
Department of Justice’s Civil Rights Division by millions of dollars in
order to advance accountability and reform for abusive police
practices.  
  
And, finally, multiple states have taken action.  Is it enough?  No,
it’s not enough.  He wants to sign federal legislation into law.  But
his own administration has taken steps, even while that legislation is
working through the negotiations that happen in Congress.  
  
Q    But do you have — and I know you need to move on.  But can you
share with us what the President’s position is on qualified immunity,
no-knock warrants, or chokeholds?  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything new to share with you from what he had
said on the campaign trail.  I’m happy to provide that after; I’m sure
you’re familiar with his views.  
  
Go ahead.    
  
Q    All right.  Thank you, Jen.  Following up a little bit on a
question earlier — President Biden still opposes the legalization of
marijuana.  You’ve outlined what he does support, but why does he still
oppose taking this step?  At this point, public polling indicates about
two thirds of Americans support legalizing marijuana.  The Senate Leader
and his own party, obviously, is pushing for it.   Huge numbers of
elected Democrats in many of the states are pushing forward with
marijuana legalization.  Why is he reluctant to sort of take that final
step and support legalization?    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know from covering this, rescheduling cannabis
as a Schedule II drug would allow for research- — researchers to study
its positive and negative effects.   He wants to look at that.  
  
He, of course, supports decriminalizing marijuana use, he supports
leaving decisions up to the states, and he supports legalizing medicinal
marijuana.  But he’ll look at the research once that’s concluded.  
  
Q    But right now he’s still reluctant to — why is he still reluctant
to support legalization, despite the movement that’s happening towards
it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, he — of course, we understand the movement that’s
happening toward it.  I’m speaking for what his position is and what’s
long — consistently been his position.  
  
He wants to decriminalize, but, again, he’ll look at the research of the
positive and negative impacts.  
  
Q    And then, on a related note, yesterday the House passed the SAFE
Banking Act, which is meant to — in states where cannabis is legal — let
businesses use the banking system legally there.  I noticed that bill
passed with a very big bipartisan majority; half of the Republicans
supported it.  There was no statement of the administration policy on
that bill.  Does the President support it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a good question, Kevin.  I’ll have to check on it,
and we’ll get you a comment after the briefing.  I’m happy to.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  On refugee policy, you were asked on April 1st about
why refugee flights haven’t continued and the President not raising caps
on refugees.  And you were asked whether it had anything to do with the
situation on the border.  You said, quote, “No, no, it’s not related to
that.”   
  
Now, of course, the President referenced the border directly in his
explanation over the weekend.  You mentioned it yesterday.  So how do
you square those two explanations: previously saying the border was not
a factor and then now saying that it is?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me walk you back a little bit to the last few
months.  I will do this briefly, I promise.  Josh’s eyes are glazing
over here as he’s — (laughter) — I’m just kidding.  As he’s — he’s
worried how long I’m going to talk here.   
  
I’ll first say, during the transition, Sean, we obviously — we took a
look at how — what had happened over the last few years and how we could
set a more aspirational, larger goal of — so we could welcome more
refugees into the country.  And we set a big, aspirational goal, which
we remain committed to, which is welcoming in 125,000 refugees by the
end of the fiscal year, next year.  
  
And the President announced that, and he announced that we want to get
to — we want a down payment on that, I should say — 62.5 thousand by the
end of this fiscal year.   
  
Now, a couple of things have happened in the last several weeks, and
some of that was happening deep in the policy wells.  And sometimes it
takes some time for that to be communicated more broadly within the
administration, including the fact that the — you know, the impact on
ORR — the Office of Refugee Resettlement — of having — of course, of
welcoming in — delivering on a decision the President made to treat
children, as they come across the border, humanely and ensure they are
treated in a safe manner — has a — has a weigh on the system, including
the Office of Refugee Resettlement, including personnel, and including
funding.   
  
That is a factor, but that — some of that decision-making is — is
happening in, kind of — people — you know, at the Office of Refugee
Resettlement in ways that maybe, you know, I wasn’t communicated to
about it at that time.  But it happened over the last couple of
weeks.   
  
And in that time, I should say, this month — so just this month, so
recently — probably since I made those comments — HHS transferred $850
million from the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund, and
$287 million from other departmental accounts to the Unaccompanied
Children Program in order to ensure we can treat kids with humanity and
ensure they’re safe.   
  
These transfers were made using the HHS Secretary’s standing transfer
authority and have no impact, necessarily, on the refugee program, but
it’s funding from the of- — the same office.  And the President’s
responsibility is to look across government, look across resources — and
his team is — and see where there is a capacity and where resource
assessments need to be made.  
  
Q    So are you saying that the border has emerged as a factor in the
last 20 days?  I mean, even before April 1st, we we’re already seeing an
increase in the number of migrants arriving at the border and the
strains it was presenting to the system.  Are you saying the border was
not a factor back then at all in thinking about refugee policy?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me bring you behind the curtains of how
policymaking works: You assess, over time, and you look, over time, at
your systems, your resources, your processes, what — what changes need
to be made within government to address issues as they’re arising.   
  
And, certainly, we’ve seen, of course, there’s been a number of
unaccompanied children, a need to reopen shelters or open shelters
across the country.  Taking care of children and doing it in humane way
is — costs money, and that’s something that has certainly had an
impact.   
  
But a big part of — as we looked at and assessed challenges here, the
primary obstacle to reaching the goal has been the decimation of the
Refugee Admission Program under the prior administration.  And, as you
know, there is — there is part when refugees arrive and they are
resettled and provided benefits by the — by ORR.   
  
There is also the vetting process that takes place, and — through our
State — our State Department.  This was all decimated under the last
administration, and we had to make an assessment of that as well.   
  
That happens over a progressive period of time.  There’s not a magic day
when you wake up and you — and an alarm bell goes off.  You have to
assess over time what the needs are and make changes as needed.  
  
Q    And real quick: Why did you guys identify May 15th as, sort of, the
horizon for when you would announce a new cap on (inaudible).  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I expect it will actually be sooner than that.  And we were
always going to be assessing what — what our resources, our capacity
would allow for and — but I expect it will be before May 15th.  It’s
approximately a month from last Friday.  
  
Q    May I just pick a prerogative with my always unglazed-over eyes and
just follow up on this issue, because it’s an important issue.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, go ahead.  
  
Q    Why not just raise the cap to your promise?  The cap is just that:
It’s a cap.  It’s not a guarantee.  You’re not requiring that number of
people to come in through the program.  Why keep the cap lower, you
know, and back this promise?  Progressives, of course, were skeptical of
this President early on and through the primary.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    They’re saying that this is a broken promise — arguably, his first
big one of this administration.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we’re actually going to set a cap — a large cap
soon.  And I expect it’s going to be before May 15th.  But, you know, I
think we wanted to — you’re right in the sense that the cap is just a
number.  Most oftentimes throughout history, you don’t reach the cap. 
The cap is just a number.  We could set the cap at 100,000 or a
million.   
  
It doesn’t really — we’re trying to send a message to the world that we
are — want to welcome in refugees, and that’s who we are as an
administration.  Hence, we wanted to provide greater clarity for what
our overall objectives were, even if they weren’t digested initially on
Friday.   
  
You know, I would say that, one, we’ll set that cap; two, we wanted to
assess — given the impacts of the decimation of the refugee admissions
program, the need to move some resources around — what’s possible — what
was possible.   
  
But we do want to set a large cap.  We do want to send a message to the
world that we remain committed to our objective.  We’ve always been
committed to the objective and the goal of 125,000 by next — next fiscal
year.  It’s really a question of how close we could get and what kind of
down payment we could do this year.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  So just point of clarification: When the President
said quote, “it’s overwhelming,” a few hours ago in the Oval Office, did
he mean the evidence against Derek Chauvin was overwhelming?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I’ve answered this question a couple of times.   
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    No, wait.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  You have another question?  
  
Q    I do.  Still on the same topic, but, as far as a response to the
verdict —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — is a trip to Minneapolis on the table, and would he consider
joining a demonstration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t — we’re not going to get ahead of what the
outcome or the verdict is.  And we’ll make an evaluation about what the
country needs at that point in time.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Hi.  So I know you just, in some ways, answered the question about
why, but I’m — I’m confused about why you won’t clarify what the
President said about the praying that the verdict is “right” and it
being “overwhelming.”  The President obviously volunteered this
information.  No one asked him for his opinion about the verdict.  Why
not say, “This is what the President meant”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Yamiche, I think, you know, our objective is to lea- —
the President was obviously, clearly impacted by his conversation with
the Floyds — the Floyd family — just yesterday.  He obviously has spoken
to the video, the trial, the events of last year when they happened at
the time.  And he is impacted by the exhaustion and the trauma that he’s
seen across the country over the last several weeks.  I think it was a
reflection of that.   
  
But again, we’re not trying to provide greater information about
predictions of a verdict.  We want to leave that to the jury to make
that determination.  They’re sequestered, so they obviously can’t hear
or listen to anything being said.   
  
But I just don’t — I’m not going to have more clarification for you.  
  
Q    So, put simply, is it wrong for Americans to see this as the
President saying he hopes the officer is going to be found guilty and
the evidence is overwhelming?  When people see that quote, is it wrong
for them to make that assumption that that’s what the President is
saying?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think what people should conclude is that the President,
like many Americans, has been deeply impacted by the trial.  He has been
deeply impacted by — he was deeply impacted by his conversation with the
Floyd family, yesterday.  That he understands that people are exhausted,
that they are tired, that — this type of violence and trauma we’ve seen
around the country and continue to see over the past couple of weeks. 
And hopefully, that’s what they take away from his comments.  
  
Q    And apart from what the verdict might be, I wonder if you could
speak a little bit to Americans who feel on edge, especially African
Americans who have seen so many verdicts, so many trials happen.  No
matter — whatever the outcome is, I wonder if the White House has a
message for people just feeling anxious about what comes after this
verdict?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, first, I would say that, you know, the
President sees their pain and understands or — and tries to understand
the trauma that people have been through across the country.  And he’s
watching the trial closely.  And I think he would want people to know
that he is working hard at making change possible.   
  
And I can — I walked through some of the steps that has been taken by
his Department of Justice.  He would love to sign the George Floyd bill
into law.  And that he also is here as a human being, and he sees their
pain, he recognizes their loss and their trauma, and he wants to put
reforms in place to help address it moving forward.  
  
Q    And Speaker Nancy Pelosi came to the defense of Representative
Waters.  Representative Waters, as you said, clarified — she said, my
actual “words don’t matter.”   
  
I wonder why the White House isn’t also coming to the defense of
Representative Waters, given the fact that she’s now facing an onslaught
of attacks, especially by — I would say — Republicans.  I wonder why the
White House isn’t saying, “We — we back what she said about being
confrontational.  She was obviously not threatening violence.”   
  
There are civil rights leaders that are saying, “That’s what contro- —
that’s what civil rights is, is to be confrontational, to be active.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, she could — she also clarified in her own remarks,
Yamiche, and I think that’s the most powerful piece to point to.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And one last question, if I could?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  
  
Q    The Arizona governor, he lifted the mask mandate on all public
schools in that state.  I wonder what the White House makes of that. 
Does the President support it?  Does he want to see other states do
that, or maybe does he not like the idea that that happened?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly recommend any state and governor follow
public health guidelines.  And masking and social distancing are — but
masking, specifically, since you asked about it, is one of the clear
steps that can be an effective mitigation measure, according to the CDC,
even as we’ve seen variants and even as we’ve seen upticks in some parts
of the country.  So, certainly it wouldn’t be a step that we would
support.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the Climate Summit, will there be any kind of joint statement at
the end of the summit?  Also will there be any bilateral meetings during
the summit?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There won’t be any bilateral meetings planned for the
summit.  But in terms of a joint statement at the end, I don’t have a
prediction of that.  I expect you’ll all learn more on the call later
this evening.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Also, during the meeting between President Biden and Prime Minister
Suga last Friday —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    — did they talk about the Fukushima wastewater issue? What is the
President’s view on this issue?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I believe we are having our team stay in touch and look at
it.  I don’t think that the steps are happening for a few years — if I’m
getting this correct — or a few months.  But I would — I would have to
check with our national security team and see if it was a point of
discussion.  
  
Go ahead, Scott.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So another question about today’s unofficial holiday,
which I think some of our colleagues are potentially celebrating. 
(Laughter.)  
  
So, as you might remember, one of President Trump’s final actions in
office was to grant clemency to a dozen people in federal prison who are
being held on marijuana charges.  But there still remain a lot more in
federal prison on marijuana charges — including Luke Scarmazzo, who was
sentenced to 22 years in prison for operating a legal medical marijuana
business in California.   
Given, as you’ve noted in the briefing, the President’s support for
decriminalization, support for expunging exactly these types of offenses
is — are there any plans to revisit some of those bids for clemency,
maybe in the honor of the holiday?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would just take it as an opportunity to reiterate
that the President supports legalizing medicinal marijuana — it sounds
like it’s applicable in this, or would have been applicable in this case
— and, of course, decriminalizing marijuana use and automatically
expunging any prior criminal records.   
  
In terms of individual cases, I can’t get ahead of those.  Obviously,
I’d have to — I don’t expect we would — just to expectation set.  I’m
happy to see if there’s anything more from our counsel’s office we can
share.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
1:51 P.M. EDT
