---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-27'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 16:37:42-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/27/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-32/
published_time: 2021-04-27 16:37:41-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
 12:17 P.M. EDT  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thank you for
joining us.  
  
We’re going to be moving our press briefing calls from three days per
week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday, going forward to twice per week
on Tuesdays and Fridays.  
  
As we enter the next phase of our COVID-19 response, transparency with
you is vital and you will continue to see this transparency in a variety
of formats.  We will continue to bring you updates on our progress; the
public health messages; and the stories behind the science, health
equity, and our efforts to improve confidence in and access to vaccines;
and of course, continue to take your questions.  
  
Joining me today are Dr. Walensky and Dr. Fauci.  I will turn to them
after I provide an update on some key areas of interest.   
  
We had a call today, as we do every Tuesday, with all of the governors. 
The call we had just now was led by Jeff Zients and health and medical
experts.  
  
On today’s call, we thanked the governors for their leadership to date,
which has helped us to deliver at least one shot to now more than 54
percent of all adults in the country.  We also outlined the path forward
as we move into the next phase of our vaccination program, where
everyone 16 and over is eligible to get vaccinated.   
  
Of particular interest on the call was a discussion on how to best to
help college students get themselves vaccinated.  This is a topic of
keen interest to governors because many students who are getting the
Moderna or Pfizer two-dose vaccine might need to get their second shot
at the location where they reside during the summer — often in another
state.   
  
We at the federal government strongly support the work of states to
focus on helping students to at least begin the vaccination process
during the remaining school year.  
  
College students lead lives that make physical isolation somehow a
little more challenging.  I say this with the knowledge of having one —
a college student, that is — as well as a recent graduate, now in his
20s.  And a vaccine seems like the best way not to battle their impulse
to socialize.   
  
So, we are very supportive of states in their effort to improve access
and make it even easier for their students to get their shots.   
  
To do our part, we shared with governors that we will be ensuring that
pharmacies in the federal pharmacy program do not have residency
requirements in place, so that students who do return home can get
their second dose in that home state.   
  
Now, in fact, most pharmacies administering shots will now
offer anyone a second dose regardless of where they got their first. 
This seems like a good opportunity to remind you to get your second shot
if it’s your time and if you haven’t.   
  
We also discussed this week’s vaccine allocation on the call.  This
week, nearly 30 million doses will go out across channels, with the vast
majority going to states, Tribes, and territories.   
  
And we reminded governors that the federal government stands ready to
help states put shots into arms as quickly as possible, and we continue
to conduct one-on-one sessions with their teams each day throughout the
week.   
  
I want to turn to the global situation and briefly address
the recent COVID-19 surge in India.  First of all, we stand with the
country of India during this very trying and tragic surge.   
  
Over the weekend, we shared that we are working to deploy resources and
supplies, including therapeutics, rapid testing kits, ventilators, PPE,
and raw materials that are needed to manufacture vaccines in India. And
CDC, which has a long history of working with and in India on public
health measures, will be deploying a Strike Team to the country to
support the public health efforts there.  We are committed to helping
India through this difficult time.   
  
In addition, yesterday, we announced that given the strong portfolio of
approved, highly effective, and safe vaccines here in United States, we
are looking at the options to share AstraZeneca vaccines with other
countries as they become available.  This should amount to around 60
million doses or so over the next two months.   
  
The AstraZeneca vaccine is highly safe and effective, and approved in
many parts of the world.  And since it is not approved for use in the
U.S., we do not need to use the AstraZeneca vaccine here during the next
few months.  We have sufficient supply of vaccines from Pfizer, Moderna,
and Johnson & Johnson to accommodate our needs in the U.S.   
  
In closing, before I hand it over to Dr. Walensky, vaccines are now
broadly available, accessible, and are located within five miles of 90
percent of Americans.  If you are 16 or above and have not been
vaccinated, the scenes around the world should help convince you that
now is the time.  Your risk from being unvaccinated is too high.  Please
make an appointment today.   
  
And, with that, I will turn it to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, and good afternoon.  And I’m so glad to be
back with you all again today.  Let’s begin with an overview of the
data.   
  
Yesterday, CDC reported over 34,600 cases of COVID-19.  Our seven-day
average is just over 54,400 cases per day, and this represents a really
hopeful decline of about 21 percent from our prior seven-day average. 
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is just over 5,100.  Again,
a positive sign, with a decrease of about 9 percent from the previous
seven-day period.  And the seven-day average of daily deaths also
declined to about 660 per day, a decrease of about 6 percent.  
  
Each day, more and more Americans are rolling up their sleeves and
getting vaccinated, and likely contributing to these very positive
trends.  We regularly share with you the benefits of vaccination, the
efficacy in preventing infection, and the decreases we see in
hospitalizations and deaths.  These are incredibly important benefits of
vaccination, and there are so many more.  
  
I know that the quarantine and shutdowns throughout the pandemic have
been exhausting.  I know that we all miss the things that we used to do
before the pandemic, and I know that we all want to get back to doing
those things that we love, and soon.   
  
Today is another day we can take a step back to the normalcy of before. 
Over the past year, we have spent a lot of time telling Americans what
they cannot do, what they should not do.  Today, I’m going to tell you
some of the things you can do if you are fully vaccinated.   
  
Again, as a reminder, the CDC defines “fully vaccinated” as 14 days
after your second dose of a Pfizer or Moderna vaccine, or 14 days after
your single dose of a J&J vaccine.  
  
Today, CDC is updating our recommendations for fully vaccinated people
and providing guiding principles and sample activities to give people
who are fully vaccinated a way to assess their own risk for COVID-19 and
determine what situations are safe.   
  
If you are fully vaccinated, things are much safer for you than those
who are not yet fully vaccinated.  This guidance will help you, your
family, and your neighbors make decisions based on the latest science
and allow you to safely get back to things you love to do.   
  
I am optimistic that people will use this information to take personal
responsibility to protect themselves and to protect others and, I hope,
will encourage people to get fully vaccinated.  
  
There are many situations where fully vaccinated people do not need to
wear a mask, particularly if they are outdoors, as shown by the graphic
on the right.  If you are fully vaccinated and want to attend a small
outdoor gathering with people who are vaccinated and unvaccinated or
dine at an outdoor restaurant with friends from multiple households, the
science shows, if you’re vaccinated, you can do so safely unmasked.  
  
On the CDC website, we have posted examples of numerous outdoor
activities that are safe to do without a mask if you are fully
vaccinated.  Generally, for vaccinated people, outdoor activities
without a mask are safe.  However, we continue to recommend masking in
crowded outdoor settings and venues, such as packed stadiums and
concerts, where there is decreased ability to maintain physical distance
and where many unvaccinated people may also be present.  We will
continue to recommend this until widespread vaccination is achieved.  
  
Now, let’s talk about what you can do indoors.  Here, again, we have
unvaccinated people and their risk on the left, where nothing has
changed.  Risk is indicated and masking is required.  We then show the
markedly decreased risk for vaccinated people on the right.  Given what
we know about COVID-19 vaccines and their efficacy, it is also safe for
those who are fully vaccinated to return to the activities they love
doing inside while wearing a mask.   
  
The guiding principles we released today and the illustrative examples
compare the safety of several activities if you are vaccinated or not,
and the difference is clear.  As we gather more and more data on the
real-world efficacy of vaccines, we know that masked, fully vaccinated
people can safely attend worship services inside, go to an indoor
restaurant or bar, and even participate in an indoor exercise class. 
Although these vaccines are extremely effective, we know that the virus
spreads very well indoors.  Until more people are vaccinated and while
we still have more than 50,000 cases a day, mask use indoors will
provide extra protection.  
  
The examples today show that when you are fully vaccinated, you can
return to many activities safely, and most of them outdoors and
unmasked, and begin to get back to normal.  And the more people who are
vaccinated, the more steps we can take towards spending time with people
we love doing the things we love to enjoy.  
  
I hope this message is encouraging for you.  It shows just how powerful
these vaccines are in our efforts to end this pandemic, and why we’re
asking everyone to roll up their sleeves and get vaccinated.   
  
The science is clear: The COVID-19 vaccines have been through many
transparent, rigorous processes that continue to prove they are safe and
effective.  
  
If you haven’t already, please get vaccinated.  In some communities, you
can find walk-up venues who have advanced appointments or where
appointments aren’t even necessary.  To see more details about what we
released today, including the evidence and science behind these
recommendations, and to learn more about the activities you can safely
do when you are fully vaccinated, please go to CDC.gov.  
  
Thank you, and I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:   Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend just
the next couple of minutes talking about the subject of variants and the
role of vaccination in protecting against variants.  
  
Can I have the first slide, please?  
  
So we’re going to look at evidence from clinical trials, and when they
are not available, from laboratory studies, as well as real-world
experience to indicate the degree of protection against variants of
interest or concern.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Here is a list, very familiar to you, of a number of the variants that
are in play throughout the world and in the United States.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So let’s go quickly through them and make one or two comments to inform
where we are.  First, the B117 — the original UK variant — which now has
assumed dominance in the United States.  
  
Next slide.  
  
It is very clear now that this particular variant is covered very well
by the mRNA vaccines, as well as by the AstraZeneca, Novavax, and
others, as shown by data from Israel — on the right — in which the
dominant 117 predominates there.  And as you can see, as the vaccine
doses increase, the cases come down.  Similarly, in the United Kingdom,
using other vaccines, you see the same situation.  This is good news,
since this is the dominant variant.  
  
Next slide.  
  
The next slide is the one that’s the most problematic, the South African
variant, which is certainly not dominant here but is in South Africa and
other locations throughout the world.  
  
Next slide.  
  
The data we have, I presented at a former conference. As you can see,
the J&J is 64 percent efficacious; the Novavax, 60 percent; the
AstraZeneca, not so good.  
  
Of note, Pfizer did a small study in which they looked at the effect in
South Africa, and they found that, as a matter of fact, it was 100
percent effective.  The caveat here: It’s still a very small study.   
  
But note the J&J — that even though it was 64 percent effective in South
African study, there were virtually no deaths or hospitalizations.  So
although the efficacy went down for moderate disease, there was good
protection against serious disease.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Then we have the P1 — the one that is right now ravaging Brazil.  
  
Next slide.  
  
We know from studies now that there’s variable protection in real-world
effectiveness, namely things that were not done necessarily in a
clinical trial.  In Brazil, it was 50 percent effective after a single
dose.  They went on to a second dose, and that stayed at approximately
50 percent.  This was under the condition where 75 percent of the cases
were P1.   
  
Rather similar results from Chile — a little bit better — with sivi- —
67 percent effective versus symptomatic disease 14 days after the second
dose.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now, returning to the United States: the California variant, 429/427.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Here we have mostly in vitro data.  And by “in vitro data,” we mean we
take the antibodies that are induced by vaccines — in this case, mRNA —
and we determine their ability to neutralize the given variants in the
test tube.  
  
And as you can see, there’s a slight-to-modest loss here of about two-
to threefold.  This is not likely going to be relevant from a clinical
standpoint since there’s a considerable cushion in the antibodies
induced by this vaccine.  
  
Next slide.  
  
And then we have the 526, which was originally the New York and
spreading in certain areas in the New York City metropolitan area.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Here, too, we rely on in vitro data with a moderate loss about three to
five times of neutralizing activity from the mRNA.  Again, this is still
within the cushion that you would see protected since the antibodies
induced by this vaccine are considerably high.  
  
And then, finally — next slide — we have the troublesome India 617.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Now, this is something where we’re still gaining data on a daily basis,
but the most preli- — the most recent data was looking at convalescent
sera of COVID-19 cases in people who received the vaccine used in India
— the Covaxin — and it was found to neutralize the 617 variant.   
  
So despite the real difficulty that we’re seeing in India, vaccination
could be a very, very important antidote against this.  
  
So I’ll stop there with the final statement.  The one thing you can
gather from everything I’ve said: that it’s very important to get
vaccinated.   
  
So as Dr. Walensky said, even when you’re talking about variants —
indoors, outdoors — get vaccinated and you will certainly have a degree
of protection.   
  
I’ll hand it back to you, Andy.  
  
 ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Okay, let’s go to questions.
   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Andy.  And I know a lot of people have questions
today, so please keep your question to one question.  Let’s go to Erin
Billups at Spectrum News.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  Can you guys explain the
science behind the guidance change at this moment?  Is the understanding
that there are enough Americans fully vaccinated to sufficiently slow
the spread of coronavirus outdoors — that the likelihood of transmission
outdoors is very low?   
  
And what about pockets of the country that have not yet reached national
levels of vaccination?  Should the guidance be different for areas with
lower vaccine — vaccination rates?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  There’s increasing data that suggests that
most of transmission is happening indoors rather than outdoors; less
than 10 percent of documented transmission, in many studies, have
occurred outdoors.  We also know that there’s a — almost a 20-fold
increased risk of transmission in the indoor setting than the outdoor
setting.   
  
That, coupled with the fact that we now have 30 percent — 37 percent of
people over the age of 18 fully vaccinated and the fact that our case
rates are now starting to come down, motivated our change in guidance.  
  
As noted, this is the third time we’ve changed our guidance in — for
fully vaccinated people.  And as more people get vaccinated and as case
rates continue to come down, we will come up with further updates.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.     
  
MODERATOR:  Kaitlan Collins, CNN.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  My question, given this new guidance: Should
states that have outdoor mask requirements change those to reflect this
new guidance?  Is that — is that your advice for those states and those
governors?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  What we’re saying is: States that have mask requirements
outdoors — if people are vaccinated, we no longer feel that the
vaccinated people require masks outdoors.  So to the extent that those
are consistent.   
  
I do want to sort of convey — this outdoor, large public venues such as
concerts, stadiums, and things like that — and a lot of that is the
inability to distinguish between vaccinated and unvaccinated — and to
say that, in those settings, when you have those — that density, we
really do worry about protecting the unvaccinated people.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.     
  
MODERATOR:  Ariel Hart at the Atlanta Journal-Constitution.  
  
Q    Hi.  I’d like to go back to the question about — for states that do
not have, yet, the national rate — that are below average: Should there
be different guidance for us?  I’m calling from Georgia.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  I think the general guidance is to ensure that people
start getting vaccinated.  And we do know that if you are vaccinated, it
is safe to be outdoors without a mask.  And the general can — the
general guidance is, the more and more people who get vaccinated, the
safer — the more you’ll have more people who are safer without masks.   
  
So get vaccinated.  And if you are, then it’s safe to be outside without
a mask.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.     
  
MODERATOR:  Kristen Welker, NBC.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thank you so much.  Firstly, can you address: If the
risk of being outdoors is so low, why doesn’t this guidance apply to
everyone?   
  
And secondly, while rates of vaccine hesitancy are dropping, you still
have about 4 in 10 Americans who say “maybe” or “no” they’re not going
to get the vaccine.  How do you deal with that hesitancy?  Are there any
new strategies that you’re looking toward?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  You know, we still believe as people are in small
gatherings, medium-sized gatherings, when they are unvaccinated, you’re
at risk.  You have people who are at risk of severe disease.  So we do
believe, in those settings, masks should still occur.  Certainly, any
activity is less risky when you have more ventilation, more space
between people, more people wearing masks if they’re unvaccinated.   
  
But again, I’d go back to the primary principles of being outdoors in
general, and wearing masks until outdoors — until you have a vaccine.   
  
The second question was, confidence?  
  
Q    On vaccine hesitancy.  That vaccine hesitancy numbers are dropping
but that it’s still significant.  I just had a conversation with someone
yesterday who said they weren’t going to get the vaccine.  I said,
“Why?”  This person said, “Because I need more information.”  How do you
get to those people who are still skeptical?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, we’re spending an extraordinary amount of effort
through our Community Corps and doing this outreach.  We knew that we
were going to, first, vaccinate everybody who was rolling up their
sleeves immediately and wanting it.  And then we were going to have to
do the work of meeting people where they are, understanding their
reasons for not wanting to get vaccinated, and really explaining: “Is it
about the science?  Is it that you felt that the science was too
fast?”   
  
We believe and know that the science moved quickly.  We’ve enrolled in
100 — 100,000 people in these trials, and the science stood on the
shoulders of years and years of work before, to be able to deliver these
vaccines.  Dr. Fauci has briefly talked about that.   
  
If people are worried about the side effects, we can convey the data of
over 200 million vaccine doses delivered and the safety that would — and
the scrutiny of that safety.   
  
So, we really need to meet people where they are and understand why they
might be hesitant, and then give them the information that combats that
hesitancy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yep.  Dr. Fauci, anything you want to add
about the development of these vaccines over the last couple decades?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, yeah, I mean, as Dr. Walensky said, we try to go step
by step of what is it about the situation that makes you hesitant.  And
one of them is, in fact, the speed with which this has happened, because
we’ve been talking for a long time that vaccines usually take years to
go from a recognition of the pathogen to getting vaccine into people’s
arms.   
  
We did it in 11 months.  But as we’ve said often, that is a reflection
of decades of scientific advances in two major areas.  One, vaccine
platform technology, which led for the years of work to perfect the mRNA
and the vector, such as the adeno vector approach.  And secondly,
structure-based vaccine design that led to the precise correct
conformation of the spike protein which proved to be so immunogenic and,
in fact, got translated into a highly efficacious vaccine.  You’re
talking about decades of fundamental science.   
  
When people hear that, they realize that this was not being rushed; that
they are benefiting from the culmination of years of research.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Kristen, I think one thing that we’re
cognizant of and always have been is everyone has their own
decision-making process.  Some people decide quickly; some people take a
little bit more time to decide.  I think it’s important that we respect
everybody’s decision-making process.   
  
And the person that you spoke about, our advice to them is: Talk to your
doctor.  Talk to your pharmacist.  Talk to people you trust.  Talk to
people who’ve taken the vaccine.   
  
And I think the picture that emerges is 130 million Americans, hundreds
millions more overseas — significant differences in their safety.  And
the risk of these viruses, particularly the variants, is just too
high.   
  
So as more people do their own homework — we’ll give them the time and
the information and the local resources through the Community Corps to
do that homework.  And we think that is what is responsible for moving
more people in that direction.   
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Sheryl Stolberg, New York Times.   
  
Q    Thank you for doing this call.  This is for Dr. Walensky.  Dr.
Walensky, you talk about small- and medium-sized gatherings, but you
don’t define what they are.  So, I’m wondering: Can you please define
for people what a small- and medium-sized gathering is, or say why you
don’t — aren’t defining it, if there’s some reason for that?    
  
And then, separately, you talked a few weeks ago about feeling a sense
of “impending doom.”  And I wonder if you could reflect on that and talk
a little bit more about how you feel right now given the numbers.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question, Sheryl.  You know, the —
what I’ll get back to is the basic concepts, because if we define a
small- and medium-sized gathering, we actually also have to define the
size of the space that it’s in, the ventilation that is occurring, the
space between people.  And so, we’re — I think we should get back to the
— the general concepts.   
  
Small- and medium-size gatherings for people who are outside and
vaccinated can safely be done without a mask.  But we really do want
people who are unvaccinated to limit the interaction with people and to
go back to the basic principles of increased ventilation and increased
spacing for any given size.  
  
You know, several weeks ago, when I had this feeling of impending doom
and I articulated that and I had, you know, case races going — rates
going up, vaccines — vaccinations growing, but not where we needed to
be, and — and deaths continuing to climb, as I look at the curve now,
it’s stabilizing; it’s coming down.   
  
The vaccinations have continued to grow in an extraordinary way.  I
think we really do need to get more and more people vaccinated.  As
Kristen noted, we need to, sort of, combat the hesitancy that is out
there, meet people where we — where they are, and encourage everyone to
get vaccinated.   
  
But as I see more vaccines getting into people’s arms, more and more
people being willing to do so, confidence increasing, and then I match
that with the — the cases that are starting to stabilize, plateau, and
come down, as well as Dr. Fauci’s slides that demonstrate when the other
countries have been a little bit ahead of us and shown that when those
vaccinations continue to soar and the cases plummet, that we should be
in good shape.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Zeke, AP.    
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  Dr. Walensky, I was hoping you can clarify
a little bit: Why are the people who are fully vaccinated wearing masks
in all of those different scenarios?  Is it to protect others from —
from them in case they have a breakthrough infection?  Does it protect
themselves from potentially acquiring a breakthrough infection —
infection?  Or is it to model safe behavior for those who are not
vaccinated around them in all of those spaces?   
  
And then also, do you have any targets by which you would sort of begin
to roll ba- — you know, how many people need to be vaccinated in society
for you to begin, you know, allowing people to wear masks at baseball —
take their masks off at baseball stadiums or indoor dining or the
like?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you.  Maybe I’ll tackle that first question
fir- — that second question first, and that is: I think some of these
targets have to be the interplay of the number of people vaccinated and
the number of cases that we’re seeing.  And it’s that intersection that
I think is going to be important.   
  
I think that part of — one of the things that we need to look at is the
lack of uniformity of vaccination rates across this country.  It was
previously brought up: Not every state, not every county is vaccinating
at the same rate.  And where we have low areas of vaccination, we are
going to potentially see more outbreaks, which is why I think it’s
really — we have to be careful and we have to make sure that people get
vaccinated in all corners and in all counties.  
  
With regard to why people who are vaccinated are wearing masks indoors,
I think what we really need to convey here is we still have 50,000 cases
a day.  We do believe that vaccinated people are much safer when they’re
wearing those masks indoors, as indicated by the green on the right side
of that graphic.  And, right now, it’s very hard to tease apart who is
vaccinated, where they are in the vaccination.   
  
So, it’s not just to protect themselves, but largely to protect others,
and really to protect the unvaccinated.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  All right.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Stephanie Ebbs at ABC.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about a different topic, actually: the
reports that the Pentagon is tracking 14 cases of heart inflammation or
myocarditis among service members and families — people who were
vaccinated through the military healthcare system.  Can you tell us any
more about those cases and what CDC knows or maybe what Dr. Fauci can
tell us about any potential race \[sic\] — relationship to
vaccination?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So, maybe, first, we’ll go to Dr.
Walensky, if you have any familiarity?  No?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I’m aware of those reports.  I don’t necessarily
want to comment on what the DOD is doing in investigating in their own
investigations.   
  
What I will say is we’ve delivered over 200 million doses of vaccine —
of these vaccines.  And after hearing about these reports, we, again,
looked back in our vaccine safety data, and we have not seen any reports
of those.  Those have since been reported to us, and so those
investigations are ongoing.  
  
But, you know, it is a — it is a different demographic than we normally
see, and we will be working with DOD to understand what is happening in
those 14 cases.  We have not seen a signal, and we’ve actually looked
intentionally for the signal in the over 200 million doses we’ve
given.  
  
Q    So, not enough data yet — early.  
  
Okay, next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  We’ve got time for one more question.  Let’s go
to Anjalee Khemlani at Yahoo.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Really quickly, can you walk us through the
timeline of the aid being sent to India — specifically, first, on the
ventilators and protective gear and oxygen; and then, secondly, on the
vaccine doses, when you anticipate those will be sent out?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, I mean, we’re beginning to move
immediately.  I can’t give you the exact timing on each of those pieces,
but we’re in constant contact with the Indian government and the Indian
health authorities.  As I think I mentioned earlier, we have a CDC team
that’s headed over to India to help coordinate this response.  
  
In terms of — in terms of vaccines, as I mentioned earlier, we are in a
position now where we can foresee that we will not be using the
AstraZeneca doses that we expect to come online.  I want to be — to be
clear that we — no — none of those doses are yet made available based
upon FDA inspection.   
  
So once that’s done, as soon as that happens, we will have 10 million
doses available.  Those will be distributed globally.  And then, we
expect, over the next couple of months, another 50 million.  
  
You know, this is, of course, in addition to many of the strategies that
Dr. Fauci, myself, Jeff, and others have talked about for supplying the
globe with additional vaccines and additional vaccination efforts
through COVAX.  
  
And finally, I think you may be aware that we are making sure that we
are locating some of the raw materials necessary to create more vaccines
in India, which I think is going to be an important help there.  
  
So, with that, I’m going to come and bring this to a close.  Thank you
for all your questions, and we’ll be here doing this briefing again on
Friday.  
  
12:50 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/COVID-Press-Briefing_27April2021_for-transcript.pdf>
