---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-01'
modified_time: 2021-04-01 17:00:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-1-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-01 17:30:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, April 1,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:44 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.

Q    Hi, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Good after- — good morning.  Good afternoon, good morning. 

Okay, a couple of items for you all at the top.  Yesterday, the
President laid out a once-in-a-century capital investment in America
that will meet our current infrastructure needs; invest in
manufacturing, research and development, and the care economy; rebuild
our economy; and create good-paying jobs for American workers.

Since then, we’ve seen praise for the President’s vision from across the
political spectrum — from business to labor, to economists and climate
leaders — in addition to support from bipartisan majorities of the
American people.

The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said, quote, “We need a big and bold
program to modernize our nation’s crumbling infrastructure, and we
applaud the Biden administration for making infrastructure a top
priority.”

The CEO of Ford Motors said that, quote, “Ford supports the
administration’s efforts to advance a broad infrastructure plan that”
provide — “prioritizes a more sustainable, connected, and autonomous
future.”

The President of the League of Conservation Voters said, quote, “Today
is a great day for jobs, justice, and climate action.”

And the International President of the SEIU called the Jobs Plan, quote,
“a game-changer for tackling racial, <s>and</s> economic inequality.”

And early polling underscores the overwhelming bipartisan support for
components of this plan.  Just yesterday, a Morning Consult poll showed
that by a 2-to-1 margin, registered voters backed a hypothetical $3
trillion infrastructure package.

And a Data for Progress poll showed that by a 35-point margin, voters
wanted to pay for this plan by asking the wealthy and big corporations
to pay their fair share, just like the President is calling for.

Two other items for all of you.  Today, the Biden-Harris administration
is launching a nationwide grassroots network of local voices and trusted
community leaders to encourage people to get vaccinated.  We’ve talked
in here quite a bit about how effective and impactful we’ve seen having
community voices, trusted voices be the voi- — the people who are
getting the information out to communities.  So this is a reflection of
that. 

Some of the 250 founding members include NASCAR, the American Medical
Association, NAACP, UNIDOS, the Chamber of Commerce, and Catholic
Charities.  Collectively, the group of founding members has the ability
to reach millions of people and deliver critical public health
information.

This morning, the Vice President and Surgeon General Vivek Murthy spoke
with some of the Community Corps founding members about the unique
efforts that communities across the country are taking to get more shots
in arms, including by hosting virtual town halls, giving workers paid
time off, and conducting direct outreach to people within their
community.  And a lot more work, of course, to come from there. 

Sorry, two more short items.  President Biden, as a part of the American
Rescue Plan — we have another development to convey — he promised, of
course, to get healthcare costs down for families.  And through a number
of steps he’s taking, and beginning today, Americans can go to
HealthCare.gov to take advantage of reduced premiums, increased savings,
and quality, affordable coverage.

Americans currently enrolled in marketplace coverage will see their
premiums decrease on average by $50 per person per month and $85 per
policy per month.  So that certainly is a positive development. 

Last thing.  Finally, as part of our commitment to transparency, I
wanted to let you know that the President was tested for COVID-19 this
week.  COVID-19 was not detected.  He is tested every two weeks as a
part of regular screening.

Darlene, why don’t you kick it off?

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple of questions on the infrastructure bill. 
Can you give us a sense, now that the President has announced the
details, what comes next from the White House in terms of travel — by
the President or the Vice President or any other members in the Cabinet
— in terms of selling the plan?  And will we see something similar to
“Help is Here” for the COVID bill?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you can certainly expect that the President,
the Vice President will be involved in making calls; doing outreach;
communicating with members of Congress, with governors, with elected
officials, and, of course, with the American people. 

I will say, the piece that’s slightly different, or in addition to, is
what the President announced at the Cabinet meeting, which is that he
has asked some key members of his Cabinet to serve in a “Jobs Cabinet,”
to be front-and-center voices in engaging with members of Congress, with
leadership in Congress, with governors, with elected officials, with the
American public through media and through other direct communications,
also traveling around the country to communicate about this plan that
he’s proposed.  So that’s another piece of it that you will see grow
over the coming weeks.

Q    And former President Donald Trump says that the tax increases that
are in — the corporate tax increases that are in the plan will shift
more companies and jobs overseas and that China will be the big winner
there.  It also depends on getting countries to stop a race to the
bottom on corporate taxes.  And we’re just wondering, how do you get
those other countries to go along with that idea of, you know, not
racing to the bottom on corporate taxes?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have a little chart — maybe we can pull up on the
screen here.  Hopefully.  We’ll queue it to come up, just to show. 

Q    The one that was up before?

MS. PSAKI:  Was it up before?  Well, we’ll bring it up again because
it’s a relevant one for people to take a look at that just shows the
journey of corporate tax rates over the course of the last several
decades. 

The fact is, the corporate tax rate at 21 percent is lower than it has
ever been in the past.  What we’re talking about is raising it to 28
percent, which is lower than it’s been in the past several decades for
most of that period of time.  And it goes back to a rate — that was the
case during part of the Bush administration. 

See, as you can see here.  Now, during the ‘60s, it was up over 50
percent.  Obviously, that’s incredibly high.  And it’s gone down
progressively.  And it was in the mid ‘30s, as you can see, through
about, you know, 2015 or right before then.  And then it went
dramatically down.

What we’re talking about is just raising it to a rate that is lower than
it has been through the majority — the vast majority of time over the
last 70 years.  And we think that’s an incredibly reasonable proposal. 

I will say that in the wake of the 2017 tax bill — tax giveaway to
corporate America, I should say, 91 of the Fortune 500 companies paid no
federal taxes.  No — zero — zero federal taxes.  That is not something
that the American people believe is fair, that we believe is fair. 

And what we’re talking about here is making adjustments to the tax code
to make it more fair to invest in our infrastructure, invest in American
workers, so that we can be more competitive over the long term.

Q    And then lastly, today in Kentucky — earlier today in Kentucky,
Senator McConnell was talking and said that the package, quote, “is not
going to get support from our side.”  He opposes the undoing of the 2017
tax cuts, and said that, quote, “I’m going to fight them every step of
the way.”  So, how do you respond?

MS. PSAKI:  I think there’s some more questions to be asked.  Does he
disagree that our nation’s infrastructure is outdated and needs repair? 
Does he disagree that we need to do more to put American workers back to
work and to invest in industries that have growth potential over the
long term?  Does he disagree that one third of the country who doesn’t
have broadband access should have access to broadband?  There are a lot
of areas where there is agreement with — across the political spectrum,
from investment and infrastructure, doing more to be competitive with
China. 

And what we’re really talking about here is how to pay for it.  And so
what we’re looking for is proposals of alternatives.  If you don’t want
to raise the corporate tax rate — still lower than it’s been over the
last 70 years and umph, you know, across decades — if you don’t want to
do that, if you don’t want to put in place a global minimum tax, what
are the alternatives?  We’re happy to hear those proposals. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Yesterday, when President Biden spoke about corporate
taxes, he specifically named Amazon out of the, kind of, the Fortune 500
companies that have paid zero federal taxes.  Why did he just name
Amazon?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s just an example.  As I noted, there were actually 91
companies who didn’t pay any corporate taxes in 2018.  So there are many
to pick from.

Q    And about the Baltimore plant, we understand that there’s a
contamination of about 15 million doses.  When did this happen?  And
when did the administration find out?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the issue was identified as part of rigorous quality
control system checks.  And HHS made us aware late last week.

Q    Late last week.  And so, we understand that this supply is headed
to Europe and not for the United States, but how does that really
overall, sort of, change J&J’s supply plans?  And were they planning to
use this plant to deliver the 24 million doses they had planned to
deliver by the end of April to the United States?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the issue doesn’t impact, one, any of the J&J doses
that are available; of course, they’re already in the market.  Johnson &
Johnson has made clear that they expect to deliver 24 million doses in
April and that they expect to meet their commitment of 100 million doses
by the end of May.  So we are looking forward to that. 

Obviously, these are doses that the U.S. government has purchased, but
we also have plenty of doses from Pfizer and Moderna regardless. 

Q    So there is no supply disruption caused by the Baltimore plant for
U.S. supply?

MS. PSAKI:  For U.S. supply — for the supply that we are anticipating
through the course of May, we have been assured that we — that they
expect to meet those deadlines.

Q    Okay.  And one more about Hong Kong.  As you’re aware, there were
seven pro-democracy veterans who were advocates — pro-democracy
advocates who were arrested yesterday.  And this is, obviously, you
know, a continuation of Beijing trying to quash pro-democracy protests
in the country.  Do you have a comment?  Is the administration
monitoring that situation even now?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly are.  Today’s politically motivated convictions
in Hong Kong of seven pro-democracy activists once again shows the
degree to which Beijing seeks to crush all forms of peaceful dissent in
the city. 

These activists were taking part in a peaceful demonstration of over 1.7
million Hong Kongers protesting for the autonomy and freedom — freedoms
promised to them by the PRC.  Their conviction is yet another example of
Beijing eroding Hong Kong’s freedoms and failing to live up to its
international obligations under the Sino-British Joint Declaration.

Go ahead, Kelly.

Q    Did the company — did the — once the company informed the
administration about the timing of the problems at the plant — there’s
so much focus from this White House about transparency.  Was there an
obligation to speak about this earlier than acknowledging today that you
knew last week?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important for people to remember that
this plant has not been FDA approved.  It’s still going through a
rigorous review.  And J&J is, of course, working through that process to
bring the facility online and gain authorization.  So HHS updated us —
in fact, this is probably the process working as it should.  HHS updated
us on J&J’s manufacturing, including where things stood with the
facility, at the point where they learned about the issue.  It wasn’t
going to impact our supply.  It wasn’t going to impact the supply to the
American people.  And, of course, J&J is working through this with the
FDA, so we’d certainly refer to them on the process.

Q    On the infrastructure climate jobs plan: The President also talked
about inviting Republicans to the Oval Office.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Given the comments from his longtime friend, Mitch McConnell, do we
have that on the books yet?  And do you anticipate that there is any
legitimate room to move?  Or is the White House really settling into the
idea that this will be a Democrats-only push in order to accomplish this
big priority?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we just announced the proposal yesterday.  There’s a
long history of agreement on infrastructure and the need to invest in
infrastructure — the need to take steps to be more competitive with
China.  We feel there are a lot of areas of agreement.

And the President will certainly be inviting Republicans and Democrats
here to the Oval Office to have discussions and meetings about the path
forward to hear their ideas. 

There are some differences between the ARP.  The ARP — the American
Rescue Plan — was an emergency package.  We needed to get it done as
quickly as possible to get the pandemic under control, get relief,
direct checks out to Americans.  We’ve got a little bit more time here
to work and have discussions with members of both parties. 

We want to see progress by Memorial Day.  We’d like to see this package
passed by the summer, but I certainly expect, when Congress returns,
that the President will be inviting members to the Oval Office. 

Q    And when you consider that timeline, certainly there are Democrats,
and especially the most progressive Democrats, who would like to see the
ability to get this done quickly in order to touch on some of the other
priorities that are in different topic areas. 

Is there a real sense, though, that you can work with Republicans when
the Leader says, “There will be no support”; when the House Republican
Leader, Kevin McCarthy, says, “We love infrastructure, but we don’t like
this tax idea”?  Is there any room left?

MS. PSAKI:  I think that’s a question for them.  They support investment
in infrastructure.  Right?  They believe we need to do more to compete
with China.  Maybe they don’t believe we should pay for it.  If so, they
should say that.  Maybe they have different alternative ideas. 

There have been some proposals out there about user fees or gas taxes,
essentially.  We don’t agree with that.  We don’t believe that the cost
should be on the backs of the American people.  We believe that
corporations should be able to bear the brunt for investing in America’s
workers.  But they can come forward with their ideas.

We believe we can start from a place where we agris- — agree. 

Q    And given that the COVID economy has been hard on so many
businesses, is this the time to try to increase taxes when they are not
really out of the COVID slide of the economic impact of the pandemic?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what we’re talking about here — that’s exactly why we
shouldn’t be increasing taxes on the American people, on people making
less than $400,000 a year; why we shouldn’t be putting in place user
fees — because people are still trying to get through this period of
time.

Corporations who have had their tax rate lowered to 21 percent — lower
by a great margin than it’s been ever in history; corporations that
didn’t pay any taxes in 2018, we think they can afford to help rebuild
our workforce, help invest in industries of the future, and make sure
our infrastructure makes us competitive with China.

Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  You just repeated what the President was talking
about yesterday.  You want corporations to bear the brunt of the $2.25
trillion over eight years.  But there are these calculations now that
the corporate tax hike is not going to raise that much until 2036.  So
I’m curious where the rest of the money comes from.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as was outlined in detail on our plan, we’re talking
about paying for an eight-year investment over the course of 15 years. 
And that, given that the investments are short-term investments —
investments that are temporary — we actually would more than make up for
the cost of these investments over time. 

Q    And one of the most colorful examples that the President used
yesterday — he asked if people remembered a bridge going down.  But only
5 percent of the spending in this package goes towards roads and
bridges, and I’m curious why that number is so low in something that is
being sold as an infrastructure package. 

MS. PSAKI:  We’re actually selling it as a once-in-a-century or
once-in-a-generation investment in partly our infrastructure, but partly
industries of the future, American workers in the workforce. 

And there are areas like broadband, which maybe is not a physical
bridge, but one third of the country doesn’t have access to broadband. 
So that impacts workers — workers who have been working from home; kids
who are trying to learn at home; parts of the country where they can’t
have jobs where they’re working remotely. 

We feel that that is an area where we can improve, expand access, and as
a result, be more competitive with the country — with other countries, I
should say.

Q    And then, on immigration, has the White House considered beefing up
border security now that there is video of a three-year-old and a
five-year-old being thrown over the wall in New Mexico?

MS. PSAKI:  Beefing up border security?

Q    Well, there are — there’s video now of a three-year-old and a
five-year-old —

MS. PSAKI:  I’ve seen the video, and I think any of us who saw the video
were incredibly alarmed by the steps of smugglers — ones that we have
been quite familiar with, that we’ve spoken out about our concerns
about. 

As Secretary Mayorkas said, “The inhumane way smugglers abuse children
while profiting off parents’ desperation is criminal and morally
reprehensible.”  The President certainly agrees with that.  And these
kids, I believe, were rescued from — by individuals who are working at
the border.

Q    Yes, but they still got close enough — as you guys are talking
about addressing root causes in the region — for a smuggler to throw
them over a wall into the desert.  And I’m just curious what the White
House is doing to stop that from

happening.

MS. PSAKI:  And are you concerned more about the kids safety or are you
concerned about kids getting in?  Or tell me more about your concern
here.

Q    Kids’ safety is, as you just mentioned, the main concern.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, of course it is, which is why I’m often surprised by
some of the line of questioning here.  But I will say that our concern
and our focus is on sending a clear message to smuggler — to the region
that this is not the time to come.  You should not send your kids on
this treacherous journey.  That these smugglers are preying on
vulnerabilities in these communities.  There’s a lot of issues and steps
we need to take to address root causes. 

So, of course, our concern is for the safety of these kids.  These
Border Patrol agents who save these kids deserve our thanks and our
gratitude for ensuring their safety. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  It’s not just Leader McConnell, of course, and
Republicans who are taking issue with some of this plan.  We’ve seen
some Democrats also voicing some concerns.  So what is the President’s
message to these progressive members who say this plan doesn’t go far
enough?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we would say this is a two-part proposal. 
One, it’s an enormous investment in our infrastructure — in our roads,
our railways, our bridges, our broadband, our waterways; in ensuring
people have access to clean water.  It accounts for — I think the number
is about 1 percent of our GDP, so it certainly is a significant attempt
to address that.  It’s also a two-part proposal.

And the President will be speaking more in the coming weeks about how we
can do more to help our caregivers, to help our — well, some of that was
in this package — but help address the needs of childcare, help lower
the cost of healthcare, and help do more to ensure we’re easing the
burden on families across the country.

Q    Is the President confident that he can get Democrats united behind
his plan?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President believes that Democrats, that
independents, that Republicans — as we’ve seen in polls across the
country — believe that we should do more to invest in our
infrastructure.

And infrastructure means ensuring there’s access to broadband. 
Infrastructure means ensuring that we rebuild our roads, our railways,
and bridges.  That’s something that Democrats, Republicans, independents
have talked about — the fact that it’s long overdue for some time now.

Q    And why are you splitting this into two parts?  Is that a sign at
all that you think the infrastructure portion — this first part is
something that you have a greater chance of getting passed?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t overread into it in that way.  We don’t know what
the legislative functioning or process will look like at this point. 
We’re actually quite open to congressional committees moving forward on
certain components.  We’re very open to members of Congress coming back
with different ideas about how we can achieve the objectives outlined. 
It’s an opportunity to lay out, in a speech, what our objective is,
which is to compete with China; invest in infrastructure; and,
separately, lay out in a couple of weeks what we need to do better as a
country and as a government to help families, address the needs of
childcare.  And — and that’s why he’s splitting it up.

Q    And you’ve made clear — you’ve reiterated here, the President has
also said, you know, you’re open to alternatives — alternative
suggestions for how to pay for this.  But just to be clear, is the
overall price tag here open for negotiation or just how to pay for this?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, the President proposed, based on the advice of
economists and economic experts, how he feels we can achieve these
objectives.  We’ll see what others come forward with in terms of
different proposals or different ways to rebuild our infrastructure and
ensure we’re competing with China and better positioning ourselves in
the world.

Q    And just one last question on the impact of this: The President
said, yesterday, that along with the stimulus bill, an estimated 18
million jobs could be created with this plan.  We’ve seen a recent S&P
forecast estimate that more than 2 million jobs would be created. 
What’s the range that the White House thinks in terms of how many
millions of jobs will actually be created by this plan?

MS. PSAKI:  We expect there’ll be a number of outside economists who
will — and economic forecasters — who will do projections in the coming
days.  We’ll see what those look like. We expect them to be right in the
ballpark of what the President said yesterday.

Q    But why not put out your own suggestions here?  I mean, you’re
asking for $2 trillion.  Why not put out an estimate of how many jobs
will be created?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly expect there’ll be a range of numbers that you
all can refer to that are done by outside analysts and that — that’s a
really effective way to give a sense to the American people of what can
be expected from this package.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks Jen.  Since Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell has
already said that Republicans aren’t going to play ball — she kind of
took my question a little bit.  But if Republicans came back with, kind
of, a skinny infrastructure package — maybe brought back something that
didn’t include the $400 billion it gets for in-home health for people —
disabled people — so, maybe, include it in the second package that
you’re working on, would the White House be open to that — to looking at
a different package?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to negotiate from here, obviously.  We’re
certainly open, always, to hearing from — hearing ideas and proposals
from Democrats and Republicans.  We certainly put in the caregiving
component of the package — the President did — because he believes that
there is a huge impact on our workforce of the — caregiving has a huge
impact on our workforce — the cost, the time, the energy, the effort —
and it is something that is keeping people from — out of the workforce,
keep — preventing them from progressing in their jobs.  So that’s why he
included it in there. 

If Republicans disagree and don’t think that that’s an issue in our
society, then they should come forward and certainly convey that.

Q    And does President Biden support ending the Trump-era limit on
state and local tax deductions, otherwise known as “SALT.”  One Democrat
saying, “No SALT, no deal on infrastructure.”  Where does the President
stand on that?

MS. PSAKI:  If Democrats want to propose a way to eliminate SALT — which
is not a revenue raiser, as you know; it would cost more money — and
they want to propose a way to pay for it, and they want to put that
forward, we’re happy to hear their ideas.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I know this is a follow-up to the last question,
but just specifically: Are there red lines in the first phase of the
infrastructure bill on things like the — on the money that’s earmarked
for racial inequality — excuse me, racial equity — the pot of money for
the $400 billion for seniors?  You know, are those “musts” when it comes
to the first phase of the bill?

MS. PSAKI:  The President’s focus is on the objectives he’s trying to
achieve, which is rebuilding our infrastructure so we can compete around
the world; putting millions of Americans back to work; easing the
burden, as you’ve noted, on — of caregiving, which is impacting millions
of Americans who are not in the workforce in the way they would like. 

So I’m not going to give you red lines from here; only to convey that he
designed this bill — the administration designed this bill with an
effort to meet the moment and to do it in a way that ensures we are
looking at addressing challenges in our country through a lens of
equity; that we’re doing in a way that helps cities and rural America;
that we’re doing it in a way that meets the moment and meets the moment
of the needs for a once-in-a-century investment. 

But we certainly understand that there will be a difference of views. 
There will be a discussion about how to achieve these objectives.  So he
looks forward to members making their own proposals.

Q    Is he willing to narrow the first phase of the bill at all for, you
know, things that the Republicans deem to be truly critical
infrastructure?

MS. PSAKI:  I haven’t seen a proposal from them for specific areas to
narrow and what the impact would be.  And if they want to propose that,
I’m sure he’s happy to have a discussion, but we’re not going to
negotiate from here.

Q    I want to pivot to another topic.  Earlier this month, the
administration delivered an intelligence report to Congress. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    It warned out of the rising dangers by militia groups, extremists,
white supremacists.  Is — does the President feel that it’s time for the
U.S. to adopt a domestic terrorism statute?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, Zolan, he talked about that a bit on the
campaign trail.  What he has asked his administration to do is do a
100-day review on domestic violent extremism because there is such an
expansive impact and threat around the country of domestic violent
extremism.

We have a couple more weeks of that review that are underway — the
policymaking component of that — and I expect once it’s concluded,
there’ll be some recommendations on how to best address this threat.

Q    I have a quick immigration question, just —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    You know, the administration has often cited that, you know, they
continue to expel single adults, families — or intend to expel families
back south across the border.  I mean, those migrants are going to some
of the same areas that they were returned to under MPP as well.  The
administration unwound MPP and criticized it pretty sharply.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    And CDC officials have also reportedly opposed Title 42 when it was
implemented by the Trump administration.  So, how does the continued use
of that rule square with President Biden’s campaign pledge to resor- —
to restore asylum at the border?  And secondly, what is the CDC
assessing when it comes to deciding when to lift that order?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we’re still in the middle of a public health
crisis.  There’s 1,000 people a day, approximately, dying of COVID-19
still.  And, of course, the CDC and others — and I would defer to them
on what their criteria are and their timeline — but they look at that
and, of course, the impact.  So I don’t anticipate any near-term change,
but I would defer to them on their timeline.

Go ahead.

Q    On the list of the most urgent infrastructure projects that you
have identified as an administration, when will the White House put out
a list of those projects, as outlined in the plan?  And which agency is
in charge of this?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’ll be — there’s a Jobs Cabinet and Council — or
“Jobs Cabinet,” I should call them — that will be playing a variety of
roles, including in the internal policy development process; you know,
engagement with Capitol Hill; engagement with governors; engagement with
the American public.

Once the bill passes, there’ll be a competitive bidding process.

Q    So the five — to clarify, the five individuals that the President
named today as being in charge of the —

MS. PSAKI:  In terms of the —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  They will be in charge of — sorry to combine the things. 
They will be in charge of communicating with the public, communicating
with Congress, communicating with mayors and governors, having
discussions about different components of the bill — whether it’s
broadband or different infrastructure components — the impact on
businesses. 

These are the Cabinet members who will all play a role in this
engagement.  But the — the competitive bidding process obviously
wouldn’t start until the bill is passed.

Q    Okay.  On the President’s budget, or the discretionary guide — can
you give us an update on why it’s delayed?  I think we expected it to be
out today.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update on the timeline.  I know it will be
out soon.  But I don’t have any more specifics for you.

Q    And then one, lastly, on the President’s interview with ESPN last
night.  He was obviously very critical of the Texas Rangers reopening
their stadium at full capacity in the middle of a pandemic.  Apart from
urging people to wear masks, wash their hands, socially distance, is the
President planning to take any other measures to try to slow the pace of
the reopening and engaging with governors, especially as we see a rise
of cases in a number of states?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, his focus is on action.  And so, you’ve noted some of
them, but it is — when he saw an urgency in the rising cases, we took
some urgent action, including doubling — more than doubling the number
of pharmacies that will have the vaccine, increasing our commitment and
our investment in mass vaccination sites and community health centers. 
His view is: The more people we can get vaccinated more quickly, the
better positioned we will be.  So that’s where his focus is.

Q    Are you worried that reopening and rising cases will out, sort of,
pace the vaccination pace?

MS. PSAKI:  I would leave it to our health experts to make predictions
of that kind.  I would say that what we have control over here is how
rapidly we can get the vaccine out, how many locations we can ensure the
vaccine is available to the public in.  We can continue to do more to
meet people where they are.  That’s where our focus is.

I’d also note that, though some governors have rolled back public health
guidelines — something obviously we wouldn’t support given the public
health guidelines are in place — a number of mayors, local elected
officials, businesses have kept them in place even in a number of those
states, because it’s not a political issue, and they are — have taken
those steps in order to keep the people in their jurisdictions safe.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  So during the campaign, the President signaled his
support for expanding Paid Family and Medical Leave.  I know the
provision that was enacted during the camp- — or during the pandemic
expired and paid leave wasn’t in the stimulus package.  Is paid leave
something that the President will commit to including in the second part
of his infrastructure proposal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s naturally still ongoing discussions about the
final pieces of the package.  You know, he does believe that — that it
is — he did include, actually, emergency paid leave in his Rescue Plan,
so that component was included.

And it was President Biden who signed into law, this month on — this
month an extension of a paid leave credit that more families, right now,
have access to paid leave.  So those are all steps he’s taken
immediately, given his view that this is important to families across
the country, especially as they’re trying to make ends meet.  And he’s
been clear about his support for permanent paid leave and medical leave
— paid and medical leave.  But I don’t have anything to predict for you
in terms of the next package.

Q    And then, on a different topic.  The shooting in California is the
latest in a series of several high-profile gun tragedies over the past
few weeks.  Is the President ready to start issuing executive orders?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first let me say that the disturbing news of gun
violence in Orange, California, that resulted in the tragic loss of
lives — innocent lives — last night is yet another example of senseless
gun violence that occurs all too frequently, and underscores the need
for legislation to expand background checks — something that’s worked
its way through the House, that the President certainly supports — to
ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, and remove liability
protections for gun manufacturers. 

The President — there is an ongoing review of executive actions, and
something that he is certainly personally committed to, and hopefully
we’ll have more to say on that soon.

Q    And a quick follow on that.  It’s my understanding that a number of
gun violence prevention advocacy groups have requested a meeting with
the President.  Is that something that he is willing to do?  Is he going
to meet with them?  And if so, do you have an idea of when that meeting
might happen?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any predictions for you in terms of a meeting. 
I will say that the President has worked hand in hand with a number of
these groups for decades. 

As somebody who fought to get the Brady Bill passed; who fought for an
assault weapons ban and getting that into law in the ‘90s; who led the
effort to put in place 20 — nearly two dozen executive actions while he
was Vice President, he’s certainly been a partner and will continue to
be an advocate as President for additional commonsense gun safety
measures. 

I will say that there is, in the American Jobs Plan — and there is a lot
in there, so this was a piece that didn’t receive as much focus — a
proposal of 5 million — a $5 billion investment over eight years to
support evidence-based community violence intervention.  And, you know,
this is a step that, of course, would be — would help on gun violence
and community violence. 

We also know that violence is a public health crisis disproportionately
impacting Black and brown communities and Americans.  And a key part of
community violence intervention strategies is to help connect
individuals to job training and job opportunities.  So it’s part of his
job effort, but certainly another effort that many of these gun safety
organizations feel is important, addressing community violence in order
to reduce that across the country.

Go ahead.

Q    Just one follow-up on SALT.  You’re saying that if Democrats are
able to negotiate something, they have to find the revenue somewhere
else?  Is that — because as you say, it’s a “revenue reducer.”  That
they need to find — they need to balance the books some other way?

MS. PSAKI:  Unless they think that a package doesn’t need to be paid for
— or that doesn’t need to be paid for.  So we’re open to hearing ideas
and proposals.  I just think for clarity purposes with — you know and a
lot of people know — but eliminating SALT obviously is a revenue — not a
revenue raiser.  And it is something that either would have to be paid
for or not. 

But, you know, our focus right now is on ensuring that we are getting
relief to the broad swath of the American people who are most impacted
by the downturn: the 10 million Americans out of work, people who are
looking to be a part of growing industries of the future.  But we
understand that many Democrats — or some Democrats, I should say, are
focused on that and interested in discussing it.  We’re happy to discuss
it with them.

Q    So my colleagues at the Miami Herald have been talking with
undocumented immigrants who’ve struggled in South Florida to get
vaccinated because they don’t have a driver’s license or other federally
issued ID.  I know that the federal government doesn’t want to set those
standards.  But what can you do to — is there anything the
administration can do to set guidelines or to advocate on their behalf? 
And are you concerned about undocumented immigrants not receiving the
vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly the more people who are vaccinated, whether
they’re undocumented or not, the safer we are as a country.  And that’s
certainly the President’s point of view.  And as you noted, that is not
our federal guidelines.  I will have to check if there’s anything we can
specifically do in South Florida or parts of Florida where this is
having an impact.  And happy to follow up with you on it. 

Go ahead. 

Q    President Biden earlier today just spoke to faith leaders and
talked about how concerned he was that Americans are becoming too
cavalier about safeguarding against COVID, and on top of that, issues
around skepticism with the vaccine.  And, you know, and then we also
have these variants.  Is there some way that you can characterize how
worried Americans should be right now about the severity of another
COVID wave?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not here to scare people.  I think, though, we
have been saying from the beginning that we need to be vigilant and that
we are still at war with the pandemic.  And that has been our consistent
message from the federal government. 

One of the reasons why the President did the meeting with faith leaders
today is that we’ve also seen that it is — the most powerful voices, the
most impactful voices in communities are those who are leaders in their
communities; sometimes those are faith leaders, civic leaders, local
doctors. 

And that’s why a big part of our investment is — as we look to the next
stage of this, which is a focus on vaccination — is in those
communities.  So I think that was the purpose of the meeting today.

But I think, to be clear from here, we’ve seen progress around the
country.  We’ve seen, of course, the data of the number of people who
are vaccinated, but we also need to remain vigilant.  And that’s why the
President repeats that message at every opportunity.

Q    You said you’re not there to — you’re not here to scare people. 
It’s been Biden’s message, you know, “I will always be frank with
people.”  And do you think that the administration is doing that?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  We are conveying and we’ve conveyed
consistently, nearly at every opportunity, that we need to remain
vigilant.  People need to still wear masks.  They need to social
distance.  They need to hand wash.  That even as more people get
vaccinated — you know, even as people are vaccinated — you know, if
you’re — if you get vaccinated with Pfizer, you get your one — first
dose; three weeks later, you get your second dose; and it’s not until
two weeks after that that you — it has the full impact.  That’s five
weeks after the first dose.  So even as more people are vaccinated, we
need to remain vigilant.

That’s been our crystal-clear message from the beginning from this — and
consistently, even as people have felt that we did not need to abide by
the guidelines in some parts of the country.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  The administration is praising its results in terms of
the vaccination campaign, but when it comes to the vaccine diplomacy, it
remains clearly behind China or Russia.  Is the White House considering
any measure, apart from the (inaudible) COVAX, to catch up with those
countries before the entire American population is vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  Our focus remains on ensuring the American people are
vaccinated.  And we, of course, remain open to a range of options of
helping and being a part of the global community moving forward.  But
that remains our first focus.

Q    So there will be no export before the end of (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  We exported some doses of AstraZeneca to Canada and Mexico,
so not — no export.  We obviously will consider a range of options, but
our focus remains on vaccinating the adult — American adul- — adult
Americans in this country.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  We reported earlier today that Senator Joe Manchin
has privately expressed to some co-sponsors for the Equality Act that he
is not yet on board with voting for that legislation, which obviously
makes this path to breaking the filibuster even more difficult.

If that ends up happening, if it ends up being thwarted by the
filibuster, has President Biden given any thought to considering support
for the Fairness For All Act, which is being floated as sort of a
compromise measure by moderate Republicans?

MS. PSAKI:  I’d have to check with our legislative team on that.  It’s a
great question.  I can follow up with you after the briefing.

Q    I do have, like, sort of, a follow-up.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    If — because some community leaders that I’ve spoken with about the
Fairness For All Act have pointed to specific carve-outs — like allowing
some businesses with fewer than 15 employees to deny service to someone
for being LGBT — as being really tough pills to swallow.  Would he
commit, or could this administration commit, at this point, to not
signing legislation that would create carve-outs like that?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President supports the Equality Act.  He’s
been clear about that.  I don’t think I’m going to get too far ahead
down the rabbit hole of this while it’s still being negotiated through
Congress.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Oh, yes.  So, thank you, Jen, by the way.  The fourth key element
in the American Jobs Plan is invest in R&D, and one of that in there is
bringing critical supply chains back to the United States.  What
specific incentives is the administration going to give companies?  Are
we talking about tax breaks, direct payments?

And then there would be — would there be disincentives, meaning tariffs,
put on items that are not brought back or critical supply chains that
are not brought back?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a really great question.  I know there’s a supply
chain, kind of, meeting coming up that is being hosted by our NEC
Director and our National — our — Jake Sullivan, who’s our National
Security Advisor, where I’m sure they’ll discuss a range of issues.  And
I’m sure this will be a discussion with members of Congress, as they’re
engaging with our jobs cabinet.  So it sounds like there’s more to
discuss on this topic.

Q    So you can’t tell — you don’t know if it’s tax incentives at this
point (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I can — I’m sure I can get you more specific on it after the
briefing.

Q    On — on one other subject.  In Georgia — talking about the voting
bill that was just signed from the governor — community organizers have
threatened boycotts on big companies like Delta, Coca-Cola, Home Depot,
in part from some of the information that’s come from the President.

In his last news conference, he said that the bill requires voting to
end early, at 5:00 p.m.  And you’ve said, and some others have said,
that words matter.  The bill actually standardizes voting hours by
counties and adds Saturdays and Sundays voting, and it also allows the
extended hours from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.  So is there going to be a
correction issued for —

MS. PSAKI:  It standardizes the ending of voting every day at five,
right?  It just gives options? 

Q    Seven — seven to seven is what it —

MS. PSAKI:  It gives options to expand it — right? — but it standardized
it at five.  It also makes it so that outside groups can’t provide water
or food to people in line.  Right? 

Q    Yeah, but the —

MS. PSAKI:  It makes it more difficult to absentee vote.  Are those
things all correct?

Q    The voting on the day of is seven to seven, and early voting — it
can standardize adding Saturday and Sunday.  So my question is: Is the
tone going to change out of the White House?  Or —

MS. PSAKI:  The tone for a bill that limits voting access and makes it
more difficult for people to engage in voting in Georgia?

Q    No, that’s actually not what the governor of Georgia has said.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that is not based in fact what the governor of
Georgia has said. 

So, no, our tone is not changing.  We have concerns about the specific
components of the package, including the fact that it makes it harder
and more difficult for people to vote by limiting absentee options; by
making it not viable, not possible for people to provide water to people
who are in line; by not standardizing longer hours.

So, if you’re making it harder to vote, no, we don’t support that.

Go ahead.

Q    A quick one.  Is the President considering giving an address to a
joint session of Congress near the 100-day mark?

MS. PSAKI:  He is definitely considering giving a joint session
address.  I can’t wait until we finally announce this because I know all
— you all really want a date.  We’re working with leaders in Congress to
finalize that.  I just don’t have a date quite yet for you.

Q    Gotcha.  And then, a quick follow-up.  Why haven’t refugee flights
continued at this point?  Last month, the President did announce that he
intended to raise the refugee cap before the typical, you know, end of
the fiscal year —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — where it traditionally happens.  That hasn’t seemed to happen
yet.  Why haven’t those flights continued?

MS. PSAKI:  He remains committed, but I don’t have an update on the
timing of the flights.

Q    Does it have anything to do with the fact that resources are going
towards the border at this time?  Or —

MS. PSAKI:  No, no, it’s not related to that.  No.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

2:27 P.M. EDT
