---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-02'
modified_time: 2021-04-02 17:40:41-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-secretary-of-labor-marty-walsh-april-2-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-02 17:40:39-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh,
  April 2, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:33 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  A special guest.  A member of our Jobs Cabinet. 
Today, I am thrilled to have Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh with us.  As
you all know, Secretary Walsh was mayor of the City of Boston for the
last seven years. 

While mayor, he led the creation of close to 140,000 jobs, helped secure
a statewide $15-an-hour minimum wage, paid sick leave, and paid parental
leave.  He established universal, high-quality pre-kindergarten for all
children and free community college for low-income students. 

After following his father into Laborers Local 223 in Boston, Secretary
Walsh rose to head the Building and Construction Trades Council from
2011 to 2013. 

Before serving as mayor, he was a state representative for one of the
most diverse districts in Massachusetts.  There, he focused on creating
jobs, protecting workers’ rights, expanding mental health treatment, and
investing in public transit. 

As always, he’s happy to take a couple questions.  I’ll be the bad cop. 
But, with that, we’ll turn it over to you.

SECRETARY WALSH:  Thanks, Jen.  Thank you very much, Jen.  And it’s an
honor to be here today.  I want to also thank President Biden and the
Vice President Harris for inviting me to share an update on the economic
recovery at this important moment in time.

The news today: Under the President’s leadership, through the American
Rescue Plan, the — America’s workforce is climbing out of the deep hole
that COVID has put us in.  Our recovery is building momentum, and many
more Americans are certainly returning to work, as we can see.  But we
still have a long way to go, and there’s a lot of work to do. 

Today’s Bureau of Labor Statistics reported that the American economy
added 916,000 jobs in the month of March.  The unemployment rate edged
down to 6 percent, from 6.2 percent in February.  That’s certainly good
news for over 900,000 working men and fam- — men and women and families
in this country.  We saw significant job growth in most sectors of our
economy.  And it’s clear that the National Vaccine Program is not only
saving lives, but it’s enabling more people to get back to work. 

Relief checks and expanded unemployment benefits are not only putting
food on the table, they’re also stimulating our local economy.  Their
support — the supports that are being put in place for rent, mortgages,
childcare, schools, small businesses, and emergency paid leave are
giving workers the security they need to hold on and start planning for
a better future. 

The American Rescue Plan certainly has had positive effects across our
economy, laying down the foundation for continued recovery.  At the same
time, over 8 million jobs that existed a year ago today are yet to
return.  Millions of people in this country are still hurting, and
disparities within the workforce continues to be a major concern.  The
African American unemployment rate in March was 9.6 percent, the
Hispanic rate was 7.9 percent, compared to the 5.4 percent for whites. 

In addition, barriers to the labor force participation for women
continue to be a problem that has been exposed and exasperated during
this pandemic.  We must continue to address the fact that working people
and communities already suffering the most from inequality were hit the
hardest during the COVID illness and job loss. 

That’s why the American Jobs Plan proposed by President Biden this week
is so vital to our future.  It tackles each of these issues head on and
with bold action.  The plan offers a necessary path forward towards
sustainable economic growth that is robust, competitive, and inclusive.

As a former mayor, as Jen mentioned — as a former mayor, I know all
about infrastructure needs.  This plan would move us into the 21st
century and to the forefront of the world in transportation, in clean
energy, in high-speed Internet, and would create millions of good jobs
all across the United States.

A report issued by Georgetown University’s Center on Education and
Workforce found that the American Job Plan would create over 8 million
jobs for people with just a high school diploma alone.  It would
increase the share of infrastructure jobs from 11 percent to 14 percent
of the jobs in this country, reviving the blue-collar, middle-class
economy and all across our country.

As Labor Secretary, I’m thrilled by the investment it would make for
American workers in their skills, in their opportunities, and in their
right to organize and advocate for better-paying working conditions and
jobs.  Those investments will create and open up access to good
manufacturing and construction jobs. 

It will also — there’s also a major investment in our caring
professionals, in an industry where one in six workers — who are
disproportionately women of color — live in poverty. 

We’ve seen how much our families depend on childcare and seniors care
over the last year.  Those skilled, compassionate workers need and
deserve a better deal.

The American Jobs Plan would also double the number of registered
apprentices — apprenticeships to over 1 million while ensuring these
programs reach those who have been left out in the past. 

I’ve personally seen the benefits of union apprenticeships up close.  As
mayor, I launched an apprentice program.  As mayor and as a labor
leader, I’ve seen them change the lives of women and people of color in
low-income communities in the city of Boston. 

For those reasons and many other, this plan that fuels — is the fuel to
a true engine of our economy.  The working people certainly can — will
work — run off that.

It’s not only the numbers that tell the story of the economy; this is
about the conversations Americans are having at kitchen tables all
across our country.  Over the last two weeks, I’ve talked to parents;
I’ve talked to childcare providers; I’ve talked to small-business
owners, members of labor unions, frontline public employees, and federal
and local employees; mayors all across America, cities both large and
small.  I’ve talked to senators.  I’ve talked to a couple governors. 
They continue to be concerned about the situation and what they’re
seeing in their communities, but everyone seems to be optimistic and
hopeful.  They all see a pathway forward.

Today’s data shows, while jobs are coming back, unemployment remains a
necessary lifeline for too many people, for millions of Americans.  But
a new opportunity — a good job, providing for your family, building up
your community — those are the things that will allow us to dream
again.  And that’s exactly what we’re working for in this administration
and all across America. 

With that, I’ll take some questions.

MS. PSAKI:  All right.  Andrea.

Q    Secretary Walsh, we’ve got some factory owners in the Midwest
telling us that they’re really struggling to get people to take their
jobs.  So if we’re going to add 19 million jobs, where are the people
who take those jobs going to come from?  And how would — do you need to
do extra training?

SECRETARY WALSH:  Well, first of all, in this bill, there is job
training money and there’s workforce development money.  And I also
think — I think the biggest thing that a lot of — what I’ve heard — a
lot of workers are concerned about is COVID-19.  People are still afraid
of the impacts of COVID-19.  Still too many deaths, too much loss of
life. 

And I think that — I know this — that the President’s plan is a
competent plan, a vaccine plan, to get more and more shots out.  And the
President, I think, doubled down on his efforts the other day about the
vaccine.  He reaches his vaccine goal of 100 million vaccine shots, and
now he’s shooting towards 200 million.  That’s going to make a
difference.

And I think what we’ve seen a little bit in some of the economy today,
in the numbers, is people feeling comfortable coming back into the
workforce.  People need to feel safe.  The President stressed today:
Wear a mask.  Wash your hands with soap and warm water.  Physical
distance.  Be careful.  You know, stay — stay separate.  All of those
things are still very much — you have to do — any state, any city in
this country. 

Q    But there is — I mean, there are gaps in — and even now, even — you
know, sort of, even before COVID, there were gaps between what was
available in terms of jobs and people who were willing to take them for,
you know, sort of, manufacturing positions and things like that.

SECRETARY WALSH:  I mean, I think that the numbers right now, when you
look at the numbers, we still have eight-point — I think it’s 8.4
million people out of work.  The people — and there’s another nearly 2
million people that are not in the workforce. 

Again, I think it comes down to safety.  I think it comes down to fear. 
Even in within the Department of Labor, a lot of conversations I’ve had
with the employees at the Department of Labor asking us, you know, “When
do we come back?  You know, how — what are the safety precautions that
are going to be put in place?”

You know, we’re not bringing people back right now.  I think that — as
mayor of the City of Boston, I heard it every day.  People want —
companies and — people want people to come back into work, but people
are still fearful.

I think as we get through the next couple of weeks, or — I think — I
think that that will shift and change.  I think as people get
vaccinated, as more and more people continue to get vaccinated, I think
you’ll see more and more people want to come back into the workforce.

MS. PSAKI:  Kelly.

Q    What will the impact on these travel changes that are taking place
— the CDC is saying those who are fully vaccinated can travel. 
Obviously, hospitality, travel, entertainment have been big sectors that
have suffered a great deal.  What do you see as the, sort of, comeback
arc, time wise, for those areas of the economy to have employment coming
back?

SECRETARY WALSH:  You know, again, that’s a great question.  I think
that, again, it comes back to people feeling safe and comfortable.  I
don’t mean to keep going back to “being the mayor of Boston,” but one of
our major industries is tourism.  We haven’t held a convention at the
Convention Center in Boston for over a year.  My office overlooked
Faneuil Hall; that would — a day like today, there’d be thousands of
people shopping at Faneuil Hall.  If I were in my old office today
looking out the window, I’d probably see half a dozen. 

Again, I think the more that we can get the vaccine out to people, the
more we can get shots in people’s arms, the more that we can control the
virus and eliminate the virus.  That is going to be key. 

I mean, I can’t stress it — and I know President Biden said it today — I
can’t stress the fact enough of wearing a mask.  There are people that
won’t wear a mask.  Well, wear a mask for the people around you, making
sure that you’re being safe and getting testing — tested.  All of those
things are so important to moving us forward.

The hospitality industry had a pretty good day today, when you look at
the numbers.  The numbers show that a lot of our restaurants had — are
starting to reopen and open across the country.  But they’re not there
yet.  So we need to do everything we can, within our power, to combat
this virus and beat this virus back if we truly want a full recovery. 

And it’s great to see more and more people traveling, but we also —
there’s many more people that just won’t get on a plane right now. 
They’re — even with the vaccine, they’re worried. 

So we just have to continue to educate and continue to fight this virus
back.

MS. PSAKI:  Nancy.

Q    Thank you, Mr. Secretary.  As you know, the $15-an- hour minimum
wage fell out of the COVID relief bill.  Is it your expectation that
that will be part of phase two of the infrastructure and jobs plan?

SECRETARY WALSH:  Well, I think, you know, the President has been very
clear he is very supportive, as I am, of raising the minimum wage.  And
I think that we will continue to work until we get a vehicle that we can
— can have a debate and a vote on the minimum wage. 

I think that the minimum wage is really — you know, when you look at the
aspects of today’s plan, one of the areas that we saw a lot of growth
was in low-skilled, mostly — a lot of high school dropouts that came
into the workforce — low-wage earners.  Minimum wage changes that
dynamic. 

Those same workers coming back, having a minimum wage, raises their
wages, which can actually put more money back into the economy.  So
that’s something that I know the President is focused on, I’m focused on
as Secretary of Labor, and I know there’s other members of
administration that are going to be focused on that as well. 

Q    But you haven’t decided whether that’ll be part of phase two?

SECRETARY WALSH:  That’s a conversation I’ll have to have with the
President.

Q    And then on today’s job numbers, one of the things we noticed was
that the unemployment rate for Asian Americans went up almost a full
percentage point, even though those numbers dropped for almost every
other demographic group or at least stayed the same.  Do you know why
that would be?

SECRETARY WALSH:  No.  That came up in the conversation — in my briefing
this morning.  So they’re still diving in to try and figure out what
that’s all about.  So we’ll get some information on you.  We didn’t have
the information today.  They’re trying to — because it seems a little
–everyone brought that — that number kind of jumped out.  Everyone is
saying, “There’s something not right here.”

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Jen.

Q    On the infrastructure plan: To what extent should union jobs be
prioritized in that infrastructure plan?

SECRETARY WALSH:  I think in a lot of ways — I mean, a lot of those jobs
will be union jobs.  I think that it’s important though that — to make
sure that those jobs that the — that are inside this bill — whether it’s
roads and bridges, whether it’s water upgrading, whether it’s VA, all of
those construction jobs, if you will — I think it’s really important
that there’s good wages with those jobs. 

The President and — I believe in collective bargaining; the President
believes in collective bargaining.  So, certainly support having higher
wages there. 

Again, I mean, we’ll have to see where this bill ends up and what’s
actually in the bill, but we believe in those areas.  The Building
Trades actually support this piece of — this part of the legislation,
because it’s about infrastructure.  It’s about building roads and
bridges and all the other things that are going to be here. 

So, you know, I think it’s important to have, obviously, good — make
this — this part of the bill is certainly one of those that creates
entry points into the middle class for people.

Q    And then, on addressing income inequality, is the Labor Department
going to do anything different, as far as gauging numbers?  Are you
planning to change the way you count in terms data for people?

SECRETARY WALSH:  So today was my first jobs today.  And I had my first
briefing at eight o’clock this morning, and it was — I had a quick
briefing yesterday, but not about the numbers today.  And one of the
things that I — that I did bring up in the conversation was about women
who have been pushed out of the workforce.  Two million women have been
pushed out of the workforce during COVID.  So we talked about that. 

As mayor, dealing with inequality and — women’s inequality, when it
comes to getting paid what a man makes, and then looking what a white
woman compared to a person of — a woman of color, to a Latino.  So I
brought that up today. 

So what I want to do is do deeper dives with these stats, because you
can’t fix a problem — well, the stats are there, but you can’t address a
problem correctly if you don’t have the stats.  So I have a whole
different group of people now — economists — that are going to help me
with this.  And I intend on using that to help close these gaps — and
people of color as well, close these gaps.  This is important.

And part of the American Jobs Plan — you know, when we think about — as
it goes through its process through Congress, we think about what the
numbers say and how do we create and draw up programs through workforce
development, registered — or union apprenticeships and other places. 
How can we make sure that those investments are targeted?  So those are
all things that we can collectively do.

And also work with Commerce, work with Transportation — all of my
colleagues, the other secretaries — because this issue of inequality is
not just a labor issue; it’s all across the board.

MS. PSAKI:  Darlene.

Q    Thank you.  916,000 jobs — do you think that pace of hiring is
sustainable?

SECRETARY WALSH:  I hope so.  I was asked a question like that earlier
today.  You know, again, there’s too many variables with the virus to
say that next month could be better.  You know, when we think about this
summer — you know, if you go back to a year ago, the virus was at its —
surging.  And in the months of May, June, July, August, September, we
started to get back, we started to look good, and people started to come
back out and go to work.  And then the holidays came, and we saw a spike
after Thanksgiving, and we saw another spike after Christmas.  And I
think that — you know, the virus is unpredictable. 

That’s why I think there’s a couple of different components here.  The
American Jobs Plan — pushing to get that passed is key, number one.

Number two, making sure we continue to have — when the CDC is up here
talking about wearing a mask and the need to be careful, we have to pay
attention to that. 

And then all of the other questions I’ve gotten today, whether it’s
women in the workforce or factory workers not wanting to come back, all
of that’s connected.  So I just think we have to continue a plan.

And, you know, I’m confident that — you know, when President Biden got
sworn in, he came up with a COVID plan right off the bat.  He had a
direction where he wanted to go.  He — he’s been talking about the — the
vaccinations: 100 days, 100 million — doubling that number up.  

So what he’s laid out is working.  Now, we just need to continue to work
with our partners in state and local governments.  We need to work with
our governors.  We need to work with our mayors, our town managers, our
city councilors, our town council.  We have to continue to work
collectively with all those groups.

MS. PSAKI:  Last one. 

Q    Thanks, I appreciate it.  Mr. Secretary, the President just spoke
about his concern for people that had been long-term unemployed — you
know, over 27 to 30 weeks.  We know that, right now, that’s such a big
proportion of people that are out of work.  Is there anything you can do
— any specific efforts underway to help people who are experiencing
long-term unemployment?

SECRETARY WALSH:  Yeah, I think, you know, the American Rescue Plan
addresses some of that.  And right now — again, I’m — this is my second
week here.  I’ve had some conversations with our workforce development
folks to think about how can we make some targeted investments in some
places. 

Some of those folks — for example, like you have restaurants around the
country that people worked in them and they’ve gone out of business
because of COVID, because they lost their business.  Some of those folks
might not want to go back into that industry.  So how do we — and some
of those folks are probably the people the President was talking about
today.  How do we find those folks, get them trained into other
opportunities and other skills that they can take advantage of, of jobs
that are here today?  I think that that’s one of the things I would — we
have to do.

Q    And do you support the push by Amazon workers in Alabama to
unionize?

SECRETARY WALSH:  You know, I support everyone’s right to collectively
bargain.  I think we’re all kind of waiting to see what the result of
that election is.  But I certainly believe everyone, as the President
does — everyone should have the right to join a union if they choose.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Secretary. 

SECRETARY WALSH:  Thank you, everyone. 

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    Wicked (inaudible).  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  You’ve been waiting to say that.  (Laughter.)

I did tell him, next time he comes back, he won’t get as nice of an
introduction.  (Laughter.)  So he’s prepared for that.

Just a couple of items for all of you at the top.  Three new reports
over the last 24 hours underscore the critical importance of passing the
American Jobs Plan: the jobs it will create, the type of workers who
will benefit from it, and why we can pay for it by asking big
corporations to pay their fair share.

First are the jobs: A report from Moody’s Analytics that came out
yesterday afternoon projects that the economy will create 19 million
jobs over the next decade if Congress passes the American Jobs Plan.

Moody’s also projects that the plan will help reduce the unemployment
rate and drive up labor force participation on a sustained basis over
the decade.  A lot of the benefits will continue once the American
Rescue Plan is played through.

Second are the blue-collar workers who are going to benefit from this
plan.  According to another report from Georgetown University’s Center
on Education and the Workforce, an investment like the Jobs Plan would,
quote, “reverse a long-term decline in jobs and earnings for those with
high school diplomas or less” — which Secretary Walsh already touched on
— “creating 8 million jobs for this population.”  “Would create jobs at
every education level,” but the majority of infrastructure jobs will be
for people with “no more than a high school diploma.”

Finally, is why we can pay for this once-in-a-century investment in jobs
and growth by asking corporations to pay their fair share.  Another new
report — people were busy reporting yesterday — by the Institution on
Taxation and Economic Policy revealed that 55 big corporations paid zero
dollars in federal taxes on 2020 profits.  In fact, these companies
actually received billions of dollars in tax refunds.

So we believe they can pay more of their fair share so that we can help
fund this — in — this once-in-a-generation investment.

A couple other scheduling announcements.  President Biden looks forward
to welcoming Prime Minister Shug- — Suga to the White House on — the
Japanese Prime Minister, in case you all were not following — to the
White House on — on Friday, April 16th. 

This will be our first in-person visit from a foreign leader in the
Biden-Harris administration, reflecting the importance we place on our
bilateral relationship with Japan, and our friendship and partnership
with the Japanese people.  We look forward to sharing more details, of
course, in the days to come.

Finally, on the week ahead: On Monday, the President, while there will
be no Easter Egg Roll — next year, we’ll do a big one — but he will
deliver remarks on the tradition of Easter at the White House.  On
Tuesday, he will participate in an event on the state of vaccinations. 
And on Wednesday, he will parcipita- — the President will participate in
an event on the historic investments in the American Jobs Plan.

And with that, Darlene. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I wanted to ask you — I have a COVID question —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — and just a little while ago, we heard the President appeal again
to people to take the coronavirus seriously, saying that, you know, too
many people are acting as if this fight is over, and it’s not. 

So I’m wondering: Why does the President think — or are you or the White
House or the COVID team — why do you think this message isn’t breaking
through for some people?  What — why does he have to keep saying it
again and again and again?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have always anticipated that there would be ups and
downs.  And that’s why the President, the Vice President, and all of us
have continued to reiterate that we are at war with the virus, that we
need to be vigilant.  And that’s a message you have heard from him and
members of our health team throughout the past several months, even when
people were feeling more and more confident out in the American public.

We don’t view the observation of public health guidelines as a political
step; we view it as a step that helps save lives.  Some people view it
otherwise.  But what our focus is on is on ensuring that we are
expediting the — getting vaccinations out to pharmacies; doubling the
number of pharmacies that have them — more than doubling; expediting,
increasing the amount of vaccines that are going out to states, which we
saw a dramatic increase in that.  And we’re also working with local
mayors, business owners, and at the individual level to continue to
reiterate what has long been our consistent message.

Q    Is that message that it’s too early to celebrate?  I mean, how much
— how often or how much of that is part of the public education,
messaging — there are some PSAs that the administration is doing.  How
much of that message is part of that campaign?

MS. PSAKI:  The big focus of the public campaign is: We can do this, and
that it’s important to take the vaccine.  And, obviously, increasing
partnering that public messaging with our efforts to expedite and
getting more vaccines out; increasing the number of vaccination sites;
the number of vaccinators — we’re doing those in partnership. 

And, also, working — investing, I should say, a significant amount of
our public education efforts in local partners, which we’ve seen to be
the most effective efforts.  So that’s one of the reasons why that is
where the majority of our funding through the — for that public campaign
is going.

Q    And one other quick question regarding the call the President had
today with the President of Ukraine. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Are you able to say if Donald Trump and the investigation that he
sought into the Bidens, from the Ukrainian government — did that come up
at all during the conversation?

MS. PSAKI:  I know we’ve put out a readout of the call.  I’m not aware
of that coming up on the call. 

Q    Yeah, that was not in the readout.  Okay, thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.

Q    So, just to back up on Ukraine: Are you concerned about Russian
disinformation about the activities at the border? You know, this has
been a continuing theme.  And then I have another one after that.

MS. PSAKI:  You’re abso- —

Q    (Inaudible) come up.  (Laughs.)

MS. PSAKI:  You are absolutely right, Andrea — it has been a continuing
theme.  We’ve sern \[sic\] this — seen this movie before of the
disinformation campaign that Russia has implemented in the past as it
relates to their aggressions at the border of Ukraine.

So that is certainly something we’re watching, we are concerned about,
and we will continue to communicate from here but also with our partners
in Europe about.

Q    Okay.  And then just on the, sort of, jobs and infrastructure
package: Reuters’ polls, sort of, show wide support for the
infrastructure package and even for corporate tax increases.  But when
we — when Reuters asks — poll, you know, Republicans, they are — the
support is very partisan.  So the — you know, and there’s the sense that
Republicans will not support anything that has basically a Democratic
president’s name on it.  How do you — how do you change that dynamic? 
The President talked about it just before and, you know, said he thinks
that Republican voters will speak.  But our polling shows that they’re
going to follow the leader.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I haven’t looked at your particular polling, but
consistently in polling we’ve seen about 80 percent of the public
believes we need to invest in our infrastructure across the country and
that that is long outdated. 

And the President doesn’t believe that’s a political issue.  Whether
it’s roads, railways, bridges, access to broadband — access to broadband
is an issue that is certainly the case — a challenge, I should say, in
inner cities and lower-income communities, but is also an issue across
rural America — many parts of the country that are redder, in the
political sense, and have more predominantly Republican populations.  I
think what our focus is going to be on is continuing to communicate the
different components of these — this package and how it’s going to
specifically help the American people. 

We don’t see it as a politically charged package or as a partisan
package.  And most polls you look at, when you look at the components of
it, as you alluded to, agree — are consistent with that.  So that’s what
our focus will be on.  We just announced it two days ago, so —

Q    Just real quick, on another foreign policy one.  So in Geneva — I’m
sorry, in Vienna, now there’s this discussion about having — or U.S. and
Iranian negotiators are to be in Vienna at the same time but not meeting
directly.

MS. PSAKI:  Right.

Q    Can you say a word about what you expect to come out of that
shuttle diplomacy and how soon you think you could actually sit down at
the table together with the Iranians?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, for everyone — for people who haven’t been
following it as closely as you, let me catch you up.  We’ve agreed to
participate in talks with our European, Russian, and Chinese partners to
identify the issues involved in a mutual return to compliance with the
JCPOA with Iran. 

This is a welcome and potentially constructive early step, even if the
diplomatic road ahead may be long, as it was during the first
negotiations around the JCPOA.  We are very clear-eyed about the hurdles
that remain. 

These talks will be structured around working groups that the EU is
going to form with the remaining partners in the JCPOA, including Iran. 
And the primary issues that will be discussed are the nuclear steps that
Iran would need to take in order to return to compliance with the JCPOA,
and the sanctions relief steps the United States would need to take in
order to return to compliance as well. 

We don’t anticipate presently that there will be direct talks between
the United States and Iran through the process, though we certainly
remain open to them.

Go ahead, Kelly.

Q    On the southern border of the United States, Customs and Border
Protection has some new preliminary numbers about unaccompanied minors
crossing in March, and they are way, way up — 18,500.  Again,
preliminary number, but a big jump, suggesting it’s more than seasonal,
suggesting it’s more than just the conditions on the ground. 

Is there a sense now that the administration needs to do something
different in terms of the message of “this is not the time to come, but
children who are unaccompanied will be protected and cared for and be
able to stay”?  Is there any movement on that as the message?

MS. PSAKI:  That continues to be our message, and we continue to look
for ways to project it more broadly and more effectively in the region. 
But that is a sliver of what our efforts are.  And we don’t feel that
simply telling people, with more PSAs, not to come, that that is going
to be the only way to reduce the number of people who are taking the
journey.

So in addition to that, we, of course, have these conversations that
started last week that are — that will be ongoing and will continue with
our envoy and our officials who will be working within — with
governments and officials in the Northern Triangle to talk about
addressing conditions and talk about reducing the temptation to travel.

Some of that will, of course, be aid and assistance and a discussion of
that.  The President has proposed $4 billion in his own plan.  But some
of it will be, of course, continuing to communicate directly with the
region.  And we also will continue to reiterate that our policy remains
in place in terms of implementing Title 42 authority and that the vast
majority of adults are turned away. 

These numbers are certainly, you know — we are not naive about the
challenge, but what our focus is on is solutions and actions to help
address the unaccompanied minors who are coming across the border and
making it less of an incentive to come, including also continuing to
implement the Central American Minors program so kids can apply and
people under 18 can apply from in-country.

Q    Does the President see the Vice President’s role in stewardship of
this issue dealing with more than diplomacy and dealing with some of the
operational issues that are being dealt with along the border with the
Bureau and Border Patrol and HHS? 

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a role that, of course, the Department of Homeland
Security is playing — Ali Mayorkas, the Secretary, who has a great deal
of experience dealing with challenges at the border and implementing
it.  Now we also have a Secretary of Health and Human Services who is in
place, who can work in partnership.  And they have oversight, as you
know, over a number of the shelters, and that’s a key part of the
partnership.

But the Vice President’s role is really focused on the Northern
Triangle. 

Go ahead.

Q    Following up there, if it’s such a pressing issue — I know you’ve
been asked this in the room before — but if it’s such a pressing issue,
why hasn’t the administration named a CBP Commissioner or an ICE
Director yet?

MS. PSAKI:  Those are certainly important roles and ones that we are
eager to fill.  I don’t have an update on the personnel there.  But we
also have a number of experienced leaders, including the Secretary of
Homeland Security — who had served as Deputy Secretary in the past — and
others throughout the agencies who are implementing our work on a daily
basis.

Q    Just last week, you were asked if there was a consideration for an
immigrant in particular to be in either of those spots.  You said you’d
talk to the President about that.  Have you had that conversation with
him?  Does he think that’s important?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more about what characteristics will
go into the personnel, other — other than somebody who’s qualified and,
of course, prepared to implement as quickly as possible.

But we don’t have a shortage of talented, experienced, qualified
personnel addressing these issues.  That’s not the biggest challenge
we’re focusing on right now. 

The biggest challenge is expediting processing, ensuring we have more
shelters available.  We’ve made some progress in those areas, but
there’s still certainly more work to be done.

Q    Could I ask you too, quickly, just on the Georgia law?  I had a
conversation with the lawyer for Representative Cannon, who was arrested
there outside Governor Kemp’s office.  And he said, over and over, he
thought the Justice Department needed to get involved in what was going
on in Georgia. 

The President, last week, said that the Justice Department was looking
into its options, that he was looking into options.  Can you update us
on whether there’s — if there’s anything to update us on, just as far as
looking into options to get involved?

MS. PSAKI:  There just wouldn’t be from here.  It’s an independent
Justice Department, so I would certainly refer to them on any plans they
have.

Q    And any response from the White House to get involved?  I mean, any
update on whether the White House, in any way, will respond to the
Georgia law?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, in what — beyond —

Q    Well, the President was asked —

MS. PSAKI:  Beyond the Department of Justice?

Q    I mean, so is that — it will only come from the Justice Department?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m sorry, I don’t really understand your question. 

Q    I guess, he’s — the President said he was looking into his
options. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    So are there any other options beyond what we would see from the
Justice Department?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think there’s one category — right? — of legal
action.  We’d leave that in the Department of Justice’s hands.  They’re
an independent agency — right? — in that sense.  They’ll make
independent decisions, I should say.

The President, I think, was referring broadly to the importance of
continuing to advocate for the expansion of voter access and the
expansion of making it easier for people to use their civic duty to
elect officials.

So there are obviously pieces of legislation that are working their way
through Congress.  That’s a way he’ll continue to be involved.  He will
continue to communicate with and work with leaders like Stacey Abrams
and others, who are, you know, implementing grassroots activism across
the country. 

So there are a lot of roles the President can play.  I would just put it
in a different category than whether there’s a Department of Justice
legal step, because that would be up to the Attorney General. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the issue of voting rights, the President said
that he would support Major League Baseball moving the All-Star Game out
of Atlanta.  Now a similar bill has passed the state senate in Texas. 
So does the President believe that Texas businesses should move out of
the state or boycott the state if this bill is signed into law?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, he was — he didn’t call for businesses to
boycott; businesses have made that decision themselves, of course.

He also was di- — not dictating that Major League Baseball move their
game out of Georgia.  He was conveying that if that was a decision that
was made, that he would certainly support that.  And that’s true in the
context of the remarks he made in that interview. 

Q    What does the President believe the responsibility of businesses is
in this debate?

MS. PSAKI:  They’re — in terms of activism or taking —

Q    Yeah, when it comes to voting rights bills in the states where they
reside and where they call home, what does the President believe the
responsibility is of businesses when it comes to this issue of voting
rights?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has made his view clear that he believes
— that he has major concerns about the bill passed in Georgia.  He has
consistently argued it should be easier and not harder to vote.  And he
believes that making it a criminal act to deliver water to people
waiting in line is not making it easier.  We’re also not calling from
here for specific actions from businesses. 

Q    Can you tell us a little bit more — the President has said this
morning that his infrastructure plan would create 19 million jobs.  Can
you explain a little bit more about how the White House came up with
that figure?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s not our figure.  It’s actually a figure by Moody’s.

Q    Okay.  And then, on another subject: Is the President aware of the
reporting and the investigation into Congressman Matt Gaetz?  And does
he believe that the Congressman should resign?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we have any further comment.  I’d refer you to
the legal authorities on that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask you about the funding in the Rescue Plan for Medicaid
expansion, specifically whether the administration is reaching out to
the dozen states that have not expanded, to encourage them to take that
funding, and how flexible you’re likely to be on any waiver requests for
things like adding health savings accounts or work incentives?  Some
states say that that would have to be included in order for them to
expand. 

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.  Obviously, the President is
certainly supportive of and an advocate for states expanding Medicaid —
access to Medicaid, and thinks it’s a way to ensure more people are
covered in states and have access to affordable healthcare. 

But in terms of flexibility, I’ll have to talk to Gene — who I want to
get in here and talk to you guys soon, too — about any specifics there
about those discussions with states. 

Q    But so — but are you doing anything in terms of reaching out to
them?  Any outreach campaigns in general, aside from whether you’re
talking specifics about waivers yet —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    — but just doing anything?  You’re doing a lot of outreach on the
other components of the ACA and the Rescue Plan in terms of educational
campaigns.  Is there anything going on specifically on Medicaid
expansion?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re in — we’re in touch with leaders and governors about
all components of the implementation, and that’s something — and I just
referenced Gene because he’s overseeing that effort. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On Russia, again, and the international payment
system: Is the White House still seriously considering disconnecting
them from that payment system — that SWIFT system?  Is that still a live
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me see, Jen, if I have anything on –specifically on
this.  I know we’ve talked about this a little bit in the past. 

I don’t know if I have anything new on this.  I’m happy to talk to our
national security team and see if we have a specific.

Q    Okay, great.  And then, is there any update on the budget preview
document that the White House was talking about putting out?

MS. PSAKI:  We expect it to be soon, but not today or this weekend.  So
the rest easy.

Q    Okay, thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have a couple quick questions.  I wanted to ask
about the President’s Easter plans because he said on his phone call
with faith and family community leaders that he would probably get
together with family for Easter because they’ve all been vaccinated. 

So what kind of message is that sending if he’s asking Americans not to
have small gatherings until the Fourth of July, but he’s saying he’ll be
with family for Easter?  So can you clarify how big “family”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have a specific number of family members, but
I can assure you that the President is — strives to be a role model in
every aspect of how he’s living in this difficult time we’re all going
through. 

He obviously has a wife he’s been married to for some time.  He has a
couple of grandkids who he sees when he goes to Delaware.  But it’s a
limited group, and certainly not the big Irish Biden clan that many of
you have seen throughout the course of his time in public office.

Q    So all his immediate family have been vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more updates on his immediate family. 

Did you have another question? 

Q    I did.  I did want to ask about — one question about Congressman
Matt Gaetz.  Is the White House concerned that since he sits on the
Judiciary Committee, which oversees the Justice Department which is
investigating him, should he at least step down from that committee?  Is
that (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Those are decisions that we’ll let leaders in Congress make.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, ma’am.  A couple quick questions.  During the pandemic,
we’ve seen deaths of despair increase.  And there’s concern with regards
to the designation of fentanyl analogues as Schedule I.  I’m hearing
from folks on Capitol Hill that because the substance \[sic\] expires on
May 1st, they’re worried that if that Scheduling I of fentanyl analogues
doesn’t get renewed by May 1st, that more of that drug could come across
the southern border.

I know Manchin and Portman have a bill on this. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    Does the President support making analogues permanently Schedule I?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a really good question.  I know that, in terms of
addressing the flow at the border, that would certainly be the State
Department to address.  I’ll have to talk to our legislative team about,
kind of, our role in this legislation.

Q    Thank you.  I’ll follow up.  And then, you know, the President had
voiced his support for MLB making a decision about the All-Star Game in
Georgia.  I’m wondering, when can we expect a final determination from
the President about the United States participating in the Beijing
Olympics, given that he said the Chinese President doesn’t have a
democratic bone in his body?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the U.S. Olympic Committee would play a big
role in —

Q    But he’s weighed in on Major League Baseball here in United States.

MS. PSAKI:  He actually didn’t — I think — I don’t know if you heard the
—

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  — the answer — the question and the answer that happened a
few minutes ago where we addressed this, and I answered the question. 
So — and I gave you a little more context, but maybe you weren’t paying
attention to that part.

Let’s go to the last — go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a question, and one from a colleague who
cannot be with us.  The first one is: We’ve seen a surge of cases in
Canada — in Quebec and Ontario, in particular.  We repeat that the best
way to break surges are vaccinate fast and as much as possible.  I’m
trying to understand why the U.S. wouldn’t loan more doses to Canada.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you all know, and I think everybody in here knows,
we are loaning approximately 1.5 million doses of AstraZeneca to Canada,
allowing them to receive doses sooner than they would through the normal
procurement process.  And we agree that the vaccine — the virus, I
should say, knows no borders, and it’s important to be — play a role in
our global effort to get the pandemic under control. 

But the President, as the President of the United States, his focus is
on ensuring adult Americans and the American people are vaccinated.  As
we’ve seen, as we’ve been talking about a little bit in this briefing,
we know there are going to be ups and downs in that, and we’ve seen some
areas where the vaccinate- — where the virus numbers have gone up from
where they have been before.  We know this is going to be an up-and-down
war against this virus. 

So that’s where our focus needs to remain, but we remain open to the
requests that are coming in from Canada, to other countries around the
world.  We’ll continue to discuss them.

Q   Because you were talking about the virus, of course, not respecting
borders.  And so I have a — like, side questions on this, because the
fastest Canadians will be vaccinated, the earliest we could open the
border.  And has it been — do you know if it’s been evaluated how much
it would help the U.S. economy and the growth of new jobs if the
restrictions at the border were quickly loosened?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any numbers on that.  I will say that we
certainly are eager to continue the constructive, productive
relationship we have with the government of Canada, with the people of
Canada, but our first priority right now is defeating the virus and
ensuring the American people are vaccinated.

Q    And last —

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    My last question is from Lalit Jha, our colleague from the Press
Trust of India.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    Can you tell a little more about (inaudible) — because India and
South Africa have made a formal request of the WTO about lifting
intellectual property protections for COVID vaccine and treatment.  Are
they — is the U.S. ready to consider this (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I know we’ve been asked about this before, but I don’t have
any update on it.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on the budget: Is there a reason why it was
delayed?  We heard it was coming this week.  So is there any reason why
it was delayed?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect it to be very soon.  And I don’t have an exact date
for you, but I expect it to be quite soon.  I wouldn’t read into more
than that.

Q    Okay.  And then on the infrastructure package: We saw that the
President, during the campaign, released a much larger package that
would address climate change needs in a much bigger way than this
package does.  Should we expect the White House to release more
proposals for spending in a way that would address climate change and
infrastructure that’s in line with what he proposed during the campaign?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first let me say that, you know, this package
recognizes the profound urgency and existential threat of the climate
crisis, and it recognizes the opportunity before us to rebuild our
nation’s infrastructure, power our nation with clean energy, and right
the wrongs of past environmental justice.  There is a significant amount
in this package on climate, green jobs.  It will position the U.S. to
meet President Biden’s goals of creating a carbon-neutral power sector
by 2035 and a clean energy economy by 2050.

So it has a lot of good work in there by rebuild- — building modern
sustainable and resilient infrastructure; ensuring clean, safe drinking
water is a right and available to all communities; revolutiona- —
revolutionizing electric vehicle manufacturing; mobilizing the next
generation of conservation and resilience workers. 

But climate and the crisis is a priority.  It’s one of the four crises
the President has talked about being a priority for him as president. 
And certainly this is not the end of our work in addressing the climate
crisis.

Q    So there could be a round two or — you know, perhaps in terms of
addressing some of this with more spending?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect we’ll continue to work on solutions and options for
addressing the climate crisis.  But this package — this — that’s been
proposed — this two-trillion-dollar package is a climate bill, in many
ways, and there is a lot of work in there that is going to help
revolutionize the clean energy jobs market.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Jen, you talked about the new CDC guidelines earlier for travel.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    And if you’re fully vaccinated, you don’t need to have a COVID test
if you’re traveling abroad.  How do you police that?

MS. PSAKI:  How do we release it?

Q    Police that.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, police that.

Q    I mean, do you have vaccine passports?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a private sector initiative and one that we expect
that they would be the drivers of to determine.  It’s just — these are
public health guidelines, in terms of what is safe, and that’s why the
CDC updated them.

Q    But when you heard Marty Walsh talking about how, you know, people
are wary about coming back to work because of these things —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — do you think there might come a time where you need to have
vaccine passports, which will, kind of, be your way — gateway to
carrying on normal life?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, this was a proposal made.  And a lot of private
sector industries and companies — whether it’s the airlines, or even
venues where they’re looking forward to having big ticket events, or
soccer games — they’re looking for ways to figure out how they can bring
people back to normal and make things normal again.

So this is really driven by the private sector.  But — and we’ll see
what they come up with.

Q    No longer government (inaudible)?

Q    Jen.

AIDE:  Last question, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  Yes.

Q    Yes. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    There’s a security situation at the U.S. Capitol that I know you’re
not aware of right now.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    Can you just remind us, with the President not on campus here,
who’s with him to brief him on issues?  There’s a lockdown going on
right now.  There are reports of gunfire.  That’s all I know from
sitting here.  But you — can you just remind us of, when the President
is not here, how he’s informed of these things?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  I’m obviously not aware, as Kelly acknowledged,
of the circ- — of the situation at the Capitol.  The President of the
United States always travels with a national security rep; of course,
with a — somebody who serves as, essentially, an Acting Chief of Staff;
typically, a member of the press team who travels regularly to, kind of,
reconstruct the team that’s around him in the White House. 

Q    And there have been some changes to the perimeter outside here with
the Vice President no longer in residence at the Blair House.  Anyone
aware if there’s any change in posture to the security here at the White
House?

MS. PSAKI:  For currently —

Q    Right now, yeah.

MS. PSAKI: — in response to the events right now?  I don’t have any
update, but we will venture to get one for you should there be an
impact.

Thanks, everyone.

Q    Jen, would you come back out if — to brief us later if there is
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, absolutely.

Q    We’d appreciate that.

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely. 

Q    Can you let us know specifically who is with him, if possible?

MS. PSAKI:  I can.  Yeah, I certainly can. 

Q    Thank you. 

Q    Appreciate it.

1:19 P.M. EDT
