---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-19'
modified_time: 2021-04-19 17:07:42-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/19/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-30/
published_time: 2021-04-19 17:15:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

10:33 A.M. EDT

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning, and thank you for joining
us.  I am joined by Dr. Walensky from the CDC and Dr. Fauci from the NIH
today.  I want to tell you today that things are about to get a whole
lot easier.  
  
When we arrived in January, many Americans were understandably
frustrated with the pace of the vaccination program and the sea of
challenges: not enough vaccines, few places to get vaccinated, a
shortage of vaccinators, and confusing rules on who qualified in every
state, Tribe, and territory.  
  
We got to work, around the clock, deploying the whole-of-government
approach — from the FEMA personnel who are getting shots in arms in
communities across the country, to the men and women in the armed forces
who are overseeing the shipment and delivery of the vaccines, to the
scientists and clinicians at FDA, CDC, and NIH who have ensured the
safety of these vaccines.  
  
As a result, our vaccination program is now humming and it’s even
accelerating.  Over 80 percent of seniors have had at least their first
shot, up from 8 percent.  And now, 50 percent of adults in the U.S. have
had at least one shot, up from 5 percent.   
  
And we now have one thing on our mind: making sure the other 50 percent
know how easy it is to get a shot.  So, if you still think it’s too
difficult to get your vaccine, here’s what you need to know: The lack of
supply, the shortage of locations, the confusing rules are all in the
past.  That cannot be said enough.  
  
Thanks to the aggressive action taken by many, and the collaboration of
so many people across the country, there are now thousands of more
people ready to help get you vaccinated.  There are now millions more
vaccine doses available and waiting.  And there are now more than 60,000
safe and convenient places for you to go get your shot.  
  
Every one who you’ve seen finally able to safely hug a loved one, to
visit each other without masks, to see old friends, that’s an
opportunity that’s now within reach for you if you make your
appointment.  
  
If you’re 16 or over, it is your turn to get vaccinated, no matter where
you live.  And now there’s now a 9 out of 10 chance that you are located
within 5 miles of your vaccine shot.  
  
And for those of you who have people in your lives who can’t get to a
vaccine site, we are helping community-based organizations connect
vulnerable Americans with shots.  And to get resources to healthcare
providers serving at-risk populations and to promote equitable
distribution of vaccines, today, HHS is making $150 million available to
community-based healthcare providers to strengthen their efforts to get
shots in arms and care for patients with COVID-19.  
  
I want to conclude my remarks by offering great thanks.  This
vaccination program will be what brings us out of the pandemic.  And
thanks to the President’s whole-of-government, wartime response, today
is an important day in the entire scope of the pandemic.   
  
Thanks to the scientists who have spent more than 20 years researching
and developing the technology that led to these vaccines; to the
warehouse workers and truck drivers getting vaccine doses to every
corner of the country — to the local pharmacies, health centers, medical
centers, faith-based organizations, and many more ensuring vaccine
access in their communities; and to the healthcare workers who are
putting the shots in arms — thanks to all of them, it has never been
easier to get a shot.  
  
Join the more than 130 million Americans who have already gotten at
least one shot — half of one — half of all adults.  That’s a lot of
progress, but as we said from the start, winning this war against
COVID-19 takes all of us doing our part.  
  
So, here’s my direct plea to everyone listening: If you haven’t already
made an appointment to get vaccinated, make one right now.  You are
eligible.  Then, reach out to your family, friends, and neighbors to
make sure they can make an appointment too.  And see what help you can
offer them to help those who might need extra assistance.   
  
Thank you.   
  
With that, I will turn it to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY.  Thank you, Andy.  Good morning, and I’m so glad to be
back with you again today.  Let’s begin with an overview of the data.  
  
Yesterday, CDC reported nearly 60,950 cases of COVID-19.  Our seven-day
average is up to over 67,440 per day.  For context: One month ago, our
seven-day average of cases was just over 53,000 per day.  The seven-day
average of hospital admissions is about 5,460.  And sadly, the seven-day
average of daily deaths are now increasing, with six consecutive days of
increases, to about 695 deaths per day.  Sunday, we again saw almost 700
deaths in a single day.   
  
In good news, so far we have administered 209 million vaccine doses,
with an average daily administration of more than 3 million doses.  This
brings us to 192.8 million doses in the first 100 days — 96 percent of
our goal in 88 days.  This means that almost 40 percent of the total
population has received at least one dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, and one
out of every four people is fully vaccinated.  
  
Also encouraging news: <s>More than 65 percent of people over the age of
65 and more than — and more than 25 percent over the age of 65 are fully
vaccinated</s> \[More than 65 percent of people age 65 and older and
more than 25 percent of people are fully vaccinated\].  This is
tremendous progress.  Thank you so much to the many people across the
United States who have lined up to get vaccinated.  Your efforts will
help us get out of this pandemic.  
  
I want to recognize that we remain in a complicated stage.  On the one
hand, more people in the United States are being vaccinated every single
day at an accelerated pace.  On the other hand, cases and
hospitalizations are increasing in some areas of the country, and cases
among younger people who have not yet been vaccinated are also
increasing.   
  
Just like all of you, I want to get back to doing the things I love with
family and friends who I haven’t been able to see over the past year. 
We all have a role in turning the tide and to trend our cases down.  One
of the most important things we can do to get back to doing the things
we love is to get vaccinated.   
  
I am so thrilled that, today, all people age 16 and up are eligible for
the COVID-19 vaccine — a tremendous step forward in our efforts to end
this pandemic.  Data from CDC and other experts continue to show that
the COVID-19 vaccines we are using are effective and can prevent severe
disease, hospitalization, and death.   
  
As all adults now become eligible to be get — to get vaccinated, I want
to again point out two really encouraging pieces of data.  First, we
recently released a study on how vaccines are working in the real
world.  Among nearly 4,000 healthcare personnel, first responders, and
essential workers who received the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines, the risk
of any infection, asymptomatic and symptomatic, was reduced by 90
percent after receiving the two recommended doses of the vaccine.  This
study was yet additional evidence that these vaccines are working.  The
efficacy we saw in clinical trials is now being shown in the real
world.   
  
Second, last week, we released data on the so-called num- — the number
of so-called “breakthrough infections” — of people who, despite being
vaccinated, still tested positive for COVID-19 more than 14 days after
they’re getting their second vaccine dose.  
  
With any vaccine, we expect such rare cases.  But so far, out of more
than 84 million people who are fully vaccinated, we have only received
reports of less than 6,000 breakthrough cases.  Although this number is
from 43 states and territories and likely an underestimate, it still
makes a really important point: These vaccines are working.   
  
Of the nearly 6,000 cases, approximately 30 percent had no symptoms at
all.  This is really encouraging news.  It demonstrates that — what
we’ve already discussed about these vaccines: They also help you prevent
from getting seriously ill.   
  
Additionally, our current data suggests that COVID-19 vaccines
authorized for use in the United States offer protection against the
variants circulating in the United States.   
  
These now — these data are now available on the CDC website at CDC.gov,
with information on how healthcare providers and public health
authorities can report breakthrough infections if they see them occur. 
We will update the data as it is reported to the CDC.   
  
Based on these data, here’s the bottom line: Getting a vaccine will help
protect you, it will help protect others, and it will help us end this
pandemic.  The more people get vaccinated, the fewer infections there
will be, which means fewer variants will emerge and fewer breakthrough
infections will occur and the quicker we can get back to doing the
things we love.   
  
By working together, taking precautions, and all of us getting
vaccinated, we can turn the corner on this public health crisis.   
  
Thank you.   
  
I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I would like to expand a
bit on the theme of what today means, namely April 19th.  
  
Can I have the first slide, please?  
  
As you’ve heard so many times, right now, all adults are eligible for
COVID-19 vaccine that can get vaccinated.  And, by “adults,” I really do
mean a little bit below that.  People 16 years of age or older now can
get vaccinated wherever vaccines are available.  
  
For those who are hesitant about vaccines, we have a great deal of
confidence in the ability of the American people to do their own
homework, to make up their minds based on the data.   
  
Next slide.   
  
So let’s take a look at what vaccines are.  They’re efficacious in
clinical trials, effective in real-world settings, and they’re safe. 
And there’s real data — not just opinion, but data — to back each of
that up.  And we invite people who are in the pro- — process right now
of making a decision about whether they want to get vaccinated to look
at the real, transparent data.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Have these vaccines been efficacious in clinical trials?  
  
Next slide.   
  
We know for sure they are.  This is — this is work that has been done in
tens of thousands of people in clinical trial, has been peer reviewed
independently and published in scientific journals, with Pfizer and
Moderna showing the efficacy here from New England Journal of Medicine
papers.  
  
Next slide.  
  
The same holds true for J&J.  All three are highly efficacious in
clinical trials.  
  
Next slide.  
  
The next question is: Are they effective in the real-world setting? 
There’s real, transparent data about that.  
  
Next slide.  
  
For example, if you look at the real-world effectiveness, there are a
number of studies.  I’m just going to give you some examples.  
  
In over 23,000 employees at the University of Texas, the infection rate
was miniscule among vaccinated employees: 0.05 percent.  The CDC —
looking, again, at the real-world effectiveness — showed that in almost
80,000 person-days with full immunization, 0.04 per 1,000 person-days.  
  
Next slide.  
  
More data showing that when you look at mass vaccination setting
nationwide — comparing 600,000 vaccinated people, which matched control
in Israel.  Look at the real-world efficacy.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Speaking of Israel, look at the relationship between vaccination and the
number of cases.  In Israel, 61.8 percent have received at least one
dose.  We are not there yet, but we can get there.  
  
Next slide.  
  
Finally: Is it safe?  Well, we’ve been talking now about the
extraordinary capability we have of monitoring safety, where an
extremely rare adverse event of 6 individuals among 7,000 was picked up
by the surveillance system.  
  
Next slide.  
  
What are those surveillance systems?  There are many that follow up on
clinical trials.  There’s monitoring systems by the CDC, by the FDA, and
other monitoring systems.  So when we say a vaccine is safe, you’re
talking about an exquisitely sensitive monitoring system.   
  
So what we say to anyone who has doubts about getting a vaccine: We
leave it up to you.  Look at the data.  The data speak for themselves.  
  
And on the last slide: We all want normalcy in America.  The highway to
that normalcy is vaccination — very similar to what Israel has done and
is doing.  We can get there.  And every single day, as we get 3 to 4
million people vaccinated, we get closer and closer to that normalcy.   
  
Thank you very much.  Back to you, Andy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  And just to
clarify, I think you said 6 out of 7 million at last count.  Was that
correct?  
  
DR. FAUCI:   Yes.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes.  Okay, great.  Let’s open it up for
questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Rebecca Robbins with New York Times.  
  
Q    Yes, thank you.  The Serum Institute of India has been saying that
the Biden administration is blocking exports of raw materials that it
needs to make COVID vaccines.  And the Serum Institute has also urged
President Biden to lift that embargo.  So I wanted to ask: Which raw
materials are at issue here?  And do you have any plans to address
Serum’s concerns?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So, Dr. Fauci, I don’t know if you have a
response or any details, or otherwise, I may —  
  
DR. FAUCI:   You know, Andy, I don’t.  I’m sorry.  I don’t.  We could
get back to you on that, I’m sure, but I don’t have anything for you
right now.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah.  Let us get — let us get back to
you.  Suffice it to say we are taking very seriously the global threat
from the pandemic; have been a leader in the funding of COVAX; have done
a several bilateral transfers of vaccines; and are looking very hard and
taking very seriously all of these complex issues.  We’ll get back to
you on specifics.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Tamara Keith at NPR.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I have just a couple, but I hopefully won’t
take too long.  One question I have is whether you’re seeing any, sort
of, rural/urban divide in the uptick in new cases.  And also, whether
that divide is showing up in vaccine hesitancy or non-hesitancy.   
  
And then, a broader question from my colleague, Rob, who asks: With
surging cases again in many places and now even deaths rising again,
should the federal government be doing more than just appealing to
people to be careful?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Let me take — to ask that Dr. Walensky to
take those questions — this rural versus urban divide.  And I think the
second part of the question is: What precautions are we urging people to
take and what else can we be doing?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question, Tamara.  We’re
actually looking at the data exactly right now, both — because we can’t
really do it at the state level, we really have to do it at smaller,
county levels; at ZIP code levels to really understand what the uptick
is and what the cases are, as well as looking at what the SVI is in all
of these ranges.  And we’re doing the data analysis right now, and I’m
hoping to get back in touch with you.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay.  Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR: Dan Vergano at BuzzFeed.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  We’d like that data, Dr. Walensky, and to
release the (inaudible), by the way, not just one paper.   
  
I’m wondering, with the change to all adults being eligible, what are
you going to do when demand is uneven in different parts of the
country?  Are you going to continue the “by population” distribution or
are you going to send more vaccines to places where there’s more demand
versus — versus less?  Thanks very much.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Yes, let me — let me
reiterate a couple of points here.  We have, last week, 28 million
vaccines being shipped out to states.  That is more than enough to
maintain our current pace of at least 3 million doses per day.   
  
So we are increasingly confident that while people may have some period
of time where they need to wait, we do believe that there is adequate
vaccine supply for everybody to get vaccinated and get an appointment,
increasingly.  
  
The other thing I’ll say is that, you know, I think our philosophy is:
Just because a state may be behind in their demand for vaccines or it
may take a little more work to get vaccines into arms in some places
relative to others, it does not mean that we think we should be giving
up on those locations.  It does not mean that we think they should lose
those doses and they should be automatically transferred somewhere
else.   
  
It just simply means that we and the state and county officials and
local doctors need to work harder to listen to the local communities and
— as Dr. Fauci, I think, so well said — allow people to get the
information that they need to make the decision about whether to get
vaccinated or not.   
  
So we are going to make sure everybody, no matter where you are in the
country, has ample opportunity to get vaccinated.  We are not going to,
quote, unquote, “punish” less — less ready areas.  
  
We’re going to actually work harder with them to make sure that people
have the information they need.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  And maybe just a follow up to say we have seen that the
distr- — the administration of vaccine across the country is not
uniform.  We — even in our preliminary analysis, we know that it hasn’t
been uniform.  And that — and that’s exactly why we have to engage in
the efforts that was just discussed.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Shannon Pettypiece at NBC.   
  
Q    Hi.  I have a couple that should be relatively quick though. 
First, I just want to doublecheck that you have not received any
additional severe adverse (inaudible) beyond those six that were
reported last week.   
  
And I also wanted to know: The pace of vaccinations has been sticking
around this 3 million to 3.5 million doses a day.  Do you expect that to
be the pace we’re going to see of vaccinations per day throughout the
summer?  Or are you anticipating at some point that that’s going to get
up to, you know, 4 million or above 4 million?  Or should we just expect
it to stay at that 3 million?  
  
And then, finally, I know we are approaching President Biden’s 100
days.  He had asked people to wear a mask through the first 100 days. 
So after that 100-day mark, do you anticipate there being some lessening
of that mask restriction or some change to the requirement, given that
he, sort of, set that deadline of a mask for 100 days?   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, so the first question, go — go to
Dr. Walensky, which is about the Johnson & Johnson adverse events.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  We have been
collecting people who have been reporting things through VAERS.  We are
working through — these have been a handful of cases, not an
overwhelming number of cases.  We are working through and adjudicating
them and verifying whether they do in fact reflect a true case.  And
that will be the work of the CDC this week, as well as the FDA.  And
then we will present that to ACIP on Friday.   
  
So we’re doing that work right now.  We are encouraged that it hasn’t
been an overwhelming number of cases, but we’re looking and seeing
what’s come in.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay.  And what was your second
question?  Do you mind reminding me?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Pace.  The pace.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  The pace.  The pace.  Yes, I think your
asking was whether or not doing more than 3 million vaccines a day is —
whether we do even more.  I think I heard you say how impressed you were
that we were, as a country, able to do more than 3 million cases a day
and isn’t that fantastic.   
  
Obviously, there is no number high enough for us.  And we are putting 28
million vaccines a week into the field and doing everything we can,
working around the clock with states.  And states are doing everything
they can to work around the clock.   
  
So I’m not going to predict what that’s going to look like in the
future.  I’m not sure I would have predicted that we would even be at
this point.  But I can tell you that we are more than prepared to
sustain the pace.   
  
And I would just reiterate that today’s a day when there are so many
Americans that still think getting a vaccine is a complicated, confusing
process because, when it rolled out, indeed it was more challenging and
more difficult.   
  
So, we need to remind people that it’s easy, because there’s a lot of
people that want to get vaccinated, but they think it might be
challenging.  It is never been easier.  If you’re over 16, you’re very
likely to be very close to a vaccination location with an appointment
near you.  So please take advantage of that.   
  
Then you had a third question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Andy, it was about the 100 million — day mask call, and if
there’s any plans to go from there.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Oh, the mask call.  Well, let’s get to
the 100 days.  You know, I think — you know — you know one thing about
President Biden: He follows the science, he listens to his scientists,
and we’ve got 12 more days to go until we get there.   
  
So please mask up, everybody, because it does save lives.  
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Zeke at the AP.    
  
Q    Thank you.  Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky, I was hoping — if you could
maybe give us some more of the mile markers on the road — on the highway
back to normalcy, as you discussed?  Particularly, to follow up on
Shannon’s question there, is it your medical opinion right now that —
scientific opinion — that mask wearing will be necessary after the
100-day mark?  
  
Additionally, you know, is it — is it advisable now for people who are
vaccinated — fully vaccinated — to travel, or are you still recommending
against it?   
  
And sort of a general sense of when we can expect to see — one of the —
you know, we’ve seen in Israel, they’ve begun to lift their outdoor mask
mandates at a 60-some-odd percent vaccination rate.  Is that a similar
milestone that you’re looking for when you change that — that
recommendation here in the U.S.?  And any other sort of, you know — what
milestones should the public expect, as more people get vaccinated, for
when they can get back to normal?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  So let me take a shot at the Israel thing.  So, I think we
need to remember the slide that Dr. Walensky showed about the six — the
seven-day average of cases; that’s between 60- and 70,000 cases a
day.   
  
When you talk about the Israelis pulling back and getting to normal,
their level of infection now is extremely low, based on the fact that
they have reached the level where they have now about 62 percent of them
have received at least one dose.  That’s what we’re aiming for.   
  
If you remember what I have said on multiple press conferences, that
every time and every day you get more and more people vaccinated, sooner
or later — hopefully sooner — that level of infection will get lower and
lower.  And when it does, it becomes easier and easier to get back to
some degree of normality.  
  
But back to you, Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I would just say, you know, this is an interplay
between how many people are vaccinated and how much disease is out
there.  And while we’re making extraordinary strides in the number of
people vaccinated, we still have an extraordinary amount of disease out
there.  And so I think that interplay is one we really need to consider
here.   
  
We know these vaccines work extraordinarily well as prevention
interventions.  However, they take some time to kick in — you know,
somewhere in the two-to-six-week mark.  And so if we have a lot of
circulating virus today, the vaccines will work, you know, in a month,
but they may not work today.  So we need to continue to keep the
prevention measures up to prevent ongoing cases today.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:   Great.  Thank you all for your
questions.  If you are not one of the 130 million American adults who’ve
been vaccinated, today is a great day for you; it’s never been easier. 
So please join that — join that group of people who have done what Dr.
Fauci has said, done their homework, looked at the data and seen the
extraordinary difference in their life and their health and their safety
of their family that can happen from these vaccines.  
  
And again, thank you to everybody who’s made this happen so far and is
continuing to work hard to make the rest of it happen.  
  
And we’ll be back here on Wednesday.  Thanks.  
  
11:00 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides, visit
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/COVID-Press-Briefing_19April2021_for-transcript.pdf>
