---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 14:29:29-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/30/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-33/
published_time: 2021-04-30 14:29:28-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:04 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good morning.  And thank you for joining us.  Today, Dr.
Walensky will provide an update on the state of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci
will highlight the latest science, and Dr. Murthy will share an update
on our efforts to strengthen confidence in the vaccines.  
  
First, I want to start by recapping what we’ve accomplished in the first
100 days and through our whole-of-government response that is treating
the battle against the virus like the war that it is.  
  
We beat the President’s aggressive goal of 200 million shots in his
first 100 days, delivering more than 220 million shots in arms.  Two
hundred and twenty million shots in a hundred days, that’s a level of
vaccinations no one expected us to reach this quickly.  
  
By the end of May, we’ll have enough vaccine supply for every adult
American.  In fact, just this week, we shipped our 300 millionth dose to
states, Tribes, territories, and federal channels.  Three hundred
million doses shipped — an important marker of progress.  
  
Thanks to our accelerated vaccination program, we are far ahead of where
anyone thought we would be in our war against the virus.  Everyone 16
and over is eligible.  And with 90 percent of Americans living within
five miles of a vaccination site, it’s never been easier to get a
shot.  
  
As the President has said, this is an American achievement.  An
achievement we can all take pride in.  An achievement that should give
every American confidence and hope.  
  
Going forward, in this next phase of our vaccination program, we
continue to be laser-focused on getting more and more Americans
vaccinated.  
  
As I said last week, given that we have succeeded in getting
vaccinations to the lion’s share of those most at risk and those most
eager to get vaccinated, we are now increasingly focused on other groups
that will take time to reach.  And we expect the number of shots
administered each day to moderate and fluctuate.  
  
That said, we will continue to vaccinate millions of Americans each and
every day.  This past week, our average was 2.6 million shots per day.  
  
Overall, as you can see on our vaccination progress report, 55 percent
of adult Americans now have at least one shot.  That’s up from 38
percent at the end of March and 19 percent at the end of February.  
  
Looking at the next slide, you see that today we reached a major
milestone on the number of Americans who are fully vaccinated.  Today,
100 million Americans are fully vaccinated, nearly double the 55 million
who were fully vaccinated at the end of March.  That’s 100 million —
nearly 40 percent of all adults Americans who are now fully vaccinated
with protection from COVID-19 two weeks after getting their last shot.  
  
That’s 100 million Americans with a sense of relief and peace of mind
knowing that after a long and hard year, they’re protected from the
virus; knowing their decision to get vaccinated protects not just
themselves but also protects their families, their friends, and their
communities.  
  
A hundred million Americans who can follow the new CDC guidance released
this week and go — enjoy going to the park with their family, dining and
socializing with their friends outside, and many more outdoor activities
without needing to wear a mask.  
  
So, over 300 million doses shipped, 220 million shots in arms, 100
million fully vaccinated individuals.  This represents significant
progress and cause for hope.  
  
We know we have more work to do.  And in the weeks and months ahead,
we’ll continue building on the progress we made in our first 100 days.  
  
As I laid out last week, in this next phase of our vaccination program,
with everyone 16 and over eligible, we will focus on vaccinating
millions of Americans each and every day; continuing to improve access
and making it even easier for everyone to get vaccinated; strengthening
confidence in the vaccine by getting Americans facts and answering their
questions; and ensuring equity is at the center of everything we do so
we can reach everyone in our response.  
  
We know it won’t be easy, but neither was getting 220 million shots in
arms in just 100 days.  And, together, we did it.  We’ve seen what
America is capable of when we come together and all of us do our part.  
  
With that, over to Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning, and thank you so much.  I’m pleased to be
back with you today.  We’ll start with an overview of the data.   
  
Yesterday, CDC reported over 53,000 new cases of COVID-19.  Our
seven-day average is about 52,500 daily cases; this represents a
decrease of about 16 percent from our prior seven-day average.  The
seven-day average of hospital admissions is just over 5,050 — again, a
positive sign with a decrease of almost 10 percent from our previous
seven days.  And the seven-day average of daily deaths has also declined
to 628 per day, a decrease of about 8 percent.  
  
In addition to these positive trends, I’d like to share with you another
exciting piece of news about vaccines.  Earlier this week, CDC released
a study examining the real-world effectiveness of the Pfizer and Moderna
COVID-19 vaccines.  This study looked at hospitalization rates among
people over the age of 65 and found that fully vaccinated seniors were
94 percent less likely to be hospitalized with COVID-19 than were there
— those who are unvaccinated.  
  
Importantly, this study was done in a high-risk population — those over
65, who have endured a tremendous burden during this pandemic.  This is
yet another piece of great news that our vaccines are working to prevent
severe disease.   
  
I’d also like to take a look back on the last 100 days of work we’ve
done to closely monitor COVID-19 variants.  As we know, the more virus
and viral replication, the virus has more chances to mutate, and this
means additional opportunities for variants to evolve.   
  
This is why we often describe our vaccine efforts here in the United
States as a race against the virus: how quickly can we vaccinate
Americans to prevent further spread of the virus, and the potential for
new and more ex- — concerning variants to emerge.  
  
Genomic sequencing is a laboratory method that identifies mutations or
changes in the virus that contribute to the emergence of new variants. 
Taken together, genomic sequencing of many virus samples allows us to
understand the prevalence of variants in circulation.  
  
Over the past 100 days, CDC has dramatically built up our domestic
genomic surveillance platforms to improve our visibility of circulating
variants.  Since January, CDC has increased the nation’s sequencing
output 75-fold.   
  
On January 25th, CDC ramped up the national SARS-CoV-2 Strain
Surveillance system — or NS3 — to begin requesting 750 specimens weekly
from 64 public health jurisdictions for sequencing, virus isolation, and
characterization.   
  
In addition, CDC awarded multiple sequencing contracts to rapidly
increase the number of specimens sequenced per week, going from 6,000
per week in January to more than 22,000 per week in April.  Combined
with the sequencing efforts of state and local public health
laboratories, as well as our collaborations with academic institutions,
the United States is now sequencing nearly 8 percent of the
approximately 450,000 COVID-19 cases weekly.  
  
With our current capacity and our cases across the nation coming down,
we are on our way to sequencing even higher percentage of cases, which I
consider a tremendous accomplishment.   
  
CDC has made significant strides in — to make our genomic surveillance
data more accessible to the public through an interactive dashboard on
our COVID Data Tracker website.  This site is updated weekly with the
prevalence of SARS-CoV-2 variants at the national, regional, and state
levels.   
  
We look forward to continued advancement in this area with the
additional investments made by the American Rescue Plan, which provided
$1.7 billion to strengthen and expand much-needed activities and
workforce related to genomic sequencing, genomic epidemiology,
analytics, and disease surveillance.  
  
From a global perspective, CDC is also supporting sequencing capacity in
more than 50 countries, such as India, Brazil, and South Africa.  This
support, including — includes defining standardized approaches,
providing technical assistance to investigate variants, and coordinating
with the broader research community.  
  
As we mark 100 days of this administration, I am proud that we have
collaborated with numerous partners to expand genomic sequencing and
what all of that means not only to America, but to our global efforts to
end this pandemic.   
  
This work has made us better prepared for the threat of SARS-CoV-2
variants; helped us better understand, identify, and track the virus;
and given us more tools to take actions that protect the American people
and people around the world.  
  
There is more work to be done, but over the past 100 days, we have
ramped up our capacity to understand the virus circulating in our
midst.  And with 100 million Americans fully vaccinated as of today, we
continue to move ahead in our progress to end this pandemic.   
  
Thank you very much.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.   
  
If we could move to the next slide.  
  
Yesterday, Tara Parker-Pope, in the New York Times, wrote an article
addressing the issue: Does it matter if one skips the second COVID
shot?  
  
So I like to spend just the next couple of minutes addressing this
issue.  Because now, about 8 percent of people — estimated — have not
showed up for their second shot of a two-shot regimen, i.e. the mRNA
regimen.  
  
Next slide.  
  
But if you compare this to other real-world uptake of vaccines that have
been around for a while — this report came out a week ago in Human
Vaccines & Immunotherapeutics, looking at the zoster vaccine in the
United States over a two-year period — from 2017 to 2019.   
  
And note — on the second bullet — it’s a two-dose vaccine with the doses
becoming two and six months after the first dose.  Seventy to eighty
percent of individuals completed the series, which means that twenty to
thirty percent have not.  
  
So thus far, the 8 percent — though you’d like to see 100 percent
adherence, 8 percent is within the realm of what you see what other
multi-dose vaccines.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So let’s take a quick look at what the guidelines are that we know about
the administration.  The Pfizer–BioNTech gets a — it gets a single dose,
and, 21 days later, you get the boost.  For Moderna, it’s 28 days.  But
as the CDC has said, it’s not feasible — if it’s not feasible to adhere
to the recommended interval.  
  
And in the real world, there are many reasons why this might not be
feasible.  The second dose may be scheduled for administration up to six
weeks or 42 days after the first dose.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So why is there some uncertainty about the importance of second doses
when you talk to people and ask their opinion?  Well, about 44 percent
of adults reported that the vaccines provided strong protection by one
to two weeks after the second dose.  
  
So 44 percent of people are onboard, clearly, with the second dose. 
Twenty percent believe that the vaccines provide strong protection
before the second dose.  And 36 percent, in a recent survey, were
unsure.  
  
Next slide.  
  
So let’s take a look at the results, both clinically and from a
laboratory standpoint, about the efficacy of the first dose versus
following the second dose.  
  
So this is a study that was recently published in the New England
Journal of Medicine on the Pfizer-BioNTech mRNA in a nationwide mass
vaccination setting in Israel.  
  
Look at the column on the left, when you look at both infection,
symptomatic hospitalization, or severe disease.  
  
Although there is a significant degree of protection after the first
dose, look at the difference between the first and second dose: 46
versus 92, 57 versus 94, et cetera, et cetera.  
  
Next slide.   
  
This is the study that Dr. Walensky just mentioned a moment ago when you
look at individuals 65 years of age or older, where you have an
extraordinarily good, effectiveness in fully vaccinated senior at 94
percent, as she mentioned.  
  
But look at the partially vaccinated people — again, a reasonable amount
of protection, but not nearly as much as you get from the two doses.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Here, again, is a study I showed you at a previous briefing from
employees at the University of Texas Southwestern.  Again, the
unvaccinated, when you look at the percent of infections there, they did
not do well.  You do much better if you’re partially vaccinated, but
there’s a 36-fold difference of getting fully vaccinated versus
partially vaccinated.  
  
Next slide.   
  
Now, when you look at the immune response to a single dose of mRNA
vaccines in organ transplant or cancer patients — and very, very
clearly, the single dose was not adequate — this becomes really
important.  Because organ transplant, particularly individuals on a
variety of immunosuppressive drugs and cancer patients — but there are a
lot of people in society who are on things like glucocorticoids for
autoimmune diseases that may not get a good enough response after the
first dose, and we absolutely want them to get the second dose.  
  
So, very quickly, let’s look at some of the data that backs up this
clinical.  
  
Next slide.  
  
I showed you the slide before.  This is the Pfizer-BioNTech, and we’re
here looking at neutralizing antibodies after the first dose, which is
at the 21 day, versus the second dose, which is that day 28 to 35.   
  
As you can see, regardless of the age — younger individuals or older
individuals — a dramatic difference in neutralizing antibodies between
the first and the second dose.   
  
Next slide.   
  
We often talk about T-cell responses — the same thing.  If you look at
after the first dose — namely at day 29 on the Th1 responses to the
spike protein — and you look at the responses at day 29 versus day 43,
which is after the second dose — yet again, another important
difference.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And then when you look here at the neutralization after the second dose
of Pfizer, when you’re looking at variants — so concentrate on the
blue-shaded area.  So if you look at one dose two weeks and then three
weeks after the one dose, and look at the effect — so if there are 15
vaccinees on the left, about a third of them had a good response about —
against the 614, which is the standard virus.  Got less when you did
B117.  And nothing against 351.  
  
At week three, it got a little bit better.  You had more against 614,
more against B117, but still nothing against 351.   
  
But after the second dose, both week four and week six, look at the
dramatic difference — not only against the standard wild type, but also
against the one that we have in this country that’s dominant, B117.  But
also look at, now, the presence of neutralizing antibodies in vitro
against the 351, or South African isolate.  Again, a much, much better
advantage for the second dose.   
  
So, finally, on the last slide.   
  
What can we do to help people get that second dose on time?  Scheduling
follow-up visits before and during the first dose, reschedule canceled
clinics, and send reminders.   
  
Bottom line of my message: A, get vaccinated.  And if you’re having a
two-dose regimen, make sure you get that second dose.  
  
Now passing it over to Dr. Murthy.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Well, thank you so much, Dr. Fauci, and it’s
good to be with all of you again this morning.  You know, as we pass our
100-days mark and mark over 143 million people who are vaccinated with
at least one dose, I want to share a little bit more about how we’re
thinking about our work ahead.   
  
To help people protect themselves and the people they love requires us
not only to build confidence in vaccines, but to mobilize people to get
vaccinated and to make sure people have easy access to vaccine —
vaccines.  
  
Now, tracking vaccine confidence is nuanced, but there are two realities
that remain true.   
  
First, the surveys and studies continue to show us that since the
winter, a growing share of people in our country have gotten or plan to
get vaccinated.  And we’ve come a long way since the end of last
year.   
  
Second, we know, not only from the data, but from conversations with
community members and leaders, that there are still people who have
questions and want more information about vaccines.   
  
And that’s why we’re continuing to grow the scope and reach of our
COVID-19 Community Corps, which, you’ll remember, is a nationwide
grassroot network of health professionals; community organizations;
rural, union, and faith leaders; and Americans from all walks of life
who share a commitment to protecting their communities by helping people
get vaccinated.   
  
This morning, I want to highlight for you several more stories that
we’ve heard about the work from a few of those organizations.  One of
our organizations, ACCESS, has set up vaccination clinics in Sterling
Heights in Dearborn, Michigan, where they’re averaging hundreds of
vaccines administered daily.   They are forming community focus groups,
which include primarily people of East Asian descent and people from
Poland, Ukraine, and Sikh communities to address root causes of lower
vaccine confidence and address questions.   
  
Another organization, Peletah Ministries, is working with a large
network of churches in eastern North Carolina.  Peletah Ministries was
founded to assist in disaster recovery following Hurricane Irene.  And,
today, the organization is engaging older adults by answering their
questions about vaccines, dispelling myths, and helping administer
vaccines when they — when their seniors are ready to get it.  
  
The UFW Foundation, which is also a Community Corps member, is focusing
on vaccinating farmworkers and their families.  The organization has
coordinated community vaccine events that have provided thousands of
vaccine doses to farmworkers.  They’ve established a national hotline to
support farmworkers with appointment registration.  And the team is also
engaging farmworkers on the ground in six states to spread factual
scientific information.   
  
Finally, I want to share with you that Washington, D.C., Mayor Muriel
Bowser has created D.C.’s own COVID-19 Community Corps.  The D.C. Corps
will be launched this Saturday, May 1st, as part of a “Day of Action,”
and has list — enlisted hundreds of volunteers to canvass neighborhoods
and help residents make a plan to get vaccinated.   
  
The Day of Action coincides with the — with the day walk-up sites open
across the city so that residents will be able to head straight to a
vaccination site to get a free vaccine.  If you’re in D.C. and want to
get involved in the Day of Action, you can find more information at
bit.ly/dayofactiondc.   
  
Now, these are a few of the thousands of organizations that have grown
up — that have joined the growing movement, rather, to vaccinate the
nation.  The Community Corps is ultimately built on a simple but
powerful idea: that protecting the nation from COVID-19 requires
individuals and committees to take action, not just the government.   
  
And everyday Americans, community organizations, and businesses have
risen to the challenge.  And what that means is family members and
friends helping each other make a plan to get vaccinated.  It means
doctors and nurses reaching out to their patients to answer questions
and urge them to get vaccinated.  It means faith leaders recognizing how
easily rumors can spread and reaching out to their congregants with the
truth about vaccines.  It means social media companies taking
responsibility for promoting accurate content and removing all blatant
misinformation as well as more subtle, yet highly targeted,
misinformation.   
  
And it means workplaces giving employees paid time off when they — when
needed to get vaccinated or to recover from temporary flu-like
symptoms.  This is a step, by the way, that is now easier, given the tax
credit that President Biden announced for small businesses that provide
such time off.   
  
Ultimately, our national COVID-19 response is, in many ways, a test of
whether we will answer this moment with a spirit of community that has
always been at the heart of our country’s response to generational
threats.  And I believe that we will respond.  Thank you for your time
today, and I look forward to your questions.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  Let’s now open it up for
questions.  First question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  And, reminder: one question, one person. 
First, we’ll go to Nate Weixel at The Hill.   
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  I’m wondering a little bit
about these efforts to sort of decrease hesitation, combat
misinformation.  How much effort is the administration — how much extra
effort, would you say, you’re, sort of, putting into some of the
misinformation efforts out there?  I know Dr. Fauci was out, you know,
answering questions about Joe Rogan this week.  I mean, how much does
that play into helping solve hesitation?  And how much is that, sort of,
a distraction?   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  I’m sorry, could you repeat the tail end of
your question?  I want to make sure I’m clear on the end.   
  
Q    Yeah, it was just: How much is that helping to solve hesitation
versus how much is it — is sort of just a distraction and taking away
from other work that’s happening?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:   Dr. Murthy, combating misinformation is the core of the
question.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Yeah, look — look, I think that, ultimately, we
know that people have questions for multiple reasons.  Sometimes because
there’s misinformation that they’ve encountered; sometimes because
they’ve had a bad experience with the healthcare system and they’re
wondering who to trust; and some people have just heard lots of
different news as we continue to get updates on the vaccine, and they
want to hear from someone they trust.   
  
That’s why, you know, our efforts are focused on mobilizing trusted
messengers, which include doctors and nurses, faith leaders, and family
members to get information out to people.   
  
But just keep in mind that — for people to get vaccinated, they need
confidence.  They need, you know, to know that this is urgent and
important.  And they need access.  And that’s why we are working hard on
all three fronts.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Kristen Welker, NBC.   
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thanks so much for doing this call.  My big-picture
question is: To what extent are you concerned that people are loosening
restrictions too quickly?  Clearly, there have been significant
gains.   
  
I’m thinking about, specifically New York announcing that it’s reopening
July 1st.  Is that too soon or is that right on time?   
  
I’m also thinking about the images we saw last night with the NFL Draft,
hundreds of people in close quarters.  I know they’ve been vaccinated
and tested, but was that safe?  Is that too many people?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well let me — let me start, and then, Dr. Walensky or Dr.
Fauci, if you want to add anything here.  
  
You know, I think situations clearly vary by state.  We are encouraged
that states are focused on getting people vaccinated.  That’s the most
important area of focus, as we all know that vaccinations and getting as
many Americans vacc- — vaccinated as efficiently and equitably as
possible is our path to returning to a more normal lifestyle.  
  
Dr. Walensky or Dr. Fauci, anything to add here?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  I don’t have that much to add.  I will just say that, you
know, we are focused on getting people vaccinated and decreasing the
case rates.  You know, if we can continue at this pace — case rates are
coming down, vaccinations going up — then I think July 1 would be a
reasonable target.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR: Yamiche Alcindor at PBS.   
  
Q    Thanks so much for taking my question.  I’m wondering about the
dwindling demand for vaccines.  You’re seeing — we’re seeing some of
that, according to local reporting, in California and in — and in Ohio. 
How close are we to hitting a vaccine plateau?  What would that even
look like?  And what’s the strategy if we do start to hit a vaccine
plateau?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, you know, we’re — as I said, we’re giving millions of
shots per day, and as a result — you saw the data that we’ve already
delivered at least one shot to 55 percent of adult Americans, and then
today’s major milestone of 100 million adult Americans fully
vaccinated.   
  
You know, it’s not unexpected, as we entered this next phase, that there
will be a more of a balance between supply and demand.  And that makes
it even more important that we make it easier for people to get
vaccinated, that we continue, as Dr. Murthy talked about, to build
vaccine confidence and ensure equity.  
  
I think what is unexpected is how fast we’ve gotten here.  We know this
next phase won’t be easy, but neither was getting to 220 million shots
in arms in the first 100 days.   
  
And I think it’s why the infrastructure that we’ve built — having enough
supply, enough places for people to get vaccinated, enough vaccinators
in the field — is so important as we build on those efforts of having
75,000 sites where people can get vaccinated and thousands of
vaccinators now online, 90 percent of Americans within five miles.   
  
So this next phase is very focused on making it even easier, continuing
to build vaccine confidence, and ensuring equity for all Americans.  
  
Next question.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Can I, Jeff —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  I’m sorry.  
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Jeff, can I just add one — one piece then —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Please.  Please.   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  — which is, also — which is that — you know, I
completely agree with what Jeff said.  And, you know, I don’t think it’s
a surprise, you know, that — you know, we knew that, you know, it wasn’t
going to be easy to vaccinate the entire country.  And as obstacles come
up, though, we continue to work together with communities to knock them
down.  
  
But I also want to be very clear that at this point — that the effort to
vaccinate America to protect our nation from COVID-19 is a collaborative
effort.  Like we need, certainly, the government to take action, but we
know that we can’t get there also — to fully protecting our country —
until individuals and communities and community organizations and
businesses are all working together hand in hand to make that
vaccination effort possible.  And many are already are stepping up.   
  
But this is one of these all-hands-on-deck moments when each of us needs
to look around in our communities, in our families, in our fr- — circle
of friends and ask people if they have a plan to get vaccinated.  And if
they don’t have a plan, we need to ask them do they need information,
help them get information.  If they need help making an appointment, you
need to help them make an appointment.   
  
It’s only by stepping up, all of us, in our own roles in society that
we’re going to ultimately protect the company — the country.  And the
government should make it as easy as possible, which is why we’re so
focused on access, getting accurate information out there.  But again,
this is an all-hands-on-deck effort where we’ve all got to chip in.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Well said, Dr. Murthy.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Rachel Roubein, Politico.  
  
Q    Hi, I just wanted to drill down a little bit more into that.  So we
are seeing a growing gap in vaccine rates both between states and within
states, where certain communities and counties still have fewer than 20
percent of their population vaccinated.   
  
You guys have talked about the Community Corps, but what new actions is
the White House taking to, kind of, address this growing gap?  And
specifically, how is the strategy evolving here?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Why don’t I go first and then — and then, Dr. Murthy, if
you want to add on here.   
  
You know, in this next phase, we — we’re making it even easier for
people to get vaccinated: partnering with doctors’ offices, where people
are accustomed to getting vaccinations.  And, you know, 90 percent of
doctors have gotten at least their first dose of vaccine.  And people,
locally, trust and look to their doctors and nurses and other healthcare
providers.  
  
Helping get workers paid time off, as Dr. Murthy talked about the action
the President took last week to make sure that small businesses have tax
credits to allow employees to have time off to both get vaccinated and
to recover if need be.   
  
Setting up walkups sites so that you can have a certain number of people
each day, with no appointment, show up and just get vaccinated, making
it increasingly convenient.  
  
Dr. Murthy, you might want to expand in terms of new confidence efforts
that you’re helping to lead here.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Absolutely.  Well, I would just say that the — we are
continuing to expand the breadth of organizations and individuals who
are part of our Community Corps, recognizing exactly what you said: that
if we really want to reach all parts of America — rural and urban and
people of all age demographics — we’ve got to reflect the diversity of
our country and the diversity of partners that we have as well.  
  
I want to underscore though the point that Jeff made about working with
doctors and with other healthcare providers: that we know that around 80
percent of people who are trying to decide about a vaccine say that they
want to talk to their doctor about that — about that decision.   
  
And we’ve heard that loud and clear, and that’s why we not only want to,
you know, engage with doctors to ensure they’re talking to their
patients, but we also want to make it easier for people to ultimately
get a vaccine through their doctor.  And there’ll be more to say about
that initiative in the days ahead.   
  
But that is a channel that we’re certainly working on in close
partnership with physicians, with other healthcare providers, and with
medical organizations.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Jeremy Diamond, CNN.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks very much.  So more than a dozen countries have
either banned or restricted travel from India at this point.  Why hasn’t
the President taken any of those steps so far?  And is the
administration currently considering a ban on travel from India?   
  
And then, secondly, I’m just wondering:  You know, this morning, we saw
the First Lady outdoors wearing a mask, even though she’s vaccinated. 
The President, yesterday, said he would need to wear a mask if he was
sitting close to someone indoors, even if they’re both vaccinated, which
goes against CDC guidance.   
  
And so, given that the President focused on modeling the best public
health advice when masks were required, why isn’t he doing more to show
the country what you can do once you are vaccinated?  Thank you.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  So, in terms of travel from India, we remain in very close
contact with our foreign counterparts and are continuously monitoring
the situation.  Our current inbound travel precautions and mandatory
testing before travel — the quarantine for unvaccinated individuals and
the retesting during that quarantine period — those are all in place for
all international travel and have been effective.   
  
Getting Americans vaccinated is the most effective tool, as we — that we
have against COVID, and we’ll continue to follow the CDC’s science-based
guidance on — on travel and other matters.   
  
Dr. Walensky, I don’t know if you have anything to add here.   
  
DR. WALENSKY:  No, nothing to add.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Zeke Miller, AP.  
  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  First, a quick point of information: When
you say 100 million Americans are fully vaccinated, that just means
they’ve gotten their second dose if they required a two-dose vaccine;
that doesn’t mean that they’re two weeks past that dose, which is what
is —  
  
MR. ZIENTS:    That is — that is correct, Zeke.  And that’s why I was
clear that everyone needs to make sure that they follow that two-week
post.  But they’ve — now 100 million Americans have received their
second shot if they’re on a two-shot regimen or their one shot if
they’re on the J&J regimen.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And then just following up on Dr. Walensky’s point
earlier about New York, that July 1st is sort of a reasonable timetable
assuming the current trendlines are continued.  Could you explain, Dr.
Walensky, sort of, what that — you know, what would be possible or, sort
of, now seems likely on July — July 1st then, New York’s going to 100
percent capacity at restaurants and bars and — and, you know, arenas and
the like.  You know, will masks still be required indoors? Could you
sort of lay out a little bit sort of, you know, two weeks — two months
from now, rather, you know, what should the American people, sort of,
hope for?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  You know, what I’d like to do is, sort of, say: The more
people are vaccinated, the fewer cases that we have.  And as we see
those numbers come down, we’ll — we’ll take increased steps, as we have
until now.   
  
We’ve had three updated guidances of what you can do if you’re fully
vaccinated, and we look forward to more as more and more people get
vaccinated.  But I don’t think this — this virus has tricked us before,
so I would like to sort of watch and see how it goes before making
further estimations of what happens in a couple of months.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Last question.  Let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.    
  
Q    Well, thanks so much.  I just wanted to follow up on what the
administration is doing to counter disinformation — so really stronger
on the spectrum of — of hesitancy, but, you know, Peter Hotez wrote an
editorial in “Nature,” suggesting that the highest levels of government
have to take direct, even confrontational, approaches with Russia and
move to dismantle anti-vaccine groups in the United States.  So, really
going beyond counter-messaging from the global health community and
pressure on social media companies.   
  
I just wondered what the administration’s, sort of, stance is on — on
stronger actions like that against specific disinformation, not just,
sort of, hesitancy in general.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Murthy, do you want to talk about just positive
measures on information and anything you want to say about combating
disinformation?   
  
SURGEON GENERAL MURTHY:  Sure, well — well, thank you for that
question.  I mean, that is such an important issue and — and we are
certainly focused on it in several ways.  But the two that I’ll mention
is: We recognize that misinformation and disinformation thrive in the
absence of accurate information. 

So, one of our strategies is to put as much accurate information out
there as possible with trusted voices — not only the people from
government, but also reputable medical sources and experts in
communities.    
  
But we are also working closely with these social media companies and
other platforms to push them, also, and partner with them on rooting out
active disinformation campaigns.  You know, I said at the top of this —
top of this presser that it is all of our responsibilities to step up
and to help address this crisis and get people vaccinated.   
  
And I specifically mentioned that — that we need social media companies
and platforms to not only put out accurate information, but to root out
both blatant and subtle disinformation that’s on their sites.    
  
I think that they have work to do.  We are certainly here to partner
with them to get the job done.  But clearly, you know, we still have way
too much disinformation spreading on those sites.  And it presents a
clear and present danger, I believe, to people who need to be protected
from COVID and who could potentially get vaccinated.   
  
MR. ZIENTS:  I want to thank everybody for joining today, and we look
forward to next week’s briefings.   
  
Thank you.  
  
11:42 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/COVID-Press-Briefing_30April2021_for-transcript.pdf>
