---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-27'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 23:41:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/27/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-national-security-and-foreign-policy-in-president-bidens-first-100-days/
published_time: 2021-04-27 19:37:12-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on National Security\
  \ and Foreign Policy in President\_Biden\u2019s First 100\_Days"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:48 P.M. EDT

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thanks for
joining us.  Today’s call is going to be attributed to a “senior
administration official,” and contents will be embargoed until the
conclusion of the call.

Our speaker today is \[senior administration official\].  I’ll turn it
over to \[senior administration official\] for some opening comments,
and then we’re happy to take a few of your questions.  Thanks.

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And thanks, everybody, for
doing this.  I’m going to make some, sort of, strategic framing
comments, and then I’ll go a bit more into the details of how we see the
first 100 days. 

So the past two administrations chose to focus on what they saw as the
predominant national security challenges facing the country:
transnational threats in one instance, and great power competition in
the other.

Our view is that we don’t have that luxury to choose between those
challenges.  It was clear from the first 100 days that we faced an
increasingly assertive China and disruptive Russia.  At the same time,
we face challenges that don’t respect borders, including climate change,
COVID-19, and a technological revolution that’s reshaping nearly every
aspect of our lives.

Yet, the United States also has a tremendous opportunity to shape this
world and to lead collective action to address these challenges. 

In everything he does, President Biden is committed to ensuring the
security and prosperity of the American people today and in the future. 
That means orienting our foreign policy to meet the challenges of the
21st century. 

And with this in mind, the President’s strategy calls for investing in
America’s enduring advantages.  That starts with a phrase we say
probably more often than you all like: “building back better here at
home.”  This means taking steps to recover from COVID and the economic
crisis in a way that is truly equitable.  It means making investments in
priority areas like clean energy and science and technology, and
recommitting ourselves to American ideals and values.

A few examples of this: on COVID-19, our — the passage of the $1.7
trillion American Rescue Plan and the surge in vaccination that has
proceeded across the country.  It includes priority investments such as
elevating cybersecurity as a priority across the federal government,
such as our supply chains executive order, and our work on
semiconductors and rare earth minerals.  It also means recommitting to
our ideals, which we’ve done in a number of ways globally, including by
revoking the Muslim ban; reversing the ban on transgender military
service; and restoring professionalism, integrity, and transparency to
the federal bureaucracy and the government writ large.

It also means building back better abroad, and this is reinvigorating
our partnerships and alliances, and forging a common agenda among
like-minded democracies; earning back our position of global leadership
to help rally the world to address shared challenges; elevating
diplomacy as our foreign policy tool of first resort; and making smart
and disciplined choices about our national priorities and where we
choose to invest our resources.

On partnerships and alliances: As you all know, we held the first-ever
leader-level Quad summit.  We had the first in-person bilateral visit
with Prime Minister Suga of Japan.  We ended the previous
administration’s withdrawal of U.S. forces from Germany.  And we have
eased trade tensions with Europe.

When it comes to global leadership, we have rejoined, reengaged with the
WHO; rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement.  And we have hosted, just
recently, the Climate Leaders Summit.

It also means elevating diplomacy.  That means things like the New START
extension, which we did in the very early days of this administration,
and steps to end U.S. support for what has been a disastrous conflict in
Yemen. 

This also means disciplined choices about our priorities, and that
starts with ending the U.S. war in Afghanistan and drawing down our
forces there, which will take place over the coming months; and
conducting a broader global force posture review, which is still playing
out.

As always, the President approaches these issues with a focus squarely
on what will make life better, safer, and easier for working families. 
That is our primary metric. 

Now, the other key factor in the President’s mind is that authoritarian
regimes argue that their system of governance is better equipped to take
on the challenges of the 21st century than our democracy.  In the first
100 days, we are proving that view wrong and demonstrating that
democracies can still deliver.  We’re delivering for the American
people, and we believe so — that we are doing so while reaffirming and
strengthening our values broadly.

Beyond the first 100 days — I would add that President Biden has taken
these steps to fulfill pledges he’s made on the campaign trail and chart
a new course.  These actions will strengthen our position at home and
help restore U.S. leadership abroad today and in the future. 

We have a few upcoming milestones that are worth noting.  We have the
visit — the next bilateral, in-person visit with the Republic of Korea. 
We have the President’s first overseas trip to the UK for the G7.  We
have new commitments that was announced just yesterday to provide 60
million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine.  And we’ll have more to say about
that in the coming days and weeks. 

And building on last week’s Climate Summit, we will be pursuing bold and
meaningful targets at COP26 and trying to raise global ambition among
our partners, our allies, and other nations.  And also intend to hold
the Summit for Democracy the President has spoken about since the
campaign later this year. 

I want to make one last point, which may be less splashy than some of
the other steps that we’ve taken but that we consider no less
important.  We’ve put a ton of work into making sure our national
security decision-making process is rigorous, inclusive, and informed. 
We had a year-total breakdown of process in the last administration. 
Expertise was pushed aside.  Decisions were made on an ad hoc basis
without being set up by broad information and process.

And I think there are a few examples that show that we are handling
things differently in this administration.  First of all, on some of
these longer-term policy decisions that have been made — Afghanistan and
Russia are two key examples — we did not prize instant gratification,
but getting to the right answer with buy in from key officials across
our government so that these policies could be implemented in the best
possible way. 

There was a real hunger for this that we found upon arriving in the
administration right from the beginning.  And a need to build back the
muscle memory that had atrophied over the past few years.  And we’ve
made it a very high priority for the National Security Council and for
the entire administration to do that work. 

So with that, \[senior administration official\], happy to take
questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you.  Operators, you can
open the lines.

Q    Hi.  Hey, it’s Olivier.  Thanks for taking the question.  Since his
confirmation hearing, Secretary Blinken has repeatedly said the United
States wants to make sure that imports from Xinjiang are not coming to
U.S. stores.  What concrete steps have you taken in the last 100 days or
will you take in the next 100 days to make good on those comments?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, I really had a hard time hearing
that question.  There was some static on the line.  I don’t know if,
\[senior administration official\], you can repeat it or, Olivier, you
can say it again.  I’m sorry about that.

Q    Yeah, of course.  Of course.  Happy to.  I just said that, since at
least his confirmation hearing, Tony Blinken has talked about keeping
imports from Xinjiang away from U.S. stores.  So my question was: What
concrete steps have you taken in the first 100 days and will you take in
the next 100 days to make good on Blinken’s comments?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I’d say a few things on this,
Olivier.  For one thing, Secretary Blinken and others in our
administration have been very clear about how we view what has been
happening in Xinjiang.  And that goes as well for the President of the
United States. 

We’ve not just said that in private policy meetings, and we’ve not just
said that in public speeches and other statements; we’ve said that
directly to Chinese officials, our National Security Advisor and
Secretary of State said that quite directly during our first in-person
engagement with Chinese officials in Anchorage, and the President of the
United States said so directly to his Chinese counterpart when they
spoke in their first conversation by telephone. 

We are not going to shy away from hard topics and addressing them
directly with China — nor, by the way, are we going to shy away from
taking meaningful action, including in the sanctions space and other
steps, when it comes to gross violations of human rights, such as those
that are occurring in Xinjiang, which we’ve obviously said amounts to
genocide. 

I would say that one other key distinguishing factor in our approach is
that we’ve been able to bring partners and allies along with us.  I
would refer you to the steps that were taken by the European Union and
other key partners in the immediate aftermath of our meetings with the
Chinese in Anchorage.

We believe that if China is what Secretary Austin has called the “pacing
threat” for the United States, then that means our core advantage
vis-à-vis China in the world is our ability to leverage our network of
partnerships and alliances.  We think that was a key tool that the
United States has at its disposal that the previous administration left
on the sidelines, and we have reactivated and are using to the greatest
extent possible.

Q    Great.  Thank you so much for doing this, \[senior administration
officials\].  I really appreciate it.  I wanted to ask: To what extent
there is concern within the administration about retaliation from Putin
and Russia to the sanctions that were announced just a couple of weeks
ago?  Obviously, there’s been some discussion from Putin about actions
he plans to take.  To what extent did that sort of calculus, you know,
weigh into the announcement?  And how realistic are your concerns about
steps that Russia might take?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  So, look, we’ve seen
announcements that have been put out by the government of Russia.  I
think we’re trying still, at this point, to understand exactly what they
intend.  And we will be having very direct conversations with Russian
counterparts in the coming days, and have already — have already done
so.

What I will say, just taking a step back, is: From our very first
conversation with President Putin and from the very first moment that we
came to office, our approach has remained consistent, which is that we
are not going to shy away from imposing costs on Russia for actions that
we believe are beyond the pale — are just unacceptable for responsible
nations to take in the world.  And that’s why you have seen a series of
steps.  It — again, in the aftermath of a rigorous policy review and
intelligence review — that have been rolled out by this administration
in recent weeks.

We have also been clear that our desire is not to escalate with Russia. 
Our desire is to make clear, to underscore to Russia exactly what sorts
of activities we will not tolerate. 

Where this goes from here, to some extent, is going to be determined by
direct conversations that we have with the government of Russia,
including — as I think you’ve seen — potential conversation at the
head-of-state level — in-person, between the two Presidents — the
details for which are still going to be worked out. 

But it also is going to require Russia to take steps to deescalate the
situation.  We have seen and expressed great concern about the buildup
of Russian forces on the border with Ukraine.  We have seen in recent
days, at least some indications, that they are looking to move some of
those forces away from the border. 

We’re not going to prejudge where all that is headed.  And we are going
to be as clear and direct, as we always are with the Russians, about
steps they take that we consider to be the counter to our interests and
counter to global stability.

Q    Yeah.  So, there was a new North Korea approach ever since the
Biden (inaudible) 100 days.  So, I want to know when we will know the
result of the new North Korea policy.  And then, is there any issue with
making (inaudible) country like South Korea?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I guess, what I can say about that
is we are — we have talked about the fact that we are undertaking a
broad review of our North Korea policy.  We don’t have anything to
announce about that at this point.  We are much closer to the end of
that review than we are to the beginning.  But when we have more to say
publicly about it, we will — we will do that, but that’s not going to be
for this call.

Q    Hi.  Some administration officials have spoken about putting the
fight against kleptocracy, money laundering, and tax havens at the
center of the U.S. pushback against authoritarianism.  Can you talk
about any concrete plans in that direction?  Is this a topic for the
Democracy Summit later this year?  And if you can say anything about
that summit, I’d

be grateful.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  Yes, I think
this issue will be one of the core topics of our Summit for Democracy
because we see this as one way in which democracies can and should
distin- — distinguish democracies from autocracies in exactly the ways
that President Biden thinks it is critical for us to do. 

And I want to go back to something I said earlier.  He sees this
contest, essentially, between competing models — between competing
political systems — as essential to the moment that we’re in.  And it is
not — it is going to be judged, in part, on questions of, kind of, basic
values and differences of values of — between autocratic systems and
democratic systems. 

But much more so, or at least as much, (inaudible) how each system can
deliver for its own people.  And if countries are, essentially,
stealing, cannibalizing the wealth of their citizens and appropriating
them for personal use by government officials or other cross purposes,
that goes to a core of weakness of a certain model of governance. 

And it doesn’t mean that democracies are immune from that sort of thing;
in fact, far from it.  But — but part of our agenda — a democratic
agenda in the world and for that summit is to build the resiliency of
democracies and hold up this model as one that delivers bettter for
people.  And so, delivering on that score, autocracy, kleptocracy, on
the one hand, and a democratic model that should be better on the other
is going to be a high priority.

Q    Hey, thanks guys for holding this call.  Two questions.  I was
wondering what you do in cases — because, obviously, you said working
with allies is one big difference from your administration to the last
administration.  What do you do in cases where your desire to work with
allies runs up against those times when allies disagree with you, like
on China or Nord Stream 2? 

And then, separately, on China, I know this administration is still
undergoing its broad policy review.  I wonder if you have any updates
for us on timing for when we might see an outcome of that, or if it will
come in, you know, sort of, portions where we see where you guys are
headed on your China policy.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you.  Look, I — I — we
don’t tout alliances because having an alliance or a close partnership
with another country means you agree on every issue.  But it doesn’t
mean that you are, in most cases, broadly, strategically aligned about
the key challenges that you face. 

We’ve been quite clear, for example, with the German government that we
think Nord Stream 2 is a bad deal.  They have a different view of it,
and we have taken steps, including some concrete steps, to underscore
the degree to which we are committed to trying to get them to change
their view of that pipeline.  But — but fundamentally, our relationship
with Germany, our relationship with our other key European and
transatlantic partners, is in a cornerstone of our approach to the rest
of the world, including to Russia.

And a strategic alignment I think that — again, that atrophied over the
four years of the Trump administration was a tool that it had — a card
that it had to play — that it shows instead of to cultivate and to use
to its advantage, to undermine ways that are, sort of, inexplicable to
us.

So, again, it’s the cornerstone of our approach to this area of our
policy to how we will deal with a great (inaudible) power competition
with China, and — and to some of the malign activities that Russia
undertakes in the world is going to be in close conjunction and
coordination with these allies, even if we don’t see eye to eye on every
single tactical elements of that, as is the case with — with North Korea
too.

And on China, look, I would say that the previous administration’s
approach, again, was quite different.  Alienating our allies, in some
cases, pushed them closer to some of our competitors, not to (inaudible)
pull them further away.  And so we’re taking a different approach, and
we think that approach has borne fruit.  

And again, there are many examples of why this is the case, but I will —
I will give you two data points.  One is this investment agreement that
the Europeans made with the Chinese government in the late stages of the
Trump administration, after four years in which our alliances were
allowed to fray.  And then, the state of that agreement and some of the
other steps that our European partners have taken in the early days of
the Biden administration, which we see as quite different. 

Again, this doesn’t mean that every European partner and ally sees the
China challenge exactly as we do.  But they are much more close — much
closer to being strategically aligned with our view of this challenge
than they were before, and we think that’s profoundly in America’s
interest.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks all for joining us today.  That
concludes our call.  A friendly reminder that we were on background
attributed to a “senior administration official.”  And with the
conclusion of the call, the embargo is lifted.

Thanks, everyone.

3:08 P.M. EDT
