---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-29'
modified_time: 2021-04-29 17:28:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/29/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-plains-ga/
published_time: 2021-04-29 17:45:00-04:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Aboard
  Air Force One En Route Plains, GA
---
 
12:05 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, everybody.  Happy 100 Days.  I’m going to start
with something at the top here for folks.  The key components of the
American Families Plan that the President unveiled last night are
incredibly popular because they deliver for the American people. 
Fifty-eight percent of Americans support universal pre-K.  Fifty-eight
percent also support expanding Affordable Care Act subsidies for low-
and middle-income Americans to buy health insurance. 

Seventy-three percent of Americans, including sixty percent of
Republicans, support expanding access to childcare for working
families.  Seventy-five percent of Americans, including sixty-four
percent of Republicans, support ensuring all workers have access to paid
leave.  And 62 percent support an extension of the Child Tax Credit
expansion. 

And the President’s proposals for paying for these investments are also
widely supported by the public.  Sixty-nine percent of Americans support
raising taxes on the wealthy.  Sixty-four percent agree that they — that
the very rich should contribute an extra share of wealth each year to
support public programs.  Fifty-nine percent of respondents, including
sixty-six percent of independents and sixty-eight percent of
Republicans, opposes gas taxes.  And 86 percent of respondents supported
increasing — increased IRS enforcement, including 84 percent of
Republicans.

The American Families Plan is a combination of popular public
investments, pop- — and popular ways to pay for them.  It’s no surprise
that the plan already has bipartisan support among the American people. 

And the administration and the President’s newly announced Families
Cabinet are going to spend the coming days continuing to make the case
for why Congress should act on these vital investments in the economic
security of the middle class. 

For — as for our trip today, on the President’s 100th day in office, he
and the First Lady are returning to Georgia to talk about getting
America back on track.  Thanks to the Rescue — to the American Rescue
Plan, more than 150 million Americans have received direct checks,
including more than 6 million adults and nearly 3 million children in
Georgia.

Schools now have the resources they need to safely reopen and get kids
back — kids — kids and teachers back into the classroom.  Small
businesses have the support they need to keep their doors open.

When the President came into office, he set the ambitious goal of
getting 100 million shots into arms by today.  We’ve now more than
doubled that: Over 220 million vaccine shots have been administered
across the country.  Ninety percent of Americans now live within five
miles of a vaccination site. 

The economy created more than 1.3 million jobs — more new jobs in the
first 100 days than any President on record. 

The American Rescue Plan provided two years of lower health insurance
premiums for those who buy coverage on their own.  In Georgia, that
means nearly 200,000 uninsured people will gain coverage and more than
260,000 will save hundreds of dollars per year on premiums. 

The President has delivered for our country.  The country is starting to
get back on track.  But there’s more work to do to build back not just
to the way things are, but to build back better. 

Today, the President will talk about the need to seize this opportunity
to invest in our competitiveness, our economy, and our families with the
American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan.  And he’ll
acknowledge the crucial role Georgia’s voters have played in allowing
this to become a reality not just by electing him President, but also
electing Senator Warnock and Senator Ossoff, who, in their first few
months in office, have also proven to be two tireless champions for
Georgia’s working families. 

We’re looking forward to being back in Georgia to highlight clearly to
Georgians the tangible outcomes of the Build Back Better agenda they
voted for and are already seeing take shape. 

Today’s positive GDP report is another welcome sign that our economy is
healing, and the — and that America is on the move once again.  This
economic recovery is the result of a robust vaccination program that has
helped us get the pandemic under control, and an economic strategy that
puts America’s hardworking families first and rebuilds from the bottom
up.

With that, Zeke, you got the first one. 

Q    Yeah, just a couple for you.  First off, who is paying for the
rally this evening?  Is that a White House event?  Is it a DNC event? 
Is it a Biden campaign event? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The rally this evening is a DNC event.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  And then, on the — on the virus: Has the White
House seen New York City Mayor de Blasio announce that the city is going
to reopen to 100 percent on July 1st?  That’s restaurants, bars,
nightclubs — the works.  Does the President believe that that is prudent
and founded in science?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s — here’s what I can say: You know, as far
— the timeline that we see for — for ourselves, for the country — we
don’t have a new timeline to share.  You know, we believe that we need
to continue to listen to experts, to listen to science, to listen to the
— to the medical experts.  So, we’re going to continue to have those
conversations with them. 

You know, I just talked about how in the first 100 days, we exceeded our
goals of 200 — of 200 \[million\] doses.  Our first goal was 100
\[million\], now we’re at over 220 \[million\].  So, we’re going to
continue to do that.  Our — we see our goal — or our job is to continue
to get doses in the arms of Americans and also to make sure that people
just get fully vaccinated so that we can fully open and get to a place
that we’re closer back to normal. 

Q    So is Mayor de Blasio not following the science if he’s doing this
— taking this action now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he’s the — that’s — he’s the city of — the
mayor of New York City.  I’m assuming that he’s listening to the experts
on this.  We leave that decision to him.  We can only speak for what
we’re trying to do as an administration, which is making sure that
people get vaccinated and follow the CDC guidelines and follow the
experts. 

Q    And just one last one.  On the speech last night: There were only
200 people in the room for the speech.  Many of them — most of them were
vaccinated.  The President lingered, clearly, in close contact with many
of those people.  Do you believe — does the White House believe that the
message sent the right — that the speech sent the right message to the
American public about the promise of vaccines, given that it was so
sparsely attended, even though most of the people there were vaccinated
and masked? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, Zeke, if I have the numbers right, there’s
normally — for a joint session or State of the Union, there’s 1,600
people in that room.  Last night, you just said — stated that there was
200 people.  So, it was done in a COVID — you know, protocols — in a
regulated way. 

And we trust the Speaker.  The Speaker ran the night, last night, on who
was invited and how the protocols were met.  And we respect that
decision. 

Look, as you know, the President, for the last 100 days, has talked
about following the experts, listening to science.  This is an
administration that follows science, and that’s what we did.  He walked
in, had his mask on, and only took it off to speak, which we have seen
him do over and over again.  So, there’s nothing new there.  People were
socially distanced. 

And — and so we believe in continuing to follow that COVID protocol. 
And it seems like, to me, everything was done right.  If you have 1,600
people in the room normally and 200 — a little bit more than 200 — that
is — that is following COVID protocols.  That is a major change to what
we saw last night. 

Q    Has the President invited Senator Scott to the White House to talk
about police reform?  And why did he set a deadline of next month to
have a compromise on this? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, as you know, when he spoke the night — when
he spoke the night that Derek Chauvin’s conviction came through, he
talked about this being a moment — a moment that we need to act.  And he
has supported the Geo- — the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act from —
from the moment that he was able to as President. 

He’s put out a statement of support for that act.  And he wants to
continue to encourage Congress to push that forward.  As we know, it
went through the House and now it’s in the Senate.  And the way that he
sees it is: He’s using — you know, we talk about how — how is he — you
know, how is he going to move things forward?  He used his platform last
night. 

He used one of the most important moments of his first 100 days, his
joint address, a primetime opportunity, to talk about the police —
policing reform because that’s how much he believes in it.  And he
thinks we need to move quickly.  We shouldn’t hold — we need to move
quickly.  And he’s talked about this.  He’s gotten to know the George
Floyd family.  He talks about how much he respects their — their courage
and their strength. 

And — and so he believes that we need to move quickly for a community —
brown and Black community that has been suffering through this when it
comes through, you know, policing.  And so, we need to see reform, and
he believes that we need to act now.

Q    But beyond talking about in his speech last night — that’s an
incredibly tight turnaround to get this done by May 24th, like he said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ll see —

Q    What will he do now?  And is he going to meet with Senator Scott at
the White House? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, he — he has — in the first 100 days, he has met
with about 130 congressional members in the White House — not himself, I
should — I should be clear here — himself and staff.  So — and, he’s
done — he’s done bipartisan meetings throughout these first 100 days. 
And when he has those meetings with congressional members, they clearly
are talking about an array of issues. 

And so, he’s going to continue to do that.  We know that this is a
President that believes in bipartisanship.  He believes in reaching
across the aisle and making big things happen, which we’ve seen him do
when he was senator, we’ve seen him do when he was Vice President. 

And so, this is what he’s going to continue to do.  He’s happy to have
conversations with Republicans who want to move this forward and just
have a conversation — or about the American Families Plan or the
American Jobs Plan, which he has been doing already. 

So, that’s how he sees this — is to continue to have those bipartisan
conversations.  He’s going to have congressional members over to — over
to the — to the Oval Office in the next upcoming weeks. 

We’ve set a date — May 12th — with the — with bipartisan —
bipartisanship leaders from both chambers to come in on May 12th in the
Oval Office to have a conversation with the President about an array of
issues.  But clearly, we have the American Jobs Plan that we’re trying
to push through and the Americans Families Plan.

Q    What is happening on May 12th?  Sorry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s a — we confirmed yesterday that the President,
on May 12th, is going to be sitting down with the “big four,” if you
will, but — the bipartisan leaders in both the House and the Senate.  So
that’s what’s happening on May 12th.  So, this is a continuation of him
holding bipartisan meetings with Congress. 

Q    There’s no specific outreach to Tim Scott, in particular.  I mean,
on this (inaudible)–

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Andrea, I don’t have anything for you — to preview for
you right now, is what I’ll say to that answer.  But I’m saying that he
has been more than willing, as we’ve known for the past 100 days, to sit
down and have conversations with both Democrats and Republicans. 

Q    Did he have any feedback yesterday from Republicans outside of the,
sort of, public comments?  Like, you know, just — did he kind of walk
away feeling like he’d gotten the message across?  Or is it sort of more
of the same? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think he got the message across.  I mean, look, last
night, as we — I’ve already stated — was a big night, right?  It was a
joint address, a primetime event.  It was — it was the bookend, almost,
to his first 100 days. 

And he used that opportunity to speak not just to the people in the — in
the room — the 200 people in the room and Congress — but also to the
American people and to talk about the last — the last year and what
we’ve had to endure with the pandemic.  And the first — his first 100
days — the successes that we have seen: the doses in arms, the American
Rescue Plan — which we see right now is actually making a difference,
and we have evidence of that. 

     And so he — that’s who he was talking to as well.  And he laid out
his American Families Plan, which is an important, critical investment
in people — right? — in families and kids.

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Can you explain how involved the President was in the decision to
ban menthol in cigarettes, and why he felt it was important to take that
step?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, with menthol, you know, this is a public health
decision that will hurt — that will help curb addiction and save lives —
the decision that was made on the FDA menthol and flavored cigars ban. 

But let’s be clear here, if implemented, these rules affect only
commercial activity.  And so, FDA does not regulate the possession of
tobacco products by individuals for personal use, and this rule would
not make individual consumer possession or use of menthol cigarettes a
crime, nor change enforcement standards.  So, this was an FDA rule.

Q    And as one of the authors of the George Floyd Justice in Policing
Act, what exactly is the Vice President’s role in these ongoing
negotiations?  We know there’s a meeting on Capitol Hill this
afternoon.  Will she be involved in that in any way?  What is her role
here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, the Vice President plays a partner role
with the President.  She spoke the same night that the — that the
verdict came in with Derek Chauvin.  She talked in a very, you know,
passionate way, and talked about, as you mentioned, her role as being a
coauthor.  And I think she’ll continue to do that, be a co- — a
copartner with him as this moves forward.

Q    But she doesn’t — she doesn’t see a need to get involved in the
actual negotiations on Capitol Hill right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the negotiations that are happening are
negotiations that are happening with Tim Scott, you know, I think,
congression- — Congresswoman Karen Bass, because she has the House
version of the bill, and so — others. 

So that’s where the negotiations are going to happen — not at the White
House; they’re going to happen on the Hill.  We’re just — what the
President is doing is, is using his platform.  Right?  He’s using his
voice to support the bill and encourage Congress to continue to work on
it.

Q    And then, I’m sure the President has been briefed about this
reported direct energy attack that took place at the Ellipse.  What can
you tell us about that incident, and whether any additional precautions
have been taken since then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the health and wellbeing of American public
servants is a paramount priority for the Biden administration.  We take
all reports of health incidents by our personnel extremely seriously. 
The White House is working closely with departments and agencies to
address unexplained health incidents and ensure the safety and security
of Americans serving around the world. 

Given that we are still evaluating reported incidents and that we need
to protect the privacy of individuals reporting incidents, we cannot
provide or confirm specific details at this time.

Q    You can’t tell any — tell us anything about how that person is
doing now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t share anything at this time.

Q    Karine, (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Why is he going to see Jimmy Carter today, and is the former
President having any health issues or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) the President — the President and the
First Lady have had a longstanding friendship with — with the President
Carter and Mrs. Carter. 

President Biden actually spoke to them — President Carter — the night
before inauguration.  As we all know, they were not able to attend.  And
so this is part — this is part — they had said on that call that they
would try to connect after the inauguration.  And since they’re both —
and since they’re both in Georgia, they wanted to stop by and say hello.

Q    (Inaudible) connected to Walter Mondale’s death at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, this is just — this is, like I said, a
longstanding friendship.  They were — they said that they were going to
see — try and see each other after inauguration.  Clearly, the Carters
were not able to make it, and so — and I’ll add anoth- — and I’ll add
another nugget: Joe Biden was the first U.S. senator to endorse then
former Governor Carter when he ran for President.  So they have a
longstanding relationship that goes a few decades.

Q    We’d love for the Carters to peek their heads out if they could. 
We’d love for the Carters to peek their heads out, and say “Hi” to us,
if they could.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll look into that.  We’ll get back to you on that.

Q    Then, to menthol, Reverend Al Sharpton has said that it unfairly
targets Black smokers.  I mean, are you all afraid of any kind of
backlash or political backlash or overreach for — for doing that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, we’re totally — we are aware of that,
and we take that — we take that seriously — the concerns that have been
raised about discriminatory polic- — policing. 

And so addressing racial bias in policing is a priority, as you — as
you’re all aware of; we were just talking about the George Floyd
Policing Act for this administration.  And so this is why he strongly
supports the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act, and we need
legislation to directly address police reform, even as it — as we
regulate tobacco industry practices that harm Americans.

Q    And then, is there any update on the meeting with Putin?  Will it
be after the G7 or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview for you right now. 
No updates on timing, location, or — or even confirming that the meeting
is happening right now.  So I don’t have any updates.

Q    And then, lastly, President Biden, last night in his speech — his
highest-profile speech so far in the office — he declared white
supremacy terrorism.  Can you say what went into the calculus for him to
decide to do that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he’s been very clear, when you think about —
even during the campaign, he talked about four crises that we’re all
facing currently.  And, one, he talked about the economic crisis,
right?  He talked about the pandemic.  He talked about climate.  And he
talked about racial inequality and injustice, and how this country —
and, kind of, the — the blinders coming off.  And he said that in his
speech when he talked with — when Derek Chauvin — the conviction for
Derek Chauvin came through.  And he talked about how we need to make
change now.  We need to take action. 

And even — if you even go back to when — when Charlottesville happened,
and he wrote a letter — an op-ed about Charlottesville and the soul of
the nation, which prompted him to run for office back in April of 2019. 
So this is something that has been, kind of, at the core of how he has
been even seeing where we are today as a country, and the work that
needs to be done. 

And so — and — if you look at the last 100 days, he’s been taking on
racial equity.  Right?  If you look at the executive orders where he is
looking at federal government (inaudible) executive order to make sure
that federal government are practicing — are looking into racial
inequities within the agencies.  Like, that has never been done. 

So this is something that’s top of mind for the President; something
that he’s called out many times — not just as President, but during his
candidacy — and he’ll continue to do it.

Q    Has he been briefed on any imminent threat on white supremacist
groups?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share with you on that.

Q    Karine, can you say why Kurt Campbell is on this trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry.

Q    Why is Kurt Campbell on this trip?  What — is there — is he getting
a briefing on India and some of those efforts or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I can give more on that later, but we usually
have — we usually have an NSC — a national security person traveling
with the President. 

Q    And then, just on that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But that’s nothing — that’s nothing unnor— unusual.

Q    Okay.  I was wondering if there was a special, sort of, you know —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) going on. 

Q    Okay.  And then, just on that climate change stuff.  There was some
discussion about having an executive order on climate change disclosure
— disclosure of climate risks.  It’s been, sort of — it hasn’t come out
yet.  So, I’m wondering if you have any sense of the timing of when that
will happen.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have anything more on that — on that
executive order, in particular, or timing.  I’m happy to talk to our
team and get back to you.  And I will have someone connect with you.

Q    That’s great.  And then, just one more on (inaudible) and the
vaccine issue.  There’s been some significant engagement by the USTR on
this issue.  She’s been meeting with, you know, the executives of
Pfizer, AstraZeneca, Moderna, Novavax.  Can you give us an update on
what is happening with that vaccine effort, and whether you’ve made a
decision now, ahead of tomorrow’s meeting, on the waiver?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll tell you this: We put out a factsheet, I
believe, last night.  So, I’ll give you a little bit of a follow-up. 
The first of two assistance — assistance flights left the U.S. for India
at around 8:00 p.m. and midnight last night, which was April 28.  The
planes carried the first tranche of the assistance, which includes
oxygen cylinders, rapid diagnostic tests, and N95 masks to protect
frontline workers. 

Additional flights carrying the remaining assistance, including oxygen
generators and concentrators, are scheduled to depart in the upcoming
days.  We will have more details as they — as they develop.  And so that
is — that is — so that is the update there on the help that we’re
providing for.

Q    That’s on India.  I was asking about the vaccines and the waiver —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m sorry.

Q    — the WTO waiver.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m so sorry.

Q    No, I’m sorry.  That’s okay.  It’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I didn’t hear you.  Oh, the noise, it’s so — I’m so
sorry.  I thought you said “India.”  And I was like, “Oh, India.” 

Q    I think I was trying to kill two birds with one stone.  So —
(laughter).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking about the intellectual properties? 
Okay.  I’m so sorry.

Yeah, so the W- — the WTO is meeting next week.  Is that what you’re
talking about?  I am so —

Q    It’s — well, there’s — there’s a meeting tomorrow.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Okay.  I’m so sorry.  I totally missed that.  We’re
going to do what — what’s in the best interest of ending the pandemic. 
We are already engaged in steps to increase vaccine production. 

Moderna announced that it will — it will not enforce its 
COVID-19-related patents against those making vaccines intended to
combat the pandemic.  We recently secured a new partnership between
Sanofi and Moderna to manufacture 200 million doses.

And — and I want to be clear that no option is off the table and our
guiding principle is getting safe vaccines fast.

Q    Did you say no option is off?  Or what —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no option is off the table.

Q    Karine, could you talk a little bit about the Vice President’s role
leading on broadband, on infrastructure.  How did that come about?  What
will she be doing?  And why just broadband?  Like how do you take that
out of it and put her in charge of that effort if it’s part of the
broader thing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, I’ll say this: You know, we have a Jobs
Cabinet in place, which is in charge of implementing the American Jobs
Plan. 

The President asked the Vice President to work with the Jobs Cabinet to
lead the effort ensuring broadband access for all Americans.  As we
know, one of the things that we saw this past year with this pandemic is
the inequalities with broadband access and how that affected young
people, that affected almost, you know, all Americans regardless of age.

And so this is a critically important issue that she’s working on and —
but, all in all, as we know, she is a partner with the President, as I
just mentioned earlier, and this is just a key component that she’s
going to be, kind of, help — working closely with the Jobs Cabinet on.

Q    (Inaudible) make sure it gets in the bill that’s

being written now?  I mean, why isolate this if it’s part of a larger
$2.3 trillion package?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think the issue is such an important
issue.  I mean, all of them — all the elements of the Jobs Plan clearly
are.  And I think this is something that was important to her, that she
wanted to take on specifically.  I don’t have anything more on that.

Q    Karine, it looks like there’s a report that the U.S. troops have
started withdrawing from Afghanistan.  Is

there any comment the administration can offer on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)  So, the drawdown is underway, as you
just stated, Eli.  Last week, Secretary of Defense approved a request
from U.S. Central Command for the temporary deployment of additional
military assets into the CENT- — CENTCOM AOR in order to support a safe
and deliberate withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan. 

The B-52H Stratofortress aircraft were for- — were forward deployed to
the CENT- — CENTCOM area of responsibility — that’s what “AOR” stands —
“AOR” stands for — to protect U.S. and coalition forces as they conduct
an orderly drawdown of our forces in Afghanistan. 

Additionally, the Secretary has directed that a carrier strike group
will provide sustained additional force protection capabilities in the
CENTCOM AOR throughout the withdrawal.  Initially, the USS Dwight D.
Eisenhower strike group will continue its current mission and is now
scheduled to complete its deployment in July.

Finally, elements of an Army Ranger task force will temporarily deploy
to Afghanistan to assist with the force protection of forces on the
ground as they initiate withdrawal operations. 

Let me just say this: In the weeks and months ahead, the U.S. Central
Command will continually assess force protection requirements in
coordination with U.S. Forces Afghanistan and has the flexibility to
move additional capabilities in the AOR into and out of Afghanistan as
required.  While these actions will initially result in increased forces
levels, we remain committed to having all U.S. military personnel out of
Afghanistan by September 11, 2021. 

The President’s intent is clear: The U.S. military’s departure from
Afghanistan will not be rushed or hasty; it will be deliberate and
conducted in a safe and responsible manner that ensures the protection
of our forces. 

Potential advers- — adversaries should know that if — if they attack us
— our withdrawal — we will defend ourselves, our partners with all the
tools at our disposal.  These deployments represent some of those tools.

Q    Karine, yesterday, the President said that the threats have moved
on since Afghanistan and that you’re keeping a close eye on it.  Can you
highlight — tick for us where you think the next big trouble spots are
or where the — what the source is of that foreign terrorism? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have more on — on that to share as it
relates to Afghanistan.  But like I said, you know, we’re going to keep
an eye.  We’re going to do this not in a hasty way.  We’re going to be
very — work — work alongside with the government and just — and just be
— you know, just be smart.

Q    In that region, we still have Austin Tice — is — Austin Tice, the
journalist, is still being held in Syria.  Is there any chance of
getting him out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can get back to you on that one. Yeah, I’ll talk to
our team about (inaudible).

Q    One last one.  Since we’re going to Georgia, the — since we’re on
our way to Georgia, a local — one issue there: Stone Mountain. 

A commission appointed by the governor recommended bringing down the
Confederate flag at Stone Mountain, but stopping short of bringing down
Confederates’ icons, iconography, and statues, and the like.  Does the
President believe that goes far enough?  Or when he’s down there, does
he intend to weigh in on the subject?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t believe that he will weigh in on the
subject today.  But his — you know, his position stays the same when it
comes to statues and Confederate flags.  I’m happy to get back to you on
any update that we may have.

Q    And he’ll be meeting with the senators?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the senators stayed in town for — to do some
votes.  They are going to try to make it to Georgia after they’re done
voting for some critical votes.  And so — and so that’s going to be —
that’s — we’re going to see if they make it.  (Laughs.)

Q    Any — any other guests that he’ll be meeting with?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’ll probably — Stacey Abrams will be there.  The
mayor — the mayor of Atlanta, Keisha Lance Bottoms, will be there.  So
we’ll be — you know, we’ll be — it’ll be good to see them.

Q    Will voting rights be a big theme?  Voting —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry.

Q    — voting rights be a big theme? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you know, when we were here the last time,
clearly that was a conversation that — a meeting that he had with Stacey
Abrams about that — who’s been a leader on voting rights not just in
Georgia, but nationally.

But, you know, this — this trip, as I was saying before, is really
focusing about the American people, about the American Jobs — Jobs Plan,
and the American Families Plan, and what we need to do next now that
we’re past this first 100 days to really do the big once-in-a-generation
investments in families, in kids, you know, in infrastructure.  And —
and, really — as it comes to the American Jobs Plan, really create jobs.

And that’s going to be his focus today.  And he’ll talk about the
successes of the American Rescue Plan, which really met the moment, as
we know, in this crisis — this pandemic that we’re dealing with.  And so
that’s going to be his focus today.

Q    (Inaudible) obvious request — sorry — we’d love to be able to ask
the President about the meeting with President Carter afterwards.  So if
there’s any chance that we could get to have (inaudible), that would be
perfect.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you guys — I know.  I know.  I heard.
(Laughter.)  Well, we’ll get to it.  We’ll look into it.  (Laughter.)   

Q    Thank you.

Q    And obviously, if we would be able to get a shot of

the President and the First Lady walking into the house.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’ll look into it.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  We appreciate it.

12:35 P.M. EDT
