---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-04-14'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 17:33:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/04/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-april-14-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-14 17:33:14-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, April 14, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:37 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Happy Wednesday.  It feels like it should be later
than Wednesday in the week.  I may be the only one who feels that way.

Okay, a couple of items for you all at the top.   Today, the Department
of the Treasury announced the establishment of a new department, the
Office of Recovery Programs, to lead the Treasury Department’s
implementation of economic relief and recovery programs, including
nearly $420 billion in programs from the American Rescue Plan.

This new office, which will be led by the inaugural Chief Recovery
Officer, Jacob Leibenluft, will be focused on efficiently establishing
and administering Treasury’s programs to support an equitable and swift
recovery from the economic challenges brought on by the COVID-19
pandemic.

Jacob will also serve as the — will serve as the lead administrator of
recovery programs and a principal advisor on recovery program
implementation.  And he, of course, will work closely with Gene
Sperling.

Another piece of good news: Today, the IRS, the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, and the Bureau of Fiscal Service announced they are disbursing
nearly 2 million dollar \[sic\] — million payments from the American
Rescue Plan, which brings the total disbursed so far to approximately
159 million payments, with a total value of more than $376 billion,
since these payments began rolling out to Americans just last month.

Over 320,000 payments, worth $450 million, went to Veterans Affairs
beneficiaries who receive VA benefits but don’t normally file a tax
return and didn’t use the Non-Filers tool last year.  Hence, it took a
little bit longer.  These payments also include Social Security
beneficiaries who didn’t file a 2020 or 2019 tax return.  And the latest
batch of payments has a total value of more than $3.4 billion.

Finally, yesterday, Microsoft issued new patches for additional
vulnerabilities found in its Exchange servers.  You all remember the
hacking that we talked about just a few weeks ago.  The White House
urges all systems operators to apply these patches as soon as possible
to ensure the security of systems.

The federal government takes this vulnerability very seriously.  We are
leading by example and requiring all federal agencies to apply these
patches and report to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security
Agency.

With that, Alex.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can you talk a little bit about the April 28th
address to Congress — what we should expect to hear from the President? 
And also, logistically, we know that the attendance will be reduced.  So
how are you deciding who gets to attend?  And then, are you working with
Capitol Police on security, or are you monitoring any potential threats
at this point?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, on the second and third question, we, of
course, are working very closely with the Speaker’s Office, with the
offices of leaders in Congress.  The President was — is looking forward
to — is excited to have accepted their invitation to address a joint
session, something that he has been eager to do since he was
inaugurated.

In terms of a preview of what the speech will look like, we’re just —
we’re a couple of weeks out for that, so I expect we’ll have more to say
as we get closer.  But, certainly, you can expect that he will talk
about all of the priorities and his commitment to building the economy
back better, getting the pandemic under control, addressing the
challenges we face around the world. 

But as we get closer and the speech is written, we’ll have more of a
preview.

In terms of invitations, that certainly would be handled by the
Speaker’s Office, and so I’d point you to them.

Q    Sure.  And then, Afghanistan.  The intelligence community’s annual
report this year said, and I’m quoting, “The Afghan government will
struggle to hold the Taliban at bay” if the coalition withdraws its
support.  So what plans does the administration have to prevent this
from happening and to maintain stability in the region with that
withdrawal?

And then, is there a potential for President Biden to change his mind or
extend the deadline if there is a decline in the situation in
Afghanistan in the coming months?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that as a part of this process, the
President asked for a review from his national security team.  He asked
them not to sugarcoat it.  He welcomed ideas, welcomed differences of
points of view, and he was provided with a clear-eyed assessment about
the best path forward. 

So as a part of his assessment and decision making, you know, part of
the discussion was around the fact that the terrorist threat has
evolved.  And we certainly saw the threat assessment and saw our
colleagues testify yesterday. 

But part of what we have seen from the intelligence community also is
that the threat has become more dispersed, it’s metastasized around the
world: al-Shabaab in Somalia, al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula,
al-Nusra in Syria.  It’s changed.  We’re not looking at the 2001
mindset.  We can’t look at things through the 2001 mindset; we have to
look at things through the 2021 world. 

So we will be monitoring — our administration, our national security
teams, in partnership with our NATO Allies and partners in the region. 
We will be monitoring, of course, and disrupting — and focused on
disrupting terrorist networks and operations that have spread far beyond
Afghanistan, but also continuing to monitor things in the region. 

We’re not going to take our threat off of — the terrorist threat — take
our eyes off, sorry, the terrorist threat or any sign of al Qaeda’s
resurgence.  And we will reposition our counterterrorism capabilities in
that regard.  And the President will talk more about that in his speech
in about an hour and a half. 

Q    And could his deadline extend, or could he change his mind if you
do see the situation in Afghanistan decline?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say that the President made this decision after
close consultations and close discussion with — and taking under — into
account all of the — all of the difficult decisions — all the difficult
factors, I should say, around that decision.  So, no, he remains
committed to the timeline that he intends to set out in the speech.

Q    And then one quick one on immigration.  Vice President Harris just
said that her first trip abroad, it looks like it’s going to be to
Mexico and Guatemala.  But she suggested she won’t be visiting the
border.  And so I’m wondering, first off, if the President is
considering a trip to the border, and second, why it’s not important for
one of, you know, the President’s main, sort of, people that he’s tasked
with dealing with this to visit the border.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what the President has asked the Vice President to do
is run point on the Northern Triangle and be a high-level conduit in
having discussions with leaders in the region.  That’s exactly what she
is doing and will do when she goes and visits countries in the region. 
And obviously, she’s had discussions, that have been read out, as well,
with some leaders in the region. 

Secretary of Homeland Security has visited the border.  Our Secretary —
other secretaries who run point on these issues will and, we expect,
will in the future. 

I don’t have any visits to preview for you of the President’s.  But his
focus is on solutions, is on opening up additional facilities, which we
have done a great deal of in the last couple of weeks; on moving kids
out of the Border Patrol facilities as quickly as possible into these
shelters, which we’ve seen some progress on in the numbers that have
been released by the Department of Homeland Security.  That’s where his
focus is on. 

I expect other senior officials, Cabinet members who are running point,
will continue to do visits and come back and report back to the
President.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Yeah, was there a unanimous view among the President’s national
security advisors that now is the time to leave Afghanistan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Steve, I will leave it to them to speak to their
viewpoints. 

But I will, again, reassert that the President asked for a review.  He
asked for that review not to be sugarcoated.  He wanted to hear
different points of views.  He welcomed debate.  And, ultimately, he
made the decision that because the terrorist threat has evolved; because
we have done exactly what we said we would do when we went to
Afghanistan to deliver justice to those who attacked us on September
11th; because he believes that the more — that if — that more time does
not — does — would not result in a military solution, that now is the
time to leave.

Q    You saw where the CIA director said the U.S. government’s ability
to collect and act on threats will diminish when the time comes for the
U.S. military to withdraw.  Does that give you pause at all?

MS. PSAKI:  Does the — does it give us pause that the threat — look,
obviously, the CIA Director, Bill Burns, is somebody who the President
takes advice from, takes counsel from, and certainly listens to when he
shares his point of view.  And he’s known him for quite some time. 

But I will again reiterate that he would say — and many of our
intelligence officials have said publicly and in these hearings — that
the threats have evolved, that we need to approach how we look at
counterterrorism through the prism of what the threats are in 2021. 

And even if you look at al Qaeda, it is not — it is not being harbored
in a safe haven in Afghanistan how it was 20 years ago.  We have to have
resources, we have to have assets to address the threat where we see it
growing, and that is in places like Northern Africa, in the Arabian
Peninsula.  And even if you just look at the counterterrorism component
of it, we need to make decisions through the 2021 prism.

Q    And lastly, just separately, the Kremlin is saying the summit — the
proposed summit that the President proposed — would be contingent on
U.S. behavior.  What is your response to that?  And I know you have some
sanctions in the works here.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, you’ll have to ask them what they meant by that.  I
know they are verbose in their thoughts on the United States.  So they
may have an answer to your question. 

I will say that the President — President Biden, I should say — had a
constructive call yesterday, as is the case in his relationships with
countries where we have had difficult discussions — where we need to
have difficult discussions.  He did not hold back on his concerns,
including reiterating that there will be consequences to the actions
that were taken.  I expect you will know more about that soon. 

At the same time, our objective as the United States is to have a
predictable relationship with Russia, to stabilize that relationship. 
And certainly, having a discussion, having a summit would be an
opportunity to discuss areas where we agree and can work together,
whether it’s a continuation of nonproliferation efforts.  Obviously,
they’re a partner in the P5+1, and those could be part of the forum for
a discussion.

Go ahead. 

Q    Following up a little bit on Alex with the ODNI global threats
report.  If this wasn’t sugarcoated to the President, then, clearly,
he’s aware of the possibility that Kabul could fall at some point in the
next couple of years without U.S. and coalition support.  Should we read
into this decision that — that he decided that through the scope of the
global threats he’s facing — he’s looking at right now — that is an
acceptable consequence if the U.S. is to pursue his priorities or the
changing threat landscape?

MS. PSAKI:  I think you should look at it through the prism of the
President assessing what’s in the national interests of the United
States.  And from his vantage point, we did exactly what we intended to
do.  We delivered the justice to those who attacked us on September
11th.  We disrupted terrorists seeking to use Afghanistan as a safe
haven to attack the United States. 

But he also believes there is not a military solution; this will require
a diplomatic solution.  And even as we are withdrawing our troops, we
will continue to support diplomatic and humanitarian work.  We will ask
other countries to step up, whether that’s Pakistan, Russia, China,
India, Turkey — countries in the region that certainly have a stake in
stability.  We will continue to provide significant humanitarian
resources. 

So we are — we will continue to be engaged.  This is the President’s
assessment about whether having troops on the ground, a military
presence in the same way — in a version of the same way it has been over
the last two decades — is in our national interest.  And he has made the
decision it is not.

Q    One more on Afghanistan, and then another quick one — and apologies
if I missed this on the briefing calls.  With the removal of combat
troops by September 11th at the latest, does that include special
operators — Special Forces, any of those types of troops on the ground?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m obviously not going to get into operational
specifics from the podium.  I will say that we may — we will have what
is needed to secure a diplomatic presence.  And those assessments will
be made over the coming months and obviously led by the Defense
Department and State Department in coordination.

Q    Okay.  And then just one more on immigration.  The outgoing
Ambassador Jacobson said on Friday that — to Reuters in an interview —
that there was consideration of conditional cash payments related to the
Northern Triangle.  Is that something that’s currently under
consideration?  And if so, what are kind of the parameters of what would
be looked at there?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s interesting.  I’d have to look more at her context —
the context of her comments, and I’m happy to do that.  I think what we
are focused on is working directly with these countries to determine how
we can deter travel, deter migrants from making the journey. 

And we made an announcement, of course, over the last couple of days
about stepped-up personnel at the border that these countries are
putting in place to — a number of these countries, I should say, in the
region are putting in place — in order to deter the journey, in order to
reduce the number of migrants who are making it to our border. 

And certainly, we’re having discussions about assistance, and how that
can be disseminated in the most effectful \[sic\] — effective, I should
say, and impactful way.  But I’d have to check on the context and see
where that’s headed.  

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Republican senators have criticized attaching the
withdrawal of troops in Afghanistan to September 11th.  They say it’s
politically driven.  Do you have a response to that?  And also, do you
have anything to share on who came up with that deadline and why?

MS. PSAKI:  I think it was the President wanting to send a clear message
that this is not going to be an open-ended timeline to withdrawing
troops.  We have had that policy for some time in the past, and he
disagrees with it.  So he was giving a timeline on when operationally,
we could move troops out. 

We also are going to do that in close coordination with our NATO
partners and other countries in the region.  If it’s ahead of that
timeline, then that’s a positive step.  But we wanted to give the
military and our diplomatic partners on the ground plenty of time. 

Q    So did he choose 9/11 as the final day?

MS. PSAKI:  I think I just explained why he chose that timeline. 

Q    Thanks.  And on — I have a couple more.  On Iran: In a new
statement, President Rouhani said that the decision to increase uranium
enrichment was in direct response to the cyberattack from Israel.  Has
President Biden or any other U.S. officials had a conversation with
Israel about refraining from further attacks as he tries to broker a
nuclear deal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would just reiterate that we don’t have any
additional speculation to add to the cause or the origin of the attacks
over the weekend. 

What our focus is on is on the diplomatic path forward.  And we belie-
\[sic\] — and the diplomatic conversations, though they will be
indirect, will reconvene tomorrow in Vienna.  We know this will be a
long process, but we certainly see that as a positive sign.

Q    And one more on AAPI.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.  Go.  Go ahead.

Q    Has the President selected somebody to fill that senior AAPI role? 
And will that person attend his meeting with CAPAC tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  We are getting much closer to having news to share on that
high-level personnel announcement.  I don’t expect that person will be
attending tomorrow.  But, hopefully, we’ll have more to share soon. 

Go ahead, Kristin.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Can you explain the rationale for why President
Biden went against the advice of military commanders who recommended
leaving 2,500 troops on the ground in Afghanistan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that’s an over-characterization of every
military leader, and I don’t think they’ve all provided their point of
view on what their advice is, and we’ll keep that private.  So you can
certainly speak to individuals, if you’d like, of course.

I will say, again, the President welcomed the advice; welcomed, at
times, disagreement about what the appropriate path forward should be. 
But his view, based on the assessments of where our terrorist threat
exists today — the fact that it has metastasized, that it has spread
into many other regions of the world, that we can still — we still do
have the ability to have a presence in the region where we can keep our
eye on the terrorist threat that it led him to make — to conclude that
now is the time for troops to leave. 

I think it’s important also to note that we have — that his view is that
we can’t continue the cycle of exp- — standing or expanding our military
footprint, hoping to create the ideal conditions for our withdrawal.  No
one will tell you — unless someone has told you, and then tell me that,
of course — that we should stay forever. 

No military commander wants to stay forever.  They insist that this is
not — some insist this is not in time — the time to leave — some
opponents of his decision. 

But his view is that we’ve been having that argument, that argument has
been made for 10 years, and it has not changed the outcome, has not made
a military solution more appealing or more effective.

Q    So our Pentagon team reports that most military commanders in the
region — and I don’t want to give any names because I don’t want to, you
know, violate any on-background agreements — but you know, they say that
most military commanders in the region recommended that 2,500-troop
level. 

And if you look at then-candidate Biden’s own comments from about a year
ago, he said that he wanted to leave several thousand troops in
Afghanistan.  So what changed between now and then?

MS. PSAKI:  He asked his team for a clear assessment, he — to make a
determination about the best path forward. 

I will remind everyone that he has been someone who has long viewed our
— the — he opposed the surge in Afghanistan.  He has long viewed the —
the presence, the military presence in Afghanistan, as something that
was not a constructive, long-term solution.  That has been his
consistent view.

At the same time, because we have the ability to have a pre- — work with
our partners in the region to have a presence where we can prevent — in
the region to prevent — to allow ourselves to keep an eye on the
terrorist threat, he feels this is something that is in our interest as
a country and now is the time to do it.

Q    And one question about Special Immigrant Visas for Afghans who, you
know, really just risked their lives helping the U.S. government and the
U.S. military: Will the President commit to more visas and expedited
processing for those combat translators before pulling out?  Because,
you know, the Taliban have already threatened their lives.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he will talk more about this in his speech and more
about his commitment to helping exactly those brave individuals who have
served and helped our troops and our military presence on the ground. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, on the Russia call: You said that the President did not hold
back in addressing his concerns, but the Kremlin said that the President
did not bring up Aleksey Navalny on the call.  And — is that accurate? 
And if so, why didn’t he bring up a very, kind of, key human rights
issue on the call?

MS. PSAKI:  Well — well, I don’t have more specifics of the President’s
comments to read out from the call.  I will just say that the — the
status, the health, the wellbeing of Aleksey Navalny is something that
we raise frequently and through many channels with the Russians.  And we
have repeatedly called for an improvement in his treatment, for his
release through –through many of those channels. 

The purpose of this call was to discuss, in part, the fact that there
will be consequences to the actions of Russian leaders over the past
several months, back into last year.  And also to emphasize that — and
to also raise, I should say, the — our unwavering commitment to
Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity and concerns about what
we see as aggressive behavior on the border, and also to lay out — to
lay out the possibility of a meeting in order to move toward a more
predictable and stable relationship. 

So that was the — part of the robust agenda discussed.  And I can assure
you that the health, the safety of Aleksey Navalny is raised frequently
and through many channels. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  A few questions.  The officer who fatally shot Daunte
Wright resigned.  Does President Biden believe that officer should face
charges?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not going to weigh in on legal or law enforcement
actions.  We’ll leave that to the courts and law enforcement authorities
on the ground. 

Q    A state trooper also fatally shot a 16-year-old in Maryland.  This
is on top of the shooting of Daunte Wright.  Under the Obama
administration, the Justice Department had ramped up investigations of
local police departments.  Does President Biden plan to reinstate
similar pattern-and-practice investigations to identify civil rights and
other abuses in training?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me say first that all of these incidents that
we’re seeing — you’ve mentioned some of them — are just a reminder that,
too often in this country, law enforcement uses unnecessary force and
too often that results in the death of Black Americans. 

And the President has repeatedly said that he believes we need police
reform, and that’s why he’s calling on Congress to deliver that to his
desk. 

In terms of actions of the Justice Department or investigations, you’d
have to ask the Attorney General.

Q    Why has President Biden not issued an executive order to recall
military equipment from local police departments?  That was an
expectation that many civil rights advocates had in the earlier weeks of
his presidency.

MS. PSAKI:  And we’ve been in very close touch with many civil rights
leaders about their — the issues; the ideas they have; concerns they
have, in some cases; and what they’d like to see happen.  We’re working
very closely with them on moving and pushing for the passage of the
George Floyd Act.  I know that does not solve all of the issues; we’re
not suggesting that.

I would say this is an issue that is — will be a cause of President
Biden’s time in office.  And we are less than 100 days in; there’s more
to come.  Right now, our focus is on working toward getting that
legislation passed.

Q    Okay.  And just, on a separate matter, the Biden administration has
issued a proposal to rescind some of the Trump-era abortion rules.  Why
is the administration not immediately suspending those rules?

MS. PSAKI:  I can check on — are you talking about the Title 10 rules?

Q    Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI:  There can be a process sometimes, and if it’s an agency
action, sometimes that’s the reasoning.  I can check on the specifics of
the timeline.  But our point of view is certainly they should be
rescinded.  So —

Go — go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Back on Afghanistan: Diplomatically — since that
seems to be the solution that the President is going to lay out — what
role does the United States intend to play after the withdrawal in talks
between the Afghan government and the Taliban?

MS. PSAKI:  You mean in direct engagement?

Q    Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would leave that, in part, to the State Department,
who would be leading on any diplomatic talks and conversations.  We
certainly believe that a diplomatic path is the only path forward. 
There are conversations that are convening, I think, later this week. 
And there is — we do have an envoy who often participates in those talks
and conversations, and I expect that would be the case moving forward.

Q    And, secondly, was there any discussion, as the President was
talking about this, to make any sort of call to Congress to revisit an
AUMF once American troops are out of Afghanistan?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President certainly supports revisiting, revising,
taking a look at the AUMF.  We put out a statement several weeks ago
about that.  That remains the case.  That remains his point of view. 
And we look forward to working with leaders in Congress to do exactly
that.

Q    But he’s not, like, tying the troop withdrawal to a new AUMF
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  No, he’s not tying the troop withdrawal, but he is something
— that is something he would like to see move forward.  Yeah. 

Go ahead, David.

Q    Thanks.  A couple of questions.  One, just closing the loop on
something you said on Afghanistan.  When you were State Department
spokeswoman, you frequently talked about the importance of
conditions-based withdrawals —

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    — because, otherwise, a message to the Taliban would be, “Wait us
out,” and once we’re gone, they have free rein over the country.  I
don’t think I’ve heard in the answers, so far, what the Taliban is
supposed to think about this. 

I mean, if I was them, I think I’d want to take the summer off and wait
until September 11th.  And why go ahead and negotiate an agreement that
would limit them if the U.S. is going to leave anyway?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that we have an expectation that
the Taliban is going to abide by their commitments and that they are not
going to allow Afghanistan to become a pariah state.  That’s our view. 
That’s also in their interests, in our view.

In terms of conditions-based withdrawal, we’ve been — as you know,
David; you’ve covered this for 20 years, I would say — not to age you;
you are you are young at heart.  (Laughter.)  But, you know, the
President has also been involved in discussions and debates about what
to do about Afghanistan for that period of time, as you well know.  And
his view is that, you know, when you talk about a conditions-based
withdrawal, it punts it down the road — we will never leave.  What
conditions would we be required to leave?  By how long?  What is it —
what would — does that mean?  What’s the additional cost?  These are all
the factors in his mind. 

And as you look back at recent history — you know, back in 2014, which
seems recent — back when I was at the State Department, I should say —
NATO Allies issued a declaration affirming that Afghan Security Forces,
which you well remember, would have full responsibility of their
country’s security by the end of the year.  That was seven years ago. 
And the President just believes that we can’t have American troops as
bargaining chips.  Now is the time to get out. 

So in terms of the Taliban’s role, again, we believe diplomacy is the
right path forward.  We believe that it is not in their interest for
Afghanistan to become a pariah state; that they should hold to their
commitments of preventing al Qaeda — of not allowing al Qaeda, I should
say, to gain a stronghold or a safe haven in Afghanistan; to remain
committed to some of the progress that we have seen.  And we will have
to see if that happens.

Q    So you’ve narrowed the American objective to keeping a terrorist
group from being able to launch.  And you made the good point they could
launch an attack from many other places. 

Back in 2011, President Obama still was using a broader set.  He said we
have to “build Afghan capacity, protect population centers, blunt and
degrade the Taliban capacity.”  Those are no longer American objectives,
it sounds like.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important to go back to what our
objectives were when we went into Afghanistan 20 years — almost 20 years
ago. 

And those were to disrupt terrorists seeking to use Afghanistan as a
safe haven.  We feel we have done that.  It was to deliver justice to
those who attacked us.  We feel we have done that. 

And there has certainly been — and that’s why I’ve referenced the
declaration by NATO Allies — a desire to transfer over control and
leadership to the Afghan Security Forces. 

We’ve also seen, over the last seven years, that that has not gone as
would have been predicted in 2014. 

So I would say the way the President views it — and you know his own
history on this, and it has been well publicized and published that he
opposed the surge back 10 years ago.  And he was vocal about that in the
appropriate manner at that time. 

Now he is President.  Now we are 10 years later.  Now we are looking at
the circumstances on the ground.  We are looking at what’s in our
national interest.  We are looking at where we actually see threats
around the world but also opportunity.  And part of his assessment as
Commander-in-Chief is that having a presence there is not in our
interest.

Q    One Iran question for you.  You’ve repeatedly said in the past
couple of days you’re not going to engage in speculation about what
happened last weekend and so forth.  I can’t recall a recent time when
the U.S. has had such an absence of public curiosity about what led to a
major explosion in a major foreign site.  What’s behind your reluctance
to discuss what happened, who did it, what its implications could be for
American policy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, public curiosity should not be mistaken for curiosity
in general, David, as you know.

But I will say, you know, we’re just not going to speculate on the
origin.  Our focus is on looking for a diplomatic path forward with
Iran.  That’s where we feel we can have a role and where we feel we can
constructively move things forward, even though those are indirect
negotiations.

Q    Have you gotten any indication from the Iranians that they are
going to pull back from those negotiations (inaudible)?  Or do you think
they’re moving ahead?

MS. PSAKI:  We have not heard — been given an indication that they don’t
plan to attend — or, I should say, let me make it more positive: We —
our understanding is they plan to attend.

Q    Tomorrow.

MS. PSAKI:  Tomorrow.  We are — we are also very open-eyed about how
this will be a long process.  It’s happening through indirect
discussions, but we still feel that it is a step forward.

Okay, go ahead.  Brittany, go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the campaign trail, then-candidate Biden — this is
a follow-up on Sabrina’s question about policing reform —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — promised to invest — I think it’s $300 million into local police
departments and municipalities, trying to see if they would either their
precincts or whatever they could do to make — reduce police brutality in
their localities.  Given over what’s been happening over the last year,
but even just this last couple of weeks, does the White House and this
President still maintain that that is the best use of that $300 million:
investments — giving money, essentially, to his departments to
self-regulate?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say — I know this didn’t receive a lot of
attention, but in our discretionary guidance, it was consistent with
this.  And maybe this is what you’re asking about, but we could get to
you the — more details, too, or for others who are interested. 

You know, he has been clear and he continues to believe, to answer your
question, that giving police departments the resources they need to
implement meaningful reforms and conditioning federal dottars \[sic\] —
dollars on completing those reforms is the appropriate and effective
step.

And the discretionary guidance does exactly that; it provides funds with
specific requirements, like ensuring law enforcement agencies mirror the
diversity of the communities they serve.  It also invests in federal
programs that hold police accountable through pattern-and-practice
investigations and the enforcement of consent decrees. 

Now, that’s just a funding component.  Right?  There are also reforms
that the President feels need to be put in place.  And the George Floyd
Act certainly has a number of those reforms and steps that he supports
and he is eager for Congress to move forward on.

Q    And I know there’s lots on your legislative plate — you know,
infrastructure and many, many other things.  Are there folks in the back
making calls to Congress just on George Floyd — on this George Floyd
bill, kind of working all the levers in order to get that through? 
Obviously, it’s going to face an uphill battle in the locked Senate
beyond the House.

MS. PSAKI:  Certainly, we are very engaged and having discussions with a
range of members on the George Floyd bill and moving it forward.  And we
are certainly encouraged by discussions that are ongoing by members of
Congress.  And ultimately, it will be up to them to determine how they
can negotiate and come to conclusion on a package that there can be
enough support to move forward and send to the President’s desk.

Q    Just one other on the Vice President.  Will she be giving a press
conference either right before or right after her trip to Mexico and
Guatemala?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a good question.  I don’t know that the — the final
format of this trip has been scheduled quite yet, but I can see if they
have any more details on the planning.

Q    And two of those three Northern Triangle countries actually do not
have a U.S. ambassador to them.  They have chargé d’affaires, but they
do not have ambassadors.  Is there any more guidance you can give us on
when those critical roles will be filled or at least a list of names who
could be filling those roles?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, we probably won’t put out lists of
names.  We’ll probably put out the nominees once the decision — because
that would be a form of torture for the people who are on those lists,
in some way.

But we are moving forward, starting to make the President — starting to
make some decisions on career ambassadors to a range of posts.  I
hopefully will have some more on that soon.  But I’m not sure if they’re
in those re- — in that region.  But he’s — he’s starting to consider a
range of qualified individuals.  So hopefully, we’ll have more soon. 

Go ahead.

Q    Two tax questions for you.  Seventeen House Democrats said earlier
this week that they won’t support any tax legislation or the component
of the infrastructure plan that the President proposed unless it does
away with the $10,000 SALT cap.  I wanted to see if that’s something the
administration would consider?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, we welcome ideas.  We welcome
proposals from a range of members.  And many of them have been quite
vocal about their views on the SALT deduction as well, so we’re familiar
with them. 

There’s a meeting later this afternoon with Ron Klain and Steve
Ricchetti, I think, with some of these members, and others.  There’s a
range of topics they’ll discuss that are of interest to them.  And I’m
sure they will — I would guess they would raise this. 

We’re also interested in proposals on how to pay for a package on — as
you know, the SALT deduction would not be a revenue raiser, so they may
come with proposals and ideas on that as well.  But we’re certainly
happy to hear more from them on the impact and why they think this is so
important to their states and communities. 

Q    And I wanted to ask about the global minimum tax that the President
has proposed at 21 percent.  In the global negotiations, we’re already
seeing some pushback from lawmakers in Europe saying that number is too
high.  And I wanted to see what the administration plans to do to
negotiate to get countries around the world on board with a number —
with the number he’s proposed or a higher number than it already is.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  Well, I certainly think those negotiations will
happen out of the Treasury Department.  The reason the global minimum
tax was proposed was because the administration — Secretary Yellen and
others — felt it was important to end the race to the bottom on tax
rates in countries, and this would be a way to do that in her view and
their view.  But in terms of a discussion about alternate rates, I would
certainly send you to them for more of a bottom line of where they’re
willing to go.

Q    And the other question is about the Bureau of Land Management.  We
have reporting that President Biden is considering Tracy Stone-Manning
as Senior Advisor for Conservation Policy at the National Wildlife
Federation to lead the Bureau.  Could you confirm that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any personnel announcements to make.  We — I
don’t expect we will have any to make on this, but I will check and see
if there’s more to report to you. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Hi, Isaac.

Q    Hi.  So, just to follow up a little bit more on the Vice
President’s meeting about the Northern Triangle: Can you just help us
figure out how that fits in the sequencing of the role that she is
playing — what the purpose of today’s meeting was and then, sort of,
what the next steps forward from it would be —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — coming out of it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, you know, a couple of things.  One, we’ve
seen the Vice President has obviously also had a number of internal
meetings on these issues with internal leaders and team members.  We
don’t always read those meetings out, but those are part of the
discussion as well. 

Certainly, she — she also spoke directly with the Presidents of Mexico
and Guatemala recently.  And I believe we read out those calls and we
made an announcement about steps we were taking or steps these countries
were taking, through discussions with us, to increase staffing and
personnel and monitoring at the borders to reduce the number of migrants
who are coming to our border. 

So, in terms of the sequencing, part of the sequencing is internal
discussions with experts — whether that is the Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, others who are
working at the NSC — to determine what the right path forward is with
the Northern Triangle. 

She leads a number of those conversations; gets feedback from our
special envoy, Ricardo Zúñiga, and others who have been working on these
issues for some time.  She’s also had a number of calls directly with
Presidents in the region.  I expect she’ll have more of those to discuss
— negotiations and diplomatic conversations — even — even in advance of
traveling. 

And then she will make a trip, as she announced this morning.  And
while, I don’t think she announced the timing of it, that would
certainly be another step in the sequence.

Q    But — so this is all just still sorting out what the right path
forward is, rather than making determination, “Okay, this is what we’re
going to do” and — 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are — we announced just two days ago, I believe —
two days, three days ago — some steps that were being taken in
coordination and through discussion with these countries to ensure that
immigration — migration, I should say — irregular migration was being
addressed as more of a hemispheric issue.  And that meant, you know,
working with these countries to put in place measures to discourage
migration.  That’s a step.  But it will be discussions internally,
policy decisions — that’s typically how it works — calls with these
leaders, announcements about progress made.  It will be ongoing. 

I wouldn’t expect it will be a process and nothing happens until the
end.  This is an ongoing process, and we’ll make announcements — I’m
sure she will — as the developments are concluded.

Q    And has the President given her any directives from what’s come
back so far to guide where the next conversations that she would be
having, or the next steps she should be taking in leading this effort?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President and the Vice President see each other
quite regularly.  She’s in many of the meetings, when she’s in town —
almost all of them — that the President is in as well.  So I would say
it’s more of a discussion with others who are leading and running point
on these issues.

Q    Can I just say, on one other thing, that —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — there’s a markup today about D.C. statehood.  Given the political
realities around what would need to happen for a D.C. statehood bill to
get through the Senate — a filibuster would almost certainly need to be
done — is this something that President Biden is going to be pursuing at
this point — D.C. statehood?  Or is he just, sort of, leaving it as a
thing that he supports but is not going to be on his priority list?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he supports it.  And in his conversations, of which
there are many, as is evidenced by the last few days, a range of topics
and issues come up, and he certainly expresses his support.  And
ultimately, it’s up to Congress to pass legislation and send it to his
desk.

Q    So he’s not going to prioritize it and say, “I want this bill on my
desk”?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say he supports it, so he’d be happy to sign it. 
But in terms of the rank priorities, I’m not going to get into a
situation of doing that.  But it’s something he supports.  He’s conveyed
that to Congress.  And he certainly supports efforts to move it
forward. 

Go ahead, in the back. 

Q    Hi, Jen, thank you very much.  A follow-up on Afghanistan, and then
I have another one on the climate summit.

You were talking about the diplomatic presence in Afghanistan after the
withdrawal.  Do you expect the United States will have an ambassador in
Afghanistan before the troops leave?

MS. PSAKI:  Do you mean, do — just so I understand your question: Do we
expect we will maintain —

Q    There is no ambassador.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, we will nominate an ambassador to Afghanistan?

Q    And how — exactly.  Have ambassador there before the troops —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our intention is to maintain a presence — to secure a
diplomatic presence there, and — which was, kind of, a different
question.  But — so I don’t have a timeline on that, but certainly given
we will have a diplomatic presence, I expect we would have an ambassador
at some point, or nominate.

Q    And about the climate summit, how are the discussions with Brazil
going?  Is President Biden prepared to sign a bilateral climate deal
with Brazil next week during the summit?  Or would he like to see more
commitment from Brazil on forestation before making a deal?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know that I would see the climate summit as a
bilateral, deal-making venue.  It is — we’ve invited about 40 global
leaders. 

The — in terms of the format and the details, I think they’ll — they
will — many will be presenting their own plans for reaching the goals as
set out by global glimate \[sic\] — climate, I should say — objectives. 
I think that’s a big part of the format.  There are not going to be
bilateral meetings as a part of this summit, so I wouldn’t see it
through that prism. 

It’s an incredibly important forum to bring global leaders, including
Brazil, the United States, many others together to discuss what the
President feels is one of the biggest crises we face.

But our position on Brazil has been clear since the beginning.  We
believe Brazil is a key partner in confronting climate issues, climate
solutions.  We’ll, of course, need Brazil’s action and leadership.  We
fully respect Brazil’s sovereignty and appreciate the chance to
participate in constructive conversations on how we can work together.

We do want to see a clear commitment to ending illegal deforestation,
tangible steps to increase effective enforcement of illegal
deforestation, and a political signal that illegal deforestation and
encroachment will not be tolerated.  And we believe it’s realistic for
Brazil to achieve a real decrease in deforestation by the end of the
2021 fire season. 

So we continue to recognize that conservation and sustainable economic
growth can go hand in hand, and certainly that’s our expectation for
Brazil.

Q    What will be a clear commitment?  And also, will President Biden
pressure the Brazilian President, Bolsonaro, personally during this
summit?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, it’s not a — there’s not bilateral meetings, so
I —

Q    Will he mention Brazil (inaudible) deforestation?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t — I can’t — I don’t have any outline of what the
President’s remarks will look like, but I would expect that he will talk
more broadly about the need for the global community to address the
threat of the climate crisis.

Q    Can I just ask one last question about the pandemic? 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Because the White House COVID team had a conversation with the
Brazilian health minister.  Brazil, as you know, now is the epicenter of
this pandemic.  And Dr. Fauci said, a couple of weeks ago, that he was
waiting for this conversation to see other ways that the United States
could be more helpful.  So is the United States providing additional
help to Brazil, like sending oxygen or sedatives for intubation, for
example?  There are a lack of all these things in Brazil right now.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I would have to check.  I would say that we, of
course, as you know, are contributing a significant amount of funding
through COVAX.  I know there are requests from around the world for a
range of tools and resources.  I can check if there’s anything that’s
going to Brazil more specifically.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, yes. 

Q    Two more quick ones on Afghanistan. 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, yeah — can I do Owen first, and then I’ll come right
back to you? 

Okay, go ahead, Owen.

Q    Jen, thank you.  Back to Title 10, if I may.  So today, as you well
know, the Biden administration and HHS started the reversal of the Trump
administration’s ban on abortion referrals at Title 10 family planning
clinics. 

So my first question: Why does the Biden administration insist that
pro-life Americans pay for abortions and violate their conscience?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, that’s not an accurate depiction of what
happened, so let me — and I know we want to be accurate around here. 
“None of the funds appropriated under this title shall be used in
programs where abortion is a method of family planning.”  That is
written into the Public Health Service Act, and it specifically states
that.

Q    But we know there’s indirect subsidies, money that’s fungible, that
can’t be traced.  We know that.  Come on.

MS. PSAKI:  That is not how it works.  That is the law.  So I’m stating
what the law is and how it is implemented legally by these
organizations. 

And the reason I, though — since you gave me the opportunity — the
reason why the President took these steps is because he believes that
advancing equity for all — including people of color and others who have
been historically underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by
persistent poverty and inequality — can be helped by these actions.  And
by focusing on advancing equity in the Title 10 program, we can create
opportunities for the improvement of communities that have been
historically underserved, which benefits everyone.  That’s how these
fundings are used in communities.

Q    You talk about equity — if I may interrupt.  How is it equity, how
is it fighting systemic racism when abortion, we well know,
disproportionately affects minority children?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, funding cannot be used from this for abortion, but
access to healthcare — access to healthcare in communities — in
communities that have been marginalized, underserved, adversely affected
by persistent poverty — is always going to be something the President
fights for.

Q    So you’re telling me one —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  I think I’ve answered your question. 

Alex, go ahead. 

Q    On Afghanistan, did President Biden consult any of his predecessors
on his decision to withdraw? 

MS. PSAKI:  He did talk to some of his predecessors.  Let me see if I
can get you more of a readout of that.  He will talk a bit about that in
his speech, as well, that starts in fo- — in 39 minutes. 

Q    All right.  And then one more.  I don’t know if you saw this, but
the Afghan President tweeted that he spoke with President Biden.

MS. PSAKI:  He did.  And that was still going on when I came out here,
so we will get you a readout of that.  Let me just also — because you,
kind of — you prompted me — that we have done a lot of outreach, which I
think would be interesting to you and your reporting.

In the last 36 hours, to inform members of Congress, allies, partners,
and regional countries — that includes calls — not all with the
President, although he has made a number of calls — but from senior
officials to nearly 50 members of Congress, 44 countries, NATO, the EU,
and the U.N. 

These consultations and conversations are continuing, but just to give
you a sense of how much engagement and outreach we’ve done to date. 

Okay.  Thanks, everyone.

1:23 P.M. EDT
