---
date: '2023-01-05'
published_time: 2023-01-05 17:30:02-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2023/01/05/press-release-bills-signed-h-r-680-h-r-897-h-r-1082-h-r-1154-h-r-1917-h-r-7939-s-450-s-989-s-1294-s-1402-s-1541-s-1942-s-2333-s-2834-s-3168-s-3308-s-3405-s-35/
tags: legislation
title: "Press Release: Bills Signed: H.R. 680, H.R. 897, H.R. 1082, H.R. 1154, H.R.\
  \ 1917, H.R. 7939, S. 450, S. 989, S. 1294,\_S. 1402, S. 1541, S. 1942, S. 2333,\
  \ S. 2834, S. 3168, S. 3308, S. 3405, S. 3519, S. 3946, S. 3949, S. 4104, S. 4120,\
  \ S. 4240, S. 4411, S. 4439, S. 4926, S. 4949, S. 4978, S. 5016, S. 5066, S. 5087,\
  \ S. 5168, S.\_5328"
---
 
On Thursday, January 5, 2023, the President signed into law:  
  
H.R. 680, which makes Arpita Kurdekar, Girish Kurdekar, and Vandana
Kurdekar eligible for adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent
resident;  
  
Thank you to Representative Anne Kuster for her leadership.  
  
H.R. 897, the “Agua Caliente Land Exchange Fee to Trust Confirmation
Act,” which confirms the trust status of land held for the benefit of
the Agua Caliente Band of Cahuilla Indians;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Ruiz, Calvert, the late Don Young, David
Joyce, Aguilar, and Gallego, Senators Padilla and Feinstein, and many
others for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 1082, the “Sami’s Law,” which requires the Government
Accountability Office to study, and submit abiennial report to Congress
regarding, the incidence of assaults involving drivers  
and passengers of for-hire vehicles;  
  
Thank you to Representative Chris Smith, Senator Cardin, and many others
for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 1154, the “Great Dismal Swamp National Heritage Area Act,” which
directs the Department of the Interior to study for a national heritage
area designation in Virginia and North Carolina;  
  
Thank you to the late Representatives McEachin, Luria, Butterfield, and
Bobby Scott, and Senators Kaine and Warner, for their leadership.  
  
H.R. 1917, the “Hazard Eligibility and Local Projects Act,” which makes
an entity seeking assistance under the Federal Emergency Management
Agency’s hazard mitigation assistance program eligible to receive such
assistance for certain projects already in progress;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Fletcher and McCaul, and Senators Tillis,
Burr, Cornyn, Cruz, Lankford, Warnock, and Hassan for their
leadership.  
  
H.R. 7939, the “Veterans Auto and Education Improvement Act of 2022,”
which amends a number of authorities related to: VA educational
assistance benefits in emergency situations; pension benefits;
Servicemembers Civil Relief Act; residency for tax purposes; portability
of professional licenses; and adaptive equipment benefits;  
  
Thank you to Representatives Mike Levin and Mace for their leadership.  
  
S. 450, the “Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley Congressional Gold Medal
Act of 2021,” which provides for the posthumous award of Congressional
Gold Medal to Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley  
  
Thank you to Senators Burr and Booker, Representatives Rush and Bacon,
and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 989, the “Native American Language Resource Center Act of 2022,”
which creates one or more Native American language resource centers;  
  
Thank you to Senators Schatz, Smith, and Murkowski, the late
Representative Young, and many others for their leadership.  
  
S. 1294, the “Protecting American Intellectual Property Act of 2022,”
which requires the President to impose sanctions on foreign individuals
and entities that engage in theft of U.S. trade secrets;  
  
Thank you to Senators Van Hollen and Sasse for their leadership.  
  
S. 1402, the “Durbin Feeling Native American Languages Act of 2022,”
which requires federal agencies to evaluate their policies regarding
Native American languages and to require a survey of the use of Native
American languages;  
  
Thank you to Senators Schatz, Murkowski, and Cortez Masto for their
leadership.  
  
S. 1541, the “Martha Wright-Reed Just and Reasonable Communications Act
of 2022,” which requires the Federal Communications Commission to ensure
that charges in correctional and detention facilities for telephone
services, including advanced communications services, are just and
reasonable;  
  
Thank you to Senators Duckworth, Portman, Schatz, Booker, and many
others for their leadership.  
  
S. 1942, the “National Heritage Area Act,” which designates, extends,
and authorizes studies for national heritage areas throughout the United
States;  
  
Thank you to Senators Stabenow and Peters, and Representatives Tonko and
McKinley, for their leadership.  
  
S. 2333, the “Equal Pay for Team USA Act of 2022,” which requires
athletes who represent the United States in amateur athletic
competitions to receive equal compensation regardless of gender;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cantwell, Capito, Lummis, and Klobuchar for their
leadership.  
  
S. 2834, the “Dr. Joanne Smith Memorial Rehabilitation Innovation
Centers Act of 2022,” which requires the compilation, publication, and
regular maintenance of a list of Medicare rehabilitation innovation
centers;  
  
Thank you to Senators Durbin, Cassidy, and Duckworth, Representatives
Schakowsky the entire Illinois delegation for their leadership.  
  
S. 3168, which amends the White Mountain Apache Tribe Water Rights
Quantification Act of 2010 to modify the enforceability date for certain
provisions;  
  
Thank you to Senators Kelly and Sinema, and Representative O’Halleran
for their leadership.  
  
S. 3308, the “Colorado River Indian Tribes Water Resiliency Act of
2022,” which authorizes the Colorado River Indian Tribes to enter into
lease, exchange, or storage agreements relating to its water rights;  
  
Thank you to Senators Kelly, Sinema, Feinstein, and Padilla for their
leadership.  
  
S. 3405, the “Low Power Protection Act,” which requires the Federal
Communications Commission to issue a rule to allow qualified low-power
television stations a one-year period to apply to be accorded primary
status as a Class A television licensee;  
  
Thank you to Senators Blunt, Wyden, and many others for their
leadership.

S. 3519, the “Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail Designation
Act,” which establishes the Butterfield Overland National Historic Trail
as a component of National Trail System;  
  
Thank you to Senators Boozman, Blunt, Heinrich, Cornyn, Cotton, and
Sinema for their leadership.  
  
S. 3773, which authorizes leases of up to 99 years for land held in
trust by the Federal Government for the Confederated Tribes of the
Chehalis Reservation;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cantwell and Murray, Representatives Strickland,
Kilmer, and Herrera Beutler, and the Washington delegation for their
leadership.  
  
S. 3946, the “Abolish Trafficking Reauthorization Act of 2022,” which
authorizes grants related to human trafficking prevention and assistance
for victims of human trafficking;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cornyn and Klobuchar for their leadership.  
  
S. 3949, the “Trafficking Victims Prevention and Protection
Reauthorization Act of 2022,” which reauthorizes and establishes new
programs to prevent human trafficking, provide services to victims, and
bolster Federal coordination and response;  
  
Thank you to Senators Grassley and Feinstein for their leadership.  
  
S. 4104, the “Hualapai Tribe Water Rights Settlement Act of 2022,” which
authorizes and ratifies the Hualapai Tribe Water Rights Settlement
Agreement;  
  
Thank you to Senators Sinema and Kelly, and Representatives O’Halleran,
Stanton, Gosar, Gallego, and Kirkpatrick, for their leadership.  
  
S. 4120, the “Childhood Cancer Survivorship, Treatment, Access, and
Research Reauthorization Act of 2022” or the “Childhood Cancer STAR
Reauthorization Act,” which reauthorizes and modifies grants for
pediatric cancer specimen collection and research, and supports the
transition of pediatric cancer survivors to adult care;  
  
Thank you to Senators Reed, Capito, Van Hollen, and Murkowski, and
Representatives McCaul, Speier, Butterfield, Mike Kelly, and many others
for their leadership.  
  
S. 4240, the “Justice for Victims of War Crimes Act,” which expands the
scope of individuals subject to prosecution for war crimes;

Thank you to Senators Grassley, Durbin, Graham, and Leahy,
Representatives Cicilline and Spartz, and many others for their
leadership.  
  
S. 4411, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 5302 Galveston Road in Houston, Texas, as the
“Vanessa Guillén Post Office Building”;  
Thank you to Senators Cruz and Cornyn, Representative Sylvia Garcia, and
the Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
Thank you to Senators Cruz and Cornyn, Representative Sylvia Garcia, and
the Texas delegation for their leadership.  
  
S. 4439, the “Katimiîn and Ameekyáaraam Sacred Lands Act,” which directs
that certain land be taken into trust for the benefit of the Karuk
Tribe;

Thank you to Senators Padilla and Feinstein, and Representative Huffman,
for their leadership.  
  
S. 4926, the “Respect for Child Survivors Act,” which requires the
Federal Bureau of Investigation to use multidisciplinary  
teams to investigate cases of child sexual exploitation or abuse, the
production of child sexual abuse material, and child trafficking;  
  
Thank you to Senators Cornyn, Klobuchar, Graham, and Coons, and
Representatives Costa, Gonzales, Titus and Fitzpatrick, for their
leadership.  
  
S. 4949, the “National Cemeteries Preservation and Protection Act of
2022,” which provides for green burial sections in national cemeteries;
requires a plot or interment allowance to be paid in certain
circumstances; permits certain land transfers, and expands the crimes
that would result in prohibition from interment in a national
cemetery;  
  
Thank you to Senators Tester and Rounds for their leadership.  
  
S. 4978, the “State Offices of Rural Health Program Reauthorization Act
of 2022,” which reauthorizes grants to State offices of rural health;  
  
Thank you to Senators Barrasso and Smith, and Representatives Mullin and
O’Halleran, for their leadership.

S. 5016, the “Colonel Mary Louise Rasmuson Campus of the Alaska VA
Healthcare System Act of 2022,” which designates the medical center of
the Department of Veterans Affairs located in Anchorage, Alaska, as the
Colonel Mary Louise Rasmuson Campus of the Alaska VA Healthcare
System;  
  
Thank you to Senators Murkowski and Sullivan, and Representative
Peltola, for their leadership.  
  
S. 5066, the “Don Young Recognition Act,” which honors the late
Representative Don Young by designating a landmark and specified
buildings;  
  
Thank you to Senators Murkowski and Sullivan for their leadership.

S. 5087, which extends a joint commission established by the Departments
of the Interior and Justice to address violent crime against Indians;  
  
Thank you to Senators Murkowski and Cortez Masto for their leadership.

S. 5168, the “Energy Security and Lightering Independence Act of 2022,”
which amends the Immigration and Nationality Act to allow certain
nonimmigrant visas and conditional permits to land in the United States
to be granted for up to 180 days to foreign crewmembers of lightering
ships who are involved in ship-to-ship liquid cargo transfer
operations;  
  
Thank you to Senators Padilla and Cornyn, and Representatives Sylvia
Garcia, Crenshaw, Weber, Gonzalez, Cloud, and Palazzo for their
leadership.  
  
S. 5328, which amends the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002
to extend terminal lakes assistance; and  
  
Thank you to Senator Catherine Cortez Masto for her leadership.

S. 5329, which extends the protections established by the Bill Emerson
Good Samaritan Food Donation Act.

Thank you to Senator Richard Blumenthal for his leadership.

\###
