---
date: '2025-01-25'
modified_time: 2025-01-28 10:25:59-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-25 10:25:41-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/01/remarks-by-president-trump-on-the-economy-in-las-vegas-nv/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump on the Economy in Las Vegas, NV
---
 
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP

ON THE ECONOMY

Circa Resort & Casino

Las Vegas, Nevada

(January 25, 2025)

12:39 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Ah, hello, Las Vegas.  Hello, Las Vegas.

Hello, Nevada.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Trump!  Trump!  Trump!

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we won.  We won.  We won.  (Applause.)

And it’s great to be back in this beautiful city to celebrate the
historic first week in the White House.  That was definitely a start. 
(Applause.)  And I had a lot of help in winning. 

Joe Lombardo, your governor, is here someplace.  Where’s Joe? 
(Applause.)  Thank you, Joe.  You’re looking good, Joe.  Thank you very
much.  What a group.  Look at who you have next you.  How can you fail
with that guy?  (Applause.)

Also, Lieutenant Governor Stavros.  Anthony Stavros, thank you very
much.  (Applause.)  Thank you very much.  Where are you?  There you are,
Stavros.  You’re very good. 

Is he doing a good job, Joe?  I think so, huh?  He’s all right, huh? 
(Laughter.)

Nevada GOP Chair Michael McDonald, he — (applause) — he did something
which not a lot of people have been able to do, but I think Republicans
are going to start winning this state.  You know, typically, they don’t
necessarily do so good.  We did really well.  (Applause.)  We won in a
landslide.  That’s really why I’m here, I must be honest with you. 

Republican National Committeewoman Sigal Chattah.  (Applause.)  Sigal,
thank you, wherever you may be.  Hi, Sigal.  Thank you very much. 

Republican National Committeeman Jim DeGraffenreid.  (Applause.)  That’s
a hell of a beautiful name.  But I know the name so long, it’s easy to
say. 

One of the greatest people, I’ll tell you — a man who’s done so damn
well.  I don’t know what it is with him.  He’s just a legend.  He’s one
person — you know, we can all sort of be replaced, although we don’t
like to think that — maybe it’s not true — but this is a guy that can’t
be replaced.  There’s nobody like him: Dana White.  (Applause.)  Where’s
Dana White?  Where is Dana White?  Where the hell is he?  UFC. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Nelk Boys!

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s great. Are the Nelk Boys here?  Oh, yeah.  There
they are, the Nelk Boys.  Right there.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)

And Rick Harrison.  Rick, thank you very much for being here. 
(Applause.)  You’re around here someplace with Dana.

Mr. Phil Ruffin; his wife, Oleksandra; and their two beautiful children,
Richard and Malena.  (Applause.)  Phil?  Where’s Ruffin?  Where is Phil
Ruffin?  He’s right here.  Say, he’s some legend, I’ll tell you.  He’s a
legend in Las Vegas and beyond.  Phil.  He’s here.  He’ll be coming
out. 

Today, we talk about how we’re going to end the economic suffering and
stagnation and disaster of the past four years and create the four
greatest years in the history of our country.  That’s what’s going to
happen.  (Applause.)  That’s what’s going to happen. 

And as I said in my Inaugural Address which, by the way, it got the
highest rating in the history of Fox.  (Applause.)  Can you believe
that?  That’s nice — “the golden age of America begins right now.” 
(Applause.) 

But I have to be honest with you, I’m really here for a different
reason.  I’m here to say thank you.  (Applause.)

I went to North Carolina yesterday, and then I flew to see just an
unbelievable problem in — just a mess in Los Angeles, right?  And I
said, “You know what I ought to do?  I want to come to a state known as
‘Nevada.’”  Has anyone ever heard of it?  (Applause.)  And don’t ever
mispronounce the name.  You’re not allowed to do that, Chair.  You
mispronounce the name; you’re going have a problem.  (Laughter.) 

You ever see somebody when they say it’s “Nev-ah-da”? 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT: “Nev-ah-da”?  No, they’re in deep — they’re in deep
trouble. 

I want to come to Nevada to pay my respects, because this is the only
Republican win of this state in decades, and it was a very big
landslide, so — (applause).  But I think Republicans are going to win a
lot now.

But it was a big — we had a big win, and it was an early win.  And that
was a bad signal for the Democrats; they heard that we were leading so
big here. 

And Joe helped us so much, and a lot of people in this room helped us a
lot.  Special group.  Special group.

And so, I said, “You know what I’ll do?  We’re going to fly around it.” 
And I said, “Let’s fly right over it.  Let’s land, and I’ll do
something.  And I’ll just say it.” But I want to say it, and I’m almost
saying it right here for the media.  I just came here because I wanted
to thank the people of Nevada for giving us such a big win.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot of great friends.  I better not introduce them
all, I’ll be here all day. 

Under our leadership, we’re going to defeat inflation, bring down
prices, we’re going to raise those wages.  They’re going to go up. 
(Applause.)  They’re going to go up.  Put more money in your pocket,
secure our borders, restore law and order to our cities, and we’re going
to make America great again.  (Applause.) 

And for four long years, the last administration waged war on the
American middle class and everybody else.  They had a lot of wars.  We
had no wars when I left.  You know, we defeated ISIS, and we stayed
out.  Nobody wanted to mess with us.  They had a lot of wars.  We’re
still — we’re trying to put them out.  We’ll get them put out.  Don’t
worry, we’ll get them put out. 

We were — we were headed to World War III.  I’m telling you; we would
have had problems like you wouldn’t believe.

They shut down American energy; buried you in crippling regulation;
imposed hidden taxes; and spent trillions and trillions of dollars on
waste, corruption, and radical left lunacy.  These were lunatics. 

The result was the most brutal inflation in a half a century — perhaps
ever in this country — I think ever — and soaring prices for food,
groceries, and other household goods. 

The people of Nevada are now paying nearly $1,200 per month more to make
ends meet since I left office.  Think of that: $1,200, at least. 

But since I became the 47th president at noon on Monday, I’ve been
moving with urgency and historic speed — (applause) — to fix every
single calamity of the Biden administration that they’ve created. 

And this week alone, I took nearly 350 executive actions to reverse —
(applause) — the horrible failures and betrayals that we inherited from
a group of people that didn’t know what the hell they were doing. 
(Laughter.)  What they’ve done to the — what they’ve done to this
country, especially the open borders, where they have — think of it — 21
million people came in.  Many of them are criminals, murderers. 

Well, we’re getting them out.  You see it.  You see it yesterday — first
day.  (Applause.)

Our message could not be clearer: America’s decline is over.  American
decline is over.

We’re laughed at all over the world.  Now we’re not laughed at anymore,
I’ll tell you. 

What the world witnessed this week is nothing less than a revolution of
wealth creation for everyone and also common sense.  It’s about common
sense.  It really is.  We’re the party of common sense.  (Applause.)

On day one, I directed every member of my Cabinet to — and, by the way,
Pete Hegseth got approved.  (Applause.) 

And Kristi Noem just got approved.  Governor, she’s going it —
(applause).  She’s tough.  She’s a tough one.  She’s a tough one, and
she’s going to do a great job. 

On day one, I directed every member of my Cabinet to marshal all powers
at their disposal to defeat inflation and bring down the cost of daily
life.  We want to bring prices down.  Too high.  They went way up.  They
didn’t come down. 

I imposed a federal hiring freeze, a federal regulation freeze, a
foreign aid freeze.  Oh, that’s a nice one.  (Applause.)

And I created the new Department of Government Efficiency.  And we’re
going to have a lot of good people — Elon.  We’re going to get Elon Musk
to get involved in that a little bit.  (Applause.)  He already is. 
People like him.

I terminated the ridiculous and incredibly wasteful Green New Scam. 
(Applause.)  Wasn’t the environment supposed to eat us up, like, in 12
years?  But that was, like, 13 years ago.  What happened?  We’re still
here.  We’re still here.  Remember, “We have 12 years to live.” 
Remember that?  Done by somebody that never even took a course on the
environment.

AOC plus three.  Do you remember those three?  They were telling us
about the environment.  AOC plus three. 

This action alone will save hundreds of billions of dollars of American
taxpayers’ money.

I withdrew from the one-sided Paris Climate Accord.  (Applause.) 

And I canceled the insane and costly electric vehicle mandate —
(applause) — keeping my sacred pledge to America’s autoworkers.  Boy,
did we get a big vote with the autoworkers, I’ll tell you — and the
Teamsters.  Any Teamster in the room?  (Applause.)  We got a tremendous
vote from the Teamsters.  Thank you.  (Laughs.)  Pointing like — one —
one guy, all there is.  (Laughter.)  But they voted for us in the
millions.  We had a lot of Teamsters voting for us. 

I withdrew from the World Health Organization — (applause) — where we
paid $500 million a year and China paid $39 million a year, despite a
much larger population.  Think of that: China is paying $39 million. 
They have 1.4 billion people.  We pay $500 million.  We have — nobody
knows what the hell we have.  Does anyone know?  (Laughter.)  We have so
many people pouring in, we have no idea. 

We go up, but we’re going down a little bit now.  You don’t mind that,
do you?  (Applause.)  Going to take some bad ones out. 

I would do it four years ago, but Biden immediately went back for even
more money.  I mean, he went back and — you know, they offered me at $39
million.  They said, “We’ll let you back in at $39.  So, we’re going to
reduce it from $500 to $39.”  I turned them down, because it became so
popular.  I didn’t know if it would be well received, even at $39.

But maybe we would consider doing it again.  I don’t know.  Maybe we
would.  They have to clean it up a little bit. 

But China pays $39 million for 1.4 billion, and we’re paying $500
million for 325 million.  I don’t know what the hell is wrong with these
people. (Laughter.)

And then when Biden went back in — you know, they immediately went back
in — they paid more than we were paying in the first place.  They paid
more than the $500 million.  So, they knew they could have had it for
$39.  They paid more. 

You wouldn’t do that, Joe, right?  No, think of it.  They know they have
a deal at $39, so they went back in at $525 million.  What the hell? 
Man, oh, man.  It just infuriates you, doesn’t it?

I declared a national energy emergency to unlock the liquid gold under
our feet — (applause) — and pave the way for rapid approvals of the new
energy infrastructure.  (Applause.)

The United States has the largest amount of oil and gas of any country
on Earth.  We may be a very substantially enlarged country in the not
too distant– isn’t it nice to see? 

You know, for years, for decades, we’re the same size to the square foot
— probably got smaller, actually — but we might be an enlarged country
pretty soon. 

And one of the things we’re going to be doing is drill, baby —

AUDIENCE:  Drill!

THE PRESIDENT:  — drill.  (Applause.)  Because that’s going to bring
everything down.  It’s going to bring everything down. 

My administration has also begun the largest deregulation campaign in
the history of our country, far exceeding I had the record four year —
we ran — we had a great economy — the greatest economy that we’ve ever
had — four years ago.  But this is going to be better.  You watch, this
will be better even than the first term.  (Applause.)

And the reason I got elected was because of the first term.  You know,
somebody said, “What was the reason you got elected?  I mean, you won by
so much.”  I said, “My first term.”  (Applause.)  You know.  It’s all I
did.  I just said, “Well, take a look at the numbers.  Take a look at
the numbers.”

In total, the Biden administration imposed $50,000 in additional
regulation costs on the average American.  And think of this: The
average American was paying much more than $50,000.  And, you know, just
think of it.  Nobody can even believe the numbers. 

I promise to eliminate 10 old regulations for every new regulation.  So,
if we put in a regulation — (applause) — we have to get rid of 10. 
That’s what I did.  I did it — I did it one in seven.  We’re going to do
1 in 10 this time, which will soon put many thousands of dollars back
into your pockets, in the pockets of American families.

As a result of the reforms, we’ve just begun to implement economic
confidence, and it’s soaring. 

So, this week, Oracle, OpenAI, and SoftBank announced Stargate, a $500
billion investment in AI infrastructure — which is going to be very big
for Nevada, I have to tell you, the largest in history, and which will
create an estimated 100,000 American jobs.  (Applause.)

Saudi Arabia just said that they’re going to invest at least $600
billion.  This is because of the election, by the way.  (Applause.)  And
I believe they’ll make it a trillion.  I’m going to ask them to make it
$1 trillion.  What the hell, the money means nothing to them.

You know, where they made their money?  From liquid gold, right?  They
got a lot of liquid gold.  We have more.  We have more than Saudi
Arabia.  They’ve got a lot.  We’ve got more.  We’ve got more than
anybody.  We just don’t use it because of the environment.  These people
are crazy.  (Laughter.)

And many other companies, likewise, are looking to invest, but I don’t
have enough time to do that, and we have a lot of news conferences. 
Everybody wants to have a news conference.  You know, they’re calling up
by the hundreds, “We want to have a news conference.  We’re going to
invest $12.”  (Laughter.)  I said, “No, I don’t do that.”  I said, “It’s
got to be $1 billion or more for a news conference.”  (Laughter and
applause.)  It’s $1 billion or more.

Just two days ago, because of our tariff plans, Stellantis announced —
that’s a very good automobile company — the revival of its Belvidere,
Illinois, plant, saving 1,500 American auto jobs that were previously
headed to Canada — (applause) — along with major investments to expand
American auto production in Detroit, Michigan; Toledo, Ohio; and Kokomo,
Indiana.  Good place. 

All of these investments are happening only because of our historic
victory.  And if we didn’t win, it’d be just the opposite.  They’re
pulling out.  They were pulling out.  They were really pulling out.  So,
they would be withdrawing money. 

Our country was on the verge of some of the very bad things, and bad
things were happening.  And now there’s light, not only over America —
I’ve heard it from even our enemies.  They call up and they say, “Sir,
we hate you.  We do hate you, but there’s light over the world right
now.”  (Laughter.)  They hate me.  Some of them hate me.  If they liked
me, you got a problem, right?  They liked Sleepy Joe.  What’s not to
like? 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, they’d call up — it’s funny.  I was told today
by one of the big leaders of the world — would call for a telephone call
with the president of the United States a year ago, and they’d say,
“We’d like to speak with….”  “Who is this?”  “It’s the head of Germany,
the head of — it’s” — name it — “the head of France.”  The name of any
country; it didn’t matter.  He would never pick up the call.  They’d
say, “He’ll call you back in two months.”  (Laughter.)  “Two months?” 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s sleeping!

THE PRESIDENT:  “Yeah, it’s his schedule.  He’s extremely busy” —
(laughs) — sleeping — no, it — (laughter) —

Macron of France, “He’ll call you back in two months.”  So, two months
comes along, and there’s no call.  They’d say —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  — “He didn’t call.”  (Laughs.)  He’s — (laughter) —

The stories are — I mean, these stories are not very exaggerated.  I
want to tell you, they’re a little bit for laughter, but, you know, it’s
only for laughter.

The fake news will say, “Oh, he exaggerated.  It was only one month.” 
You know?  (Laughter.) 

But they would say, “He’ll call you back.”  And then he’d never call,
and then they could never get him on the phone. 

And the problem I have is that when I speak to the — and I speak to them
immediately — they’ll say, “Could we speak to the president?  Would that
be possible?  We can do it any time over the next month.”  They’re so
used to this, right?  I say, “No, I’ll pick it up right now.  Is he on
the other phone?”  “Yeah.”  “Hello.  How you doing?”  (Laughter.) 
That’s what — you know, get it — get it over with, right?  (Applause.) 
Get it over with.

The only problem: They were so starved for love from the United States,
I cannot get them off the phone.  (Laughter.)  I can’t get people — if
you can’t, I say, “I have to go now, King,” or “I have to go now,
President.”  (Laughter.)  But you can’t get them off the phone.  They’re
starved for love.  You know, for years, they haven’t spoken. 
(Laughter.)  They didn’t even know we had a president, if you want to
know.  (Laughter.) 

But under our leadership, America is back, open for business, and it’s
really a big deal.  (Applause.)  It’s really a big —

And they have, though.  They said, you know, there’s like a light all
over the world now.  It’s not just here.  We feel the light over our
country.  Everyone does.  But there’s a light all over the world. 

We’ve accomplished more in one week that other administrations have
accomplished in four years, and we’re just getting started. 
(Applause.) 

We got rid of the woke.  We got rid of the woke crap.  What a lot —
(applause) — what a lot of stuff.  What a lot of crap that was. 
(Laughter.)  It was — and, you know, these people were petrified of it. 
I’ll tell you, these companies — they run these big companies — they
were petrified of it.  It was like — you know, I don’t think they
believed it.  I’m sure they didn’t believe it.  Some, I know, didn’t
believe it, but they were so afraid. 

Near the top of the agenda for our historic Republican majorities in
Congress is to pass a massive tax cut for American workers and
families. 

Last year, we campaigned across the country on a pledge that I’m sure
most of you didn’t hear too much about — a pledge to take the Trump tax
cuts and make them permanent, and that’s exactly what we’re doing. 
(Applause.) 

In the coming weeks, I’ll be working with Congress to get a bill on my
desk that cuts taxes for workers, families, small businesses, and, very
importantly, keeps my promise for a thing called — and I know you didn’t
hear anything about this, and I’m sure it had no influence on the state;
the fact that we won this crazy, massive majority — the state that
hadn’t been won by a Republican in decades.  But I’m sure you haven’t
heard, but we’re going to get it for you: No tax on tips.  Right? 
(Applause.)  No tax on tips.  Right?

So, if you’re a restaurant worker, a server, a valet, a bellhop, a
bartender, or one of my caddies — I go through caddies like candy —
(laughter); if I play badly, I always blame my caddy — (laughter) — or
any other worker who relies on tipped income, your tips will be 100
percent yours.  Won’t that be nice?  (Applause.)

Joe — Governor, do you think that had an impact on the election? 

GOVERNOR LOMBARDO:  Absolutely!

THE PRESIDENT:  You do?  Like, what, a half a point?  (Laughter.)  It’s
pretty big.  You had an impact, let me tell you. 

Nationwide, over 4 million workers depend on tip income, including an
estimated 700,000 single moms.  And here in Nevada, we will have a
quarter — think of it, a quarter of the typical restaurant worker’s pay
comes from tips.  I didn’t know that much.  That’s a lot.  You haven’t
been reporting them for the last 10 years.  (Laughter.) 

So, here’s our deal, we’re going to have no tax on tips from now on, but
we’re going to go after you viciously for all the money you didn’t
report for the last ten, fif- — (laughter) — we’re going to go after you
for all the money you didn’t report for — I’m only kidding. 
(Laughter.)  I’m only kidding.  I have to say to the fake news, because
they’re going to say, “Trump is after all restaurant workers.” 

Many of these workers are some of the very citizens who were hit hard
and very hard by the ravages of the Biden economy, which was inflation. 
When I think of Biden, I think of incompetence — (laughter) — and
inflation.  I’m being nice by saying — I’m being nice when I say that. 
Yet, even in the midst of the suffering he created, Joe Biden launched a
cruel campaign to extract more money from tip workers, and that’s what
happened. 

I’m telling you, a young waitress — I won’t say “beautiful,” because
you’re not allowed to say that — (laughter) — as a politician.  It used
to be, you could say, “A young, beautiful waitress,” because — and this
was a young, beautiful waitress, but I won’t say that because I feel
like — (laughter) — I want to continue my political career. 
(Laughter.)  If you call some the governor won’t say it.  If you call a
woman “beautiful” today, it’s the end of your political career, so I
won’t do it.  (Laughter.) 

But a young waitress — I think you could call “young.”  You’re probably
not even supposed to say “young.”  (Laughter.)  You’re probably supposed
to say “a waitress.”  (Laughter.)  But a young waitress came up, and I
said, “How are you doing?”  And in my restaurant, in the hotel, in Trump
— I said, “How are you doing?”  And she said, “Not great, because
they’re after me so viciously for tips.  They just want my tip income,
and they don’t believe me,” and all of this. 

And she said, “It’s terrible.  You know, sir, you should have no tax on
tips.”  I said, “What?”  (Laughter.)  I said, “What you just say?”  “No
tax on tips.”  That was about the amount of my consultation. 
(Laughter.)  It’s true.  No tax.  I said, “What did you just say?  Say
those words again.”  “Sir, no tax on tips.”  I said, are you — thank you
very much.  You just won the election for” — (applause). 

No, but, we did research into it.  I think it’s going to be great. 

But under the Trump administration, the forgotten men and women of our
country are going to be forgotten no longer.  You know that.  They
weren’t forgotten four years ago.

On day one, I immediately halted the hiring of any new IRS agents.  You
know they hired — (applause) — they hired or tried to hire 88,000 new
workers to go after you, and we’re in the process of developing a plan
to either terminate all of them, or maybe we’ll move them to the
border.  (Applause.)  I think we’re going to move them to the border. 
(Applause.)

Well, they’re allowed to carry guns.  You know, they’re so strong on
guns, but these people are allowed to carry guns, so we’ll probably move
them to the border. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  How about no tax on anything?    

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  (Laughs.)  She said “no tax on any-” — how about
just no tax, period?  (Applause.)  We could do that. 

You know, if the tariffs work out like I think, a thing like that could
happen, if you want to know the truth.  (Applause.) 

You know, years ago, 1870 to 1913, we didn’t have an income tax.  What
we had is tariffs.  Where foreign countries came in and they stole our
jobs, they stole our companies, they stole our product, they ripped us
off, and, you know, they used to do numbers, and then we went to tariff
— a tariff system.  And the tariff system made so much money.  It was
when we were the richest — from 1870 to 1913 — then we came in with the
— brilliantly came in with an income tax.  “No, we don’t want others to
pay.  Let’s have our people pay.”  And then you had the depression in
1928, 1929.  I call it 1929.  That was a bad time. 

But, you know, you didn’t have tariffs, and you had tariffs that ended
in 1913.  But it was the richest our country ever was.  That was
President McKinley.  In fact, we’re renaming the mountain “Mount
McKinley” — in Alaska.  (Applause.)

You know what else we’re renaming?  We’re renaming the Gulf of —

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Mexico!

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  America!

THE PRESIDENT:  — Mexico into the Gulf of America.  Right?  (Applause.) 

     And Mexico — actually, they were thrilled when they heard.  They
said, “That’s nice.”

A few months from now, when I sign our tax cut into law, we’re going to
deliver for the tip-earning men and women who make it all work.  I mean,
it’s going to be something very special, I think, for you.  It’s going
to be a big difference. 

And with us today is Jessica Angiano \[ph\], an employee here at Circa. 
This is a nice place, by the way, and I just met your owner.  He’s a
nice man.  He’s rich, too — very rich.  (Laughter and applause.)  But
Circa is very nice. 

And a hardworking single mother of two with incredible children, Jessica
is struggling to pay for medical bills to remove a tumor behind her
right eye.  She’s had some real difficulty, and she’s currently saving
up for a second surgery, which will hopefully be very successful, while
also paying for her children’s day care.  Jessica says that no tax on
tips would transform her life.  It would make such a big difference. 

So, Jessica, we’re going to get that for you.  Where are you, Jessica? 
You’re around here someplace, huh?  Hi, Jessica.  Oh, so beautiful. 
(Applause.)  Very nice.  It’s working out, medically, good?  Everything
good?  Going to be good.  I think it’s going to.  You look fantastic. 
It’s good.  You look great. 

Also with us is Lexi York, a 28-year-old cocktail server here at Circa,
who’s got big dreams of being an entrepreneur.  Lexi says that no tax on
tips will help bring those dreams much closer to reach and she’s going
to be one of the biggest proponents for it.  We’re going to have a lot
of support when we go before Congress very soon to get that passed. 

Lexi, where are you?  Where are you?  Hi, Lexi.  (Applause.)  Wow. 
Good.  We’ll get it done. 

And we’re also pleased to be joined by Rosanna Maietta, president and
CEO of the American Hotel and Lodging Association, which strongly
supports this pro-worker reform.  And, Rosanna, would you like to come
up and say a few words on behalf of so many people?  Come on up.  Come
on up.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Trump!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

MS. MAIETTA:  It’s so nice to meet you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. MAIETTA:  Thank you.

Hello, Mr. President, on behalf of the American Hotel and Lodging
Association, I’m so honored to be here today.  We represent 30,000
members around the country in an industry that represents more than 2
million hotel workers. 

And I am here to tell you that the American dream is alive and well in
the hotel industry today.  (Applause.)  It is still one of the few
places where you can have and grow your career, starting a job as a
housekeeper or a dishwasher or bellhop, to running a hotel, to owning a
hotel or a few, and to even becoming the CEO of a global brand or
president of the United States.  (Applause.) 

Mr. President, in 2017, the tax bill that you championed cut taxes for
so many working families and American workers.  It helped small
businesses — small bus- — hotel owners in our country, who make up the
majority of the industry, reinvest in the economy, spurring jobs and —
and cur- — and growing and strengthening the economy.

And the no tax on tips builds on that momentum, and so we are so excited
to support you in that effort.  That’s why we’re here today. 

We stand with you to urge Congress to pass this proposal so that more
than the 800,000 hotel workers who benefit from these — from tips, many
who are here in the room today, representing all — all types of jobs —
from restaurant workers to housekeepers to bellhops and so many others —
can take home more of the pay that they earn every day. 

So, thank you for having us and for promoting this proposal. 
(Applause.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Well done. 

Thank you very much, <s>Jessica</s> \[Rosanna\].  Great. 

After for you- — long years — and these were long years — of a
government that always put you last — they put America last, they put
you last, they put everybody last that was associated with us — you once
again have a president that is putting our workers first, putting our
families first, and above all, putting America first, and we’re going to
keep America first.  And you see it.  (Applause.)

We’re restoring our prosperity.  We’re restoring our borders.  We’re
restoring our strength, our dignity, and our pride.  We’ve been hurt
badly by this group of people — this group of people.  They didn’t have
a clue what the hell was happening. It’s so disgraceful that they were
allowed to do it. 

But quite honestly, we’re restoring our country.  Within hours of taking
the oath of office, I declared a national emergency at our southern
border.  (Applause.)  I sent active-duty troops to the border to help
repel the invasion. 

Tom Homan is leading the charge.  You know that.  We like Tom Homan,
right?  Doing a great job. 

We immediately halted all illegal entry and began sending every border
trespasser and violator back to the places from which they came. 
(Applause.) 

I signed an order that will designate the cartels as “foreign terrorist
organizations.”  (Applause.)  It’s a big deal.  That’s a big deal. 
Biden didn’t want to do that.  “No, I don’t want to that.”  Biden didn’t
know he was alive.  (Laughter.)  He didn’t want to do it.  He didn’t
want to do that. 

I always wanted to do it, you know?  I mean, think of it.  Is that a
terrorist organization or what? 

And we began to leverage the full and immense power of federal
government and state government and enforcement to eliminate the
presence of all foreign gangs and criminal networks bringing devastating
crime to American soil.  And we don’t allow people to enter our country
and to dump their prisons into the United States of America anymore. 
(Applause.)  When we see that, our people are instructed to do whatever
they have to do.  They can do whatever the hell they want to do. 

Throughout this week, the heroes of ICE have been hunting down and
arresting hundreds of illegal alien criminals.  (Applause.)  And it’s
immediate expulsion, including those with charges of convictions for
rape, child sexual assault, terrorism and even murder. 

Members of the savage Venezuelan prison gang known as Tren de Aragua —
you know that gang?  This is not a nice group of people.  They formed in
prison, and then they dumped their prisons into our country.  So, we had
them all over the place. 

Ask Colorado.  The governor of Colorado, he doesn’t know what to do
about it.  They’re all over the place.  We’ll get them out.  We’ll get
them out.  (Applause.)

They’re — in a sense, they’re in the real estate business.  They go into
a building, and they take it.  You know?  (Laughter.)  See, when you buy
a building, you have to go out and get a mortgage or use your own cash. 
They just go into a building and take it. 

And they actually said, “Well, it’s not that bad.  They haven’t taken
that many buildings.”  Can you imagine that?  “They haven’t taken that
many buildings.  Oh, they’re not that bad.”  But they’re bad as the
bloodthirsty MS-13 gangs that we have gotten thousands and thousands of
them out. 

In fact, over 11,000 murderers were released into our country by other
countries all over the world because of Biden’s open-border policy. 
When I heard about that, I said, “They’re just going to — everybody is
going to empty out their prisons into our country.”  I said that. 

I’d do that if I were heading up any one of the many countries that you
know about.  Not just South America, all over — they take their prisons,
their mental institutions and they empty them out into our country.  Can
you imagine a person doing this?  Can you imagine somebody doing that to
our country?

For American citizens, January 20th, 2025, was truly liberation day. 
(Applause.)  That was really liberation day.

This week, I also signed an order to end the weaponization of our
government against American people and political people like me. 
(Applause.)  We never had a thing like that.  He went after his
political opponent.  Who would have thought he helped me?  I think you
helped me get elected, Joe, you want to know the truth.  I became much
more popular — I’m the only guy that ever became more popular when
something like that happened. 

But they — these guys were just so inept.  We had the guy Deranged Jack
Smith — deranged.  He was a deranged human being.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  But they thought this way Biden could sneak by and he
could win an election, another — cheating in another election.  That’s
what it was.  But we won.  We won.  You think that was fun?  You think
that was easy?  (Applause.)  It wasn’t fun. 

And investigate all of the abuses of power — I pardoned hundreds of
political prisoners who had been viciously persecuted — (applause) — by
the Biden regime.  Hundreds of people were persecuted, including
Christians, pro-life activists, two Washington, D.C., police officers
just yesterday, whose lives were destroyed from chasing down a
dangerous, illegal alien criminal.

And of course, I was very proud to pardon the J6 hostages.  (Applause.) 

Once and for all, I stopped government censorship, and we brought back
free speech in America.  We brought it back.  We did more in this last
week — people can’t even believe it. 

I also signed an order to declassify and publish all remaining files
related to the assassinations — (applause) — of President John F.
Kennedy, Robert Kennedy, and Martin Luther King, Jr. 

I signed an order that will end all of the lawless diversity, equity,
and inclusion nonsense — (applause) — all across the government and the
private sector.  We abolished 60 years of prejudice and hatred with the
signing of one order, all approved by the United States Supreme Court. 
We’re allowed to do it because we are now in a merit-based world. 
(Applause.)  We’re a merit-based country. 

Did you ever think you’re going to hear that again?  It’s based on
merit.  If you’ve got the talent, if you’ve got the work, the ethic, the
whole thing, it’s based now on — it’s not based on any other thing. 
It’s based on merit.  It’s based on your capability. 

The United States has now become, again, a meritocracy.  Isn’t that a
beautiful word?  A meritocracy.  Based on merit — if you do your job
well, you’re going to go places. 

And I made it the official policy of the United States government that
there are only two genders: male and female.  (Applause.)  Male and
female.

Every single day of my term, we’re living by the motto “Promises made,
promises kept.”  I kept my promises.  It’s why we won.  It really is why
we won.  We won because of the past four years.  We won because of
that. 

But this is going to blow it away, because when I came in, I had no
experience.  I didn’t do this before.  I never did this.  I was never a
politician before. 

I was talking — JD Vance — by the way, hasn’t he done a great job, JD
Vance?  (Applause.)  Because JD went right to the Senate, and then he
went to the vice president.  I said, “JD, you’re really upwardly
mobile.”  He said, “You’re more so than me.”  I said, “Why do you say
that?”  He said, “You went from being a real estate developer to the
president.”  That’s a pretty big — I never thought of it that way.  I
guess I’m the most upwardly mobile politician in history.  (Applause.) 
I didn’t make any stops along the way. 

It will be the greatest honor of my life to serve not once but twice —
or three times or four times.  (Laughs.)  No.  (Applause.)  Headlines —
headlines from the fake news.  No.  No, it will be to serve twice. 

For the next four years, I will not rest, I will not yield, and together
we will not fail.  We will win, win, win.  (Applause.)  We will bring
back the American dream.  We’re going to bring it back. 

You know, in recent years, our nation has suffered greatly, but we are
going to make it great again, greater than ever before.  We’ll be a
nation like no other, full of compassion, courage, and exceptionalism. 
That’s what we’re doing, and that’s what it’s all about. 

And you see that — I think you see it more in the last week than you’ve
seen it in years.  And I walked up the stairs of that massive plane
that’s waiting for me, that big 747, and I said, “There’s no way I’m
going to let myself fall because that was — (laughter) — that was one
hell of a” — that triple fall was a disaster.  I would call that a
political disaster. 

You can fall once, you can fall twice, but you can’t fall three times. 
(Laughter.)  You can’t fall three times.  What a disaster.  I’ve used
that in every ad I think I ever did.  (Laughter.) 

Our power will stop all wars and bring new spirit of unity to a world
that’s been angry, violent, and very unpredictable.  America will be
respected again and admired again, including by the people of religion,
faith, and goodwill.  We’re bringing back religion in this country. 
(Applause.)

We will be prosperous.  We will be free.  We will be bigger, bolder, and
more ambitious than ever before.  And together, we will make America
powerful again — (applause); make America wealthy again — (applause);
make America healthy again.  (Applause.)  We will make America strong
again.  (Applause.)  Make America proud again.  (Applause.)  We’re going
to make America safe again.  (Applause.) 

And we will —

AUDIENCE:  Make America great again!

THE PRESIDENT:  — make America great again!  (Applause.)

Thank you very much.  And thank you very much, Nevada.  Thank you, Joe. 
Thank you very much. 

We’ll be back.  We’ll be back.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, my
man.  Great job. 

Thank you, everybody.  (Applause.)

                              END                    1:40 P.M. PST
