---
date: '2025-01-24'
published_time: 2025-01-24 17:42:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/01/remarks-by-president-trump-at-executive-order-signing/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump at Executive Order Signing
---
 
For Immediate Release                            January 24, 2025

REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP

AT EXECUTIVE ORDER SIGNING

Oval Office

(January 23, 2025)

3:10 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.

     Q    Hello, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  You all set?  Okay.  Very good.

     I’m going to sign some executive orders.  They were very important
in just about every case.  And we’ll go through the first one, please. 

     MR. SCHARF:  Sure.  Do you want to —

     MR. SACKS:  Yeah.  Mr. President, this is an executive order on
crypto.  We’re going to be —

     MR. SCHARF:  That’s AI.  Sorry.

     MR. SACKS:  Oh, sorry.  We’re doing AI first.  Sorry.

     MR. SCHARF:  Yeah, AI.

     MR. SACKS:  Sir, this is an executive order on AI.  We’re forming —
we’re — we’re basically announcing the administration’s policy to make
America the — the world capital in artificial intelligence and to
dominate and to lead the world in AI. 

     THE PRESIDENT:  Do you want to say your name — your full name and
serial number?

     MR. SACKS:  Yeah, David Sacks, AI and crypto czar.

     THE PRESIDENT:  David is one of the greatest in the world at AI —
most respected, probably, there is. 

     (The executive order is signed.)

     So, that should take us to the forefront, right?

     MR. SACKS:  Absolutely.  We got to win. 

     THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.   
  
     Thank you. 

     MR. SCHARF:  Thank you, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  And this, David, is?

     MR. SCHARF:  Crypto.

     MR. SACKS:  Yeah, this is the crypto EO.  We’re going to be forming
a internal working group to make crypto — to make America the world
capital on crypto under your leadership.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Which is really going up, right? 

     MR. SACKS:  Absolutely.

     (The executive order is signed.)

     THE PRESIDENT:  All right, David.  That’s for you.  (The president
gives Mr. Sacks the signing pen.)  Thanks.

     MR. SACKS:  Thank you, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  You find them exciting?  They might not be
exciting, but we’re going to make a lot of money for the country.  Okay?

     MR. SACKS:  Thank you, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  And so is David.  You have to check him out.  There
is nobody like this guy.  They said, “How did you get David Sacks?  How
did you do that?”  And he’s — he’s doing it for the country more than
anything else.  So, we appreciate it, David.  Thank you very much.

     MR. SACKS:  Thank you, sir.

     MR. SCHARF:  This is an executive order establishing a presidential
commission — an advisory commission on science and technology.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good.

     (The executive order is signed.)

     Do you want to explain that a little bit?

     MR. SCHARF:  The basic idea is to get together top people from
government to private-sector technology industry, as well as educational
institutions, to make sure that America maintains its leadership
position with respect to science and technology development in the years
ahead.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good.  That’s great.

     MR. SCHARF:  Next, sir, we have a presidential memorandum
encouraging departments and agencies in your government, including the
Department of the Interior, to promote federal recognition of the Lumbee
Tribe of —

     THE PRESIDENT:  Ohh.

     MR. SCHARF:  — North Carolina.

     THE PRESIDENT:  I love the Lumbee Tribe.  So, this is their first
big step, right?

     MR. SCHARF:  This would be a huge step for them, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  They were with me all the way.  They were
great — North Carolina Lumbee Tribe.

     (The presidential memorandum is signed.)

     And we’ll send — you’ll send them a copy of that?

     MR. SCHARF:  Yes, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  They were great. 

     Okay?

     MR. SCHARF:  And, if you’d like, I could get them that pen, sir, as
well.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, let’s do that.  (The president gives Mr.
Scharf the signing pen.)

     MR. SCHARF:  Next, we have a set of pardons for peaceful pro-life
protestors who were prosecuted by the Biden administration for
exercising their First Amendment rights.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Do you know how many?

     MR. SCHARF:  I believe it’s 23, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Twenty-three people that were prosecuted.  They
should not have been prosecuted.  Man- of — many of them are — are
elderly people.  They should not have been prosecuted.  This is a great
honor to sign this.

     (The proclamation is signed.)

     They’ll be very happy.

  
     MR. SCHARF:  Thank you, sir.

  
     THE PRESIDENT:  So, they’re all in prison now?

     MR. SCHARF:  Some are.  Some are — are out of custody. 

     THE PRESIDENT:  It’s ridiculous.

     Okay?

     MR. SCHARF:  Lastly, sir, we have an executive order ordering the
declassification of files relating to the assassinations of President
John F. Kennedy, Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and the Reverend Dr. Martin
Luther King, Jr.

     THE PRESIDENT:  That’s a big one, huh?  A lot of people are waiting
for this for a long — for years — 

     MR. SCHARF:  Yes, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  — for decades.  And everything will be revealed.

     (The executive order is signed.)

     Okay.  Give that to RFK, Jr.  (The president gives Mr. Scharf the
signing pen.)

     MR. SCHARF:  Yes, sir.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.   
  
     Okay.  Thank you very much.

     (Cross-talk.)

     Q    Mr. President — Mr. President, a U.S. judge temporarily
blocked the birthright citizenship order.  Do you have any reaction to —

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  Obviously, we’ll appeal it.  They put it before a
certain judge — in Seattle, I guess, right?  And

there’s no surprises with that judge. 

Q    Mr. President, Senators Collins and Murkowski have now said they
will vote against Pete Hegseth.  Are you worried about his confirmation,
and your reaction?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  And no surprises there.  It’s too bad.  You know,
it’s the way — the way it is.  Too bad. 

Q    And when would you adjourn Congress to make recess appointments,
Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’d take a look at that.  I’d listen to John
Thune.  He’s doing a fantastic job.  We’re moving along.  The Democrats
are trying to delay government, as they always do.  They can’t help
themselves.  Even John Ratcliffe, who’s very, very strong, very popular
and liked by the Democrats — I guess, he gets a lot of Democrat votes —
that’s taking a long time, and it shouldn’t be taking a long time. 

They — they’re maxing everything out so they can delay everything as
much as possible.

Q    Does Senator Thune support an effort to use recess appointments if
you choose to do that?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’d be willing to use recess appointments.  It’s up to
John.  We’ll see.  John Thune is a great guy, great senator, knows his
stuff inside out and backwards.  But I would use recess appointments if
he wants to do that.  Absolutely.

     (Cross-talk.)

The Democrats are just delaying.  They always delay.

Q    Mr. President, you spoke with the Saudi crown prince yesterday.

THE PRESIDENT:  Who?

Q    The Saudi crown prince.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    How was the — the call?

THE PRESIDENT:  Great.  It was great.

Q    And they said $600 million — billion dollar they can invest?

THE PRESIDENT:  Six hundred.  I’ll ask them for a trillion. 

Q    You said you’re going to ask them for a trillion.  Will Saudi
Arabia be the first foreign country you will visit, since they’re
investing that much money?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, if they do that, I would, yeah.

Q    You would?

THE PRESIDENT:  I would be glad to do that.  I did it, as you know, four
years ago.  We did $450 billion — meaning the money all goes to American
companies — and they purchased jets and they purchased computers and
everything else.  And we did $450 billion, and I guess we’re at $600,
$650.

(Cross-talk.)

And I’ll see if I can talk them into a trillion.

Q    And on the Middle East again.  You showed great confidence in Steve
Witkoff.  Why you said that you doubt that the ceasefire in Gaza will —
will hold since you appraised his efforts?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, no, I think he’s great.  But it’s a very tricky
place.  It’s very tricky.  And we’ll see.  And if it — if something does
happen, they will not be happy. 

Q    Sir, follow-up on that one.  In terms of Steve Witkoff, are you
going to put him in charge of — of Iran strategy?  And do you want him
talking directly with the Iranians?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, but he — he certainly is somebody I would use.  He’s
done a fantastic job.  He’s a great negotiator.  He’s a very good
person, great — a very popular person.  Gets along with people.  I have
great negotiators.  They — they have no personality whatsoever, and then
I have some that do. 

Steve has a wonderful way about him and people like him.  And even in
this case, both sides like him, and he was able to make a deal.  That
deal would have never been made without Steve. 

The Biden people couldn’t make the deal.  They were working on it for a
year and a half.  They couldn’t make a deal.  We got it done prior to
the inauguration.  We said it has to be before the inauguration. 

I mean, the deal should hold, but if it doesn’t hold, there’ll be a lot
of problems.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Related to your AI EO.  Just hours after you made that big Stargate
announcement, Elon Musk tweeted that they don’t actually have the
money.  Is that true?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know if they do, but, you know, they’re putting
up the money.  The government is not putting up anything.  They’re
putting up money.  They’re very rich people, so I hope they do. 

And, I mean, Elon doesn’t like one of those people.  So, (inaudible).

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Are you worried that AI is going to replace many American jobs? 

THE PRESIDENT:  No.

Q    Does that worry you?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  It’s going to create tremendous numbers of
jobs.  It’s going to also create a lot of benefits, medically, for
cancer research and other things.  It’s going to have a huge positive
impact.

And, you know, we want to be ahead of China.  We’re, right now, way
ahead of China.

David Sacks is one of the all-time experts.  You know, that — people are
amazed that he — you just met him.  I don’t know if he’s still here.

MR. SACKS:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  There he is.

But — but one of the most respected people in that world.  It’s a
world.  That’s a whole different world. 

And we’re ahead of China now because of what I’m doing, and I think it’s
going to be very successful. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    On NATO spending, please.  You just asked the Davos forum again
that NATO countries should spend 5 percent of GDP on defense.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    The United States don’t spend 5 percent.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — I don’t think so, no.

Q    Do you think it should also apply to the United States?

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re protecting them, you know?  They’re not protecting
us.  We’re protecting them.  So, I don’t think we should be spending —
I’m not sure we should be spending anything, but we should certainly be
helping them.  But they should — they should up their 2 percent to 5
percent, yeah.

Q    Mr. President — Mr. President, you said earlier during your speech
at Davos that you would like to see interest rates come down.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    How much would you like to see them come down?

THE PRESIDENT:  A lot.

Q    And will you talk with Powell?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’d like to see them come down a lot, and oil prices
will come down.  And when oil prices come down, everything is going to
be cheaper for the American people — and actually for the world — but
for the American people.  So, I’d like to see oil prices come down.

And when the energy comes down, that’s going to knock out a lot of the
inflation.  That’s going to automatically bring the interest rates
down. 

Q    Are you worried that it’s too much going on at once if you’re —

Q    Mr. President, you said that you would demand —

Q    Are you worried that there’s too much going on at once if you’re
trying to bring interest rates down and —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.

Q    — get the economy back going?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  It just works that way.  I mean, it just
economically works that way.  When the oil comes down, it’ll bring down
prices, then you won’t have inflation, and then the interest rates will
come down.  (Inaudible.)

(Cross-talk.)

Q    You said that you would demand that the interest rates come down. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I would put in —

Q    Do you expect —

THE PRESIDENT:  I would put in a strong statement.

Q    Do you expect the Fed to listen to you?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

Q    Are you going to talk to Powell about this and — bringing the rates
down?

THE PRESIDENT:  At — at the right time, I would.

Q    Sir, do you plan to meet with any of the people you pardoned that
were — participated in the January 6th, 2021, attack — do you plan to
meet with any of them or meet with them at the White House?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know.  I’m sure that they probably would like
to.  I did — I did them something important.  But what they did is they
were protesting a crooked election.  And, you know, I mean, people
understand that also.  And they were treated very badly.  Nobody’s been
treated like that. 

So, I’d be open to it, certainly.  I — I don’t know of anything like
that, but I think they — they’re going to — meeting some of the
congresspeople — congressmen, -women —

Q    Have you spoken to them?

THE PRESIDENT:  — who want to — want to meet.  But I’d certainly be open
to it. 

Q    Have you spoken to them since you issued the pardons?

THE PRESIDENT:  I haven’t spoken to any of them yet, but I know they’re
very happy. 

(Cross-talk.)

I gave them — I gave them their life back.  Their life was taken away
from them unnecessarily and unfairly.  I gave them their life back.  So,
I can imagine they probably would like to.

Q    What did you mean when you said that Biden took bad advice in not
pardoning himself yesterday? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, he did.  I think he did, because he — he pardoned
all these people that are crooked as hell.  Look, the congressmen,
they’re crooked.  What they did is they destroyed evidence.  When you
destroy evidence, especially criminally like that — they did it
criminally. 

And the reason they destroyed the evidence is because it proved that I
was right.  They didn’t destroy evidence for no reason.  They destroyed
it because they found many documents saying that I offered 10,000
soldiers.  If they had 500 soldiers or National Guard, there would have
been no problem.  If they had 200, that would have been — I offered
10,000, if they needed them — there would have been no problem. 

That’s been now totally disproven.  And it’s also been disproven by
Nancy Pelosi’s daughter, who has her on tape saying it was her fault,
that she has full responsibility for this. 

But — and they have all that stuff.  They destroyed everything, and they
go through a year and a half, two years of nonsense, they come up with
tremendous evidence, and they destroyed evidence.

And Schiff knew about it.  That’s why he’s on there.  He knew all about
the destruction of evidence.  A lot of people said he’s the one that got
them to do it.  And he’s a crooked guy — you know? — totally crooked
politician.  And so, he’s pardoned, and some other people are pardoned. 

And these are crooked politicians, every one of them.  Bennie
<s>Johnson</s> \[Thompson\], what he did is incredible.  I mean, he was
the leader of the committee, and he did it.  Cheney, Crying Adam
Kinzinger, all of them — they destroyed evidence and deleted
everything. 

There’s nothing with — there’s no evidence now.  They’re crooked
politicians, and they should be punished.  You know, that’s — even in a
civil trial, you go to jail for a thing like that.  They destroyed every
document, from what I understand — every document — because it proved
that I was totally innocent. 

Q    Do you plan to send up to 10,000 troops to the southern border,
sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Oh, southern border?

Q    Yes, the border. 

THE PRESIDENT:  When you say “southern border” — when I said “10,000
troops,” I was referring to the Capitol. 

Q    Oh, I see.  A- — and when does that —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, you got it wrong.  I was referring — 

Q    When do you plan —

THE PRESIDENT:  — to the Cap- — 

Q    When do you plan to do that?

THE PRESIDENT:  I offered 10,000 troops to the Capitol before January
6th.

Q    And as for the 1,500 at the southern border, sir, to clarify, what
exactly do you want them to be doing right now?

THE PRESIDENT:  Making sure that the border is safe and secure and that
criminals don’t come into our country.

Q    Mr. President, do you think that sanctions on Russia will force
President Putin to negotiate?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know, but I think he should make a deal. 

Q    Mr. President, does it bother you that Elon Musk criticized a deal
that you made publicly, that he said — that he tweeted that?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, it doesn’t.  He hates one of the people in the
deal.  So — 

Q    Have you spoken to him since then?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  I’ve — well, I’ve spoken Elon but —

Q    Not about that? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve spoken to all of them, actually.

No, no.  The people in the deal are very, very smart people.  But Elon,
one of the people he happens to hate.  But I have certain hatreds of
people too —

Q    Sir —

THE PRESIDENT:  — you know?

Q    Sir, on China.  What do you think Xi Jinping can do on the
Ukraine-Russia war? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Which one?

Q    Ukraine-Rus- — -Russia war.  What can Xi Jinping do about that?

THE PRESIDENT:  China?

Q    Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  They have a lot of power over Russia.  They supply
energy to Russia, and Russia supplies energy to them.  They supply other
things to — you know, it — it’s really a very big trade.  It’s a very
big trading partner.  But Russia supplies a lot of energy to China,
China pays them a lot of money for that, and I think they have a lot of
power over Russia.  So, I think Russia should want to make a deal. 

Maybe they want to make a deal.  I think, from what I hear, Putin would
like to see me, and we’ll meet as soon as we can.  I’d — I’d meet
immediately.  Every day we don’t meet, soldiers are being killed in a
battlefield, and that battl- — battlefield is like no battlefield since
World War II.  That’s a —

Q    You said that U- — Ukraine wants to —

THE PRESIDENT:  And I have — I have pictures that you don’t want to
see.  Soldiers are being killed on a daily basis at numbers that we
haven’t seen in decades.  And it would be nice to end that war.  It’s a
ridiculous war. 

Q    You said that Ukraine is ready to make a deal.  Did President
Zelenskyy tell you that at — personally?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, sure.  He’s ready to negotiate a deal.  He’d like
to stop.  He’s a — he’s somebody that lost a lot of soldiers, and so did
Russia — lost a lot.  I mean, Russia lost more soldiers.  They lost
800,000 soldiers.  Would you say that’s a lot?  I’d say it’s a lot.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Mr. President, you said that you wanted to make Dr. King’s dream a
reality.  What’s your response to his children and civil rights leaders
who say that your DEI orders are a contradiction of his dream and could
further drive racial disparities?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I haven’t heard that. 

Q    Mr. President, you put the Houthis back on the terror list.  How do
you see the war in Yemen end now?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ll see what happens, but they can’t shoot down
our ships — the Houthis.

Q    Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  And that — you can’t shoot down our ships or any ships,
and that’s what they’ve been doing.  So, they’re on the terror list, and
—

Q    Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  — that’s not good for them.

Q    Mr. President —

Q    Sir, why did you revoke security protections for former Secretary
of State Mi- — Mike Pompeo and — and Brian Hook?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the same reason I do — when you, you know, have
protection, you can’t have it for the rest of your life.  Do you want to
have a large detail of people guarding people for the rest of their
lives?  I mean, there’s risks to everything. 

Q    Do you think a former presidents should (inaudible) —

Q    Sir, would you support striking Iran’s nuclear facilities?

THE PRESIDENT:  Say it? 

Q    Would you support Israel, for example, striking Iran’s nuclear
facilities?  Or do you — 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m not going to answer that.

Q    — believe in diplomacy?

THE PRESIDENT:  Obviously, I’m not going to answer that question.  We’ll
have to see.  I — I’m going to be meeting with various people over the
next couple of days, and we’ll see.  But hopefully that can be worked
out without having to worry about it.  It would be nice — it would
really be nice if that could be worked out without having to go that
further step. 

Q    And who are you going to meet with, if I — if I may ask?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’d rather not say that, but very high-level
people.  But hopefully that could be worked out. 

You know, look, Iran, hopefully, will be — make a deal.  And if they
don’t make a deal, I guess that’s okay too.

Q    And, Mr. President, just to follow up, you said you think the Fed
should listen to you.  Can you elaborate on why you think it should?

THE PRESIDENT:  With regard to interest rates?

Q    Correct, yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  Because I think I know interest rates much better than
they do, and I think I know it certainly much better than the one who’s
primarily in charge of making that decision. 

But, no, I’m guided by them very much, but if I disagree, I will let it
be known.

Q    Mr. President —

Q    Sir, your tariffs planned for China and Mexico are much tougher —
or the ones for Canada and Mexico are much tougher than the one for
China.  Why is it softer for China?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, China is already paying a lot of tariffs because
of me, and when you add them up, I would say, you know, they’re paying a
lot.  They paid hundreds of billions of dollars.  They never paid 10
cents until I came along.  When I came along, they pay hundreds of —
they’ve paid hundreds of billions of dollars.  Never paid anything.  And
so, they’ve already started at a higher base.

Q    Is February 1st —

Q    Sir, about the border —

Q    — the date for Chinese tariffs as well, sir?  February 1?  Or was
that just Mexico and Canada?

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s Mexico and Canada.  But we’ll — we’re talking about
China too.  Look, China is sending us tremendous amounts of bad drugs:
fentanyl — really bad stuff.  Most of it comes through Mexico.  And
we’re losing, I s- — I think, 300,000 lives a year because of that. 
People say 150, 100, 120.  I think 300,000 lives a year.  Those are old
numbers.  The other — the lower number is a low number.  And we can’t
have that.  They’ve got to stop sending it. 

I had a deal with President Xi, but it was a deal that wasn’t followed
up by Biden, of course, where they were going to issue the death penalty
to people that make fentanyl, and that would have stopped it.  But we’ll
have to stop it with tariffs. 

Okay?  Thank you very much, everybody. 

Q    So, is China (inaudible) —

(Cross-talk.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Appreciate
it. 

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

                         END                    3:30 P.M. EST
