---
date: '2025-01-24'
modified_time: 2025-01-27 12:54:21-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-24 12:54:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/01/remarks-by-president-trump-during-tour-of-hurricane-helene-disaster-site/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump During Tour of Hurricane Helene Disaster Site
---
 
REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP

DURING TOUR OF HURRICANE HELENE DISASTER SITE

Private Residence

Asheville, North Carolina

(January 24, 2025)

12:39 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much, Franklin.  Thank you.  A good
man.  He’s done a great job, a fantastic job. 

And we’ve come to North Carolina with a simple message for all the
people of this region who were hit so hard by Hurricane Helene.  And
that message is very simple: You are not forgotten any longer.  You were
treated very badly by the previous administration.  And I’m here after a
few days of the administration. 

We’re going to California, Los Angeles.  They got hit hard, as you
know.  A lot of that could have been prevented, I think, if they had
water, which they had plenty of, but they didn’t use it. 

But I’m going there, but — and it was set up to go there, and I said,
“Well, wait a minute, what about North Carolina?”

They said, “Well, what.” I said, “I have to stop there first.  I’m
stopping in North Carolina.” 

So, we made the stop, and I feel very good.  You’re represented by some
great people.  Great, great congressmen are with us, and we’re going to
get involved with them. 

And Michael Whatley is here, who is the head of the Republican Party. 
He worked with Lara Trump to take us through to a tremendous victory,
one of the — as the media says, one of the most consequential
presidential elections ever — they say in 129 years, whatever that may
mean. 

But whatever it is, it was a great election we had, and we won your
state.  All three times, we won your state.  And all three primaries, we
won your state.  So, we won it six times, I guess, Mr. Congressman,
huh? 

And it’s a great place.  And I wanted to come here and before I went
anywhere, frankly.

In the campaign, I promised that I’d come back to western North Carolina
to help the people of the state.  And today, here I am to deliver on
that promise.  And we have a lot of things in mind, and we’re getting
the Army Corps of Engineers all set.  You need your riverbanks fixed. 
You need a lot of roads fixed.  And we’re going to get it done in rapid
time.

And I’ve asked Susie Wiles and all of my people to start calling up and
get the Corps ready, and they’re going to get ready to go.  I don’t know
what it is — I don’t know what took so long for the other
administration. 

But remember, I wasn’t here for the first four months or three months,
whatever it may be.  See, we can only start as of, essentially, one or
two days ago.  And we’ve made a lot of progress over the last couple of
days, Michael.

I understand we’re going to get you the resources you need and the
support that you deserve, and we’ll be at your side through every step
of the rebuilding.  And no American is going to be left behind.  The
people that I just met are so great, and the people that own that house
is going to be very beautiful in a little while.  And who knows, if
Franklin decides, maybe he’ll rip it down and build them a new one,
because sometimes he can do that just as easily.  But we’re going to
take care of the people.

I want to thank our great first lady for coming today.  She really
wanted to be here.  She said, “No, I want to go.”  And, you know, she
sees what happened and she felt very badly, and she wanted to go.  And
we’re then going out together to Los Angeles, but she wanted to be in
North Carolina.  She saw what happened.  She has a — she has a feeling
like I do for North Carolina.

So, thanks, as well, to a great gentleman, Franklin Graham.  And his
father, Billy Graham — I used to go with my father to Yankee Stadium and
places to watch his father preach.  And he was some preacher.  Where is
he — he was some — you got good stock.  You come from the ultimate
genes, I can tell you.  But he was really something.

And Franklin, though, has done so much, and his father is looking down
on him right now, I guarantee you.  For a long time, he’s been looking
down on Franklin, saying, “I’m very proud of you, son.”  He really is,
because what Franklin has done with Samaritan’s Purse is incredible. 
They told me just yesterday that Samaritan’s Purse has been great.

But the FEMA people sort of left you high and dry, but we’re going to
change that around.  We’re not happy with FEMA.

As well as all of the representatives — you have great representatives
here.  Chuck Edwards, who’s here someplace.  Where is Chuck?

PARTICIPANT:  Right here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Where is Chuck?  Chuck?

Tim Moore.  Tim — thank you, Tim.  Great job too, both of you guys.

Virginia Foxx, a power — she’s a power, that one.  Don’t — don’t ever
have her as your enemy.  It’s not good.  (Laughter.)  It’s not healthy.

Pat Harrigan.  Good job, Pat. 

Addison McDowell.  These guys were just here, just put in, and they’re
doing a fantastic job.  Addison, thank you very much.  Great.

Mark Harris.  Thank you, Mark.  Thank you, Mark.

Brad Knott.  Thank you, Brad.

Greg Murphy, a fantastic guy — my friend for a long time now, right?

REPRESENTATIVE MURPHY:  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  And the RNC chairman, Michael Whatley, who really, as I
said, brought us to a great victory with Lara the chairman of the party,
the whole Republican — I took Michael Whatley from North Carolina,
because he did the best job, and put him in charge of everything.  And
the job they did together was incredible.

Last September, Hurricane Helene became one of the deadliest natural
disasters in modern American history.  Rainfall rose to far more than 30
inches, which is lethal, unleashing unprecedented devastation throughout
western North Carolina and many other states, as you know, but you got
hit the hardest.

The highest responsibility and deepest obligation of the American
government is to protect its people, and that’s never truer than in
times of emergency like this.  Unfortunately, our government failed you,
but it wasn’t the Trump government.  It was a government run by Biden. 
What a terrible situation.  But our government failed the people of
North Carolina in this horrible crisis. 

For two months, Asheville lacked running water.  And even today, some
North Carolinians can’t take a hot-water shower.  They can’t drink
water.  They don’t know where to get it.  They have to — it’s delivered
to them by somewhere.  They just go out and somehow find some.

It’s been four months since the storm made <s>landfill</s> \[landfall\],
and still 180 roads remain closed and in ruins.  Earlier this month, the
Biden administration kicked 2,000 displaced North Carolinians out of
their temporary housing into freezing, 20-degree weather — I don’t know
how they did that one, because it was cold — even while your government
provided shelter and housing for illegal aliens from all over the world.

But under the Trump administration, the days of betrayal and neglect are
over.  They are over. 

As I said in my Inaugural Address, we restore the integrity, competency,
and loyalty of the American government.  And I think I said most of it
in the Inaugural Address.  We said a lot of things, but one of the
groups of people I was thinking about is you in North Carolina.  A lot
of that was in reference to you and what you’ve had to suffer.

I’m pleased to announce that under our leadership, the federal
government will be surging housing solutions to the state that go beyond
mere temporary hotel stays that ended up being very short term.  The
government wouldn’t do it any longer, which is ridiculous. 

We’ll marshal all available resources that bring back potable water and
make your water and infrastructure dramatically more reliable very
quickly. 

And today, I’ll also be signing an executive order slashing all red tape
and bureaucratic barriers and permits to ensure the rapid reconstruction
of the roads here in western North Carolina.  We’re going to go through
a permitting process that’s called “No permitting.  Just get it done.” 
That’s the way they built them many years ago, I guarantee you that. 
Right? 

We will get them back very quickly.  And we’ll begin the work of
funderv- — fundamentally changing, terminating, or overhauling FEMA. 
FEMA has been a disaster, no matter where they are.

We’re honored to be joined today, very quickly, by several families
affected by the vicious storm.  I’d like to ask each of them to share
their story.  Chris and Kim West, you can come forward.  Ramona Nix,
Jackie Mitchell, and Thomas Gary Bright, and finally, the Wright
family.  And come on up and maybe say a few words.  Please.  Thank you
very much.

Hello.

MS. WEST:  Hi.

THE PRESIDENT:  Come on in here.

MS. WEST:  (Laughs.)  Whenever it started, we started moving our
vehicles to the top of the road.  And by the time we got the vehicles
moved, the water had already hit our ankles in the house.  And so, I
grabbed my purse and my little pug dog, and my husband grabbed the dog
food and put it in a trash bag.  And by the time we got out into the
driveway, it was already waist deep, and there was sticks and that kind
of thing.

I didn’t think I was going to make it, but we did make it out, and we
made it to the top of the road.  And we were kind of stuck there for
hours because we couldn’t get out any other ways, because it was flooded
all the way around.  It took us hours, and we sat there. 

And finally, it receded enough to where we could actually get out.  It
was probably, like, close to midnight.  And it started like, 5, 6
o’clock in the morning.

We just lost everything that we had.  Didn’t even have a brush for,
like, three days.  So —

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Come on over.

MS. WEST:  Thank you. 

MR. WEST:  That —

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay. 

Would you like to say something with that beautiful baby?

MR. WRIGHT:  Say, “hey.”

Yeah.  So, when the hurricane storms hit North Carolina, hit our home,
my daughter and my wife and I were actually out of town.  But
unfortunately, my dad, who was still home, and my mother was staying at
our house with our — with our animals. 

And my — the waters got so high that it actually lifted — between that
and the tornado that came through — or microburst is what they’ve been
calling them — and lifted his home and the house that I grew up in and
crashed it into our barn.  It took away his business.  It took away all
of our tools and tractors and everything needed to keep the farm going. 

And my mother was trapped in the house, and there was no way to escape
because the water got so high.  The only thing she could do was ride it
out and wait until the waters came down.

So, we’ve been doing a little bit of battling with our insurance and
FEMA.  We did have proper insurance, with flood insurance and
homeowner’s insurance, but since we had proper insurance, FEMA has not
been able to assist us with a whole lot of things. 

And, again, we’ve been having some issues with trying to get some payout
for our insurance in a timely manner.  We had to do mold mitigation on
our home, which is extremely expensive, before the structural engineer
even came out in order to get our flood payout.  And to me, that was not
really acceptable.

THE PRESIDENT:  Has the insurance company been responsive, or not
really?

MR. WRIGHT:  Not — not so much.  You know, again —

THE PRESIDENT:  Are they going to give you they have to give you?  Huh?

MR. WRIGHT:  I’m — I’m hoping so.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

MR. WRIGHT:  And we might need — I mean, we need some assistance with
that.  We reached out to an attorney.

THE PRESIDENT:  What’s the name of the insurance company?

MR. WRIGHT:  North Carolina Farm Bureau.

THE PRESIDENT:  You’ve got a mortgage, right?

MR. WRIGHT:  Yep. 

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s terrible.

MR. WRIGHT:  That’s what we’re after here.  So —

THE PRESIDENT:  Are a lot of people having that problem too with the
insurance companies, general?  Different insurance companies?  And
they’re all difficult, or just the one particular one? 

MR. WRIGHT:  I’ve heard different stories from others, and a lot of
folks are —

THE PRESIDENT:  Have you heard some were responsive, that some were
good?

MR. WRIGHT:  I’ve heard some — some good instances of even Farm Bureau
themselves.  But in my case, you know, they’d sent out a third-party
adjuster immediately.  Well, they wound up firing that third-party
adjuster group.  He gave us a quote for a much higher estimate than what
we received.

THE PRESIDENT:  And he got fired?

MR. WRIGHT:  And then he got let go.  Yeah, he got fired.  So, then they
brought in another third-party adjuster to come in and lowball us. 

We’ve not received any kind of — so, the flood insurance is our primary
insurance.  And so, there was roof leaks in the home that the inspectors
found — the adjusters.  Well, that contributed to us losing some of our
personal property, as it come in the third story, where there’s no — or
second-story living space, where the flood wa- — well above the flood
waters.  So, they’ve neglected us for —

THE PRESIDENT:  Was your mother saved?

MR. WRIGHT:  Yes, yes, she was saved. 

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

MR. WRIGHT:  She’s right here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, good.  Okay.  You made it.

MR. WRIGHT:  So, we — yeah, we made it.

THE PRESIDENT:  That was not exciting, right?

MR. WRIGHT:  That’s right.

THE PRESIDENT:  How scared were you?

MS. WRIGHT:  Very.

THE PRESIDENT:  Did you think you were going to make it?

MS. WRIGHT:  No.

THE PRESIDENT:  You didn’t think so?

MS. WRIGHT:  Nope.  I just started praying.

THE PRESIDENT:  So, you were sort of on a boat?  Your house became a
boat, huh?

MS. WRIGHT:  (Laughs.)

MR. WRIGHT:  It’s a big pontoon.

THE PRESIDENT:  Wow.  That’s some story. 

Would you like to say something?

MR. WRIGHT:  It was a beach house on — on the steps.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll bet this guy would like to say something, I can
tell.

MR. WRIGHT:  I was next door to the house, and my son was out of town. 
So, when he came in to Charlotte — to my sister’s, he called about 2:00
in the morning, because at midnight, the water was still in the stream.

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.  (Inaudible.)

MR. WRIGHT:  In — within the banks.  So, when he called, the water was
coming up.  So, I started moving vehicles up to about 5:30 in the
morning.  And she was in the house, and I pulled up to the steps, and I
said, “Hop on the fender, and I’ll get you out.”  Well, it — he built a
beach house on stilts —

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MR. WRIGHT:  — five times higher than the floodplain. 

And she said, “Well, he said I’d be okay.”

THE PRESIDENT:  Right. 

MR. WRIGHT:  “So, I’m staying with the dogs.”

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MR. WRIGHT:  So, I went to higher ground with some vehicles, hers
included, and the water covered everything.  But I’d already seen it
coming around both sides of my place, so I got my blind and deaf dog and
a bag of valuables and took up off the side of the hill behind my
house.  And then was heading to the cemetery back there because I knew
it was open, because there was trees falling —

THE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MR. WRIGHT:  — and right uprooting.  It was raining.  I mean, it was —

THE PRESIDENT:  You never saw anything like that before?

MR. WRIGHT:  No, no.  I’ve been through floods —

THE PRESIDENT:  There’s never been anything like that before.

MR. WRIGHT:  — all my life around here.  Never, no.

THE PRESIDENT:  Never been anything like it.

MR. WRIGHT:  Mm-hmm.  Mm-hmm.

THE PRESIDENT:  But you’ve okay, right? 

MR. WRIGHT:  Yep. 

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Come here.

MR. WRIGHT:  House is destroyed. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, well, we’re going to help you out there.  We’re
going to help you out. 

MR. WRIGHT:  Appreciate you.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s what we’re here for. 

MR. WRIGHT:  Thanks for being here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Anybody else?  You guys okay?  Please.  Please.

MR. BRIGHT:  Our day that morning began — I’m a little taller — with
some trees falling into our house, which our house is — goes back four
generations, 80 years, and never came close to flooding.  And we woke up
with trees about 4:30 or 5:00 in the morning. 

And our house sits three tenths of a mile back off the road.  And the
water — you know, we’ve had flooding and such in the lake, but nothing
like we saw.  And like most everybody else, we moved five vehicles as
far up — lawnmowers and everything else.  And the water started coming
in the house.

And when it got up to about ankle high, we have a loft.  I got her up in
that and tried to gather what you might want, which was totally random. 
And when it made it to the loft and started getting up to about our
hips, I built a little makeshift ladder, and we got out on our roof. 
And we spent four hours on the roof.  I had a little baggie.  I — I di-
— I did notes on my cell phone to my two kids and my two grandkids and
something to identify me, in case we were lost in it.

THE PRESIDENT:  Did you think you were going to make it?

MR. BRIGHT:  No.  We — we’re —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, you didn’t think so?

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah, we didn’t think we were going to make it at all.  I
mean, our house was 25 feet underwater.  And —

THE PRESIDENT:  So, you didn’t think you were going to live?

MR. BRIGHT:  No, we were watching houses, trailers, bodies coming by
us.  And we live in the Azalea Road area of — in East Asheville.  Oteen.

MS. MITCHELL:  We watched our garage lift up and float away.

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah, we watched our garage float by. 

THE PRESIDENT:  It just lift up?

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah. 

But, you know, we — we got to a point where it crested about four feet
up on the roof.  We took about three or four hours for it so it could
kind of do everything in reverse and got out in the mud to higher
ground.  And I got out — higher ground, up toward the Subway and got
over to her daughter’s house, where — when she saw that I didn’t have
her, she lost it.  And I was like, “She’s okay.  She’s alive.”  And we
tried to make our way back in there and gather things best we could. 

But, you know, found a body right away.  We had — there was about eight
bodies in our area that first two weeks, located.  And we were lucky we
weren’t one of them and — and blessed. 

But like other people, no insurance on flood insurance, so we — we had
to depend on FEMA.  They did what they could do.  And, of course, it’s
not enough.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, no, I know.  (Inaudible.)

     MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.

     THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

     MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah, no, it’s crazy.

     But, yeah, again, we’re thankful to be alive, but it’s a long haul.

THE PRESIDENT:  So, what are you doing now?

MR. BRIGHT:  Staying in a camper.  I’ve never been — if you all have
noticed, I’m a big guy.  I don’t sleep in campers very — (laughter) —
very well.  And the — the first night we spent in the camper — very
grateful with the Asheville Dream Center coming through with one and —

THE PRESIDENT:  Do you still have the land?

MR. BRIGHT:  Oh, yeah.  It’s — it’s family land.  Yeah, the land, it
looks like a beach now; it’s sand. 

     MS. MITCHELL:  Yeah.

     MR. BRIGHT:  But —

THE PRESIDENT:  Can it be built on?

MR. BRIGHT:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  Do you intend to do that?

MR. BRIGHT:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  You want to build again?

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah, Samaritan’s Purse — we’re working with them.  We’re
working with people.  We — you know, it’s — it’s 80 years, four
generations.

THE PRESIDENT:  But the house is totally gone?

MR. BRIGHT:  No, the house is there.  It’s down to —

MS. MITCHELL:  They — they gutted it to just the rafters.

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah, they came in and mudded it, but everything in it was
completely destroyed. 

But, yeah, it’s — it’s tough.  I think we’re at a point in Asheville
where peoples forgot about Asheville and —

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

MR. BRIGHT:  It’s — it’s stag- — everything is stopped.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)

MR. BRIGHT:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Thank you, sir.  Appreciate that. 

THE PRESIDENT:  We’re going to take care of you.

MR. BRIGHT:  Thank you, Jackie.

MS. MITCHELL:  Thank you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

MS. MITCHELL:  Thank you.  Stay well.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Please

MS. NIX:  I’m Pastor Nix.  Our church is right down the road.  We had
only purchased in May, and it’s a big church.  We’re a small
congregation.  And I had people say, “What are you going to do with this
big building?”  And I said, “Only God knows.”  And we had our
dedication, and the storm came the next week.

And the outpouring of people — my son brought the first load of
supplies.  And from there, I stayed there for about three months.  I
slept on the floor for about three weeks because the need was so great. 
The people were so devastated.

And I said, “I want to be here for them.”  And they were coming in just
day and night, so there’s really no need for me to go home. 

But we had people from Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Indiana, Oklahoma —
people from all over.  We have not received any help — like, from the
government — anything.  But I said, “Lord, if you want us to do that” —

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible) helped you?

MS. NIX:  People.

THE PRESIDENT:  So, they came from all over the —

MS. NIX:  All over the states.

MR. BRIGHT:  (Inaudible) groups, that’s what — that’s what did it. 

THE PRESIDENT:  But FEMA — FEMA did nothing, right?

MS. NIX:  No.

MR. BRIGHT:  It was the — it was the — the locals.

THE PRESIDENT:  FEMA is a waste of time and money.

MS. NIX:  The locals and the people that — that knew us. 

And before the week was over, our church was so packed with supplies, we
couldn’t even — we couldn’t even walk.  Even in our sanctuary, it was up
to the platform —

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s great.

MS. NIX:  — of things, and in our halls and in our rooms.  And we’re
just now beginning to get a little straightened out. 

But somebody said, “How long are you going to be here?”  I said, “I’m
going to be here through the winter and even on, if possible,” because
when you meet people that’s been through this struggle — I had a little
lady come up, and I said, “Can we do anything special for you?”  And she
said, “I don’t want to be selfish,” but said, “Could I have a cup of
coffee?”  And I handed her that coffee, and she stood there, and tears
just poured. 

She said, “You don’t realize how — how important the — the little
things.”  It’s not the big things in life that we have, but it’s the
little things and — and knowing that God is our source.  I don’t look to
man.  I don’t have to have a lot of things.  I — I had trees — about 20
trees down in my yard, but that didn’t really matter.  It doesn’t
matter, because the needs of the people is what — is what I want to be
there for. 

And God is good.

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s very good.

MS. NIX:  He’s very good.

And my daughter — now, she — her house is really in bad shape.  And I’ll
let her tell you about that. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

MS. NIX:  But thank you, President. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.

MS. NIX:  This is our president. 

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

MS. NIX:  We appreciate you so much.

THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank for all
what you do.

MS. NIX-ROPER:  I live out in the Fairview area of North Carolina and
the — near the Bat Cave, Lake Lure area, and our area was hit — it was
hit really hard.  I — I was home alone, and my husband had stayed in
town because we take care of a little lady that’s 98 years old, and she
lives out in the woods by herself.  And I said, “Just stay with her and
make sure that she’s okay.” 

And I got up the next morning, and my first thought was, “I want to go
see what our road and bridge looks like.” 

So, as I was making it down to the road and the bridge, there was no
road and bridge.  And so, you know, here we are.  We’re, like, in a
little island.  You know, we can’t access the main road or anything. 

And then the fire department came by the next day and said that they
were evacuating me and my neighbor because a landslide was going to
come, and they told me to get my stuff and get ready. 

And so, while I was getting my stuff and getting ready, there was a
knock at the door.  So, I thought it was the fireman.  And I went to the
door, and there stood my 21-year-old son — his name is Nathan — and he
had drove as far as he could to get to me.  But he hiked five miles, and
it took him a really long time.  And he got there, and he said — he
said, “Mom, grab a bag.  We got to go.”  And I said, “Son, there’s no
way I can — I can hike out of here.”  And he’s like, “No.”  He said, “We
got to go.”

So, we — we started hiking out, and I — and I seen one of my neighbors
who — she had no clothes on.  Her — her — she was — her skin was — was,
like, chunked up.  It was just — she was blue.  She had been — she had
been in the — in the waters.  And where she had went or — or — I don’t
know, but it — horrific, is just all I can say. 

But then, as — as me and my son hiked on out, we went through where this
— this place — we call it Craigtown — but there were, like, a lot of
family members there that passed away — like 11 of them.  And — and
there — there were people out everywhere looking for their loved ones. 
And there were — there were dead bodies, you know?  My son’s like, “Mom,
you’re going to see things you don’t want to see.” 

And so, anyway, we got through all that, but I stayed at our church in
our sound booth.  My husband and I, we just slept up in the sound booth
for a couple of months because we didn’t have power or anything for
about two months out there.

And then we — we have went back.  I’ve been fighting with FEMA since day
one. 

Our community — there’s, like, 32 homes.  We don’t have a road and a
bridge.  We’re driving through our neighbors’ property.  You know, I
went to EMS, and I said, “Look, my concern is, if we have a fire or we
have an emergency out here, you’re not going to get to us.  You can’t
get those big trucks up here.” 

And — and I’ve called and called and called FEMA.  And, you know, I said
it’s — this happened on September 27th.  That’s four months ago.  Well,
for us, today is still September 27th.  You know, we haven’t had help. 

And so, when I talk to FEMA, I’m explaining the road and the bridge, and
they send me a letter that tells me to — to basically fix it and send in
my receipts, and they’ll refund me some money.  I’m looking at a road
and bridge that, honestly, the bridge itself is probably going to be
$300,000, and the road could be close to that also, because we have to
have — the community has to have big boulders brought in.  We’re not a
rich community.  We can’t fix it ourself. 

You know, it’s just — and as far as, like, house repairs, I’m still
pending.  I can’t get money from FEMA until I fix the road and bridge
and fen- — and send in my — my proof that it’s fixed and everything. 
It’s — it’s just — it’s been a nightmare.  And I totally feel like —
that we have been forgotten. 

If it had not been for — for our fellow American citizens who stepped up
to help us, I don’t know what we would have done.  I have — I have five
neighbors around me who completely lost everything.  You know, I have
damage to my house and — and I feel — I don’t feel entitled.  I’m
embarrassed to even say I need help, because, you know — and sometimes
there’s even that — that survivors’ guilt, is what they’re calling it. 
But you feel guilty to even be alive sometimes, you know, when you look
around and you see your neighbors that are gone.

And it’s just, you know — we — we need help.  I wrote a letter that — to
send to Congress.  You know, “I don’t understand what’s going on.  If we
can’t get FEMA help, then will you guys help us?  Will you step up and
be our fellow citizen?  Will you step up and be our neighbor and send us
something.  Help us.  Help us get our community back.”

It’s — I could go on.  It’s just a — I don’t know, it’s just
heartbreaking. 

I appreciate you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

A good daughter you have, huh?  A good daughter.  Take care of mom.  And
your son must be great.

MS. NIX-ROPER:  My son is great.

THE PRESIDENT:  No, he sounds like a real leader and smart.

MS. NIX-ROPER:  He really is.  Th- — to hike in —

THE PRESIDENT:  So, how would you have been if he didn’t come and get
you?

MS. NIX-ROPER:  I don’t know.  I’d — I’d just been — would have been
there until — because the only thing we could do — there were no way to
get out there.  The only thing we could do is just hike up to the
church, the first church that was up there — about three miles to — to
get, you know, maybe what we needed —

THE PRESIDENT:  You tell him he’s just —

MS. NIX-ROPER:  — or some — I don’t know.

THE PRESIDENT:  Tell him he’s a real leader.

MS. NIX-ROPER:  He is.  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Sounds good.

Well, again, thank you very much, everybody. 

So, we’re going to be here.  We’re going to be working with our
congressmen and woman, and they’re going to do a job.  And Michael
Whatley is going to be very much in charge, and you’ll get it done. 

And FEMA is ready to rock.  They haven’t done the job, because they
weren’t really told to do the job by Biden.  I guess Biden was thinking
about other things, wasn’t he?  But they weren’t told. 

What they did to — what the past administration did to North Carolina is
a disgrace. 

So, I just want to wish you all well.  I was here right after the event,
and I couldn’t believe it.  I have never seen anything like it.  I’ve
seen a lot of bad things, but I’ve never seen anything like it. 

And it’s an honor to meet the people behind me, and it’s an honor to be
with our congressional delegation and some of the other politicians in
the area.  And it’s an honor to have Michael Whatley at my side, because
maybe we wouldn’t be standing here as president if he wasn’t. 

Him and Lara — Lara Trump — were unbelievable as the head of the
Republican Party.  So, he happens to come from a place called North
Carolina.  So, I said, “Michael, fix it.”  (Laughs.)  So, good luck. 
Good luck.

And we’ll supply what you need.  You know that.  Okay?  Thank you. 

Thank you all very much.  Thank you very much.

Q    Mr. President, what kind of role will Mr. Whatley have?

Q    Mr. President, I’m hearing all these heartbreaking stories and how
there’s been so many local groups —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — who have stepped up to —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — assist these families.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s one of the things you hear.

Q    Is there any talk on having money — instead of going to FEMA and
going through the bureaucracy — to go through them?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, that’s what I want to do.  We want to bring it
locally so that a state takes care of its problem, and then they can
bring it down to a local level, like Samaritan’s Purse and Franklin,
because that’s, you know, one of the better examples.  But you had
numbers of people that did a great job.  You have groups that did a
great job and organizations.

The one that didn’t do a good job was the government.  They did a bad
job.  They did in many ways, they did no job.  They weren’t even
available. 

So, good question.  The answer is: We go local. I think it will work
much better. 

FEMA is a very expensive organization that really doesn’t work out very
well.  It hasn’t.  This is not the only example. 

So, if it was up to me right now, I’d end it right now, and I’d just let
the state take care of the problem.  I mean, you’re going to always have
problems.  Let the state — if it’s Florida, it’s a hurricane, let
Florida take care of it.  They don’t need FEMA to come in. 

Yeah.

Q    What kind of role do you envision for Mr. Whatley?  Is it within
FEMA, outside of FEMA?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I envision a very important role for him.  It’s
any role he wants.  He’s a very capable guy.  Michael Whatley, a very
capable guy.  And he’s friends and works with these guys.  Keeps them
elected, right?  They have to do a good job.  Otherwise, no matter how
good Michael is, not going to work.  But they’ve done an amazing job. 
They’ve been great.

You’re lucky.  You have great congressmen here and — and -woman, by the
way — a great woman, very powerful woman.  And they’re going to do a
great job.  They’ll do it together.  They’ll work together, and we’ll
supply what they need as they need it.  We’ll coordinate that.

And we will immediately get the Army Corps, Michael, because you need
roads built.  You know, we’re talking about the bridge, we’re talking
about roads and things, so we’ve got to get them built. 

All right?  Okay? 

Thank you all very much.  Thank you very much. 

END                  1:10 P.M. EST
