---
date: '2025-01-24'
modified_time: 2025-01-24 13:48:48-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-24 13:48:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/01/remarks-by-president-trump-after-air-force-one-arrival-fletcher-nc/
tags: remarks
title: Remarks by President Trump After Air Force One Arrival Fletcher, NC
---
 
For Immediate Release                       January 24, 2025

REMARKS BY PRESIDENT TRUMP

AFTER AIR FORCE ONE ARRIVAL

Asheville Regional Airport

Fletcher, North Carolina

11:07 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you very much.  Everybody thought I was
going to California.  I said, “No, no.  I’m stopping in North Carolina
first, because they’ve been abused by what’s happened.”  I mean, it’s
terrible.  It should have been done.  It should have been — a lot of
things should have happened that didn’t happen.  So, we’re here.  We’re
going to fix it out. 

We’re working with the gentleman behind me, and you know who they are. 
And we’re going to fix it, and we’re going to fix it as fast as you
can.  It’s a massive amount of damage.  FEMA has really let us down, let
the country down.  And I don’t know if that’s Biden’s fault or whose
fault it is, but we’re going to take over, and we’re going to do a good
job.  

We’re going to assign Mr. Whatley — who’s fantastic, frankly — and the
governor and everybody else that’s going to work.  We’re going to supply
the money — we’ll supply a lot of the money.  Maybe you have to chip in
something — you’ll chip in a little something, like —

GOVERNOR STEIN:  We will.

THE PRESIDENT:  — maybe 25 percent or whatever. 

But we’re going to get it done as quickly as we can, and we want to take
care of the people of North Carolina. 

It’s so interesting.  Everybody is talking about California, and that’s
a mess.  But I said, “I’m not going to California until I stop in North
Carolina.”  So, here we are.  

We’re going to go visit the site, and we’re going to work with probably
three of the congressmen — Republican congressmen — who’ve been
fantastic — whose areas have been affected, and with Michael Whatley,
the governor, and whoever else is — you know, we decide to get involved.

Probably less FEMA, because FEMA just hasn’t done the job.  And we’re
looking at the whole concept of FEMA.  I like, frankly, the concept:
When North Carolina gets hit, the governor takes care of it.  When
Florida gets hit, the governor takes care of it, meaning the state takes
care of it.

To have a group of people come in from an area that don’t even know
where they’re going in order to solve immediately a problem is something
that never worked for me.  But this is probably one of the best examples
of it not working. 

And there’s been some others, like in Louisiana, et cetera.  So, we’re
going to be doing something on FEMA that I think most people agree. 

I’d like to see the states take care of disasters.  Let the state take
care of the tornadoes and the hurricanes and all of the other things
that happen.  And I think you’re going to find it a lot less expensive. 
You’ll do it for less than half, and you’re going to get a lot quicker
response. 

So, that seems to be the recommendation, but we’ll be making that
recommendation over the next couple of weeks. 

We’re going to go to the site now, and we’re going to figure out a plan
— a plan for really demolition and cleaning, because not a lot has been
done.  And we’re very disappointed in the Biden administration, but
we’re going to make up for lost time. 

And I said I’d do that, and this is about the earliest we could possibly
be here, and we’re honored to be here.  This has been a great state. 
They’re great people, and they’ve really been mishandled.  But it’s all
— this group is going to be great, and we’re going to get it taken care
of. 

Any questions?

     Q    How — how will you respond —

Q    How will you make those changes to FEMA?  Do you do you expect to
ask Congress for additional aid for North Carolina and California?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, it will be direct.  In other words, the aid will
go through us.  So, rather than going through FEMA, it will go through
us.  And I think maybe this is a good place to start, because — and in
all fairness to the governor, in all fairness to everybody else, FEMA
was not on the ball, and we’re going to turn it all around. 

Yes.

Q    A lot — a lot of Americans think that this is symbolic of what your
campaign was all about: America first, putting your prior- — priorities
to Americans, even going to California, where their policies might mo- —
have been one of the biggest reasons why they’ve had these problems. 
But you’re putting the American people first.  Your thoughts on that?

     THE PRESIDENT:  We are.  We’re puttin- — thank you.  I like that
question.  Boy, I want more questions like that.  That’s even a
statement.  Thank you very much. 

     Q    Thank you.

     THE PRESIDENT: He’s a good man, that guy, and he’s also a very
professional reporter, I have to say.  Thank you very much.

     Q    You’re welcome.

     THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, we’re putting America first.  We’re putting,
in this case, North Carolina and California — we’re going to do a good
job in California.  That is a disaster like — I don’t know if we’ve ever
seen anything like it, frankly.  They say “the biggest in the history of
California.”  I think — has anything bigger than that happened in the
whole country ever?  It looks like — I don’t want to say what it looks
like, but you know what I’m going to say.  It looks like something hit
it.

     Q    Yeah.

     THE PRESIDENT:  And we won’t talk about what hit it, but it is a
bad, bad situation. 

And I guess I’m going to meet with some government officials, but, I
mean, much more importantly — and in California, just to revert to it
for a second, millions of gallons of water are waiting to be poured down
through already the half pipes that are already built.  I mean, they’ve
been up for 40 years.  And about 20 years ago, they turned off the
water.  And it’s the water that comes from the Pacific Northwest — some
of it comes out of Canada — and it flows there, and it probably has
flowed there for a million years.  And they turned it off, and they
route out to the Pacific. 

And in the meantime, you don’t have water in the hydrants.  You don’t
have water in the sprinkler systems.  It’s the craziest thing I’ve ever
seen. 

And everyone’s trying to figure out: Why aren’t they turning it back? 
They say it’s the delta smelt — it’s a fish — but I find that hard to
believe.  But we’ll —

Q    Mr. President, what you are —

THE PRESIDENT:  — figure it out.  And without — and without doing that,
you’re going to continue to have problems.

Q    Mr. President, what are you prepared to do, sir, if OPEC doesn’t
respond to your call to cut oil prices?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we want to see OPEC cut the price of oil, and that
will automatically stop the tragedy that’s taking place in Ukraine. 
It’s a butchering tragedy for both sides, by the way.  A tremendous
number of Russian soldiers are dead; a tremendous number of Ukrainian
soldiers, and a lot of people are dead from the bombing of the cities. 

But right now, it’s just bullets whacking and hitting men — mostly men —
almost in all cases, men.  And they’re — over a million men are killed,
and they’re lo- — they’re losing thousands of people a week.  It’s
crazy. 

It’s a crazy war, and it never would have happened if I was president. 
Would never have happened.  This is crazy that it happened, but we want
to stop it.

Now, one way to stop it quickly is for OPEC to stop making so much money
and to drop the price of oil, because they have it nice and high.  And
if you have it high, that war is not going to end so easily. 

So, OPEC ought to get on the ball, and they ought to drop the price of
oil, and that war will stop right away.

Q    Will you withhold funding to Los Angeles because of its sanctuary
city policy?

THE PRESIDENT:  I want to see two things in Los Angeles:  Voter ID, so
that the people have a chance to vote, and I want to see the water be
released and come down into Los Angeles and throughout the state.  Those
are the two things.

After that, I will be the greatest president that California have ever —
has ever seen. 

Q    Will there —

THE PRESIDENT:  I want the water to come down and come down to Los
Angeles and also go out to all the farmland that’s barren and dry. 

You know, they have land that they say is the equivalent of the land in
Iowa, which is about as good as there is anywhere on Earth.  The problem
is it’s artificial, because they artificially stop the water from going
on to the land. 

So, I want two things.  I want voter ID for the people of California,
and they all want it.  Right now, you have no — you don’t have voter
ID.  People want to have voter identification.  You want to have proof
of citizenship.  Ideally, you have one-day voting, but I just want voter
ID as a start.  And I want the water to be released, and they’re going
to get a lot of help from the U.S. 

Thank you very much.  I’ll see you in a little while. 

Q    Will there be (inaudible) —

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll see you at the site. 

Q    Will there —

Q    Thank you, sir. 

THE PRESIDENT:  We’ll see you at the site. 

Q    Can you tell us more about the deportation flights?  Where are they
going from?  Where —

THE PRESIDENT:  It’s going very well. 

Q    — are they going to?

THE PRESIDENT:  Deportation is going very well.  We’re getting the bad,
hard criminals out.  These are murderers.  These are people that have
been as bad as you get, as bad as anybody you’ve seen.  We’re taking
them out first. 

Thank you.

END                11:15 A.M. EST  
 
