---
date: '2022-12-15'
modified_time: 2022-12-15 14:03:20-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-15 14:03:19-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/15/memorandum-on-certifications-regarding-disclosure-of-information-in-certain-records-related-to-the-assassination-of-president-john-f-kennedy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Certifications Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain\
  \ Records Related to the Assassination of President John F.\_Kennedy"
---
 
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies  
   
SUBJECT:      Certifications Regarding Disclosure of  
              Information in Certain Records Related to the  
              Assassination of President John F. Kennedy

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  As set forth in the
Presidential Memorandum of October 22, 2021 (Temporary Certification
Regarding Disclosure of Information in Certain Records Related to the
Assassination of President John F. Kennedy) (2021 Memorandum), in the
President John F. Kennedy Assassination Records Collection Act of 1992
(44 U.S.C. 2107 note) (the “Act”), the Congress declared that “all
Government records concerning the assassination of President John F.
Kennedy . . . should be eventually disclosed to enable the public to
become fully informed about the history surrounding the assassination.” 
The Congress also found that “most of the records related to the
assassination of President John F. Kennedy are almost 30 years old, and
only in the rarest cases is there any legitimate need for continued
protection of such records.”  In the 30 years since the Act became law,
the profound national tragedy of President Kennedy’s assassination
continues to resonate in American history and in the memories of so many
Americans who were alive on that terrible day; meanwhile, the need to
protect records concerning the assassination has weakened with the
passage of time.  It is therefore critical to ensure that the United
States Government maximizes transparency by disclosing all information
in records concerning the assassination, except when the strongest
possible reasons counsel otherwise.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Background</span>.  (a)  The Act
permits the continued postponement of disclosure of information in
records concerning President Kennedy’s assassination only when
postponement remains necessary to protect against an identifiable harm
to the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or
the conduct of foreign relations that is of such gravity that it
outweighs the public interest in disclosure.  Since 2018, executive
departments and agencies (agencies) have been reviewing under this
statutory standard each redaction they have proposed that would result
in the continued postponement of full public disclosure, with the
National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) reviewing whether it
agrees that each redaction continues to meet the statutory standard.  In
my 2021 Memorandum, the Archivist of the United States (Archivist)
explained that the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the
ability of agencies, including NARA, to conduct this review and
comprehensive engagement, and the Archivist recommended that I
temporarily certify the records for continued postponement for a limited
period.  In the 2021 Memorandum, I directed the completion of an
intensive 1-year review of each remaining proposed redaction to ensure
that the United States Government maximizes transparency by disclosing
all information in records related to the assassination, except in cases
when the strongest possible reasons counsel otherwise.   
  
          (b)  Pursuant to my direction, agencies have undertaken a
comprehensive effort to review the full set of almost 16,000 records
that had previously been released in redacted form and determined that
more than 70 percent of those records may now be released in full.  This
significant disclosure reflects my Administration’s commitment to
transparency and will provide the American public with greater insight
and understanding of the Government’s investigation into this tragic
event in American history.   
  
          (c)  In the course of their review, agencies have identified a
limited number of records containing information for continued
postponement of public disclosure.  NARA has reviewed these proposed
redactions and has coordinated with relevant consulting agencies, where
appropriate, to ensure that the proposed redactions meet the statutory
standard for continued postponement.  The Acting Archivist has
recommended certifying a small subset of the reviewed records for
continued postponement of public disclosure.   
  
          (d)  The Acting Archivist has further indicated that
additional work remains to be done with respect to a limited number of
other reviewed records that were the subject of agency proposals for
continued postponement of public disclosure.  The Acting Archivist
believes such additional work could further reduce the amount of
redacted information.  The Acting Archivist therefore recommends that I
temporarily certify the continued postponement of public disclosure of
the redacted information in these records to provide additional time for
review and to ensure that information from these records is disclosed to
the maximum extent possible, consistent with the standards of the Act.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Certification</span>.  In light of
the proposals from agencies for continued postponement of public
disclosure of information in the records identified in section 2(c) of
this memorandum under the statutory standard, and the Acting Archivist’s
recommendation, I agree that continued postponement of public disclosure
of such information is warranted to protect against an identifiable harm
to the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or
the conduct of foreign relations that is of such gravity that it
outweighs the public interest in disclosure.  Accordingly, by the
authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of
the United States of America, including section 5(g)(2)(D) of the Act, I
hereby certify that continued postponement of public disclosure of these
records is necessary to protect against an identifiable harm to the
military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or the
conduct of foreign relations that is of such gravity that it outweighs
the public interest in disclosure.  All information within these records
that agencies have proposed for continued postponement under section
5(g)(2)(D) of the Act shall accordingly be withheld from public
disclosure.  Further release of the information in these records shall
occur in a manner consistent with the Transparency Plans described in
section 7 of this memorandum.    
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Temporary Certification</span>.  In
light of the proposals from agencies for continued postponement of
public disclosure of information in the records identified in section
2(d) of this memorandum under the statutory standard, the Acting
Archivist’s request for an extension of time to continue review of those
records, and the need for an appropriately thorough review process, I
agree with the Acting Archivist’s recommendation regarding temporary
postponement.  Temporary continued postponement of public disclosure of
such information is necessary to protect against an identifiable harm to
the military defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or the
conduct of foreign relations that is of such gravity that it outweighs
the public interest in disclosure.  Accordingly, by the authority vested
in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States
of America, including section 5(g)(2)(D) of the Act, I hereby certify
that all information within these records that agencies have proposed
for continued postponement under section 5(g)(2)(D) of the Act shall be
withheld from public disclosure until June 30, 2023.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">5</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Release</span>.  Any information
currently withheld from public disclosure that agencies have not
proposed for continued postponement shall be released to the public by
December 15, 2022.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">6</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Review</span>.  (a)  From the date of
this memorandum until May 1, 2023, relevant agencies and NARA shall
jointly review the remaining redactions in the records addressed in
sections 2(d) and 4 of this memorandum with a view to maximizing
transparency and disclosing all information in records concerning the
assassination, except when the strongest possible reasons counsel
otherwise.  Any information that agencies propose for continued
postponement of public release beyond June 30, 2023, shall be limited to
the absolute minimum under the statutory standard.  Agencies shall not
propose to continue redacting information unless the redaction is
necessary to protect against an identifiable harm to the military
defense, intelligence operations, law enforcement, or the conduct of
foreign relations that is of such gravity that it outweighs the public
interest in disclosure.  In applying the statutory standard, agencies
shall:  
  
               (i)   accord substantial weight to the public interest in
transparency and full disclosure of any record that falls within the
scope of the Act; and  
  
               (ii)  give due consideration that some degree of harm is
not grounds for continued postponement unless the degree of harm is of
such gravity that it outweighs the public interest in disclosure.  
  
          (b)  If, by no later than May 1, 2023, NARA agrees that a
proposed redaction meets the statutory standard for continued
postponement, the Archivist shall recommend to the President, no later
than May 1, 2023, that continued postponement of public disclosure of
the information is warranted after June 30, 2023.  
  
          (c)  If, by no later than May 1, 2023, NARA does not recommend
that a proposed redaction meets the statutory standard for continued
postponement, agencies shall, no later than May 15, 2023:  
  
               (i)   withdraw the proposed redaction; or  
  
               (ii)  recommend to the President, through the Counsel to
the President, on a document-by-document basis, that release of the
information continue to be postponed, providing an explanation for each
proposed redaction of why continued postponement remains necessary to
protect against an identifiable harm to the military defense,
intelligence operations, law enforcement, or the conduct of foreign
relations that is of such gravity that it outweighs the public interest
in disclosure.  
  
          (d)  In the development of the recommendations described in
this section, as questions arise about particular proposed redactions,
NARA shall consult, as appropriate, with relevant agencies as described
in section 5(d) of my 2021 Memorandum.  
  
          (e)  At the conclusion of the review described in this
section, any information withheld from public disclosure that agencies
do not propose for continued postponement beyond June 30, 2023, shall be
released to the public by that date.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">7</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Transparency Plans</span>.  As part
of their review, each agency prepared a plan for the eventual release of
information (Transparency Plan) to ensure that information would
continue to be disclosed over time as the identified harm associated
with release of the information dissipates.  Each Transparency Plan
details the event-based or circumstance-based conditions that will
trigger the public disclosure of currently postponed information by the
National Declassification Center (NDC) at NARA.  These Transparency
Plans have been reviewed by NARA, and the Acting Archivist has advised
that use of the Transparency Plans by the NDC will ensure appropriate
continued release of information covered by the Act.  Accordingly, I
direct that the Transparency Plans submitted by agencies be used by the
NDC to conduct future reviews of any information that has been postponed
from public disclosure, including information in the records described
in sections 2(c) and 3 of this memorandum.     
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">8</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Publication</span>.  The Acting
Archivist is hereby authorized and directed to publish this memorandum
in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
