---
date: '2022-12-09'
published_time: 2022-12-09 11:09:49-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/09/a-proclamation-on-human-rights-day-and-human-rights-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week,\_2022"
---
 
    On Human Rights Day and during Human Rights Week, we remember and
reaffirm the sacred idea that every person is created equal, endowed
with inherent dignity and inalienable rights.

     This idea was at the core of America’s founding.  More than 170
years later, following World War II and the Holocaust, this idea brought
the world together to enshrine a Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 
And today, this idea beats in the hearts of millions who march, fight,
and sacrifice for the innate liberties we deserve as humans.  Around the
world — from China to Burma, Afghanistan to Iran, Ethiopia to Ukraine,
and beyond — courageous people are standing up to abuses of power,
staying strong amid threats to their lives, and speaking out against
violations of their fundamental freedoms. 

     The United States stands fully with these brave women and men
fighting for their basic human rights in the face of oppression and
injustice — and we always will.  That is why we moved to rejoin the
United Nations Human Rights Council in 2021 and reassert our moral
leadership on the global stage.  It is why my Administration is
amplifying the voices of religious, racial, and ethnic minorities; women
and girls; LGBTQI+ communities; persons with disabilities; and
pro-democracy activists and defenders, who are too often targeted by
violence or denied equal protection under the law.  It is also why we
are equipping the brave people of Ukraine to fight for their freedom
against Russia’s brutal and unprovoked war.  We cannot return to a world
where might makes right, bigger nations bully their neighbors, and
would-be strongmen oppress people with impunity.

     Last year, I hosted the first-ever Summit for Democracy and
gathered international partners to commit to protecting human rights,
bolstering democracy, and countering corruption.  I also launched the
Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, strengthening our pledge
to support free and fair elections, a free and independent media,
democratic reformers, and those fighting corruption.  I look forward to
hosting a second Summit for Democracy in 2023.

     Finally, The United States is leading by the power of our example —
demonstrating that our commitment to human rights begins here at home. 
Since taking office, I have ended the Muslim ban, overturned the
prohibition on transgender people serving openly in the military,
advanced racial equity throughout the Federal Government, strengthened
accountable community policing and addressed many of the long-standing
inequities in our criminal justice system, expanded accessibility and
opportunity for Americans with disabilities, and established a White
House Gender Policy Council.  I also signed the first major bipartisan
gun safety law in nearly 30 years, because every child and adult has the
right to be safe at school, at home, and in their community.  A positive
future will be forged by countries that unleash the full potential of
their people and protect their human rights.  Today, and every day, I am
committed to doing just that.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 10, 2022, as Human Rights Day and the week beginning December
10, 2022, as Human Rights Week.  I call upon the people of the United
States to mark these observances with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
ninth day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
