---
date: '2022-12-14'
published_time: 2022-12-14 12:07:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/14/a-proclamation-on-bill-of-rights-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Bill Of Rights Day,\_2022"
---
 
With three simple words — “We the People” — the United States
Constitution set in motion the most extraordinary experiment in
self-governance that the world has ever known.  The Bill of Rights made
this possible, ensuring ratification by every State then in our new
Nation.  On Bill of Rights Day, we celebrate the fundamental American
freedoms enshrined in those first 10 Amendments to our Constitution and
recommit to making the full promise of America real for all Americans.

     The Bill of Rights embodies a core American strength:  the capacity
for compromise and self-improvement.  By codifying fundamental freedoms,
it won over States skeptical of a Federal Government at the time of our
founding and proved our Constitution to be a living document, capable of
evolving to perfect our Union.  The basic rights it guarantees — to
religion, speech, press, privacy, and more — have come to define our
Nation.  And in the over two centuries since their enumeration, 17 other
Amendments have been ratified — ending slavery, ensuring equal
protection under the law, giving women the right to vote, banning poll
taxes, and more — opening the door of opportunity a little wider with
each generation.

     But freedom is not free — it requires constant vigilance.  And
nothing about our democracy is guaranteed.  Every generation has had to
defend our Constitution, including ours today.  The right to choose —
grounded in the 14th Amendment, enshrined in a half-century of
precedent, and relied on for generations — is now under assault.  A wave
of anti-LGBTQI+ bills is attacking Americans’ freedom to be themselves.
 In recent years, at least 20 States have passed laws that make it
harder to vote.  And we have seen new threats to the rule of law that
disregard the will of the people.

     At the same time, we have also seen tens of millions of Americans
stand up to protect our rights and stand against any of these attempts
to take our country backwards.  I am determined to be a partner in that
work.  My Administration has taken immediate action to protect
reproductive health care, access to contraception, the privacy of
sensitive health information, and more; and we will keep fighting to
pass a Federal law restoring every woman’s right to choose.  I was
also proud to sign the Respect for Marriage Act this month and will keep
working to advance equality for LGBTQI+ communities, fighting to pass
the Equality Act, and building on Executive Orders tackling
discrimination in health care, foster care, housing, schools, and more.
 And because voting is democracy’s threshold liberty — a sacred right on
which all our other freedoms rely — I am pushing for new investments to
secure voting sites and equipment and to recruit and train election
workers.  I issued an Executive Order directing Federal agencies to
expand access to voter registration.  I appointed top civil rights
advocates to the Department of Justice, which has separately doubled its
own voting rights staff.  And I will keep pushing to pass the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement and Freedom to Vote Acts, as well as the
Electoral Count Reform Act, to make voting easier and our democracy more
secure.

     The Bill of Rights consecrates twin American ideals of equality and
democracy.  They are the rock on which our Nation is built and the
reasons why America has long been a beacon to the world.  Our democracy
will be preserved not just in courts of law but also in people’s habits
of heart.  It lives in our national character, courage, and optimism and
in the fundamental empathy that underlies our system of government — a
willingness to see each other not as enemies but as fellow citizens with
equal rights.  Today, we recommit to defending and extending that
promise to everyone.

       NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 15, 2022, as Bill of Rights Day.  I call upon the people of the
United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
