---
date: '2022-12-02'
modified_time: 2022-12-02 17:03:29-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-02 13:26:07-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/02/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on International Day of Persons With Disabilities,\_2022"
---
 
On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we recognize and
celebrate the equal rights and dignity of disabled people everywhere and
reaffirm our commitment to building a world where people with
disabilities are afforded the opportunities, independence, and respect
they deserve.

     This work has been a priority throughout my career.  I was proud to
co-sponsor the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) in 1990, a
definitive endorsement of disability rights and bulwark against
discrimination.  It was also a powerful example of America’s global
leadership:  in the years since the ADA became law, 180 nations have
passed similar laws, delivering justice to millions worldwide. 

     But we have more work to do.  Here in the United States, people
with disabilities are three times less likely to be employed, and those
who are employed often earn less than their peers for doing the same
work.  Public spaces, including transit systems and voting locations,
are still often inaccessible.  And across the globe, disabled people
routinely face violence, harassment, exploitation, abuse, and other
barriers to their full participation in society.

     From the beginning, my Administration has made righting those
wrongs a priority.  I signed an Executive Order on Diversity, Equity,
Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal Workforce to advance
employment opportunities for communities facing barriers, including
Americans with disabilities.  Our American Rescue Plan is providing $25
billion to States to make it easier for seniors and people with
disabilities to receive care in their own homes, and my Administration
delivered vaccines, masks, tests, and therapeutics directly to people in
their communities to protect Americans with disabilities and other
preexisting health conditions from COVID-19.  I also directed my
Administration to accelerate progress toward understanding, diagnosing,
and treating “long COVID,” a condition that has affected many Americans
across the country.

     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is our Nation’s largest-ever
investment in accessible transit, and it is also supporting the
expansion of high-speed Internet across the country so people can work,
study, and stay connected regardless of their ability to leave home.
 The bipartisan Honoring our PACT Act — the most significant expansion
of services for veterans in more than 30 years — helps veterans harmed
by toxic exposure access the health care and disability benefits they
have earned.  The Inflation Reduction Act is capping the cost of
lifesaving prescription drugs for seniors and people with disabilities
on Medicare and putting more money into Americans’ pockets.  And my
Administration has made hearing aids available to Americans over the
counter, lowering average costs by as much as $3,000 per pair.  
  
Meanwhile, the Department of Labor is protecting the rights of workers
with disabilities and fighting to end unjust sub-minimum wages.  To
strengthen these efforts, I signed an Executive Order requiring Federal
contractors to pay a minimum wage of $15 per hour, including for
employees with disabilities.  And the Social Security Administration and
Departments of Education, Labor, and Health and Human Services are
helping State and local governments, employers, and nonprofits access
Federal funds to hire more Americans with disabilities. 

     We are also lifting up the dignity and rights of disabled people
around the world.  I reestablished the role of Special Advisor on
International Disability Rights at the Department of State to prioritize
this issue in our foreign policy.  The United States Agency for
International Development (USAID) is also advancing disability inclusion
as part of its democracy, climate, humanitarian, and peacebuilding
activities.  For example, USAID is helping communities expand access to
wheelchairs, eyeglasses, and hearing aids, which enable people to live
productive, independent lives.  As co-chair of the Global Action on
Disability Network and a participant in the Global Disability Summit,
the United States continues to stand for the equal human rights of
people with disabilities worldwide.

     In honor of the inherent dignity and worth of disabled people
around the world and in recognition of the immeasurable contributions
people with disabilities have made throughout history and still make
today, we must continue to build a more inclusive, equitable, and just
world.  Let us increase access to health care, expand educational and
job opportunities that offer dignity and respect, and break down stigmas
that make it difficult for people to see each other’s shared humanity. 
And let us remember that disability is a source of identity and power
for over a billion people and that this movement is not only about
disability rights but disability pride as well.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 3, 2022, as International Day of Persons with Disabilities.  I
call on all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies,
activities, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
second day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
