---
date: '2022-12-14'
modified_time: 2022-12-14 08:19:06-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-14 08:19:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/14/a-proclamation-on-day-of-remembrance-10-years-after-the-2012-sandy-hook-elementary-school-shooting/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Day Of Remembrance:\_10 Years After The 2012 Sandy Hook\
  \ Elementary School\_Shooting"
---
 
Ten years ago, a lone gunman killed 20 first-graders and 6 educators at
Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown, Connecticut.  Today, those
first-graders should be sitting in eleventh-grade classrooms, planning
for their high school graduation and all the possibilities ahead.  Those
educators should be preparing lessons for new groups of students and
enjoying full lives surrounded by their loved ones.  Instead, their
desks are forever empty, their families are left with holes in their
hearts, and our Nation is missing a piece of its soul.

     As we remember and grieve those victims and their families, we
acknowledge the pain that the community of Newtown continues to endure.
 That horrific day changed the lives of every survivor, many of whom
still carry physical and emotional wounds.  It forced parents across
America to wonder whether the goodbye hug they gave their child before
school would be the last they ever have, like it was for the Newtown
families.  And it has driven all of us to reexamine our core values and
whether this can be a country that protects the most innocent.

     I believe it can.  This summer, I signed into law the first major
bipartisan gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years, which helps to
keep firearms away from people who are a danger to themselves and
others.  And I have taken more executive action to reduce gun violence
than any other President by this point in their Administration.  We are
cracking down on so-called ghost guns, rogue gun dealers, and gun
traffickers; helping States implement laws for extreme risk protection
orders; and boosting investments in community interventions to stop
violence.  I am also fighting to ban assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines.  The memories of the Newtown victims — and all victims of gun
violence — demand nothing less.

     I am optimistic because I have seen the courage and resolve of the
Sandy Hook families.  They have suffered unimaginable loss but have
turned their pain into purpose.  For some, that has meant advocating for
gun safety laws to protect other families from experiencing the same
grief.  For others, it has meant starting foundations or programs that
honor those they lost.  Working alongside other families of gun violence
victims across America, they have helped shape a new movement for
safety, grounded in love for our children, unwavering resilience in the
face of grief, and a deeply held dream for a better future.

     Today and always, we honor the bright lives lost 10 years ago at
Sandy Hook Elementary School:  Charlotte Bacon, Daniel Barden, Rachel
D’Avino, Olivia Engel, Josephine Gay, Dylan Hockley, Dawn Lafferty
Hochsprung, Madeleine Hsu, Catherine Hubbard, Chase Kowalski, Jesse
Lewis, Ana Márquez-Greene, James Mattioli, Grace McDonnell, Anne Marie
Murphy, Emilie Parker, Jack Pinto, Noah Pozner, Caroline Previdi,
Jessica Rekos, Avielle Richman, Lauren Rousseau, Mary Sherlach, Victoria
Soto, Benjamin Wheeler, Allison Wyatt.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim December 14, 2022, a Day of
Remembrance:  10 Years After the 2012 Sandy Hook Elementary School
Shooting.  Let us recognize the courage of survivors and families of
victims, who continue working to rebuild their lives, and let us commit
to eradicating gun violence and helping rebuild communities that have
suffered so much.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
