---
date: '2022-12-06'
modified_time: 2022-12-06 18:31:30-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-06 11:46:50-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/06/a-proclamation-on-national-pearl-harbor-remembrance-day-2022-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on  National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day,\_2022"
---
 
On National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, we honor the memories of the
2,403 service members and civilians whose lives were cut short on that
tragic December morning.  We reflect on the resilience of America’s
Armed Forces, who withstood the attack and built the most capable
fighting force the world has ever known.  In the wake of tragedy, these
brave women and men — the Greatest Generation — answered the call to
defend freedom, justice, and democracy across the Pacific, throughout
Europe, and around the globe.  Today, we carry forward their spirit of
unity and their enduring resolve to protect the United States against
those who seek to do us harm.

     This commemoration is also a solemn reminder that our country is
capable of achieving great triumphs coming out of dark moments.  From
the death and destruction at Pearl Harbor came victory over the forces
of fascism.  Fierce battles with the Axis powers gave way to diplomatic
partnerships with strong allies.  And from the darkness of World War II
came the light of liberty and the establishment of a rules-based
international order.  Today and every day, we remember that the great
and defining truth about our Nation and our people is that there is
nothing beyond our capacity — we do not break, we never give in, and we
never back down.

     The Congress, by Public Law 103-308, as amended, has designated
December 7 of each year as “National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.”
 Today, let us commemorate the patriots who were wounded and who
perished on December 7, 1941, and continue to fulfill our sacred
obligation to care for our service members and veterans and their
families, caregivers, and survivors.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim December 7, 2022, as National
Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.  I encourage all Americans to reflect on
the courage shown by our brave service members that day and remember
their sacrifices.  I ask us all to give sincere thanks and appreciation
to the survivors of that unthinkable day.  I urge all Federal agencies,
interested organizations, groups, and individuals to fly the flag of the
United States at half-staff on December 7, 2022, in honor of those
American patriots who died as a result of their service at Pearl Harbor.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
