---
date: '2022-12-30'
modified_time: 2022-12-30 12:44:52-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-30 12:44:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-mentoring-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mentoring Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Every January, our Nation celebrates the dedicated mentors whose
wisdom, guidance, and positive examples set our children on a sound path
and help prepare them to succeed.

     The events of the past few years have taken their toll on many of
our Nation’s young people.  The isolation of the COVID-19 pandemic has
hampered the social and academic progress of many students.  A rising
number of adolescents are experiencing mental health challenges,
including from bullying and social media harms.  That is why, as part of
my Unity Agenda I announced in my State of the Union address, my
Administration is pairing children with mentors who can help them
navigate these complexities, open up doors of opportunity, and give them
the additional support they may need to excel in school and in their
communities. 

     Our American Rescue Plan provided $122 billion to help schools
reopen safely and invest in tutoring, afterschool activities, summer
learning, and enrichment programs, helping students regain ground that
was lost in the last two years.  The bill delivered a billion dollars to
AmeriCorps to expand national service projects to include the
recruitment of new mentors, tutors, and student success coaches. 
Through the Department of Labor, we are connecting young people who have
previously dropped out of high school to pre-apprenticeship
opportunities that help them prepare for jobs in high-demand
industries.  And this summer, I was proud to launch the National
Partnership for Student Success, a collaboration between the Department
of Education, AmeriCorps, and the Johns Hopkins Everyone Graduates
Center to add 250,000 tutors and mentors around the country over the
next 3 years.

     During National Mentoring Month, I encourage Americans to visit
americorps.gov/serve and partnershipstudentsuccess.org to learn about
these opportunities and consider becoming a mentor or a tutor.
 I also call on local school districts to put the funding offered by my
American Rescue Plan toward hiring more mentors and tutors for their
students, particularly in subjects like the sciences, technology,
engineering, and mathematics.  I encourage our Nation’s colleges and
universities to partner with K-12 schools and community-based
organizations to provide new mentorship opportunities, and I urge
employers and unions to continue offering pre-apprenticeships and
Registered Apprenticeships, which train new workers to participate in
the 21st century’s biggest industries.  As families and friends,
teachers and counselors, coaches and co-workers, faith and community
leaders, good citizens and neighbors, we can each play a role in helping
the next generation of Americans achieve their dreams. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2023 as National Mentoring Month.  I call upon Americans across
the country to observe this month with mentoring, appropriate
ceremonies, activities, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of December, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
