---
date: '2022-12-30'
modified_time: 2022-12-30 13:07:04-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-30 13:07:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-stalking-awareness-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Stalking Awareness Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Stalking Awareness Month, we shine a light on the
insidious crime of stalking, recommit to protecting survivors, and
reaffirm that every American deserves to live free from fear,
intimidation, and threats to their physical safety and emotional
well-being.

     Studies show that more than 3 million people aged 16 or older are
victims of stalking on an annual basis in the United States.  Being
stalked, whether in-person or online, means having to worry about your
safety at work, at school, in public, and even at home.  It can mean
having to uproot your life, leave your job, and suffer physical and
psychological harms.  One of the driving forces of my career has been
fighting back against abuses of power.  That is why I was proud to write
and champion the groundbreaking Violence Against Women Act (VAWA) as a
United States Senator, landmark legislation that first passed in 1994.
 In the nearly three decades since, I have worked with Members of the
Congress from both parties to renew and strengthen VAWA three times in
2000, 2005, and 2013.  And I was proud to sign its reauthorization this
year.  The 2022 reauthorization law increases resources and support for
law enforcement to investigate and prosecute stalkers and offenders of
gender-based violence.  It extends legal protections for survivors as
well as access to transitional housing when they flee unsafe homes.  It
expands recognition of Tribal courts’ jurisdiction over non-Native
perpetrators to include stalking, sexual assault, child abuse, and sex
trafficking.  Additionally, VAWA calls on the Attorney General to
develop a national strategy to address the rising rate of cybercrimes,
including cyberstalking.

     As President, I also created the White House Task Force to Address
Online Harassment and Abuse, which is co-chaired by the Gender Policy
Council and the National Security Council to expand on these efforts and
coordinate a Federal approach to preventing and addressing
technology-facilitated gender-based violence.  The taskforce is
producing recommendations for State governments, technology platforms,
schools, and other public and private entities to combat cyberstalking
and other online abuses.  At the same time, it is working closely with
survivors, advocates, and parents to promote the safety of communities
most impacted by online abuse, including women, girls, and LGBTQI+
individuals.

     Cracking down on stalking and helping victims heal must be a
government-wide effort.  Since I took office, the Department of Justice
has provided nearly $970 million in grants to help victim service
providers, law enforcement agencies, prosecutors, courts, and
community-based organizations prevent and address domestic violence,
sexual assault, stalking, and dating violence.  And the Department of
Housing and Urban Development has provided 70,000 emergency housing
vouchers to assist individuals and families who are homeless or at-risk
of homelessness, including victims of domestic violence, sexual assault,
stalking, and human trafficking.  In June, I also signed the Bipartisan
Safer Communities Act into law — the first major bipartisan gun safety
legislation in more than 30 years — which requires young people ages 18
to 21 to undergo enhanced background checks, narrows the “boyfriend
loophole” to keep guns out of the hands of dating partners convicted of
misdemeanor crimes of domestic violence, funds crisis intervention,
including red flag laws, and services to address the trauma experienced
by survivors of gun violence.

     It is essential that we bring these offenses out of the shadows,
making it unmistakably clear that violence, displays of unwanted
attention that cause someone to fear for their safety or suffer
substantial emotional distress, and other abuses of power will not
stand.  This month, let us strengthen stalking prevention efforts,
amplify the voices of survivors, and hold stalkers accountable.  We can
— and must — advance a safer and more just America for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2023 as National Stalking Awareness Month.  I call on all
Americans to speak out against stalking and to support the efforts of
advocates, courts, service providers, and law enforcement to help those
who are targeted and send the message to perpetrators that these crimes
will not go unpunished.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of December, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
