---
date: '2022-12-30'
published_time: 2022-12-30 12:55:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/12/30/a-proclamation-on-national-human-trafficking-prevention-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Human Trafficking Prevention Month,\_2023"
---
 
     Around the world, human trafficking has stripped nearly 25 million
people of their safety, dignity, and liberty — disproportionately
affecting historically underserved and marginalized communities.  During
National Human Trafficking Prevention Month, we reaffirm our commitment
to ending this inhumane and immoral practice in all its forms.  And as
we bring perpetrators to justice, we renew our pledge to help survivors
recover and rebuild their lives.

     That is why, last year, my Administration released a National
Action Plan to Combat Human Trafficking, which helps to prevent
trafficking, prosecute perpetrators, and protect survivors.  Consistent
with this strategy, agencies across the Federal Government are working
to combat human trafficking, conduct research to better address its root
causes, and strengthen survivors’ access to services, including
affordable housing and trauma-informed care.  Through the
reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act, we have expanded the
recognition of Tribal courts’ jurisdiction over non-Native sex
traffickers on Tribal lands.  And we have created a new unit within the
Bureau of Indian Affairs that can help investigate human trafficking as
an underlying cause of missing and murdered American Indians and Alaska
Natives.

     Human trafficking is a challenge that transcends borders, so the
Department of State and United States Agency for International
Development have partnered with allies across the globe to detect human
trafficking, connect victims with supportive services, and strengthen
accountability.  In 2021, I signed into law the bipartisan Uyghur Forced
Labor Prevention Act to prevent goods made with forced labor in the
Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region of the People’s Republic of China from
being imported to the United States.  Throughout all of this work, we
are listening to and highlighting the voices of survivors — particularly
members of racial and ethnic minorities, women and girls, the LGBTQI+
community, migrants, and other disproportionately affected groups — and
we will continue to ensure that survivors are treated with dignity and
respect.

     We all have an important role to play in preventing human tracking
and protecting victims.  This month, I encourage Americans to learn more
about the signs of human trafficking and share the National Human
Trafficking Hotline (1-888-373-7888) — an important resource to report a
tip or ask for help.  Together, we can combat human trafficking and its
cruel consequences — creating a safer, freer, and more just world for
everyone.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2023 as National Human Trafficking Prevention Month.  I call
upon businesses, civil society organizations, communities of faith,
families, and all Americans to recognize the vital role we play in
combating human trafficking and to observe this month with appropriate
programs and activities aimed at preventing all forms of human
trafficking.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of December, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
