---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 17:02:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-bears-ears-national-monument/
published_time: 2021-10-08 16:11:00-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Bears Ears National\_Monument"
---
 
President Barack Obama’s establishment of the Bears Ears National
Monument in Proclamation 9558 of December 28, 2016, represented the
culmination of more than a century of efforts to protect the ancestral
homeland of Tribal Nations that all refer to the area by the same name —
Hoon’Naqvut (Hopi), Shash Jaa’ (Navajo), Kwiyagatu Nukavachi (Ute), and
Ansh An Lashokdiwe (Zuni):  Bears Ears.  Preserving the sacred landscape
and unique cultural resources in the Bears Ears region was an impetus
for passage of the Antiquities Act in 1906.  As early as 1904, advocates
for protection of cultural landscapes described for the Congress the
tragedy of the destruction of objects of historic and scientific
interest across the American Southwest and identified the Bears Ears
region as one of seven areas in need of immediate protection.
 Nevertheless, for more than 100 years, indigenous people, historians,
conservationists, scientists, archaeologists, and other groups advocated
unsuccessfully for protection of the Bears Ears landscape.  It was not
until the Hopi Tribe, Navajo Nation, Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and
Ouray Reservation, Ute Mountain Ute Tribe, and Pueblo of Zuni united in
a common vision to protect these sacred lands and requested permanent
protection from President Obama that Bears Ears National Monument became
a reality.  Few national monuments more clearly meet the Antiquities
Act’s criteria for protection than the Bears Ears Buttes and surrounding
areas.  This proclamation confirms, restores, and supplements the
boundaries and protections provided by Proclamation 9558, including the
continued reservation of land added to the monument by Proclamation 9681
of December 4, 2017.

As Proclamation 9558 recognizes, the greater Bears Ears landscape,
characterized by deep sandstone canyons, broad desert mesas, towering
monoliths, forested mountaintops dotted with lush meadows, and the
striking Bears Ears Buttes, has supported indigenous people of the
Southwest from time immemorial and continues to be sacred land to the
Hopi Tribe, Navajo Nation, Ute Indian Tribe of the Uintah and Ouray
Reservation, Ute Mountain Ute Tribe, and Pueblo of Zuni.  Approximately
two dozen other Tribal Nations and Pueblos have cultural ties to the
area as well.  

Describing as much as 13,000 years of human occupation of the Bears Ears
landscape, Proclamation 9558 contextualizes the compelling need to
protect one of the most extraordinary cultural landscapes in the United
States.  The proclamation describes the landscape’s unique density of
significant cultural, historical, and archaeological artifacts spanning
thousands of years, including remains of single family homes, ancient
cliff dwellings, large villages, granaries, kivas, towers, ceremonial
sites, prehistoric steps cut into cliff faces, and a prehistoric road
system that connected the people of Bears Ears to each other and
possibly beyond.  Proclamation 9558 also describes the cultural
significance and importance of the area, exemplified by the petroglyphs,
pictographs, and recent rock writings left by the indigenous people that
have inhabited the area since time immemorial.

In addition to cultural and historic sites, Proclamation 9558 describes
the Bears Ears landscape’s unique geology, biology, ecology,
paleontology, and topography.  The proclamation identifies geologic
formations rich with fossils that provide a rare and relatively complete
picture of the paleoenvironment, striking landscapes, unique landforms,
and rare and important plant and animal species.  While not objects of
historic and scientific interest designated for protection, the
proclamation also describes other resources in the area, historic
grazing, and world class outdoor recreation opportunities — including
rock climbing, hunting, hiking, backpacking, canyoneering, whitewater
rafting, mountain biking, and horseback riding — that support a booming
travel and tourism sector that is a source of economic opportunity for
local communities.

To protect this singular and sacred landscape, President Obama reserved
approximately 1.35 million acres through Proclamation 9558 as the
smallest area compatible with protection of the objects identified
within the boundaries of the monument.  He also established the Bears
Ears Commission to ensure that management of the monument would be
guided by, and benefit from, expertise of Tribal Nations and traditional
and historical knowledge of the area.

On December 4, 2017, President Donald Trump issued Proclamation 9681 to
reduce the lands within the monument by more than 1.1 million acres.  In
doing so, Proclamation 9681 removes protection from objects of historic
and scientific interest across the Bears Ears landscape, including some
objects that Proclamation 9558 specifically identifies by name for
protection.  Multiple parties challenged Proclamation 9681 in Federal
court, asserting that it exceeds the President’s authority under the
Antiquities Act.

Restoring the Bears Ears National Monument honors the special
relationship between the Federal Government and Tribal Nations,
correcting the exclusion of lands and resources profoundly sacred to
Tribal Nations, and ensuring the long-term protection of, and respect
for, this remarkable and revered region.  Given the unique nature and
cultural significance of the objects identified across the Bears Ears
landscape, the threat of damage and destruction to those objects, their
spiritual, cultural, and historical significance to Tribal Nations, and
the insufficiency of the protections afforded in the absence of
Antiquities Act protections, the reservation described below is the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects of historic and scientific interest named in this proclamation
and Proclamation 9558.

The Bears Ears landscape — bordered by the Colorado River to the west,
the San Juan River and the Navajo Nation to the south, low bluffs and
high mesas to the east and north, and Canyonlands National Park to the
northwest, and brimming with towering sandstone spires, serpentine
canyons, awe-inspiring natural bridges and arches, as well as the famous
twin Bears Ears Buttes standing sentinel over the sacred region — is not
just a series of isolated objects, but is, itself, an object of historic
and scientific interest requiring protection under the Antiquities Act.
Bears Ears is sacred land of spiritual significance, a historic
homeland, and a place of belonging for indigenous people from the
Southwest. Bears Ears is a living, breathing landscape, that — owing to
the area’s arid environment and overall remoteness, as well as the
building techniques that its inhabitants employed — retains remarkable
and spiritually significant evidence of indigenous use and habitation
since time immemorial, including from the Paleoindian Period, through
the time of the Basketmakers and Ancestral Pueblos, to the more recent
Navajo and Ute period, and continuing to this day. There are innumerable
objects of historic or scientific interest within this extraordinary
landscape. Some of the objects are also sacred to Tribal Nations, are
sensitive, rare, or vulnerable to vandalism and theft, or are dangerous
to visit and, therefore, revealing their specific names and locations
could pose a danger to the objects or the public. The variety, density,
and prevalence of these objects, such as prehistoric roads, structures,
shrines, ceremonial sites, graves, pots, baskets, tools, petroglyphs,
pictographs, and items of clothing, all contribute to the uniqueness of
this region and underscore its sacred nature and living spiritual
significance to indigenous people.

Many of the Tribal Nations that trace their ancestral origin to this
area and continue their spiritual practices on these lands today view
Bears Ears as a part of the personal identity of their members and as a
cultural living space — a landscape where their traditions began, where
their ancestors engaged in and handed down cultural practices, and where
they developed and refined complex protocols for caring for the land.
The Bears Ears region is also a tangible location that is integral to
indigenous ceremonial practices, cultural traditions, and the
sustainment of the daily lives of indigenous peoples. Since time
immemorial, the lands of the Bears Ears region have fostered indigenous
identity and spirituality. Indigenous people lived, hunted, gathered,
prayed, and built homes in the Bears Ears region. As a result, each
geographic subregion and the mountains, canyons, mesa tops, ridges,
rivers, and streams therein that make up the Bears Ears landscape hold
cultural significance. These individual locales come together as objects
of historic and scientific interest — many of which have spiritual
significance to indigenous people and are located across this living
landscape ‑- to tell stories, facilitate the practice of traditions, and
serve as a mnemonic device that elders use to teach younger generations
where they came from, who they are, and how to live. Resources found
throughout the Bears Ears region, including wildlife and plants that are
native to the region, continue to serve integral roles in the
development and practice of indigenous ceremonial and cultural lifeways.
From family gatherings, dances, and ceremonies held on these sacred
lands, to gathering roots, berries, firewood, pi**ñ**on nuts, weaving
materials, and medicines across the region, Bears Ears remains an
essential landscape that members of Tribal Nations regularly visit to
heal, practice their spirituality, pray, rejuvenate, and connect with
their history.

The Bears Ears region is also important to, and shows recent evidence
of, non-Native migrants to the area. From the smoothed-over surfaces of
the Hole-in-the-Rock Trail to the historic cattle-ranching cabins, and
the convoluted series of passages and hideouts used by men like Butch
Cassidy, the Sundance Kid, and other members of the Wild Bunch on the
Outlaw Trail, including Hideout Canyon, the Bears Ears landscape conveys
the story of westward expansion of European Americans and the settlement
of Latter-day Saint communities in southern Utah. Hispanic sheep herders
from New Mexico also migrated into this area during the late 1800s, and
many of their descendants continue to live in local communities.

Despite millennia of human habitation, the Bears Ears landscape remains
one of the most ecologically intact and least‑roaded regions in the
contiguous United States. As a result, the area continues to provide
habitat to a variety of threatened, endangered, sensitive, endemic, or
otherwise rare species of wildlife, fish, and plants. The area also
contains a diverse array of species that benefit from the preservation
of the landscape’s intact ecosystems.

The Bears Ears landscape also tells the stories of epochs past. The
area’s exposed geologic formations provide a continuous record of
vertebrate life in North America as well as a rich history of
invertebrate fossils. The Chinle Formation, and the Wingate, Kayenta,
and Navajo Formations above it, demonstrate how the Triassic Period
transitioned into the Jurassic Period and provide critical insight into
both how dinosaurs dominated terrestrial ecosystems and how our
mammalian ancestors evolved. The discovery of several taxa, including a
prosauropod that gets its name from a Navajo word tied to the region
where it was found, the archosauromorph *Crosbysaurus harrisae*, and a
unique phytosaur, have occurred exclusively within Bears Ears or have
significantly extended an extinct species’ known range. While
paleontologists have only recently begun to systematically survey and
study much of the fossil record in this region, experts are confident
that scientifically important paleontological resources remain to be
discovered, and future exploration will greatly expand our understanding
of prehistoric life on the Colorado Plateau.

The landscape itself is composed of several areas, each of which is
unique and an object of scientific and historic interest requiring
protection under the Antiquities Act.  Near the center is the Bears Ears
Buttes and Headwaters, the location of the iconic twin buttes, which
soar over the surrounding landscape and maintain watch over the
ancestral home of numerous Tribal Nations.  Containing dense fir and
aspen forests that provide firewood to heat homes as well as powerful
medicines and habitat for wild game species, Tribal Nations view the
high elevation oasis as the key to life in the Bears Ears region.  The
Bears Ears Buttes also hold historical significance to the Navajo
people, as the landscape and natural cliff dwellings served as hiding
places to escape the United States military during the forced Long Walk,
where more than 11,000 Navajo were marched up to 450 miles on foot to
internment camps in Fort Sumner, New Mexico.  Many Navajo hid in the
remote canyons to avoid the forced removal from their traditional
homelands in the Southwest by the United States from 1864 to 1868.

In the northern part of the Bears Ears landscape lies Indian Creek, the
home of a world-renowned canyon characterized by sheer red cliffs and
spires of exposed and eroded layers of Navajo, Kayenta, Wingate, and
Cedar Mesa Sandstone, including the iconic North and South Six-Shooter
Peaks.  The canyon includes famous vertical cracks striating its
sandstone walls and the area provides important habitat for a multitude
of plant and animal species.  Indian Creek’s palisades provide eyries
for peregrine falcons and potential nesting sites for bald and golden
eagles, and the Lockhart Basin area and Donnelly Canyon contain Mexican
spotted owl habitat.  The Indian Creek area further provides critical
winter grounds for big-game species such as mule deer, elk, and bighorn
sheep and potential habitat for endangered fish and threatened plant
species.  The prominent Bridger Jack and Lavender Mesas are home to
largely unaltered relict plant communities composed of pinyon-juniper
woodlands interspersed with small sagebrush islands.  It is also in
Indian Creek that one can find Newspaper Rock, a massive petroglyph
panel displaying a notable concentration of rock writings from persons
of the Basketmaker and Ancestral Pueblo periods, the Ute and Navajo
people who still live in the Four Corners area and beyond, and early
settlers of European descent.  Indian Creek also contains possible
evidence of trade with cultures extending into Mesoamerica, including a
thousand-year-old ornamental sash found in the area made from azure and
scarlet macaw feathers as well as a petroglyph featuring a macaw-like
bird figure.  Shay Canyon is a side canyon that houses extensive,
well-preserved petroglyph panels from multiple prehistoric periods.  The
panels contain a unique rock writing style that is believed to be both
Freemont and Ancestral Pueblo in origin.  Harts Point is an escarpment
that provides spectacular views of the Indian Creek Canyon.  These mesa
tops also contain evidence of historic connections of indigenous people
to the region.  Additionally, Indian Creek provides fossilized trackways
of early tetrapods and fossilized traces of marine and aquatic creatures
such as clams, crayfish, fish, and aquatic reptiles dating to the
Triassic Period.

Southwest of Indian Creek and geographically nestled between the Needles
District of Canyonlands National Park, the Dark Canyon Wilderness area,
and the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, lie Beef Basin and Fable
Valley, areas characterized by well-preserved Ancestral Pueblo surface
sites ‑- including freestanding Pueblo masonry structures and towers —
as well as petroglyphs and pictographs.  The areas are unique in their
high concentration of large, mesa-top Pueblo structures.  Sites in this
region may also provide evidence of some of the furthest north migration
of Pueblo in the Mesa Verde region.

Just south of Indian Creek, the westernmost edge of the Abajo Mountains
forms the eastern boundary of the Bears Ears landscape.  An island
laccolith series of peaks and domes known also as the Blue Mountains due
to the appearance of their heavily forested slopes contrasted against
the red desert that surrounds them, the Abajo Mountains are rich in
wildlife and home to several rare and sensitive plant species.  As a
result of the breadth of species, the Abajo Mountains have long been a
traditional hunting ground for the indigenous people that have lived in
the area and are held sacred by a number of Tribal Nations, including
the Navajo Nation, Pueblo of Zuni, and Ute Indian Tribes.  These peaks
represent the highest elevations in the Bears Ears landscape and provide
unbroken views of the entire region.

South of Beef Basin and Indian Creek, the landscape contains a number of
sandstone canyons that drain the northern edge of the Abajo Mountains
and Elk Ridge, including the Tuerto, Trough, Ruin, and North Cottonwood
Canyons, at the bottom of which runs a perennial creek.  Ancestral
Pueblo sites within this area have special significance to the Pueblos
of New Mexico, who identify these sites as part of their ancestral
footprints that extend their traditional territory north of the Abajo
Mountains.  The area, which is composed of both Cedar Mesa Sandstone and
Chinle Formation deposits, has a very high potential for Permian and
Triassic fossils.

The South Cottonwood Canyon region, characterized by prominent sandstone
escarpments surrounded by forests of pinyon, juniper, and Gambel oak,
interspersed with stands of ponderosa pine and mixed conifers, is
situated west of the Abajo Mountains and south of the prominent
sandstone towers known as the Chippean Rocks.  The isolated area
contains intact cultural landscapes of early Ancestral Pueblo
communities.  Some sites are organized as a larger central village
surrounded by smaller family-sized dwellings, while others are large and
inaccessible granaries.  This region is home to a diversity of wildlife,
including Townsend’s big-eared bats, beavers, and ringtail cats, as well
as the Cliff Dwellers Pasture Research Natural Area, an ungrazed box
canyon with a unique vegetative community and an imposing sandstone arch
and natural bridge.  The area also contains excellent big game habitat
and is considered prime mule deer, elk, and black bear hunting grounds.

Further west, South Cottonwood Canyon is home to a unique density of
Pueblo I to early Pueblo II village sites that are considered important
to both archaeologists and Tribal Nations.  One site, a collapsed
two-story block masonry structure that appears to be an early version of
a great house, was built during a time when the development of this kind
of community structure was only beginning in Chaco Canyon.  More
recently, the South Cottonwood Canyon area proved critical to the
survival of the White Mesa Ute during Anglo settlement of southern Utah.
 Paleontologically, there is high potential fossil yield on both the
west side of the area, which contains portions of the Triassic Period
Chinle and Moenkopi Formations, and the east side, which is composed of
Jurassic Period Glen Canyon Group Kayenta Formation.  The area also
provides critical habitat for Mexican spotted owls, peregrine falcons,
golden eagles, and spotted bats.

The Dark Canyon, Dry Mesa complex, located between Beef Basin and White
Canyon, is wild and remote.  In Dark Canyon — a canyon system that
includes Peavine, Woodenshoe, and other minor tributaries — rock walls,
which tower 3,000 feet above the canyon floor, provide a sense of
solitude and isolation from the surrounding mesa tops.  The canyon
system, one of the only entirely intact and protected canyons from its
headwaters on the Colorado Plateau to its confluence with the Colorado
River, includes numerous hanging gardens, springs, and riparian areas
and provides habitat for a wide range of wildlife, including known
populations of Mexican spotted owl.  Dry Mesa is relatively flat with
stands of ponderosa pine, oak, and pinyon and juniper that provide
foraging habitat for golden eagles and peregrine falcons.  Many Tribal
Nations have strong connections to sites in the area from three specific
time periods:  ancient hunter-gatherers during the Archaic period,
Ancestral Pueblos during the Pueblo III period, and finally, Navajo,
Ute, and Paiute families just before and during European migration into
the Four Corners area.  Visitors to the Dark Canyon Wilderness area will
find the Doll House, a fully-intact and well-preserved single-room
granary.  Located at the bottom of Horse Pasture Canyon and Dark Canyon,
visitors will also find Scorup Cabin, a line cabin originally built in
Rig Canyon and later moved to its current location, that cowboys used as
a summer camp while running cattle in the area.  The area also contains
exposures of Permian Period Cutler Group deposits that have a high
potential to contain both vertebrate and invertebrate fossils.

The White Canyon region, west of Dark Canyon, is a remote area featuring
an extensive complex of steep and narrow canyons cut through
light-colored Cedar Mesa Sandstone.  Once used by outlaws to evade
authorities, the area’s slot canyons, including the Black Hole, Fry
Canyon, and Cheesebox Canyon, now draw adventurers in search of
multi-day, technical canyoneering opportunities.  The entire White
Canyon area has a rich paleontological history.  Research in the area is
ongoing, but recent discoveries of track sites in the Triassic Moenkopi
Formation and an assemblage of invertebrate burrows suggest that a
diverse fauna once thrived here.  Mollusks, phytosaurs, and possible
theropod and ornithischian fossils have also been found in White Canyon.

Located between the Abajo Mountains and the Colorado River, the high
plateau of Elk Ridge provides stunning views of the surrounding canyons
and the Bears Ears Buttes to the south.  Visitors passing through the
Notch, a naturally occurring narrow pass between north and south Elk
Ridge, are treated to spectacular vistas of Dark Canyon to the west and
Notch Canyon to the east.  The area’s higher elevations, which contain
pockets of ancient Engelmann spruce, rare stands of old-growth ponderosa
pine, aspen, and subalpine fir, and a genetically distinct population of
Kachina daisy, provide welcome respite from the higher temperatures
found in the region’s lower elevations, especially during the summer.
 There is evidence that indigenous people have hunted and gathered
plants on Elk Ridge for at least 8,000 years, a practice that continues
today and is considered sacred by the Navajo Nation.  Elk Ridge also has
a long history of livestock grazing by Navajo and Ute families and later
Anglo settlers.  While the mesa top is primarily dry, water naturally
occurs at the area’s seeps and springs, as well as the ephemeral Duck
Lake, a seasonal wetland located on top of Elk Ridge that results from
snowmelt.  The upper reaches of the ridge also contain Upper Triassic
formations with a high potential to contain fossils.

To the east of Elk Ridge lies a major system of canyons on National
Forest System lands, including Hammond Canyon, Upper Arch Canyon, Texas
Canyon, and Notch Canyon.  This deeply incised canyon system is composed
of stunning red sandstone walls, white pinnacles, lush green foliage,
and several small waterfalls.  Uniquely, the area also contains large
sandstone towers and hoodoos in a forested setting.  The Hammond Canyon
area, which is central to the history of the White Mesa Utes, contains
numerous Ancestral Pueblo sites, including cliff dwellings.  Hammond
Canyon also contains an Ancestral Pueblo village with structures and
pottery from multiple Ancestral Pueblo periods.  High fossil potential
exists in both the Upper Triassic and Lower Jurassic Glen Canyon
Sandstone of Hammond Canyon’s lower half as well as the Permian Period
Cedar Mesa Sandstone found in its upper half.

Just south of Elk Ridge, Arch Canyon is a 12-mile long box canyon
containing numerous arches, including Cathedral Arch, Angel Arch, and
Keystone Arch.  The area is teeming with fossilized remains, including
numerous specimens from the Permian and Upper Permian eras.  Cliff
dwellings and hanging gardens are located throughout the canyon.  Arch
Canyon Great House, which spans the Pueblo II and III periods and
contains pictographs and petroglyphs ranging from the Archaic to the
historic periods, is located at the canyon’s mouth.  A perennial stream
that provides potential habitat for sensitive fish species and for the
threatened Navajo sedge is located in the canyon’s bottom.

Mule Canyon, a 500-foot deep, 5-mile long chasm, is situated northeast
of the Fish Creek area and southeast of the Bears Ears Buttes.
 Throughout the canyon, cliff dwellings and other archaeological sites
are sheltered by rock walls composed of alternating layers of red and
white sandstone.  Among those are the stunning House on Fire, which has
different masonry styles that indicate several episodes of construction
and use.  The area’s rich archaeological history is also evidenced on
the nearby tablelands, where the Mule Canyon Village site allows
visitors to view the exposed masonry walls of ancient living quarters
and a partially restored kiva.  Recent research suggests that Ancestral
Pueblos in this area may have cultivated a variety of plants that are
uncommon across the wider landscape and persist to this day, such as the
Four Corners potato, goosefoot, wolfberry, and sumac.  Although similar
cultivation may have been occurring near Ancestral Pueblo sites across
the Bears Ears landscape, it appears to have been particularly prevalent
in and around the Mule, South Cottonwood, Dry, Arch, and Owl Canyons.

Tilted at almost 20 degrees and running along a north-south axis from
the foothills of the Abajo Mountains, past the San Juan River, and onto
the Navajo Nation, the serrated cliffs of the Comb Ridge monocline are
visible from space and have both spiritual and practical significance to
many Tribal Nations.  It is in this area that one can find a series of
alcoves in Whiskers Draw that have sheltered evidence of human
habitation for thousands of years, including the site where Richard
Wetherill first identified what we know today as the Basketmaker people,
as well as Milk Ranch Point, where early Ancestral Pueblo farmers found
refuge when the climate turned hotter and dryer at lower elevations.
 Comb Ridge, flanked on the west by Comb Wash and on the east by Butler
Wash, holds additional evidence of centuries of human habitation,
including cliff dwellings, such as the well-known Butler Wash Village
and Monarch Cave, kivas, ceremonial sites, and rock writings, like the
Procession Panel, Wolfman Panel, and Lower Butler Wash Panel, a
wall-sized mural depicting San Juan Anthropomorph figures dating to the
Basketmaker period that is considered important for understanding the
daily life and rituals of the Basketmaker people.  Chacoan roads as well
as the handholds and steps carved into cliff faces found in this area
formed part of the region’s migration system and are integral to the
story of the Bears Ears landscape.  The Comb Ridge area also contains a
rich paleontological history, including an Upper Triassic
microvertebrate site with greater taxonomic diversity than any other
published site of the same nature in Utah, and the earliest recorded
instance of a giant arthropod trackway in Utah.  Paleontologists have
also found phytosaur and dinosaur fossils from the Triassic Period and
have identified new species of plant-eating crocodile-like reptiles and
rich bonebeds of lumbering sauropods in the area.

South Cottonwood Wash is an extensive drainage just east of Comb Ridge
that extends from the Abajo Mountains to the San Juan River near Bluff,
Utah.  The drainage contains at least three great houses as well as a
number of alcove sites, and it has a high density of petroglyphs and
pictographs, including a cave with more than 200 handprints in a variety
of colors.  There is also evidence of a Chacoan road that connected
multiple great houses and kiva sites.  These prehistoric transportation
systems in the Bears Ears region are critical to understanding the
trading patterns, economy, and social organization of ancient Pueblo
communities and the other major cultural centers with whom they
interacted, such as Chaco Canyon.

At the far southern end of the Bears Ears landscape lies Valley of the
Gods, a broad expanse of sandstone monoliths, pinnacles, and other
geological features of historic and scientific interest.  Towering
spires of red sandstone that rise from the valley floor are held sacred
by the Navajo people, who view the formations as ancient warriors frozen
in stone and places of power in which spirits reside.  The austere
valley, which is noteworthy in both its geology and ecology, provides
habitat for *Eucosma navajoensis*, an endemic moth that lives nowhere
else.  The Mars-like landscape also contains evidence of our own
planet’s distant past, including early tetrapod trackways, Paleozoic
freshwater sharks, ray-finned fishes, lobe-finned fishes, giant
primitive amphibians, and multiple unique taxa of mammal-like reptiles.
Paleontologists have also uncovered notable plant macrofossils including
ancestral conifers, giant horsetail-like plants, ferns the size of
trees, and lycopsids (similar to modern clubmoss).

The San Juan River forms the southern boundary of the Bears Ears
landscape.  One of the four sacred rivers that Tribal Nations believe
were established by the gods to act as defensive guardians over their
ancestral lands, the river is closely tied to traditional stories of
creation, danger, protection, and healing.  The Lime Ridge Clovis site
demonstrates that the history of human occupation within the river
corridor dates back at least 13,000 years.  The Sand Island Petroglyph
Panel presents petroglyphs primarily from the Basketmaker through
the Pueblo III periods as well as more modern Navajo and Ute carvings.
 There are also a number of Ancestral Pueblo structures that are
accessible by river, such as River House.  Nearby San Juan Hill was the
last major obstacle for the Hole-in-the-Rock expedition and presents
visible evidence of the weary expedition’s effort to cross Comb Ridge,
including parts of a road, wagon ruts, and an inscription at the top of
the ridge.  The river corridor also contains a number of unique geologic
formations, such as the well-known balancing rock at Mexican Hat, and
provides important habitat for the threatened yellow-billed cuckoo and
the endangered southwestern willow flycatcher.  The river itself is home
to two endangered fish species:  Colorado pikeminnow, the largest minnow
in North America, which is believed to have evolved more than 3 million
years ago, and the razorback sucker, the only member of its genus.

Cedar Mesa is located in the heart of the Bears Ears landscape, west of
Comb Ridge and north of the San Juan River.  Ranging from approximately
4,000 to 6,500 feet in elevation, the approximately 400-square mile
plateau is of deep significance to Tribal Nations.  Characterized by
pinyon-juniper forests on the mesa tops and canyons along its periphery,
the entirety of Cedar Mesa is an object of scientific and historic
interest, providing a broader context for the individual resources found
there.  It is the density of world-class cultural resources found
throughout the remote, sloping plateau and its numerous canyons that
make Cedar Mesa truly unique.  For example, an open-twined yucca fiber
sandal believed to be more than 7,000 years old was discovered in a dry
shelter located in a narrow slickrock canyon in Cedar Mesa.  Moon House
is an example of iconic Pueblo-decorated architecture and was likely the
last occupied site on Cedar Mesa.  On the top of the plateau, Chacoan
roads connect several Ancestral Pueblo great houses that show
architectural influence from the Chaco Canyon region as well as ceramics
that demonstrate both historic and modern Pueblo connections.  And in
the heart of Cedar Mesa, a multi-room, multi-story great house contains
kivas with distinctive Chacoan features that are much larger than kivas
found elsewhere on Cedar Mesa.  Today, Cedar Mesa is home to bighorn
sheep, but fossil evidence in the area’s sandstone has revealed large,
mammal-like reptiles that burrowed into the sand to survive the
blistering heat of the end of the Permian Period, when the region was
dominated by a seaside desert.  Later, during the Upper Triassic Period,
seasonal monsoons flooded an ancient river system that fed a vast desert
here.  Salvation Knoll, a point from which lost Latter-day Saint
pioneers were able to obtain their bearings on Christmas Day in 1879, is
also located in the area.

Cedar Mesa is striated with deep chasms housing remarkably intact
Ancestral Pueblo sites.  John’s Canyon and Slickhorn Canyon, which empty
into the San Juan River in the Glen Canyon National Recreation Area to
the south, contain numerous petroglyphs, pictographs, and Ancestral
Pueblo structures built into elongated alcoves on buff-colored cliffs.
 Similarly, the canyons on the east side of Cedar Mesa hold a
significant density of archaeological sites providing a glimpse into the
region’s past, including rock writings and Ancestral Pueblo dwellings.
 The Citadel cliff dwelling is just one example of the striking
Ancestral Pueblo sites located in Road Canyon, while other sites include
painted handprints and evidence of daily life left by Ancestral Pueblos.
 Located to the north of Road Canyon, the Fish Canyon area contains a
number of Pueblo structures.  The Fish Canyon area also contains one of
the few perennial streams in the area and an important potential habitat
for the Mexican spotted owl. Finally, the rust-colored, 145‑foot span of
Nevills Arch awaits those who make the challenging trek down Owl Canyon.
 Opening to a height of 80 feet and named after Norman Nevills, the
first boatman to take paying customers on the Colorado River through the
Grand Canyon, the arch creates a striking window to the sky on the upper
reaches of the canyon walls.

Grand Gulch, a mostly dry canyon that meanders for nearly 50 miles on
the western edge of Cedar Mesa and is replete with thousands of cliff
dwellings and rock writing sites, likely contains the highest
concentration of Ancestral Pueblo sites on the Colorado Plateau.
 Initially occupied in the Basketmaker II and III periods, Grand Gulch’s
initial inhabitants left pictographs and constructed shallow pithouses
and camps on the mesa top and dry shelters for storage.  One pictograph
dating from this time period depicting two large, anthropomorphic
figures is of special religious significance to Tribal Nations.  Grand
Gulch also contains a multitude of Pueblo II to III sites and was one of
the first prehistoric national historic districts designated on the
National Register of Historic Places.  The area contains the Turkey Pen
site, which is believed to provide some of the earliest evidence of
turkey domestication in North America, a pristine kiva in a remote
canyon bend, and countless other unique Pueblo structures, such as
Junction Village, a large Pueblo habitation site; Split Level Village, a
multi-level Pueblo habitation; and Bannister House, a habitation
consisting of two relatively intact structures and a spring at the base
of the cliff face. Grand Gulch also contains unique artifacts, such as a
tattoo needle, a site containing a multichromatic pictograph of a mask,
important historic archaeological inscriptions from the Wetherill
expedition, and a multitude of other rock writings.

Kane Gulch is a tributary canyon of Grand Gulch incised through Cedar
Mesa Sandstone and clogged with house-sized boulders.  The canyon houses
an aspen grove — an uncommon occurrence at such elevations in the desert
— and contains a number of archaeological sites that are perched on
canyon walls high above cottonwood trees that provide welcomed shade to
the riparian areas in the canyon bottom.  Nearby, Bullet Canyon, which
intersects with the upper reaches of Grand Gulch, also holds numerous
structures, petroglyphs, pictographs, and other artifacts, such as the
well-preserved Perfect Kiva — a partly restored kiva, accompanied by
several rooms and other smaller structures.

To the west of Cedar Mesa, the Clay Hills, Red House Cliffs, and Mike’s
Canyon form the southwest corner of the Bears Ears landscape.  This
remote and rarely visited area remains largely unstudied by scientists.
 Tool- and arrowhead-making sites, dwellings, and granaries in the lower
reaches of the canyons indicate that they sustained Archaic,
Basketmaker, and Ancestral Pueblo cultures.  The area’s unforgiving
topography, composed of expansive stretches of slickrock periodically
interrupted by deep canyons, challenged Latter-day Saint settlers that
traveled along the Hole-in-the-Rock Trail and left wheel ruts and other
traces of pioneer life.  The harsh ecosystem still supports a herd of
desert bighorn sheep throughout the year, and in the canyon bottoms,
including Mike’s Canyon, intrepid beavers can be found in small areas of
riparian habitat.  The Clay Hills area contains the first discovery of
vertebrate fossils from the Bears Ears region, which was also the first
occurrence of a phytosaur identified in Utah.

Standing alone west of Cedar Mesa and adjacent to the Glen Canyon
National Recreation Area, Mancos Mesa is likely the largest isolated
slickrock mesa in southern Utah. Covering approximately 180 square
miles, Mancos Mesa’s roughly triangular shape is bounded by towering
cliffs, some reaching more than 1,000 feet high. The entire area is
dominated by Navajo Sandstone and is incised with canyons, including
Moqui Canyon, a 20-mile canyon with sheer walls rising over 600 feet.
The mesa, an ecological island in the sky, contains a relict plant
community that supports Native perennial grasses, shrubs, and some
cacti. Mancos Mesa also contains archaeological remains dating back
2,000 years and spanning across the Basketmaker II and III and Pueblo I,
II, and III periods. 

Protection of the Bears Ears area will preserve its spiritual, cultural,
prehistoric, and historic legacy and maintain its diverse array of
natural and scientific resources, ensuring that the prehistoric,
historic, and scientific values of this area remain for the benefit of
all Americans. For more than 100 years, and sometimes predating the
enactment of the Antiquities Act, Presidents, Members of Congress,
Secretaries of the Interior, Tribal Nations, State and local
governments, scientists, and local conservationists have understood and
championed the need to protect the Bears Ears area. The area contains
numerous objects of historic and scientific interest and also includes
other resources that contribute to the social and economic well-being of
the area’s modern communities as a result of world-class outdoor
recreation opportunities, including unparalleled rock climbing available
at places like the canyons in Indian Creek; the paradise for hikers,
birders, and horseback riders provided in areas like the canyons east of
Elk Ridge; and other destinations for hunting, backpacking,
canyoneering, whitewater rafting, and mountain biking, that are
important to the increasing travel- and tourism-based economy in the
region.

WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (known as the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

WHEREAS, Proclamation 9558 of December 28, 2016, designated the Bears
Ears National Monument in the State of Utah and reserved approximately
1.35 million acres of Federal lands as the smallest area compatible with
the proper care and management of the objects of historic and scientific
interest declared part of the monument; and

WHEREAS, Proclamation 9681 of December 4, 2017, modified the management
direction of the Bears Ears National Monument and modified the
boundaries to add approximately 11,200 new acres of Federal lands, and
the objects of historic and scientific interest contained therein, and
to exclude more than 1.1 million acres of Federal lands from the
reservation, including lands containing objects of historic and
scientific interest identified as needing protection in Proclamation
9558, such as Valley of the Gods, Hideout Canyon, portions of the San
Juan River and Abajo Mountains, genetically distinct populations of
Kachina daisy, and the *Eucosma navajoensis* moth; and

WHEREAS, December 4, 2017, was the first time that a President asserted
that the Antiquities Act included the authority to reduce the boundaries
of a national monument or remove objects from protection under the
Antiquities Act since passage of the Federal Land Policy and Management
Act of 1976, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.); and

WHEREAS, the entire Bears Ears landscape is profoundly sacred to
sovereign Tribal Nations and indigenous people of the southwest region
of the United States; and

WHEREAS, I find that the unique nature of the Bears Ears landscape, and
the collection of objects and resources therein, make the entire
landscape within the boundaries reserved by this proclamation an object
of historic and scientific interest in need of protection under 54
U.S.C. 320301; and

WHEREAS, I find that all the historic and scientific resources
identified above and in Proclamation 9558 are objects of historic or
scientific interest in need of protection under 54 U.S.C. 320301; and

WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in this
proclamation; and

WHEREAS, I find, in the absence of a reservation under the Antiquities
Act, the objects identified in this proclamation and in Proclamation
9558 are not adequately protected by otherwise applicable law or
administrative designations because neither provide Federal agencies
with the specific mandate to ensure proper care and management of the
objects, nor do they withdraw the lands from the operation of the public
land, mining, and mineral leasing laws; thus a national monument
reservation is necessary to protect the objects of historic and
scientific interest in the Bears Ears region for current and future
generations; and

WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by this
proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the protection
of the objects of scientific or historic interest as required by the
Antiquities Act; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of scientific and historic
interest on the Bears Ears region, including the entire monument
landscape, reserved within the boundaries of the Bears Ears National
Monument, as established by this proclamation;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of title 54,
United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified above and in
Proclamation 9558 that are situated upon lands and interests in lands
owned or controlled by the Federal Government to be the Bears Ears
National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of protecting those
objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands not
currently reserved as part of a monument reservation and that are owned
or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries described
on the accompanying map, which is attached to and forms a part of this
proclamation.  These reserved Federal lands and interests in lands
consist of those lands reserved as part of the Bears Ears National
Monument as of December 3, 2017, and the approximately 11,200 acres
added by Proclamation 9681, encompassing approximately 1.36 million
acres.  As a result of the distribution of the objects across the Bears
Ears landscape, and additionally and independently, because the
landscape itself is an object in need of protection, the boundaries
described on the accompanying map are confined to the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and management of the objects of
historic or scientific interest identified above and in Proclamation
9558.

All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of the
monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of entry,
location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public land
laws or laws applicable to the United States Forest Service (USFS), from
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from disposition
under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing, other than by
exchange that furthers the protective purposes of the monument.

This proclamation is subject to valid existing rights.  If the Federal
Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests in lands not
currently owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the
boundaries described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests
in lands shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and objects
identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests in
lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.

The Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of the Interior
(Secretaries) shall manage the monument through the USFS and the Bureau
of Land Management (BLM), respectively, in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and management direction provided by this proclamation and,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, those provided by
Proclamation 9558, the latter of which are incorporated herein by
reference.  The USFS shall manage that portion of the monument within
the boundaries of the National Forest System (NFS), and the BLM shall
manage the remainder of the monument.  The lands administered by the
USFS shall be managed as part of the Manti-La Sal National Forest.  The
lands administered by the BLM shall be managed as a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System.  To the extent any provision of
Proclamation 9681 is inconsistent with this proclamation or Proclamation
9558, the terms of this proclamation and Proclamation 9558 shall govern.
 To further the orderly management of monument lands, the monument will
be jointly managed as a single unit consisting of the entire 1.36
million-acre monument.

For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified above
and in Proclamation 9558, the Secretaries shall jointly prepare and
maintain a new management plan for the entire monument and shall
promulgate such regulations for its management as they deem appropriate.
 The Secretaries, through the USFS and BLM, shall consult with other
Federal land management agencies or agency components in the local area,
including the National Park Service, in developing the management plan.
 In promulgating any management rules and regulations governing the NFS
lands within the monument and developing the management plan, the
Secretary of Agriculture, through the USFS, shall consult with the
Secretary of the Interior, through the BLM.  The Secretaries shall
provide for maximum public involvement in the development of that plan,
including consultation with federally recognized Tribes and State and
local governments.  In the development and implementation of the
management plan, the Secretaries shall maximize opportunities, pursuant
to applicable legal authorities, for shared resources, operational
efficiency, and cooperation.

In recognition of the importance of knowledge of Tribal Nations about
these lands and objects and participation in the care and management of
the objects identified above, and to ensure that management decisions
affecting the monument reflect expertise and traditional and historical
knowledge of Tribal Nations, a Bears Ears Commission (Commission) is
reestablished in accordance with the terms, conditions, and obligations
set forth in Proclamation 9558 to provide guidance and recommendations
on the development and implementation of management plans and on
management of the entire monument.

To further the protective purposes of the monument, the Secretary of the
Interior shall explore entering into a memorandum of understanding with
the State of Utah that would set forth terms, pursuant to applicable
laws and regulations, for an exchange of land owned by the State of Utah
and administered by the Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands
Administration within the boundary of the monument for land
of approximately equal value managed by the BLM outside the boundary of
the monument. Consolidation of lands within the monument boundary
through exchange in this manner provides for the orderly management of
public lands and is in the public interest.

The Secretaries shall manage livestock grazing as authorized under
existing permits or leases, and subject to appropriate terms and
conditions in accordance with existing laws and regulations, consistent
with the care and management of the objects identified above and in
Proclamation 9558.  Should grazing permits or leases be voluntarily
relinquished by existing holders, the Secretaries shall retire from
livestock grazing the lands covered by such permits or leases pursuant
to the processes of applicable law.  Forage shall not be reallocated for
livestock grazing purposes unless the Secretaries specifically find that
such reallocation will advance the purposes of this proclamation and
Proclamation 9558.

Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate,
injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and not to locate
or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
