---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-18'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/18/proclamation-on-the-death-of-general-colin-powell/
published_time: 2021-10-18 13:18:08-04:00
title: "Proclamation on the Death of General Colin\_Powell"
---
 
     General Colin Powell was a patriot of unmatched honor and dignity.
 The son of immigrants, born in New York City, raised in Harlem and the
South Bronx, a graduate of the City College of New York, he rose to the
highest ranks of the United States military and to advise four
Presidents.  He believed in the promise of America because he lived it.
 And he devoted much of his life to making that promise a reality for so
many others.  He embodied the highest ideals of both warrior and
diplomat.  He led with his personal commitment to the democratic values
that make our country strong.  He repeatedly broke racial barriers,
blazing a trail for others to follow, and was committed throughout his
life to investing in the next generation of leadership.  Colin Powell
was a good man who I was proud to call my friend, and he will be
remembered in history as one of our great Americans.

As a mark of respect for General Powell and his life of service to our
Nation, I hereby order, by the authority vested in me as President
of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the
United States of America, that the flag of the United States shall be
flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and
grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval
vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and
throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions until
sunset on October 22, 2021.  I also direct that the flag shall be flown
at half-staff for the same length of time at all United States
embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad,
including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
