---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-22'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/22/a-proclamation-on-united-nations-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-22 10:05:57-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on United Nations Day,\_2021"
---
 
Seventy-six years ago, emerging from the ashes of a devastating World
War, countries around the world embarked on a shared mission:  creating
a rules-based international order, grounded in democratic values, to
advance universal human rights, promote the peaceful settlement of
disputes, and ensure adherence to international law.  The United Nations
was — and remains — the cornerstone of that international order,
contributing to unmatched strides towards peace and prosperity shared
around the world.  Our collective resolve, expressed in the United
Nations Charter, remains to uphold our “faith in fundamental human
rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal
rights of men and women and of nations large and small.”  On United
Nations Day, we celebrate the achievements of this bold declaration,
reaffirm the inherent humanity that unites us, and renew our commitment
to building a future that advances peace, dignity, and security for
all. 

Today, we stand in a moment of great pain and extraordinary
possibility.  Globally, nearly 5 million lives have been lost due to the
COVID-19 pandemic, climate catastrophes continue to ravage our
communities, inequalities and inequities are on the rise, democracy is
under threat, and abuses of emerging technologies are destabilizing
societies.  Yet we also have new tools and new opportunities to rebuild
a better world that is safer and freer for generations yet to come.  It
is clear that these global challenges require global cooperation, and
the United States is determined to lead alongside our allies and
partners to tackle the most pressing issues of our age.  The United
Nations remains the most important forum of its kind for mobilizing
collective action to resolve global problems, maintain international
peace and security, advance human rights, promote health and well-being,
protect the vulnerable and marginalized, and sustain a rules-based
international order.  As the largest financial contributor to the United
Nations, the United States has a deep stake in strengthening and
modernizing the multilateral system to better enable us to meet the
challenges of the 21st century. 

The United Nations remains critical to advancing our national security
and foreign policy interests.  Since I took office, my Administration
has rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement, launched a campaign for a seat
on the United Nations Human Rights Council, and restored United States
membership in and funding for the World Health Organization.  Because
none of us will be safe until all of us are safe, the United States is
providing over $15 billion toward the global COVID-19 response and has
delivered more than 190 million doses of the COVID-19 vaccine to nations
around the world, including our COVAX donations.  To date, we have
pledged to donate more than 1.2 billion doses of the COVID-19 vaccine,
and we will continue to think big and do what we must to lead the world
out of this pandemic.  To ensure that the United Nations can play
its central role in delivering global solutions for today’s challenges,
my budget proposal calls for the United States to pay its share of the
United Nations’ annual regular and peacekeeping budgets in full.  With
these key contributions, we are making clear to the world that America
is committed to fulfilling its historic role and responsibility to
safeguard and strengthen the rules-based order. 

We are at an inflection point in history.  The choices we make in the
next few years — whether or not we come together to face our greatest
global challenges — will determine our future for decades to come. The
United States stands firmly in support of the United Nations and will
continue to rally the world to action not just with the example of our
power but with the power of our example.  Let us remember that our
determination and faith in a better future laid the groundwork for the
creation of the United Nations 76 years ago.  Now, in a new century, we
must work with allies and partners to strengthen the United Nations to
effectively and efficiently tackle the challenges that defy political
borders and geographical boundaries today.  Tremendous work lies ahead
of us, but we all share the responsibility to recommit ourselves to the
original vision and values enshrined in the United Nations Charter:
 freedom, equality, opportunity, and human dignity.  By doing so, we can
build back a better world and ensure America’s lasting leadership on the
world stage.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 24, 2021,
as United Nations Day.  I urge the Governors of the United States and
its Territories, and the officials of all other areas under the flag of
the United States, to observe United Nations Day with appropriate
ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day
of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
