---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-15'
modified_time: 2021-10-15 10:26:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/15/a-proclamation-on-national-forest-products-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-15 10:26:41-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Forest Products Week,\_2021"
---
 
For thousands of years, humans have relied on forests for food, fuel,
shelter, and medicine among other important uses.  Today, forests
support the livelihoods of people across the globe, providing jobs
and an economic base for families and communities.  In the
United States, our forests are vital to our Nation, our people, and our
economy.  They provide wildlife habitat, clean air and water, and
renewable materials and energy for the benefit of Americans.  Forests
also provide Americans countless opportunities for recreation and
relaxation, and they remain vital for ceremonies and cultural practices
long held by Tribal Nations.  During National Forest Products Week, we
celebrate the wealth of products and benefits our forests provide, and
we recommit ourselves to wisely and sustainably stewarding them to meet
our Nation’s needs today and long into the future.

While celebrating our forests, we must also acknowledge they are under
duress.  Climate change threatens our forests by increasing the severity
and frequency of wildfires, droughts, floods, and extreme
temperatures.  My Administration is committed to confronting the climate
crisis and the associated challenges facing our forests, including those
stemming from biodiversity loss, extreme weather, and insect and disease
outbreaks.  That is why my Administration launched the “America the
Beautiful” initiative with the goal of bringing Americans together to
conserve at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030.  This
initiative elevates forest restoration as a way to create jobs while
also reducing the threat of catastrophic wildfires, restoring ecosystem
function, and fighting the climate crisis.  This ambitious goal will
drive us forward to meet the urgent challenges we face in maintaining
the health, diversity, and productivity of our forests. 

Our forests and the many ecosystem services and wood products they
provide are key elements in securing an environmentally sustainable
economy.  My Administration will continue to advance community-driven
conservation and restoration initiatives that will create good jobs —
especially in low-income and rural communities — and generate economic
growth.  My Administration is also supporting business opportunities
that advance forest conservation and create jobs by expanding markets
for innovative forest products through Federal programs such as the
United States Department of Agriculture Forest Service Wood Innovations
and Community Wood grant programs.  We are proposing investments in
sustainable and innovative uses for wood waste materials to produce
advanced biofuels, biochar, heat, and power — including through
sustainable aviation fuels and other sustainable biofuels.  These
programs have the potential to support increased connections between the
health of our forests, economic opportunity, and the production of
valuable renewable energy. 

To recognize the importance of the many products generated from our
Nation’s forests, the Congress, by Public Law 86–753 (36 U.S.C. 123), as
amended, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in
October of each year as “National Forest Products Week” and has
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in
observance of this week.  As part of National Forest Products Week, let
us rededicate ourselves to working together across public, Tribal, and
private lands to sustain the ability of America’s forests to continue to
provide the multitude of benefits that will enhance our lives for
generations to come.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 17 through
October 23, 2021, as National Forest Products Week.  I call upon the
people of the United States to join me in this observance and in
recognizing all Americans who are responsible for the stewardship of our
Nation’s beautiful, forested landscapes.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fifteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
