---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 12:38:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/01/a-proclamation-on-national-community-policing-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-01 12:37:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Community Policing Week,\_2021"
---
 
Community policing — the practice of law enforcement professionals
working side-by-side with members of their communities to keep
neighborhoods safe — is a critical and proven tool used by law
enforcement agencies across our Nation to improve public safety and
forge strong, valuable relationships.  During National Community
Policing Week, we recommit to building bonds of trust between our law
enforcement officers and the communities they serve and encourage
community policing practices across our Nation.

America’s law enforcement officers play an essential role in protecting
our communities and enforcing our laws.  Every time an officer pins on
their badge and walks out their front door, the loved ones they wave
goodbye to are forced to wonder if they will return home safely.  This
week and every week, we recognize the bravery and dedication of our
peace officers who put themselves on the line each and every day to
protect and serve their communities. 

We also recognize the role that all community members play in advancing
public safety.  As our country continues to reckon with a long and
painful history of systemic racism — as well as the ongoing challenges
of social and economic injustice, the COVID-19 pandemic, mental illness,
homelessness, and substance abuse — we must think broadly,
conscientiously, and creatively about the future of effective policing
and how to foster strong police-community partnerships.  Evidence and
experience tell us that strong neighborhood relationships, the use of
problem-solving to address crime systematically, and improvements to
policy and training — key tenets of community policing — are all tools
that help make our communities safer.  My Administration is using
programs such as the Department of Justice’s Project Safe Neighborhoods
to bring together law enforcement and community stakeholders in an
effort to develop local solutions to help prevent violent crime.

I have long been an advocate for community policing, just as my late son
Beau was when he served as Attorney General of Delaware — because he
knew, as I know, that it works.  It is especially important now, as
State and local governments across the country continue to climb back
from the once-in-a-century economic crisis triggered by COVID-19 last
year.  With their budgets decimated, countless communities were forced
to cut essential services in 2020, including law enforcement and social
services, just as a second public health epidemic of gun violence
threatened the safety of their cities and towns.  To help keep our
communities safe, my Administration has provided local leaders with
guidance on how American Rescue Plan funds can be used to help reduce
violent crime and ensure public safety.  I am also committed to
investing in mental health services, drug treatment and prevention
programs, services for people experiencing homelessness, and community
violence intervention.  Community violence intervention programs are
vital to preventing violence before it occurs, and they have a proven
track record of reducing crime by up to 60 percent in cities across our
Nation. 

My Administration is also working to ensure that police departments have
the resources they need to serve their communities safely and
effectively.  Communities experiencing a surge in gun violence can make
use of $350 billion in State and local funding included in the American
Rescue Plan to hire law enforcement officers and advance community
policing strategies.  I have also proposed an additional $300 million in
my budget for next year to support community policing across our
country.  As I seek that additional funding, the Office of Community
Oriented Policing Services at the Department of Justice will continue to
provide grants for community policing pilot projects and hiring local
police officers — including funding prioritization for officers who will
live in the communities they serve.  These new resources will allow
departments to implement community policing strategies and strengthen
police-community partnerships.

At its core, community policing is about building trust and mutual
respect between police and communities — important goals that can only
be reached when we have accountability and faith in our justice system.
 That’s why I strongly support the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act,
which would deliver meaningful accountability, improved transparency,
and the resources necessary to support community policing and build
trust between law enforcement and the communities they serve.  Although
that bill is not yet law, my Administration will continue to consult
with the law enforcement and civil rights communities to achieve reforms
that advance safety, dignity, and equal justice for all Americans. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 3 through
October 9, 2021, as National Community Policing Week.  I call upon law
enforcement agencies, elected officials, and all Americans to observe
this week by recognizing ways to improve public safety, build trust, and
strengthen community relationships.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
