---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 17:02:13-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-grand-staircase-escalante-national-monument/
published_time: 2021-10-08 16:12:00-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument
---
 
President Clinton’s designation of the Grand Staircase-Escalante
National Monument in Proclamation 6920 of September 18, 1996, was a
watershed moment for conservation in the United States.  Proclamation
6920 represents the first time a President designated a national
monument under the Antiquities Act to be managed by the Bureau of Land
Management, signaling the dawn of the modern era of Antiquities Act
protection and a reawakening of conservation efforts on public lands in
the West.

Proclamation 6920 describes the rich mosaic of objects of historic and
scientific interest across Grand Staircase-Escalante.  Proclamation 6920
details the monument’s varied geology, from the cliffs of the Grand
Staircase in the west, to the fossil-rich formations in the Kaiparowits
Plateau that demonstrate billions of years of geology infused with
world-class paleontological sites, to the badlands of the Burning Hills
in the center, to the intricate and complex system of canyons in the
Escalante region in the east. The proclamation goes on to describe the
area’s rich human history, spanning from the indigenous people and
cultures who made this area home to Anglo-American explorers and early
Latter-day Saint pioneers.  The proclamation further identifies
outstanding biological resources, describing the monument as “in the
heart of perhaps the richest floristic region in the Intermountain
West,” spanning five life zones and supporting diverse, rare, and
endemic populations of plants and a diversity of animals, as well as
unusual and diverse soils that support communities of mosses, lichens,
and cyanobacteria.  In addition, the proclamation describes the vast
opportunities for additional scientific research and discovery within
the monument.  Grand Staircase-Escalante has become the focus of a
multi-disciplinary study of its large landscape for the benefit of
current and future generations.

After the monument was established, the Congress adjusted the boundaries
or ratified the acquisition of additional lands within the monument on
three separate occasions, in some cases adding lands, in other cases
subtracting lands.  When the Congress had completed its fine-tuning, it
had increased the monument’s reservation by more than 180,000 acres,
bringing the total Federal lands within the monument boundaries to
approximately 1.87 million acres.

Remarkably, given its size, in the 25 years since its designation, Grand
Staircase-Escalante has fulfilled the vision of an outdoor laboratory
with great potential for diverse and significant scientific discoveries.
 During this period, hundreds of scientific studies and projects have
been conducted within the monument, including investigating how the
monument’s geology provides insight into the hydrology of Mars;
discovering many previously unknown species of dinosaurs, some of which
have become household names; unearthing some of the oldest marsupial
fossils ever identified; conducting extensive inventories of
invertebrates, including the identification of more than 600 species of
bees, some of which likely exist nowhere else on Earth; performing
hydrologic research in the Escalante River and Deer Creek; studying and
restoring habitat for amphibians, mammals, and bird species, including
the reintroduction of bighorn sheep and pronghorn to their native range;
completing rangeland science assessments, including a complete Level III
soils survey; carrying out widespread archaeological surveys that have
documented important sites and rock writings; and implementing social
science projects related to visitor experiences and impacts.  New
scientific discoveries are likely just around the corner; for example,
scientists have collected thousands of specimens of invertebrates from
the monument that await further study and are expected to yield new
species that are endemic to the monument.  Scientists have utilized
every corner of the monument in their efforts to better understand our
environment, our history, our planet’s past, and our place in the
universe.

On December 4, 2017, President Donald Trump issued Proclamation 9682 to
reduce the monument by over 860,000 acres.  Proclamation 9682 removes
protection from objects of historic and scientific interest across the
Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape, including some resources
Proclamation 6920 specifically identifies for protection.  Multiple
parties challenged Proclamation 9682 in Federal court, asserting that
it exceeded the President’s authority under the Antiquities Act.

Restoring the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument to its size
and boundaries as they existed prior to December 4, 2017, will ensure
that this exceptional and inimitable landscape filled with an
unparalleled diversity of resources will be properly protected and will
continue to provide the living laboratory that has produced so many
dramatic discoveries in the first quarter century of its existence.
Given the unique nature of the objects identified across the Grand
Staircase-Escalante landscape, the threat of damage and destruction to
those objects, and the current inadequate protection they are afforded,
a reservation of this size is the smallest area compatible with the
proper care and management of the objects of historic and scientific
interest named in this proclamation and Proclamation 6920.

The entire Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape — stretching from
Skutumpah Terrace and the escarpments of the Grand Staircase in the
west, Nipple Bench, Smoky Mountain, the Burning Hills, Grand Bench, the
East and West Clark Benches, and Buckskin Mountain in the south, the
Hole-in-the-Rock Trail that runs through the Escalante Desert, Upper
Escalante Canyons, and Circle Cliffs in the northeast, and Alvey Wash
and the Blues in the north — is an object of historic and scientific
interest requiring protection under the Antiquities Act.  There are
innumerable objects of historic or scientific interest within this
extraordinary landscape.  Some of the objects are also sacred to Tribal
Nations, rare, fragile, or vulnerable to vandalism and theft, or are
dangerous to visit and, therefore, revealing their specific names and
locations could pose a danger to the objects or the public.

High, rugged, and remote, the vast and austere Grand Staircase-Escalante
landscape is characterized by bold plateaus and multihued cliffs that
run for distances that defy human perspective.  It is also home to
world-famous slot canyons that are so deep and narrow that sunlight
almost never penetrates their ultimate depths, and pools of numbingly
cold water remain throughout the hottest months.  Despite being the last
place in the contiguous United States to be mapped and remaining a
remote and primitive landscape to this day, the Grand
Staircase-Escalante area has a long and dignified human history.  The
landscape teems with evidence of the efforts expended by both indigenous
people and early Anglo pioneers to carve existences into an arid and
unforgiving region.  The Grand Staircase-Escalante region retains the
frontier character of the American West, providing visitors with an
opportunity to experience a remote landscape rich with opportunities for
adventure and self-discovery.  It is unique and rare in today’s world to
encounter a place where one can wander and ponder undisturbed, and
explore and discover at one’s own pace.  It also serves as an outdoor
laboratory on the frontier of scientific research that continues to
regularly reveal important insights into our planet and our past.

The Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape is a geologic treasure of
clearly exposed stratigraphy and structures.  The sedimentary rock
layers are relatively undeformed and unobscured by vegetation, offering
a clear view to understanding the Earth’s geological development.  Owing
in large part to the exposure of so many formations, the landscape is
one of the world’s great paleontological laboratories.  From remarkable
specimens of petrified wood, to the most continuous record of Late
Cretaceous life, to the first evidence that tyrannosaurs hunted in
packs, to marble-like iron oxide concretions found in Navajo Sandstone
that provide insight into Martian geology, the ongoing discoveries on
the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape continue to make invaluable
contributions to our understanding of the planet’s past. Despite the
abundance of paleontological discoveries that have occurred on the
landscape, and the wealth of information they have provided about the
entire Mesozoic Era, it is likely that we have thus far uncovered only a
fragment of Grand Staircase-Escalante’s paleontological story.

Rich in human history, the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape abounds
in evidence of habitation by the Ancestral Pueblo and Fremont cultures.
 Tribal Nations, including the Hopi Tribe, the Kaibab Band of Paiute
Indians, the Navajo Nation, the Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, the San
Juan Southern Paiute Tribe of Arizona, the Pueblo of Acoma, the Pueblo
of San Felipe, the Pueblo of Tesuque, and the Pueblo of Zuni, have
ancestral, cultural, or historical ties to this area and continue to use
the area to this day.  The Southern Paiute people in particular hold
these lands sacred as they make up a portion of their traditional
homeland.  The landscape has also played an important role in European
settlement of the American West.  In 1776, the Dominguez-Escalante
expedition may have passed through the region, and subsequent travelers
on the Armijo Route of the Old Spanish Trail journeyed up the Paria
River, through Cottonwood Canyon and the Cockscomb, and to the west
through Kimball Valley and along parts of Telegraph Flat below the
Vermillion Cliffs.  The John Wesley Powell expedition created some of
the earliest maps of the area in 1872, and later that decade, Latter-day
Saint pioneers literally etched portions of the Hole-in-the-Rock Trail
across the desert in their efforts to settle southern Utah.

The landscape is also an outstanding biological resource.  As a result
of the blending of warm and cold desert flora and the high number of
endemic species, the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape, which contains
50 percent of Utah’s rare flora and 125 species of plants that occur
only in Utah or on the Colorado Plateau, is one of the most
floristically rich regions in the Intermountain West.  An abundance of
unique, isolated plant communities can be found, such as hanging
gardens, tinajas, and rock crevice, canyon bottom, and dunal pocket
communities.  Large expanses of various exposed geologic strata, each
with unique physical and chemical characteristics, have resulted in a
spectacular array of unusual and diverse soils, including desert
pavement and biological soil crusts, which support a wide range of
vegetative communities, such as relict plant communities that have
existed since the Pleistocene, and a multitude of endemic plants and
pollinators.  For example, lands within the Grand Staircase-Escalante
landscape contain an astounding biodiversity of bees due, in large part,
to the substantial elevational gradient, diversity of habitats, and
abundance of flowering plants.  The area is home to hundreds of bee
species, including dozens of species that are believed to be unique to
this landscape.  Many of the species found in the Grand
Staircase-Escalante region are highly localized, with small populations
occurring in only a few locations or near certain flowering plants.
 Wildlife also flourishes; from mountain lion, bear, pronghorn, and
desert bighorn sheep, to hundreds of species of birds, the landscape’s
location and the great variation in its elevation and topography have
created a unique environment where suitable habitat exists for species
associated with multiple eco-regions.

The Grand Staircase-Escalante’s large, isolated, and, at times,
impenetrable landscape is one of the most naturally dark outdoor spaces
left in America, providing views of the cosmos that are nearly unrivaled
in the contiguous United States, and an opportunity for visitors to
encounter a landscape at night, undisturbed by electric lights, in the
same way people have experienced the West for most of America’s history.
 According to recent research, over 90 percent of the landscape, or
nearly 1.7 million acres, contains pristine night skies, meaning that
observers would see no indication of artificial skyglow anywhere in the
night sky.  Only natural sources of light are visible to the human eye,
such as starlight, airglow, aurora, and zodiacal light.  Comparatively,
less than one third of the land area of the United States regularly
experiences this degree of natural darkness, and most of that land
is located in Alaska.  The Grand Staircase-Escalante area also provides
a remarkable natural soundscape with infrequent human-caused sounds.
 From popular recreational destinations to remote, isolated locations,
acoustic baseline research has found that some of the quietest
conditions found in protected areas across the United States can be
found in the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape.

The Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape is akin to a nesting doll of
objects of historic and scientific interest.  The landscape as a whole
is an important object that provides context for each of its constituent
parts.  Within the whole are distinct and unique areas, which are
themselves objects qualifying for protection.  In turn, each of those
areas contain innumerable individual fossils, archaeological sites, rare
species, and other objects that are independently of historic
or scientific interest and require protection under the Antiquities Act.

Located in the northeast corner of the Grand Staircase-Escalante
landscape adjacent to Capitol Reef National Park is the Circle Cliffs
area, which is dominated by a northwest-trending sandstone anticline and
dramatic red sandstone cliffs. The area also encompasses several sky
islands, including Studhorse Peaks, Colt Mesa, and Deer Point, the
latter of which provides exquisite views of Waterpocket Fold — a
stunning fold in the area’s geologic layers that is the central feature
of Capitol Reef National Park. The ecologically intact region provides
important winter habitat for elk and contains a significant number of
cultural sites used by Ancestral Pueblos and the Fremont. Specimens of
petrified wood can be found across the Circle Cliffs area, including in
the well-known Wolverine Petrified Wood Area, which includes some
largely intact logs nearly 100 feet in length. Additionally, the Circle
Cliffs landscape is rich in paleontological resources. The area, with
geology dating back to the Triassic and Permian Periods, contains at
least 45 known paleontological sites, including one in which a nearly
complete articulated skeleton of Poposaurus — a rare bipedal crocodilian
from the Late Triassic Period — was found. The Circle Cliffs landscape
also contains portions of the Burr Trail, a route originally blazed by
stockman John Atlantic Burr that is now a Utah Scenic Backway offering
remarkable views of the Waterpocket Fold, the Henry Mountains, and the
Boulder Mountain area of the Aquarius Plateau.

West of the Circle Cliffs and bisected by the Escalante River is the
awe-inspiring Upper Escalante Canyons landscape.  In this region, vivid
geological features are laid bare in narrow, serpentine canyons, where
erosion has exposed rolling expanses of petrified dunes and rock
striations in shades of red, salmon, white, buff, and rust.  The area’s
resources are almost too numerous to name.  There are natural bridges
and arches, such as Maverick Natural Bridge and Phipps Arch, the
130-foot tall Escalante Natural Bridge, and Bowington Arch; a large and
unusual circular erosional sandstone formation that has sparked the
public’s imagination, as evidenced by its many names, including the
Cosmic Navel; and several world-class slot canyons that draw adventurers
from the world over, such as the Dry Fork of Coyote Gulch, Brimstone
Canyon, Peek-a-boo Canyon, Spooky Gulch, Zebra and Tunnel Slot Canyons,
and the Egypt Slots.  The Escalante Canyons landscape also contains a
high density of Fremont prehistoric sites, such as pithouses, villages,
and storage cysts.  The area’s many canyons contain a world-class
density and variety of Fremont, Ancestral Pueblo, and Southern Paiute
rock writings, including a panel that is particularly meaningful to
Tribal Nations with ancestral and historical ties to the area and
another panel containing polychromatic depictions of long, linear
figures that may date back to the Archaic period.  The Escalante Canyons
landscape also contains many inscriptions left by early settlers of
European descent and significant historic sites telling tales of the
region’s more recent past, such as the Boulder Mail Trail, which was
used to ferry mail between the small desert outpost towns of Escalante
and Boulder beginning in 1902.  The Boulder Mail Trail intersects
incredibly scenic canyons that empty into the Escalante River. The
narrow sandstone walls of Sand Creek shade a perennial stream that
meanders through cool pools and supports riparian habitat and hanging
gardens.  Perennial flows are also found in Death Hollow, a stunning
canyon chiseled into yellow and white Navajo Sandstone that is narrow
and extraordinarily deep in its upper reaches before transitioning near
the Boulder Mail Trail into a wider canyon dotted with ponderosa pine
and riparian habitat.  As a result of the abundance of water in
tributaries of the Escalante River, as well as various seeps and
springs, the Escalante Canyons area is dotted with hanging gardens,
tinajas, and riparian vegetation that provide oases of sorts in an
otherwise arid environment.  The area is distilled to its essence in
Calf Creek Canyon, the home of towering Navajo Sandstone cliffs, lush
vegetation, cultural sites, and a perennial stream with two waterfalls:
 a slender 88-foot plunge in the upper part of the canyon, and a
126-foot cascade farther downstream that is one of the more elegant
waterfalls in the entire Southwest.  The upper part of the watershed is
strewn with black basalt boulders and expanses of iron concretion
sheets.

To the southeast of the Upper Escalante Canyons, adjacent to Capitol
Reef National Park and Glen Canyon National Recreation Area, is a region
with a rich pioneer history that functions as a gateway to the many slot
canyons and arches near the Escalante River.  Traversing the area is the
historically significant Hole-in-the-Rock Road, which generally follows
the route that Latter-day Saint pioneers constructed between 1879 and
1880 when crossing southern Utah to establish a wagon route between
Escalante and southeast Utah settlements.  Today, the road provides
access to many of the landscape’s resources, including Devil’s Garden,
an area with hoodoos, colorful rock formations, and unique sandstone
arches like the impressively delicate Metate Arch; the small but
attractive Little Jumbo Arch; the widely photographed Sunrise and Sunset
arches; and Chimney Rock, a remote, lonely sandstone pillar that seems
to defy its otherwise flat surroundings.  This area is also the location
of Dance Hall Rock, an important landmark where Latter-day Saint
pioneers camped and held meetings and dances when constructing the
Hole-in-the-Rock Trail.  These uncompromising desert lands are home to
high concentrations of rare species of bees with fascinating adaptations
to their local environment, such as *Diadasia* bees, which build nests
in the hard desert soil that feature a clay chimney on top, an
architectural design that has, thus far, stumped scientists trying to
understand its utility.  Consisting of rock primarily from the Jurassic
Period, there are many paleontological sites in this region.  Among
those, the sprawling Twentymile Wash Dinosaur Megatrackway consists of
more than several hundred individual dinosaur tracks and what some
scientists believe is a rare, mid-line tail-drag impression left in the
Escalante Member of the Entrada Formation by a sauropod, or long-necked
dinosaur.

At the center of the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape is the
Kaiparowits Plateau, containing roughly 1,600 square miles of
sedimentary rock that towers over the surrounding area.  The plateau is
bordered on the east side by the Straight Cliffs, which stretch from
near the beginning of the Escalante River to Fiftymile Mountain, and on
the west by the East Kaibab Monocline, better known as the Cockscomb.
 The area is made up of steep-walled canyons, escarpments, towers,
arches, and a series of benches that ascend from the southern border of
the Grand Staircase-Escalante landscape.  The Cockscomb is formed by
parallel ridges with an intersecting steep v-shaped trough, and
flatirons, small monoliths, and other colorful formations along the
western ridge.  The plateau has evidence of thousands of years of human
habitation with sites attributed to many prehistoric cultures in
southern Utah.  Bighorn sheep and pronghorn have historically roamed the
Kaiparowits Plateau — as evidenced by the area’s petroglyph and
pictograph panels — and reproducing populations have been reintroduced
in recent years.  The area is also home to a small population of
chuckwalla and a population of desert night lizard, a species rarely
seen in Utah.

The stratified geology of the Kaiparowits Plateau exposes fossils and
other indicia of hundreds of millions of years of our planet’s history,
the only evidence in our hemisphere of mammals from the Cenomanian
through Santonian ages and one of the world’s best and most continuous
records of Late Cretaceous terrestrial life.  To date, many thousands of
fossil sites have been documented on the plateau, including evidence of
at least 15 previously unknown species of dinosaur.  Fossils are
preserved in stunning detail rarely seen in North America, including
traces of soft tissue and the impressions of skin, beaks, and claws.
 The plateau contains a diverse assemblage of Campanian fauna, including
a remarkable record of vertebrate species that include many new taxa and
new temporal and geographic occurrences, thereby making the Kaiparowits
Plateau an important scientific resource providing insight to the Late
Cretaceous biosphere.  

The Kaiparowits Plateau comprises multiple geological formations.  The
Kaiparowits and Wahweap Formations contain diverse and unique fossil
evidence of ancient fauna and flora, including pterosaurs, frogs,
salamanders, and snakes, that are fundamentally different from
discoveries in other parts of North America.  The Kaiparowits Formation
has produced many ancient vertebrate taxa that are entirely new to
science, including a vast array of horned dinosaurs, such as the
*Nasutoceratops,Kosmoceratops,* and *Utahceratops*, a new species of
*Gryposaurus* possessing a more robust skull, a new raptor, and the
tyrannosaurid *Teratophoneus*.  It has also produced evidence of a
potentially new crested duck-billed dinosaur and incredibly diverse
vegetative communities with previously undescribed fossil trees
and aquatic plants.  In 2018, researchers recovered
the *Akainacephalus*, which is the most complete ankylosaur ever
recovered in the southwestern United States.  Exploration of the Wahweap
Formation, while still in early stages, has led to striking Mesozoic Era
discoveries, including the horned dinosaur *Diabloceratops* and the
tyrannosaurid *Lythronax*.  Similarly, the Dakota Formation contains
some of the earliest evidence of mammals in the fossil record, and the
Tropic Shale Formation includes important marine reptiles such as five
species of plesiosaur and North America’s oldest mosasaur.  There are at
least two mass mortality sites on the Kaiparowits Plateau, including the
Rainbows and Unicorns site, which preserves the relatively complete
remains of at least four tyrannosaurs ranging in age from juvenile to
large adult, indicating that tyrannosaurs may have been social hunters
and engaged in extended parental care, and Uncle Charley’s Bonebed,
which produced the fossilized remains of extinct tortoises, many of
which had soft tissue preservation of skin and claws, and one of which
even had a clutch of eggs preserved in its carapace.  In addition,
petrified wood from the Late Jurassic and Late Cretaceous Periods is
found in the Morrison, Wahweap, and Kaiparowits Formations.  The plateau
also has an expansive exposure of a unique deposit of fossil oyster beds
up to six feet thick from the Cretaceous Period, along with other marine
mollusk shells.

The eastern portion of the Kaiparowits Plateau is dominated by Fiftymile
Mountain and Fiftymile Bench.  The upper elevations of these bench lands
contain rich and varied ecosystems that include pinyon and juniper
woodlands, ponderosa pine forests, and aspen groves.  The area is
dissected by a labyrinth of picturesque canyons, many of which contain
important riparian ecosystems.  The Fiftymile Mountain area has a high
density of archaeological sites, including masonry structures, which
have architectural styles suggesting that the Virgin Branch and Kayenta
Branch of Ancestral Pueblos and the Fremont culture converged in the
area.  There are also sites considered sacred to several Tribal Nations
with historical or ancestral ties to the Grand Staircase-Escalante
region.  This area further contains evidence of early pioneers who tried
to scratch out a life on the sparse landscape, including historic
cabins, fences, and stock trails.  The sagebrush steppe ecosystem of
Fiftymile Bench provides views of Window Wind Arch and striking vistas
of the skyscraper-like escarpment that is the eastern face of the
Straight Cliffs.  The Straight Cliffs Formation, which is particularly
exposed in this part of southern Utah, is rich with fossil resources
containing evidence of primitive mammals, as well as straight cone
cephalopods, ammonites, gastropods, pelecypods, and Cretaceous shark
teeth.  The Straight Cliffs also contain many clusters of balanced or
pedestal rocks, known as hoodoos.  Sooner Rocks, at the base of the
Straight Cliffs, provides outstanding examples of the geologic feature
known as “mega-potholes” that are more often found in some of the
sandstone formations in and around Glen Canyon.  

Grand Bench lies on the southeastern border of the Kaiparowits Plateau
between the Burning Hills to the west and Fiftymile Mountain to the
east.  The sparse road network in Grand Bench makes it one of the most
remote locations in the Grand Staircase-Escalante, with largely
unspoiled and unimpeded views of the night sky.  The Grand Bench area is
also home to the mostly freestanding Woolsey Arch, as well as many
recorded paleontology sites found in its Cretaceous and Jurassic Period
rocks, including petrified wood and important fossils.

The Smoky Mountain area just west of Grand Bench on the Kaiparowits
Plateau provides a striking scene.  The steep and rugged hilltops of the
Burning Hills have been scorched red by naturally occurring underground
coal fires that have been smoldering for hundreds, if not thousands, of
years.  Similarly, Smoky Mountain is dotted with natural chimneys that
release hot smoke and sulfuric gasses from the coal fires below.
 Despite the hostile environment, this area is home to a number of rare
and endemic plant species, including Atwood evening primrose and Smoky
Mountain globemallow, as well as a thriving herd of desert bighorn sheep
and nesting areas for a high density of raptors.

The lower benches of the Kaiparowits Plateau, including John Henry
Bench, Tibbet Bench, Nipple Bench, and Jack Riggs Bench, lie to the west
of Smoky Mountain and provide important habitat for big game, including
desert bighorn sheep and pronghorn, and sweeping views to the south.
 The Cretaceous Wahweap Formation runs through the area and has been the
site of many important fossil finds, including turtle shells, dinosaurs,
and crocodile teeth.  Just west of Nipple Bench are the Wahweap Hoodoos,
ghostly white formations with brown capstones that can appear to float
in the right conditions.

Alvey Wash is situated in the northern part of the Kaiparowits Plateau,
close to the Straight Cliffs, and north of Death Ridge.  In addition to
providing access to the interior of the Kaiparowits Plateau, the Alvey
Wash area contains geologic objects of historic and scientific interest,
including various arches and portions of the Smoky Mountain Road State
Scenic Backway, a remote, unpaved route that offers unparalleled views
of Lake Powell and the Kaiparowits Plateau.  The region’s fossil-rich
Cretaceous rocks contain more than a hundred known recorded
paleontological sites.  Alvey Wash, which likely acted as an important
travel route between the Escalante River and the top of the Kaiparowits
Plateau, also contains several important Fremont and Ancestral Pueblo
sites, including rock writings, rock shelters, cliffside storage
structures, and pithouses.

In the northern part of the landscape, east of the towns of Tropic and
Cannonville, are the Blues, an area named for the blue-grey sandstone
that provides a striking contrast against the forested uplands and the
pink and white cliffs of Powell Point towering in the background. The
velvety gray slopes of these shale badlands include exposures of the
Kaiparowits Formation that are unique on the Colorado Plateau.
Representing rapid accumulation of sediment during the Late Cretaceous
Period, the stratigraphy has facilitated the discovery of a diversity of
fossils, including early mammals, lizards, dinosaurs, crocodilians,
turtles, mollusks, and some fossils found nowhere else on Earth,
including one of the largest oviraptors ever discovered. This area may
also provide habitat for many raptor species, including Swainson’s
hawks, golden eagles, and peregrine falcons.

South of the Blues, the Butler Valley area provides jaw-dropping views
of multi-colored sandstone cliffs to the north and contains important
microvertebrate fossil localities in the Smoky Hollow Member of the
Straight Cliffs Formation found near the upper reaches of Wiggler Wash.
 Also nearby is Grosvenor Arch, a rare double arch with sandstone
buttresses that soars 150 feet in the air, as well as the tight canyons
of Butler Valley and Round Valley Draw.

To the west of the Cockscomb lies the Hackberry Canyon area, with a deep
gorge containing towering Wingate Sandstone cliffs and impressive
narrows, and Yellow Rock, a smooth-sided dome that obtains its unique
appearance from evaporated pools of water and the presence of limonite
in its swirling Navajo Sandstone.  With limited vegetation, Yellow Rock
provides a commanding view of Hackberry Canyon to the north, the Paria
River to the west, and the Cockscomb to the east.  The area’s high
scenic quality is further enhanced by a number of towering arches,
including Sam Pollock Arch, which spans 70 feet in a tributary of
Hackberry Canyon.  The Hackberry Canyon area contains Virgin Branch of
Ancestral Pueblo sites, such as rock shelters, pithouses, lithic
scatters, and masonry structures, as well as rock writings that can be
found in side canyons.  Hackberry Canyon also contains evidence of later
Anglo habitation, including Watson Cabin, a one-room log cabin with
a fieldstone chimney that was built in the early 1890s and is one of the
few standing pioneer structures in the region.  

To the west of the Kaiparowits Plateau, the Upper Paria River complex is
a highly scenic and colorful maze of canyons, arches, and
“hydrothermal-collapse” pipes and dikes that expose the multihued Carmel
and Entrada Formations.  The area is home to many perennial streams, the
Paria River, and hundreds of acres of riparian vegetation, all of which
support a particularly rich diversity of terrestrial vertebrate and
avian species.  Flowing continuously for most of the year thanks to
water from the higher elevations in the north and west, the area’s
perennial streams have left the area dissected with canyons that
eventually drain into the Paria River.  As the flow increases, the Paria
River cuts its way through a series of benches and cliffs that form a
portion of the Grand Staircase as it meanders towards its confluence
with the Colorado River near Lee’s Ferry.  For example, there is the
spring-fed Willis Creek, which flows year-round through a moderately
deep gorge that contains several sections of elegant narrows.  Other
nearby canyons, although dry most of the year, are subject to extreme
erosional events from passing storms, such as Lick Wash, a deep canyon
enclosed by horizontally striated white sandstone walls that are
hundreds of feet high, and Bull Valley Gorge, an impressively deep and
narrow canyon cut through Navajo Sandstone containing a variety of rock
formations and colors.  The Upper Paria River complex contains
paleontological sites found in strata from the Jurassic and Cretaceous
Periods.  The Paria River corridor is also the site of the Paria ghost
town, the only historic townsite in the monument.  First settled by
Latter-day Saint pioneers in 1865 as a farming community, the town was
largely abandoned after a series of floods in the late 1800s, save for a
post office, which served the area for many years.

After the Paria River crosses the Cockscomb and enters Cottonwood
Canyon, it feeds a rich riparian area that provides important habitat
for the endangered southwestern willow flycatcher.  Cottonwood Canyon
and the nearby Rimrocks area are home to a number of rare plants, such
as the Tropic goldeneye and Atwood’s pretty phacelia.  This area, down
to West Clark Bench, is also characterized by high ecological system
diversity and is home to a number of rare bee species as well as a
number of hot desert endemic species of bees in the northernmost known
extent of their range.  The Rimrocks area is home to striking geological
formations known as the Toadstool Hoodoos, fascinating features composed
of Dakota Sandstone boulders perched precariously atop softer and eroded
Entrada Sandstone, and a narrow slot canyon that contains rock writings.
 Further east, other geological formations include the White Rocks, and
to the south, the area around the East and West Clark Benches forms a
barren and austere landscape that exposes Jurassic and Cretaceous Period
rocks rich in paleontological resources.

On the west side of the landscape is the Grand Staircase, a series of
intensely colorful cliffs and plateaus that connect Bryce Canyon to the
Grand Canyon. The Grey Cliffs are composed of soft Cretaceous shale and
sandstone in subdued shades of gray, brown, and yellow that were
deposited approximately 130 million years ago. The White Cliffs are high
white or yellow cliffs of Navajo Sandstone that consistently reach
heights of more than 1,000 feet. The area is home to rare and endemic
bee species, particularly near Timber Mountain. The area also contains a
number of relict plant communities on the sky islands of No Man’s Mesa
and Little No Man’s Mesa, whose steep walls have guarded such
communities for thousands of years, providing a living window into the
past. Further south, the eponymous Vermilion Cliffs, once the shoreline
for the ancient Lake Dixie, contain fossilized fish, dinosaurs, and
early reptiles, as well as multiple tracksites. The Flag Point tracksite
provides an enduring testament to humans’ fascination with the traces of
epochs past. The site contains a series of theropod tracks leading right
to the cliff edge and, nearby, pictographs of the tracks that were
likely left by ancient indigenous peoples living in nearby communities.
The Grand Staircase area is also replete with evidence of thousands of
years of human habitation. Pre-historic projectile points and
hunter-gatherer residential pit structures are found in the higher
elevations, whereas evidence of some of the earliest corn-related
agriculture in the Southwest, developed by the Virgin Branch of
Ancestral Pueblos, as well as evidence of the Southern Paiute people,
who identify this area as part of their ancestral homeland, are found in
the lower elevations. This area also contains a number of other unusual
and important resources, including a high density of petrified wood and
rare and endemic plant species, such as the Higgins spring parsley and
Kane breadroot.

The Buckskin Mountain area, located southeast of the Vermilion Cliffs
and west of the Cockscomb, is a unique lithological area, rich in rocks
from the Triassic Period and late Paleozoic Era.  It also provides
winter range for the renowned Paunsaugunt mule deer herd and is the
location of the Eagle Sink, a stunning sinkhole where the surrounding
limestone collapsed to create an enormous 160-foot depression.  The area
also contains many Ancestral Pueblo cultural sites and provides access
to the primary trailheads used to access Buckskin Gulch -‑ the longest
slot canyon in the United States, with walls ascending up to 400 feet —
located in the adjacent Paria Canyon-Vermilion Cliffs Wilderness.

Protection of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument will
preserve its cultural, prehistoric, and historic legacy and maintain its
diverse array of natural and scientific resources, ensuring that the
prehistoric, historic, and scientific values of this area remain for the
benefit of all Americans.  Reservation of these lands will preserve the
living laboratory within the monument boundaries that will facilitate
significant scientific discoveries for years to come.  The area contains
numerous objects of historic and scientific interest, and it provides
world-class outdoor recreation opportunities, including rock climbing,
hunting, hiking, backpacking, canyoneering, river running, mountain
biking, and horseback riding, that support a travel and tourism sector
that is a source of economic opportunity for the region. 

WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (known as the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

WHEREAS, Proclamation 6920 of September 18, 1996, designated the Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument in the State of Utah and reserved
approximately 1.7 million acres of Federal lands as the smallest area
compatible with the proper care and management of objects of historic
and scientific interest; and

WHEREAS, on three separate occasions the Congress adjusted the
boundaries of the monument — the Utah Schools and Lands Exchange Act of
1998, Public Law 105-335, 112 Stat. 3139; title II of Public Law
105-355, 112 Stat. 3247, 3252 (1998); and section 2604 of the Omnibus
Public Land Management Act of 2009, Public Law 111-11, 123 Stat. 991,
1120 — ultimately increasing the Federal lands reserved for the monument
by more than 180,000 acres.

WHEREAS, Proclamation 9682 of December 4, 2017, modifies the management
direction of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument and
excludes nearly half of the lands reserved in Proclamation 6920, which
include lands containing objects of historic and scientific interest
that Proclamation 6920 identifies as needing protection, such as
portions of Circle Cliffs and Waterpocket Fold; and

WHEREAS, December 4, 2017, was the first time that a President asserted
that the Antiquities Act included the authority to reduce the boundaries
of a national monument or remove objects from protection under the
Antiquities Act since the 1976 passage of the Federal Land Policy and
Management Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*); and

WHEREAS, I find that each of the historic and scientific resources
identified above and in Proclamation 6920 are objects of historic or
scientific interest in need of protection under 54 U.S.C. 320301; and

WHEREAS, I find that the unique nature of the Grand Staircase-Escalante
landscape, and the collection of objects and resources therein, make the
entire landscape within the boundaries reserved by this proclamation an
object of historic and scientific interest in need of protection under
54 U.S.C. 320301; and

WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in this
proclamation and Proclamation 6920; and

WHEREAS, I find, in the absence of a reservation under the Antiquities
Act, the objects identified in this proclamation and in Proclamation
6920 are not adequately protected by otherwise applicable law or
administrative designations because neither provide the Department of
the Interior with the specific mandate to ensure proper care and
management of the objects, nor do they withdraw the lands from the
operation of the public land, mining, and mineral leasing laws, and so a
national monument reservation is necessary to protect the objects of
historic and scientific interest in the Grand Staircase-Escalante region
for current and future generations; and

WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by this
proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the protection
of the objects of historic or scientific interest as required by the
Antiquities Act; and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation,
restoration, and protection of the objects of historic or scientific
interest on the Grand Staircase-Escalante lands, including the entire
monument landscape, reserved within the boundaries established by this
proclamation;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of title 54,
United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified above and in
Proclamation 6920 that are situated upon lands and interests in lands
owned or controlled by the Federal Government to be the Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of
protecting those objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and
interests in lands not currently reserved as part of a monument
reservation and that are owned or controlled by the Federal Government
within the boundaries described on the accompanying map, which is
attached to and forms a part of this proclamation.  These reserved
Federal lands and interests in lands consist of those lands reserved as
part of the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument as of December
3, 2017, encompassing approximately 1.87 million acres.  As a result of
the distribution of the objects across the Grand Staircase-Escalante
landscape, and additionally and independently, because the landscape
itself is an object in need of protection, the boundaries described on
the accompanying map are confined to the smallest area compatible with
the proper care and management of the objects of historic or scientific
interest identified above and in Proclamation 6920.

All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of the
monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of entry,
location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public land
laws, from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from
disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing,
other than by exchange that furthers the protective purposes of the
monument.

This proclamation is subject to valid existing rights.  If the Federal
Government subsequently acquires any lands or interests in lands not
owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests in lands
shall be reserved as a part of the monument, and objects identified
above that are situated upon those lands and interests in lands shall be
part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or control by the
Federal Government.

The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) shall manage the monument
through the Bureau of Land Management (BLM), as a unit of the National
Landscape Conservation System, and in accordance with the terms,
conditions, and management direction provided by this proclamation and,
unless otherwise specifically provided herein, those provided by
Proclamation 6920, the latter of which are incorporated herein by
reference.  To the extent any provision of Proclamation 9682 is
inconsistent with Proclamation 6920 or this proclamation, the terms of
this proclamation and Proclamation 6920 shall govern.  To further the
orderly management of monument lands, the monument will be managed as
a single unit comprising the entire 1.87 million-acre Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument.

For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified above
and in Proclamation 6920, the Secretary shall prepare and maintain a new
management plan for the entire monument.  The Secretary, through the
BLM, shall consult with other Federal land management agencies or agency
components in the local area, including the National Park Service, in
developing the management plan.  The Secretary shall provide for maximum
public involvement in the development of that plan, including
consultation with federally recognized Tribal Nations and State and
local governments.  In the development and implementation of the
management plan, the Secretary shall maximize opportunities, pursuant to
applicable legal authorities, for shared resources, operational
efficiency, and cooperation.

The Secretary, through the BLM, shall maintain an advisory committee
under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) with the
specific purpose of providing information and advice regarding the
development of the management plan and, as appropriate, management of
the monument, including scientific research that occurs therein.  This
advisory committee shall consist of a fair and balanced representation
of interested stakeholders, including State and local governments,
Tribal Nations, recreational users, conservation organizations,
educators, local business owners, private landowners, and the scientific
community, which may include members with expertise in archaeology,
paleontology, entomology, geology, botany, wildlife biology, social
science, or systems ecology.

Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish the
rights or jurisdiction of any Tribal Nation.  The Secretary shall, to
the maximum extent permitted by law and in consultation with Tribal
Nations, ensure the protection of sacred sites and cultural properties
and sites in the monument and provide access to Tribal members for
traditional cultural, spiritual, and customary uses, consistent with the
American Indian Religious Freedom Act (42 U.S.C. 1996) and Executive
Order 13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian Sacred Sites), including collection
of medicines, berries and other vegetation, forest products, and
firewood for personal noncommercial use in a manner consistent with the
care and management of the objects identified above and in Proclamation
6920.

The Secretary shall manage livestock grazing as authorized under
existing permits or leases, and subject to appropriate terms and
conditions in accordance with existing laws and regulations, consistent
with the care and management of the objects identified above and in
Proclamation 6920.  Should grazing permits or leases be voluntarily
relinquished by existing holders, the Secretary shall retire from
livestock grazing the lands covered by such permits or leases pursuant
to the processes of applicable law.  Forage shall not be reallocated for
livestock grazing purposes unless the Secretary specifically finds that
such reallocation will advance the purposes of this proclamation and
Proclamation 6920. 

Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the authority
or responsibility of any party with respect to emergency response
activities within the monument, including wildland fire response.

Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate,
injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and not to locate
or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
