---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:17:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-entrepreneurship-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:17:31-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Entrepreneurship Month,\_2021"
---
 
Every day, American entrepreneurs combine passion, resilience, and
ingenuity to solve hard problems and create products and businesses that
improve our lives.  American entrepreneurs create and scale new
technologies, products, and services.  They build businesses and, in
some cases, entire industries.  Their work helps grow our economy,
creates good jobs, and increases our prosperity.  Entrepreneurs have
repeatedly risen to meet our Nation’s and our world’s complex
challenges, and during National Entrepreneurship Month, we celebrate our
Nation’s entrepreneurs — both past and present — who exemplify the
American spirit and recognize their important contributions to our
people, our economy, and the world.

The COVID-19 pandemic has posed historic challenges to our country and
our Nation’s entrepreneurs.  Many businesses closed, and main streets
became quiet.  Despite these setbacks, American entrepreneurs showed
incredible fortitude, finding innovative and effective ways to adapt
their businesses as we fight a once-in-a-century crisis.  To help our
Nation’s businesses and entrepreneurs recover during the pandemic, my
Administration ensured that nearly $300 billion in forgivable Paycheck
Protection Program loans went to our smallest businesses, with more than
95 percent going to businesses with less than 20 employees, and provided
over $28 billion in support to over 100,000 businesses through the
Restaurant Revitalization Fund.  In the midst of the economic disruption
caused by the pandemic, Americans started more than 4 million businesses
last year, a 24 percent increase from the year before — the highest
number of monthly business applications on record — and start-up rates
growing the most among immigrants and Black, Latino, and Asian, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Americans.  This is important for our
future success, as small businesses are the engines of our economic
progress — and the heart and soul of our communities. 

My Administration is committed to supporting all of our Nation’s
entrepreneurs to ensure that they can continue to play a key role in
strengthening our economy and our society for years to come.  My
Administration’s Build Back Better framework will deliver on the crucial
infrastructure investments that form the foundation for success for
entrepreneurs across the country.  From investing in universal,
affordable broadband to making the largest-ever Federal investments in
public transit, passenger rail, and bridges, we will reinvigorate
communities and their local economies.  My Administration’s framework
will also provide much needed support for our entrepreneurs, including
new loan and venture capital programs targeting the smallest businesses,
small manufacturers, clean energy start-ups, and others, as well as
investing in childcare, health care, and workforce development.  We will
also provide more support to businesses seeking to participate in the
hundreds of billions of dollars that the Federal Government spends each
year in procuring goods and services and investing in research and
development.  My Administration will fully implement the $10 billion
State Small Business Credit Initiative, which will allow States to set
up new small business loan and venture capital programs, established by
the American Rescue Plan. 

Collaboration among entrepreneurs, innovators, and the public sector has
led to some of the most important technologies and industries in the
world, including cellular communication, energy storage, agricultural
technology, and advanced manufacturing.  My Administration is proud to
support entrepreneurs and innovators throughout this country — from the
hardworking women and men who start a business to meet the needs of
their communities to the visionaries who strive to change the world. 
Together, we are partners in solving challenges big and small, global
and local — and will work to increase American competitiveness around
the world and meet the challenges of the 21st century. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National Entrepreneurship Month.  I call upon all Americans to
commemorate this month with appropriate programs and activities and to
celebrate November 16, 2021, as National Entrepreneurs’ Day.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
