---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 17:01:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-northeast-canyons-and-seamounts-marine-national-monument/
published_time: 2021-10-08 16:10:00-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National\_Monument"
---
 
On September 15, 2016, President Barack Obama issued Proclamation 9496
(Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument), which
designated approximately 4,913 square miles of waters and submerged
lands where the Atlantic Ocean meets the continental shelf as the
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument.  This
designation represented the culmination of nearly a half-century of
conservation efforts to preserve the vulnerable deep marine ecosystems
of the Atlantic canyons and seamounts, which are widely known as natural
laboratories for the long-term study of benthic ecology due to their
rich biodiversity of important deep-sea corals, endangered whales,
endangered and threatened sea turtles, other marine mammals, and
numerous fish and invertebrate species. 

The monument is composed of two units, the Canyons Unit and the
Seamounts Unit, each of which showcases unique geological features that
anchor vulnerable ecological communities threatened by varied uses,
climate change, and related impacts.  As described by Proclamation 9496,
the Canyons Unit includes three underwater canyons:  Oceanographer,
Gilbert, and Lydonia.  The canyons’ hard walls, which range from 200
meters to thousands of meters deep, provide important habitats for, and
support the life cycles of, a diversity of ocean life, including
sponges, corals, and other invertebrates; larger species such as squid,
octopuses, skates, flounders, and crabs; and highly migratory oceanic
species, including tuna, billfish, sharks, toothed whales (such as the
endangered sperm whale), and many species of beaked whales.  The larger
Seamounts Unit is home to four extinct undersea volcanoes — Bear,
Physalia, Retriever, and Mytilus — that form a portion of an underwater
chain of more than 30 extinct volcanoes that runs from the southern side
of the Georges Bank to midway across the western Atlantic Ocean.  These
extinct volcanoes were formed as the Earth’s crust passed over a
stationary hot spot that pushed magma up through the seafloor, and many
of them have flat tops that were created as ocean waves eroded the
cooling magma.  Geographically isolated from the continental platform
and characterized by steep and complex submarine topography that
interrupts existing ocean currents and provides a constant supply of
plankton and nutrients, the seamounts are biological islands with
various substrates that form ocean oases and act as incubators for new
life.  All four seamounts support highly diverse ecological communities,
including many rare and endemic species that are new to science and are
not known to live anywhere else on Earth.  Together, the monument’s
submarine canyons and seamounts create the unique ecological conditions
necessary to support one of the Atlantic Ocean’s most biologically
productive and important marine environments and one of science’s
greatest oceanic laboratories.  Proclamation 9496 recognized the
undersea canyons and seamounts, the deep-sea, pelagic, and other marine
ecosystems they support, and the biodiversity they contain as objects of
historic and scientific interest and dedicated the Federal lands and
waters within the monuments’ boundaries to their protection.

To provide for the proper care and management of the monument’s objects
of historic and scientific interest, Proclamation 9496 directed the
Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of the Interior (Secretaries) to
prepare a joint management plan and promulgate implementing regulations,
as appropriate.  To the extent consistent with domestic and
international law, Proclamation 9496 also directed the Secretaries to
prohibit certain activities within the monument, including mineral
exploration and development; the use of poisons, electrical charges, or
explosives to collect or harvest monument resources; and drilling into,
anchoring, dredging, or otherwise altering submerged lands. 
Proclamation 9496 also directed the Secretaries to prohibit all
commercial fishing within the monument, but allowed the Secretaries to
permit a 7‑year phase-out for red crab and American lobster commercial
fishing.

Despite the monument’s ecological importance, wealth of objects of
historic and scientific interest, and potential for
additional scientific discovery, President Donald Trump issued
Proclamation 10049 (Modifying the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine
National Monument) on June 5, 2020, to remove the restrictions on
commercial fishing.  Multiple parties challenged Proclamation 10049 in
Federal court, asserting that it exceeded the President’s authority
under the Antiquities Act.  Restoring the prohibition on commercial
fishing will ensure that the unique, fragile, and largely pristine
canyons and seamounts, and the dynamic ocean systems and marine life
they support, identified in Proclamation 9496 as objects of historic or
scientific interest requiring protection under the Antiquities Act,
will be safeguarded and will continue to provide an important venue for
scientific study and research. 

The Canyons Unit and Seamounts Unit each contain interconnected
oceanographic, geologic, and biologic features that create a unique
oceanic system that supports an abundant concentration of biodiversity.
 These features’ close proximity to each other results in an
interdependent whole that exceeds the sum of its constituent parts.

In the case of the Canyons Unit, the monument boundary closely
corresponds to a contiguous continental shelf break area around the
heads of the three canyons, which extend seaward from features that have
not yet fully taken on the distinctive canyon shape, to the walls and
valleys of the canyons themselves, and out to the start of the outer
shelf thousands of meters below.  Within this transitional region, the
walls of the three closely situated canyons combine with ocean currents,
temperature gradients, eddies, and fronts to create significant and
complex nutrient cycling and other processes that result in a
biologically rich and distinct oceanic system.  The Canyons Unit is
sized to correspond to and protect these large-scale oceanic processes
that provide the foundation for the distinct habitat that supports
numerous objects of scientific interest.  For example, the shallower
depths of the canyons include ecologically significant and vulnerable
habitat for tilefish, which function as ecosystem engineers by creating
“pueblo” habitat at depths of 100 to 300 meters in the monument’s
canyons, which in turn supports a diversity of fish and invertebrate
species.  The Canyons Unit also supports a great abundance of marine
mammals and other upper-trophic level predators attracted to the prey
abundance fostered by the Canyons Unit’s unique marine landscape.  Due
to the close proximity of the three canyons to one another, congregating
marine mammals and pelagic fish species routinely transit the
inter-canyon areas while foraging among the biologic abundance found
there.  This is an example of the important ecological linkages that
connect the monument’s various topographies, the surrounding shelf, and
the water column above them, which necessitate protection of the entire
interrelated system.

In the case of the Seamounts Unit, the boundary encompasses the four
seamounts and the areas between the edges of Bear and Retriever
Seamounts on the north side, Bear and Mytilus Seamounts on the south
side, and out to the boundary line of the Exclusive Economic Zone on the
east side.  These four seamounts, rising thousands of feet from the
surrounding seafloor, are the only seamounts located within U.S.
Atlantic waters.  As with the Canyons Unit, the proximity of these
important geologic features to each other influences the currents,
upwelling, stratification, and mixing that make the species and habitat
within the monument so diverse, abundant, and unique.  The seamounts
function as oases in the open ocean environment and feature distinct
ecological communities as they grade down from the relatively shallow
seamount peaks to the abyss below.  They are critical to protecting the
ecosystem linkages that transport nutrients to the surface through
predator–prey interactions and temperature-driven upwelling, and
transport organic carbon to deep-sea ecosystems (corals and benthic
communities) through plankton and fecal detritus, downwelling materials,
down-slope currents, and animal migration and mortality.

The boundaries of the monument reflect the need to protect the canyons,
seamounts, and the attendant deep-sea, pelagic, and other marine
ecosystems, which are themselves objects of historic and scientific
interest, as well as the complex geologic, oceanographic, and biologic
characteristics in the Canyons Unit and Seamounts Unit.  The monument
ensures these vulnerable marine ecosystems are safeguarded and will
remain the great ocean laboratories recognized in Proclamation 9496.
 The boundaries are closely hewn to prominent geologic objects that form
the foundation of closely linked habitats, which support the monument’s
great abundance and diversity of life.  The boundaries are scaled to
avoid cascading negative effects from failing to protect parts of these
complex and interconnected marine environments and their unique
oceanographic processes.  In order to ensure effective management and
protection of the objects of historic and scientific interest,
straight-line coordinates are used where possible to provide clear and
enforceable demarcation of this open-ocean monument.  For these reasons,
Proclamation 9496 found that the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government within the monument’s boundaries were the smallest
area compatible with the proper care and management of the objects of
historic and scientific interest designated for protection.

Commercial fishing activity has the potential to significantly degrade
the monument’s objects of historic and scientific interest.
Bottom-contact fishing gear and fixed fishing gear (for example, traps,
gillnets, and bottom and pelagic long-line gear) with buoys, submerged
lines, and associated traps, mesh, or hooks, all pose threats to the
canyons and seamounts, the ecosystem, and the deep-sea, pelagic, and
other marine life they support, as well as the additional objects of
historic and scientific interest contained therein.  Although statutes
such as the Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16
U.S.C. 1801 *et seq.*, the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1531 *et
seq.*, the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, 16 U.S.C. 703–712, the National
Wildlife Refuge System Administration Act, 16 U.S.C. 668dd–668ee, the
Refuge Recreation Act, 16 U.S.C. 460k *et seq.*, the Marine Mammal
Protection Act, 16 U.S.C. 1361 *et seq.*, the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C.
1251 *et seq.*, the Oil Pollution Act, 33 U.S.C. 2701 *et seq.*, the
National Marine Sanctuaries Act, 16 U.S.C. 1431 *et seq.*, and Title I
of the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act (Ocean Dumping
Act), 33 U.S.C. 1401 *et seq.*, provide important safeguards that did
not exist prior to the Antiquities Act’s passage, these laws do not
adequately address the threats facing the canyons and seamounts and
their surrounding ecosystem.  The prohibition on commercial fishing
confers necessary, additional, and lasting protections for the objects
of historic and scientific interest in the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts Marine National Monument for current and future generations.

Protection of the Northeast Canyons and Seamounts as a marine national
monument preserves significant geological features, marine biota, and
deep-sea, pelagic, and other marine ecosystems that the canyons and
seamounts create and support as they interact with ocean currents,
ensuring that the natural and scientific values of this area are
maintained for the benefit of all Americans and for the discovery of new
information about living marine resources for years to come. 

WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”) authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

WHEREAS, Proclamation 9496 designated the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts Marine National Monument in the Atlantic Ocean and reserved
approximately 4,913 square miles of water and submerged lands in and
around certain deep-sea canyons and seamounts situated upon lands and
interests in lands owned or controlled by the Federal Government as the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of objects
of historic and scientific interest; and

WHEREAS, Proclamation 10049 modified the conditions of the Northeast
Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument to allow commercial
fishing activities, which could impact monument objects; and

WHEREAS, I find that the resources identified above and in Proclamation
9496 are objects of historic or scientific interest in need of
protection under the Antiquities Act; and

WHEREAS, I find that the unique nature of the waters and submerged lands
that make up the marine environment in the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts area and the collection of objects and resources therein make
the entire area within the boundaries of the monument an object of
historic and scientific interest in need of protection under the
Antiquities Act; and

WHEREAS, I find that there are documented threats to the objects
identified above and in Proclamation 9496; and

WHEREAS, I find that the objects identified above and in Proclamation
9496 are not adequately protected by applicable law and other
administrative designations; and

WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
Proclamation 9496 represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of historic or scientific interest;
and

WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation and
protection of the objects of historic and scientific interest in the
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument;

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of title 54,
United States Code, hereby proclaim that, in order to provide for the
proper care and management of the objects identified above and in
Proclamation 9496, management of lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government within the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts Marine National Monument shall be governed by the management
provisions of Proclamation 9496.  Such provisions include paragraph 6 in
the section entitled “Prohibited Activities” and paragraph 5 in the
section entitled “Regulated Activities,” which provide for the
prohibition of all commercial fishing in the monument, except for red
crab and American lobster commercial fishing, which may be permitted
until September 15, 2023.

The Secretary of Commerce, through the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, and the Secretary of the Interior, through the United
States Fish and Wildlife Service, share management responsibility for
the monument, as prescribed in Proclamation 9496.  Within their
respective authorities, the Secretaries shall prepare a joint management
plan for the monument by September 15, 2023, and, as appropriate, shall
promulgate implementing regulations that address any further specific
actions necessary for the proper care and management of the objects and
area identified above and in Proclamation 9496.

To the extent any provision of Proclamation 10049 is inconsistent with
this proclamation or Proclamation 9496, the terms of this proclamation
and Proclamation 9496 shall govern.

Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to appropriate,
excavate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and
not to locate or settle upon any lands thereof.

If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
