---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:21:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-family-caregivers-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:21:21-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Caregivers Month,\_2021"
---
 
Every day, millions of Americans provide essential care and medical
assistance to their loved ones.  These acts of love, commitment, and
compassion enable their family members to receive the support they need
to live a life with dignity.  This has been especially true throughout
the COVID-19 pandemic, during which Americans of all ages have made
substantial sacrifices to keep family members safe and healthy.  During
National Family Caregivers Month, we recognize the important role of our
Nation’s family caregivers and thank them for the invaluable and
instrumental care they provide.  

While the opportunity to provide care to a loved one can be a blessing
and a source of connection, it often requires sacrifice.  Millions of
Americans have sacrificed jobs and altered careers in order to perform
caregiving duties.  Workers, their families, and our economy suffer when
workers are forced to choose between their jobs and their caregiving
responsibilities or between putting food on the table and caring for a
relative.  Too many Americans who need caregiving support struggle with
the high costs of caring for a family member in need, or providing
long-term care for people with disabilities or older adults.  

My Administration is committed to strengthening American families and
easing the burdens of caregiving.  That is why my American Rescue Plan
provided an additional $145 million in funding for the National Family
Caregiver Support Program, which continues to help State and community
organizations support family and informal caregivers through in-home
programs including counseling, respite care, and training.  The American
Rescue Plan also provided States with additional Medicaid funding to
strengthen and enhance their home- and community-based services (HCBS)
program.  My Administration’s Build Back Better agenda will build on
this down payment by continuing to invest in the caregiving
infrastructure for HCBS and increasing pay and benefits to address the
direct care workforce crisis.  I will also fight to expand paid family
and medical leave nationwide.  Each of these elements is critical to
better supporting family caregivers.  We want to see our Nation’s paid
caregivers, including the majority of home health care workers and over
90 percent of child care workers who are women — disproportionately
women of color — have jobs that provide dignity, safety, and decent
pay. 

Earlier this year, the RAISE (Recognize, Assist, Include, Support, and
Engage) Family Caregiving Advisory Council, with support from the
Department of Health and Human Services, delivered an initial report on
how the Federal, State, Tribal, and local governments can work with our
partners in the private sector to better support our Nation’s family
caregivers, and we will continue working to provide that support.

As my own family members have been caregivers, I understand the
struggles family caregivers face and the importance of the care they
provide.  This month, as we continue our fight to expand access to
caregiving, we recognize our caregivers who wake up every single day to
do this physically and emotionally demanding yet vitally important work.
 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National Family Caregivers Month.  I encourage all Americans to reach
out to those who provide care for their family members, friends, and
neighbors in need, to honor and to thank them.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
