---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 10:41:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-indigenous-peoples-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-08 10:28:53-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Indigenous Peoples\u2019 Day,\_2021"
---
 
Since time immemorial, American Indians, Alaska Natives, and Native
Hawaiians have built vibrant and diverse cultures — safeguarding land,
language, spirit, knowledge, and tradition across the generations.  On
Indigenous Peoples’ Day, our Nation celebrates the invaluable
contributions and resilience of Indigenous peoples, recognizes their
inherent sovereignty, and commits to honoring the Federal Government’s
trust and treaty obligations to Tribal Nations.

Our country was conceived on a promise of equality and opportunity for
all people — a promise that, despite the extraordinary progress we have
made through the years, we have never fully lived up to.  That is
especially true when it comes to upholding the rights and dignity of the
Indigenous people who were here long before colonization of the Americas
began.  For generations, Federal policies systematically sought to
assimilate and displace Native people and eradicate Native cultures. 
Today, we recognize Indigenous peoples’ resilience and strength as well
as the immeasurable positive impact that they have made on every aspect
of American society.  We also recommit to supporting a new, brighter
future of promise and equity for Tribal Nations — a future grounded in
Tribal sovereignty and respect for the human rights of Indigenous people
in the Americas and around the world.

In the first week of my Administration, I issued a memorandum
reaffirming our Nation’s solemn trust and treaty obligations to American
Indian and Alaska Native Tribal Nations and directed the heads of
executive departments and agencies to engage in regular, meaningful, and
robust consultation with Tribal officials.  It is a priority of my
Administration to make respect for Tribal sovereignty and
self-governance the cornerstone of Federal Indian policy.  History
demonstrates that Native American people — and our Nation as a whole —
are best served when Tribal governments are empowered to lead their
communities and when Federal officials listen to and work together with
Tribal leaders when formulating Federal policy that affects Tribal
Nations.

The contributions that Indigenous peoples have made throughout history —
in public service, entrepreneurship, scholarship, the arts, and
countless other fields — are integral to our Nation, our culture, and
our society.  Indigenous peoples have served, and continue to serve, in
the United States Armed Forces with distinction and honor — at one of
the highest rates of any group — defending our security every day.  And
Native Americans have been on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic,
working essential jobs and carrying us through our gravest moments.
 Further, in recognition that the pandemic has harmed Indigenous peoples
at an alarming and disproportionate rate, Native communities have led
the way in connecting people with vaccination, boasting some of the
highest rates of any racial or ethnic group. 

The Federal Government has a solemn obligation to lift up and invest in
the future of Indigenous people and empower Tribal Nations to govern
their own communities and make their own decisions.  We must never
forget the centuries-long campaign of violence, displacement,
assimilation, and terror wrought upon Native communities and Tribal
Nations throughout our country.  Today, we acknowledge the significant
sacrifices made by Native peoples to this country — and recognize their
many ongoing contributions to our Nation. 

On Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we honor America’s first inhabitants and the
Tribal Nations that continue to thrive today.  I encourage everyone to
celebrate and recognize the many Indigenous communities and cultures
that make up our great country. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim October 11, 2021, as Indigenous Peoples’
Day.  I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  I also direct that the flag
of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on the
appointed day in honor of our diverse history and the Indigenous peoples
who contribute to shaping this Nation.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
