---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:20:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-adoption-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:19:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Adoption Month,\_2021"
---
 
Every child deserves to grow up with a safe and loving family, with the
care and support of their community.  During National Adoption Month, we
celebrate all of the children and families nurtured, enriched, and made
whole by adoption and recommit ourselves to ensuring that every child in
America can grow up in a loving and supportive home.

The COVID-19 pandemic has made it especially challenging for children in
the foster care system.  For thousands of young people in foster care,
navigating the challenges of growing up can be especially difficult
without stable family connections.  Because of the added difficulties
imposed by the pandemic, my Administration has implemented the
substantial investments made through the Supporting Foster Youth and
Families Through the Pandemic Act to help older adolescents
transitioning from the foster care system maintain housing, stay in
school, pay the bills, and lay a strong foundation for adulthood.
 My Administration encourages States to continue using these available
funds to support older foster youth in every way they can.

During this month, we also acknowledge the history of injustices and
racial bias in our Nation’s child welfare system.  To this day, Black
and Native American children are more likely to be removed from their
homes, more likely to stay in care longer, and less likely to be adopted
than white children.  To ensure the equal dignity and care of all our
children, we must improve our efforts to keep families together, prevent
the trauma of unnecessary child removal, and recruit and support
new adoptive families — especially kinship caregivers.  Finally, we must
further support families who have already taken youth into their homes
and invest the time and energy needed to ensure that all children —
including LGBTQ+ youth whose needs are not always met in the foster care
system — can find the happiness and well-being that every child and
young person deserves.

This National Adoption Month, we celebrate the families who have been
forged through adoption, including from foster care.  We extend our
gratitude to the dedicated professionals who work tirelessly to support
adoptive families through compassion and hard work and to the foster
families who love, care, and provide for our Nation’s foster youth. 
Most importantly, we acknowledge the strength and resiliency of the
children and youth who are still waiting to find their forever homes.  

NOW, THEREFORE I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National Adoption Month.  I encourage all Americans to observe this
month by helping children and youth in need of a permanent home secure a
more promising future with a forever family and enter adulthood with the
love and connections that are so important to their growth.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
