---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 12:38:37-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/01/a-proclamation-on-child-health-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-01 12:38:36-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Child Health Day, 2021
---
 
Nothing is more vital to our country’s future than our children’s health
and well-being.  Each year on Child Health Day, we reaffirm our
commitment to ensuring that every child in America has equal access to
quality and affordable health care, child care, and education so that
they can thrive and reach their full potential. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has had a profound negative impact on the health
and well-being of our Nation’s children.  A year of isolation from
friends, extended family, and daily activities due to school closures
and remote learning, as well as the loss of loved ones to the pandemic,
has taken a tremendous toll on their mental health — and caused
significant learning loss that may never be fully redressed.  Families
are also finding it harder to support their children during the
pandemic, with many struggling to pay for expenses such as food, rent,
health care, and transportation.  And as scientists rigorously and
independently review COVID-19 vaccines for children under age 12, too
many of our kids returning to school — and the families they return to
at the end of each school day — face unnecessary risks because there are
not universal masking policies.

We owe it to our children to do everything in our power to support their
safe and healthy development.  Because our Nation’s schools play a
critical role in safeguarding our children’s health and well-being, my
Administration has made it a top priority to ensure that all students
can access full-time, in-person instruction so that they can achieve
their highest aspirations.  My American Rescue Plan continues to deliver
for schools — including $130 billion to ensure that every child can
safely access full-time, in-person instruction and that schools can
mitigate the risk of COVID-19 in the classroom.  My Administration is
committed to supporting school-based health programs, which is why my
American Rescue Plan also provides States and school districts with
billions of dollars for schools to bring on additional nurses,
counselors, social workers, and more to address student needs, allowing
teachers to stay focused on teaching.  To further support children’s
success in school, I strongly encourage families to visit their
pediatric providers for well-child visits and immunizations — including
the COVID‑19 vaccine for children age 12 and up. 

My American Rescue Plan is also delivering critical resources to address
the mental health needs of children, including $1.5 billion to support
the Community Mental Health Services Block Grant, which provides much
needed services to children with serious emotional disturbances.  The
law also provides $20 million to support youth suicide prevention and
$30 million to expand Project AWARE, which supports wellness and
resiliency programs in educational settings.  It has invested $80
million to expand the Pediatric Mental Health Care Access Program, which
provides telehealth services for children and adolescents with mental
health conditions identified during routine visits, making mental health
care more accessible nationwide, including for young people in Tribal
and remote areas. 

Additionally, the American Rescue Plan continues to deliver pandemic
relief to families through a $150 million investment in the Maternal,
Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting Program to improve maternal
and child health.  The law also provides funding to support families
with essential emergency supplies, including diapers, food, water, and
hand sanitizer.  Finally, the American Rescue Plan is lowering health
insurance premiums for millions of Americans — positioning us to cut
child poverty in America by nearly half.

We need to invest in the healthy development of all our children — and
that means helping parents with the costs of raising a family.  That is
why my Administration worked hard to expand the Child Tax Credit, which
is putting money directly in the pockets of families with children each
month to help pay for food, rent, a new pair of kids’ shoes, or whatever
else working parents need.  

On Child Heath Day, we recommit ourselves to ensuring that our children
can live long and healthy lives.  Together, we can help all of our
Nation’s children stay healthy and learn, develop, and grow up to reach
their full potential. 

The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 18, 1928, as amended
(36 U.S.C. 105), has called for the designation of the first Monday in
October as Child Health Day and has requested that the President issue a
proclamation in observance of this day.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Monday, October 4, 2021, as Child Health Day.  I call upon families,
child health professionals, faith-based and community organizations, and
governments to help ensure that America’s children stay safe and
healthy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
