---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-14'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/14/a-proclamation-on-blind-americans-equality-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-14 10:13:46-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Blind Americans Equality Day,\_2021"
---
 
Thirty-one years ago, our Nation moved closer to fulfilling its
foundational promise of equal dignity and opportunity for all with the
enactment of the landmark Americans with Disabilities Act.  This
bipartisan legislation — which I proudly co-sponsored as a member of the
United States Senate — has made a profound difference in the lives of
blind Americans, paving the way for greater opportunity,
self-sufficiency, independent living, and equitable participation in all
aspects of life.  On Blind Americans Equality Day, we recognize the
rights, talents, and contributions of blind and visually impaired
Americans who represent every segment of our diverse population.

My Administration is committed to building on the foundation of the
Americans with Disabilities Act by ensuring that blind and visually
impaired Americans have equitable opportunities for employment and
career advancement.  That is why I signed Executive Orders to advance
diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility within the Federal
workforce and to raise the minimum wage of Federal contractors to $15 an
hour — orders which will directly impact our many Federal contractors
who are blind and visually impaired.  These actions will further enable
Federal workers with disabilities to access reasonable accommodations
and gain greater economic self-sufficiency while spurring the Federal
Government to be a model employer in providing equitable, accessible,
and inclusive work environments for employees with disabilities. 

My Administration is also providing funding opportunities across
agencies to advance competitive integrated employment opportunities for
disabled workers.  And to provide much-needed financial relief during
the COVID-19 pandemic, my Administration recently awarded $20 million
through the Randolph-Sheppard Vending Facilities Program to assist blind
entrepreneurs and provide opportunities for blind vendors to operate
vending facilities on Federal property. 

Building an accessible, equitable Nation for all Americans is a key part
of building back better, and for many families, fulfilling that
commitment begins in America’s classrooms.  When we invest in education,
we advance equity and opportunity for millions of students, including
children who are blind and visually impaired.  My American Rescue Plan
has made over $3 billion available to help State educational agencies
recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.  This funding is
supporting special education, early intervention, and related services
for children with disabilities and their families.  While the American
Rescue Plan increased the amount of the Federal Government’s financial
contribution to the education of children with disabilities, my
Administration is also working with the Congress to fully fund the
Individuals with Disabilities Education Act — so that disabled students
can receive an education that is tailored to their individual needs.  

This is about who we are as Americans — and these actions are helping us
move our country closer to the fulfillment of our highest ideals of
equity and opportunity for all.  On Blind Americans Equality Day, we
recommit to ensuring freedom, equality, and opportunity for all blind
and visually impaired Americans, whose contributions continue to make
our Nation stronger.

By joint resolution approved on October 6, 1964 (Public Law 88-628, as
amended), the Congress authorized October 15 of each year as “White Cane
Safety Day,” which is recognized today as “Blind Americans Equality
Day,” to honor the contributions of blind and visually impaired
Americans.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 15, 2021,
as Blind Americans Equality Day.  I call upon all government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States to mark
this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
