---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 10:30:55-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-leif-erikson-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-08 10:30:54-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Leif Erikson Day,\_2021"
---
 
The voyage of Leif Erikson and his valiant crew — bold explorers from
Scandinavia, believed to have been the first Europeans to reach the
shores of North America — has been a source of inspiration to Nordic
Americans for generations. Although they made landfall more than a
millennium ago, their historic journey still embodies the spirit of
exploration and the ongoing contributions of Nordic Americans to the
diversity of our great Nation.

Eight centuries after Leif Erikson’s expedition, on October 9, 1825, six
Norwegian families arrived in New York City in search of freedom and
opportunity. This first group of organized Norwegian immigrants to the
United States blazed a new path that fellow Norwegians — as well as
Danes, Finns, Icelanders, and Swedes — soon followed, establishing
communities in the Great Lakes States, in the northern Great Plains, in
enclaves among northern United States cities, and elsewhere across our
country. These Northern European settlers have become part of America’s
rich tapestry, and through service, sacrifice, and countless
contributions they have fortified America’s culture, society, and
economy.

Today, more than 11 million Americans proudly trace their ancestry to
Nordic countries. Nordic Americans are leaders in our communities —
public officials serving their constituents, law enforcement officers
and service members defending our Nation, doctors and nurses, educators,
artists, essential workers leading us through the pandemic, visionaries
creating new businesses, and so many other important roles. Our Nation
is stronger and more dynamic because of the contributions of Nordic
Americans. On Leif Erikson Day, we express our appreciation for the many
contributions of Nordic Americans, who have enhanced American society
and strengthened our cultural diversity.

While the great era of Scandinavian immigration occurred more than a
century ago, the legacy of Nordic immigrants endures, along with the
values and interests we share with their original homelands — including
increasing opportunity for all and recognizing the inherent dignity of
every human being. We share mutual commitments to democracy, freedom,
human rights, rule of law, security, and prosperity, and Nordic
countries remain some of our most reliable military allies and economic
partners, helping us meet the shared challenges of our time. The
United States greatly values our continued friendship.

To honor Leif Erikson, son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, and to
celebrate our Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint
resolution (Public Law 88-566) approved on September 2, 1964, has
authorized the President of the United States to proclaim October 9th of
each year as “Leif Erikson Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 9, 2021,
as Leif Erikson Day. I call upon all Americans to celebrate the
contributions of Nordic Americans to our Nation with appropriate
ceremonies, activities, and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
