---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:11:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-college-application-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:11:08-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National College Application Month,\_2021"
---
 
When America made 12 years of public education universal more than a
century ago, it gave us the best-educated, best-prepared workforce in
the world — which in turn was a major part of why we were able to lead
the world in the 20th century.  Today, however, we know that 12 years is
no longer enough to compete.  American students deserve every
opportunity to gain the skills they need to carve out a place for
themselves in tomorrow’s economy.  But according to a recent study, the
United States now ranks 33rd out of 44 advanced economies when it comes
to the share of our young people who have attained a degree beyond high
school.

If we are going to set the pace around the globe once more — on research
and development, innovation and discovery, equity and opportunity, and
creating good-paying jobs with dignity — it is imperative that we put an
affordable, high-quality education after high school within reach of
every American student.  During College Application Month, we celebrate
the possibilities that postsecondary education provides and encourage
Americans to apply to colleges and universities as we work to ensure
that every student has a chance to reach their full potential and
strengthen our Nation’s future.

My Administration is working hard to ensure that higher education is
equitable, accessible, and affordable for every student in every
community.  That is why my Administration Build Back Better framework
includes major investments in community colleges, as well as our
essential network of Historically Black Colleges and Universities
(HBCUs), Tribal Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and other Minority
Serving Institutions (MSIs).  In addition, my plan would increase the
Federal Pell Grant award, a key resource to help students from
lower-income families afford college — including costs beyond tuition.
 Each of these investments will help America’s young people, including
Dreamers, earn a better shot at the good-paying jobs of tomorrow.  My
Administration is also working to modernize the Free Application for
Federal Student Aid form.  Finally, we are taking steps to ensure that
academic institutions do a better job of providing students with clear
and transparent information on how much they can expect to pay for
college and their options to afford those costs.

However, as important to our Nation’s future as accessing college is,
college completion is just as critical.  Far too many students enter
college only to have to drop out before graduation, and we are seeing
firsthand how the pandemic has exacerbated the challenges students face
as they seek to complete their studies.  COVID-19 has significantly
increased economic insecurity for families across the country,
particularly for people of color, the LGBTQ+ community, and those in
low-income communities, resulting in new, unequal barriers to college
enrollment and completion.  My Administration stands ready to support
our Nation’s colleges in welcoming back every student who had to put
their education goals on hold due to the pandemic.

My Administration has also called for bold investments in completion and
retention at colleges and universities that serve high numbers of
low-income students — including community colleges — so that all
Americans have the opportunity to obtain an education beyond high
school.  These investments would help cover proven solutions for student
success, including providing wraparound services such as child- and
elder-care, mental health services, accessibility resources, and
emergency basic needs grants, in order to help more Americans enter and
graduate college.  
     Additionally, my Administration is working hard to provide
institutions with funding and flexibility to meet students’ needs. 
Earlier this year, we launched an outreach campaign to millions of
Federal Pell Grant recipients who are now eligible for a monthly
discount on broadband internet service under a temporary program
administered by the Federal Communications Commission.  We have also
partnered with other agencies across the Federal Government to notify
institutions and their students about expanded access to the
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, health care benefits, tax
cuts for those raising children, and financial aid and postsecondary
education opportunities for students and families facing unemployment. 

This month, we celebrate the hard work and promise of students across
the country and recommit ourselves to building back better by ensuring
that everyone in America can pursue and complete a high-quality,
affordable higher education.  We thank the parents and loved ones,
teachers, professors, administrators, financial aid professionals,
college access organizations, mentors and counselors who help our
students throughout the college application process and beyond. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National College Application Month.  I call upon public officials,
educators, parents, students, and all Americans to observe this month
with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to
encourage students to make plans about, apply for, and graduate from
college.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 
