---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:25:33-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-diabetes-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:25:32-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Diabetes Month,\_2021"
---
 
Over the last 20 years, our Nation has seen a significant rise in the
number of adults diagnosed with diabetes — a chronic condition that can
lead to heart disease, kidney disease, vision loss, and other serious
health problems.  Today, more than 34 million American adults are living
with diabetes, and an estimated 88 million more may be at risk of
developing the disease.  During National Diabetes Month, we draw
awareness to all forms of this dangerous condition — including Type 1,
Type 2, and gestational diabetes and prediabetes — and recommit
ourselves to finding a cure.

Over the last year and a half, people living with diabetes have faced
heightened risks to their health, as their illness makes them more
vulnerable to the worst effects of COVID-19.  This has been especially
true for far too many Black, Brown, and Indigenous Americans, who face a
disproportionate risk of being diagnosed with diabetes and who have
shouldered the burden of the pandemic at disproportionate rates.  More
young Americans are also living with Type 2 diabetes than ever before,
putting them at risk of developing serious health problems later
in life.  Americans who are diagnosed have faced the added challenge of
unacceptably high insulin prices — putting their health and the
financial well-being of their family at risk.

My Administration is committed to finding a cure for diabetes.  To that
end, I have asked the Congress to fund a new agency called the Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  Modeled on the Defense
Advanced Research Project Agency, a Government program that led to the
creation of the Internet, GPS, and countless other vital technologies —
ARPA-H would accelerate our research on detecting, treating, and curing
diseases like diabetes and Alzheimer’s.  In addition to this effort, my
Administration has provided funding through the American Rescue Plan to
address diabetes and other chronic diseases by shoring up our public
health infrastructure and combatting hunger and food insecurity.  To
lower the costs faced by more than 7 million Americans who require
insulin to treat their diabetes, I have called on the Congress to give
Medicare the power to negotiate prescription drug prices, especially
for companies that do not face competition. 

As we work together to fight diabetes, my Administration will continue
to build on the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and strengthen the coverage it
provides for nearly 2 million American adults with diabetes.  The ACA
continues to connect people with services and health care providers who
can ensure appropriate testing, prevention, and treatment of diabetes
and the many conditions it can spawn.  Millions of families enrolled in
private insurance, Medicare, and Medicaid are benefiting from the ACA’s
critical provisions, which help Americans with diabetes live better,
longer lives as we continue searching for a cure.

While we continue to seek that cure, my Administration is also working
to improve our awareness and prevention of Type 2 diabetes.  Thanks in
part to the Diabetes Prevention Program at the National Institutes of
Health, we know that lifestyle changes — including increased physical
activity and healthy eating — can prevent or delay Type 2 diabetes for
people at high risk.  Eligible Americans can also take part in the
National Diabetes Prevention Program, a lifestyle change program led by
the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) at sites around the
country.  Because so many cases of diabetes go undiagnosed, the CDC
offers an online risk test so that everyone can learn about their risk
factors for the disease.   
This year marks the 100th anniversary of the discovery of insulin, a
crucial hormone that has saved millions of lives.  As we continue our
work to lower health care costs, expand coverage, and find a cure for
diabetes, we commemorate this important discovery and recommit ourselves
to improving treatment for all types of diabetes.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the month of
November 2021 as National Diabetes Month.  I call upon all Americans,
school systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations, health
care providers, research institutions, and other interested groups to
join in activities that raise diabetes awareness and help prevent,
treat, and manage the disease.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
