---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-05'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/05/a-proclamation-on-german-american-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-05 10:08:02-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on German-American Day,\_2021"
---
 
Since the first Germans arrived on American soil in the 17th century in
search of religious freedom and opportunity, German-Americans have
played an essential role in the foundation and growth of our country.
 Today, German-Americans make up one of the largest ancestry groups in
our country, with more than 43 million Americans of German heritage
living in the United States.  Their influence has been felt in each
successive generation, and their contributions to the United States have
been innumerable.  On German-American Day, we celebrate the
German-Americans who continue to enhance our Nation with their talents,
skills, knowledge, and rich cultural heritage. 

The contributions of German-Americans are woven into the fabric of
America, touching our lives every day.  From the Brooklyn Bridge to
airplanes, jeans to pianos, the food we eat to the beer we drink —
German-Americans have invented, built, and influenced some of the most
iconic American products and institutions.  Generations of
German-Americans have served our Nation as first responders, public
servants, scientists, entrepreneurs, farmers and ranchers, authors, and
athletes among many other occupations. 

The strong ties between the people of America and Germany that have
arisen since the end of World War II reflect the common bonds our
countries enjoy.  We remain committed to the shared democratic values
and institutions that have shaped our nations and our economies.
 Earlier this year, the United States and Germany signed the Washington
Declaration, reaffirming the democratic principles that underpin our
steadfast commitment to bilateral cooperation in promoting peace,
security, and prosperity around the world.  The United States and
Germany are inseparable allies.

On German-American Day, we celebrate our Nation’s German-American
heritage and recognize the contributions both past and present of
German-Americans across our country. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim October 6, 2021, as German-American Day. 
I urge all Americans to celebrate the rich and varied history of
German-Americans and remember the many contributions they have made to
our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
