---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 10:49:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-national-school-lunch-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-08 10:49:52-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National School Lunch Week,\_2021"
---
 
Since 1946, the National School Lunch Program has provided nutritionally
balanced, low-cost or no-cost lunches in our schools, improving our
children’s health and well-being.  School meals are one of the most
powerful ways in which our Nation promotes health and ensures children
receive the nutritious food they need to be successful in the
classroom.  Today, tens of millions of children participate in the
program.  During National School Lunch Week, we recognize the integral
role the National School Lunch Program plays in contributing to student
health, reducing child hunger, and supporting American agriculture.

The COVID-19 pandemic has amplified the importance of the National
School Lunch Program for millions of children who rely on school meals.
During the darkest days of the pandemic when businesses closed, people
lost their jobs, and millions of Americans turned to food banks to feed
their families, school meals remained a consistent source of quality
nutrition.

My Administration is dedicated to nutrition, food security, and ensuring
that school meals are accessible to all children. This includes a
commitment to providing safe, healthy meals free of charge to children,
especially as the pandemic continues to compromise the food and
nutrition security of our most vulnerable students. To help the millions
of families who struggled to provide meals for their children during the
pandemic, the American Rescue Plan provided additional emergency food
and nutrition assistance for those in need.

School meals would not be possible without the remarkable work of our
Nation’s farmers and food producers.  This year, my Administration
awarded $12 million in Farm to School Grants to 176 grantees — the most
projects the Federal Government has funded since the program began in
2013.  These grants increase access to locally produced foods, enhance
agricultural education for students, and support local farmers.  Strong
partnership with local farmers is key to our efforts to improve
nutrition security and increase access to healthy foods in schools. 
During National School Lunch Week, we show our appreciation to our local
farmers who supply the foods that keep our children well-nourished and
ready to learn. 

During National School Lunch Week, we also honor the commitment and
dedication of the school nutrition professionals who have gone above and
beyond to continue providing meals to students despite the continuing
challenges of a once-in-a-century pandemic.  They have continually found
new and creative ways to meet the moment and ensure that students who
depend on school meals for nourishment are able to grow and thrive. 

The Congress, by joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (Public Law
87–780), as amended, has designated the week beginning on the second
Sunday in October each year as “National School Lunch Week” and has
requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this
week.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 10 through
October 16, 2021, as National School Lunch Week.  I call upon all
Americans to recognize and commemorate all those who operate the
National School Lunch Program with activities that raise awareness of
the steadfast efforts in supporting the health and well-being of our
Nation’s children.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
