---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 10:40:57-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-the-girl-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-08 10:40:56-04:00
title: A Proclamation on International Day of the Girl, 2021
---
 
The growth and development of the world’s economies, institutions, and
nations rest on all girls having equal rights and opportunities. 
Ensuring that girls can reach their full potential is not just a moral
imperative, it is a strategic one as well.  The status of women and the
peace and prosperity of nations are inextricably linked.  When girls do
well, we all do well.  When we invest in the education of girls, our
communities are healthier and our economies are stronger.  When we
empower girls to lead, our peace processes, global health
and humanitarian efforts, and climate negotiations are more sustainable
and resilient.  When we invest in women- and girl-led movements, our
democracies grow more stable and more prosperous.  On this International
Day of the Girl, we commit ourselves to ensuring opportunity and
equality for all girls.  
  
Girls across our Nation and the world face gender bias
and discrimination, subjecting them to harmful circumstances that impede
their safety, stability, education, and opportunity.  This has been
especially true during the COVID-19 pandemic, which has upended the
lives of too many girls around the globe, exacerbating disparities and
underscoring what we have long known:  that during times of crisis,
girls — especially girls of color and those from underserved and
low-income communities — face disproportionate challenges. 

In the United States, girls contend with entrenched barriers to
achieving gender equity.  Despite Title IX protections, girls continue
to lack equal opportunity and resources in education and leadership, and
gender stereotypes continue to inhibit their participation in science,
technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) education, undermining
their access to the stable and good-paying jobs.  Girls’ education is
further undermined by the threat of sexual assault, harassment, and
other forms of gender-based violence, with 1-in-4 young women on college
campuses today facing sexual assault.  Girls of color and girls from
underserved communities contend with additional longstanding
disparities.  Black girls experience disproportionate rates of school
discipline and are overrepresented in our juvenile justice system. 
LGBTQI+ girls face elevated rates of gender-based violence and are
subject to bullying, harassment, and online abuse.  Transgender girls
are increasingly excluded from sports and equal access to school
facilities.  Girls with disabilities face inequitable access
to education. 

Globally, girls confront persistent and structural barriers that impede
their full participation.  Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, 130
million girls across the world were not in school, and today, there are
an additional 11 million girls who have been forced to stop their
education, undermining future economic growth, health, and development. 
An estimated 33,000 girls are made to enter into child, early, or forced
marriages every day, fueling an intergenerational cycle of poverty that
is difficult to break. Girls face a range of other challenges, from
harmful practices like female genital cutting to unintended pregnancy
and from discriminatory laws and exclusion from civic and political
processes to concerns about safety, harassment, and sexual assault.  Too
often, social norms that ascribe low value to girls’ lives functionally
limit their rights and opportunities across public and private life. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has worsened preexisting public health, economic,
political, and caregiving crises, which disproportionately impact girls
worldwide.  As health systems become more strained, girls face increased
barriers to accessing basic health care.  In many parts of the world,
those who are part of vulnerable and marginalized communities continue
to face challenges in accessing routine childhood immunizations,
preventative screenings, and sexual and reproductive health services. 
As schools closed, caregiving burdens fell on girls across the globe,
and girls were often significantly less likely to have access to the
devices required for virtual schooling due to a global digital gender
divide.  Many countries have also reported a rise in rates of
gender-based violence, both offline and online, including against female
journalists, activists, and leaders who are being further excluded from
critical rebuilding efforts.  The mental health of girls — who already
disproportionately face high incidence of reported anxiety and
other mental health issues — is also suffering.  We have also seen an
increase in visits to emergency rooms of teenage girls across our Nation
for reasons related to self-harm, including suicide attempts.  An
essential part of building back better must be elevating the status of
girls as we address these shared crises.

On this International Day of the Girl, our Nation stands firmly and
proudly in our commitment to protecting and advancing the rights of
girls, in all their diversity, both at home and abroad.  That is why,
earlier this year, I signed an Executive Order to establish the White
House Gender Policy Council and ensure a whole-of-government approach to
advancing gender equity and equality.  This month my Administration will
release the first-ever United States Government National Gender
Strategy, outlining our vision and our priorities to advance equal
opportunity for people of all genders.  From combating gender
discrimination in education and preventing gender-based violence offline
and online, to increasing pathways to STEM and promoting gender parity
and diversity in leadership and democratic processes, my Administration
will work to empower girls in every facet of life.  And by recognizing
the constraints that gender-based violence places on the lives of
millions of girls around the world, we will also develop the first-ever
United States National Action Plan on Gender-Based Violence and update
the United States’ Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based
Violence Globally. 

Our vision for the future is one where every girl can live free from
violence, discrimination, and bias.  We are committed to a future where
girls can dream boldly and lead ambitiously as heads of families,
communities, corporations, and governments; where their voices are not
only heard, but amplified; and where they can lead the charge against
21st century challenges, drive innovation, and compete and succeed
in the workforce of the future.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 11, 2021,
as International Day of the Girl.  I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this day with programs, ceremonies, and activities
that advance equality and opportunity for girls everywhere.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
