---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:26:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-native-american-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:26:42-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Native American Heritage Month,\_2021"
---
 
The United States of America was founded on an idea:  that all of us are
created equal and deserve equal treatment, equal dignity, and equal
opportunity throughout our lives.  Throughout our history — though we
have always strived to live up to that idea and have never walked away
from it — the fact remains that we have fallen short many times.  Far
too often in our founding era and in the centuries since, the promise of
our Nation has been denied to Native Americans who have lived on this
land since time immemorial. 

Despite a painful history marked by unjust Federal policies of
assimilation and termination, American Indian and Alaska Native peoples
have persevered.  During National Native American Heritage Month, we
celebrate the countless contributions of Native peoples past and
present, honor the influence they have had on the advancement of our
Nation, and recommit ourselves to upholding trust and treaty
responsibilities, strengthening Tribal sovereignty, and advancing Tribal
self-determination. 

The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted and exacerbated preexisting
inequities facing Tribal Nations.  Early in the pandemic, reported cases
in the Native American community were over 3 times the rate of white
Americans; in some States, Native American lives were lost at a rate 5
times their population share.  Even as they shouldered a
disproportionate burden throughout the pandemic, Tribal Nations have
been paragons of resilience, determination, and patriotism —
implementing key mitigation strategies like testing and prioritizing the
vaccination of Tribal communities at high rates in order to save lives. 
Through it all, Tribal Nations have effectively utilized the tools of
Tribal self-governance to protect and lead their communities, setting a
standard for all of our communities to follow. 

Our Nation cannot live up to the promise of our founding as long as
inequities affecting Native Americans persist.  My Administration is
committed to advancing equity and opportunity for all American Indians
and Alaska Natives and to helping Tribal Nations overcome the challenges
that they have faced from the pandemic, climate change, and a lack of
sufficient infrastructure in a way that reflects their unique political
relationship.

As a starting point, the American Rescue Plan represented the most
significant funding legislation for Indian Country in the history of our
Nation — the largest single Federal investment in Native communities
ever, with $20 billion in direct funding to help Tribal governments
combat and emerge from the COVID-19 crisis.  Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal and my Build Back Better framework, my
Administration is pushing for strong Tribal participation to help build
our Nation’s clean energy future, deploy clean water and high-speed
internet to every home, and invest in Native American families,
businesses, jobs, and communities. 

In my first week in office, I also signed a Presidential Memorandum
committing my Administration to the fulfillment of our Federal trust and
treaty responsibilities, to respect Tribal self-governance, and to
conduct regular, meaningful, and robust consultations with Tribal
Nations on a broad range of policy issues.  Together, we are
implementing a whole-of-government approach to empower Tribal Nations in
their efforts to achieve political and economic self-sufficiency,
advance climate resiliency, and protect their territorial sovereignty. 
To further elevate the voices of Native Americans in my Administration,
I restarted the White House Council on Native American Affairs earlier
this year.  It was among the proudest honors of my life to appoint one
of our country’s most remarkable leaders, Deb Haaland of the Pueblo of
Laguna, to serve as United States Secretary of the Interior — the first
Native American in the history of our Nation to serve in the Cabinet.

During National Native American Heritage Month, we also honor our Native
Americans veterans and service members who have courageously served and
continue to serve in our Armed Forces — including the brave Native
American Code Talkers in World War I and World War II.  For over 200
years, Native Americans have defended our country during every major
conflict and continue to serve at a higher rate than any other ethnic
group in the Nation.  Because of their selflessness, every generation of
Americans receives the precious gift of liberty — and we owe each of
them and their families a debt of gratitude for their sacrifice and
dedication. 

Native American roots are deeply embedded in this land — a homeland
loved, nurtured, strengthened, and fought for with honor and
conviction.  This month and every month, we honor the precious, strong,
and enduring cultures and contributions of all Native Americans and
recommit ourselves to fulfilling the full promise of our Nation
together.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National Native American Heritage Month.  I urge all Americans, as well
as their elected representatives at the Federal, State, and local
levels, to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities, and to celebrate November 26, 2021, as Native American
Heritage Day.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
