---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:32:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:32:02-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month, 2021
---
 
For generations, American infrastructure — from the Erie Canal and the
Transcontinental Railroad to the Hoover Dam — has been a cornerstone of
our economic power, providing jobs, facilitating transportation,
bolstering security, and overcoming barriers posed by distance and
geography.  During Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience
Month, we renew our commitment to securing and enhancing the resilience
of our Nation’s critical infrastructure.

Threats to the critical infrastructure that we all depend on, which
underpins our economic and national security, are among the most
significant and growing concerns for our Nation, including cyber
threats, physical threats, and climate threats.  Our country has seen
how the technologies we rely on can be targeted by criminal activity and
how extreme weather exposes the weaknesses in our power, water,
communication, and transportation networks.  We must do everything we
can to safeguard and strengthen the systems that protect us; provide
energy to power our homes, schools, hospitals, businesses, and vehicles;
maintain our ability to connect; and ensure that we have reliable access
to safe drinking water.  While our Nation has been resilient as we have
navigated this pandemic, we must continue investing in our workforce to
keep pace with the threats we face and ensure we are building back
better.

I am committed to protecting our critical infrastructure and improving
security and resilience efforts across the Nation.  Most of our Nation’s
critical infrastructure — from communication lines to transportation
networks — depends on coordination and cooperation among Federal, State,
Tribal, and local governments, along with industry partners.  That is
why, earlier this year, my Administration launched an Industrial Control
Systems Cybersecurity Initiative to strengthen the security of our
country’s critical infrastructure, which has already created 100-day
action plans for the electricity and natural gas pipeline sectors, with
more to come, and we institutionalized that Initiative with a National
Security Memorandum on Improving Cybersecurity for Critical
Infrastructure Control Systems.  The voluntary initiative is
a collaborative effort between the Federal Government and our private
sector partners to significantly improve the cybersecurity of our
critical systems by providing technologies that detect threats and can
respond in essential control system and operational technology
networks.  The Department of Homeland Security and the National
Institute of Standards and Technology are also partnering with the
private sector to develop ‘performance goals’ — cybersecurity baselines
that will improve our Nation’s security if critical infrastructure
sectors adopt them.  Finally, critical infrastructure resilience greatly
benefits from close partnerships at home and abroad, and this October,
my Administration launched a Counter Ransomware Initiative with more
than 30 partners and allies.

At home, my Administration is committed to making a once-in-a-generation
investment to prioritize secure, sustainable, and resilient
infrastructure. Streamlining access to Federal programs and grants to
help States and local government build capacity helps ensure we are
modernizing our infrastructure to be more climate-resilient and building
a clean energy future that will create millions of jobs.  The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal includes $550 billion for our Nation’s roads and
bridges, water infrastructure, internet, and more.  Our agenda also
contains the largest Federal investment in power transmission in our
Nation’s history, ensuring a more reliable grid that has the capability
to carry more renewable energy.  These investments will strengthen our
Nation and bolster our ability to lead, and they will help mitigate
socio-economic disparities, advance racial equity, facilitate equitable
recovery, and promote affordable access to opportunities for every
American.  Protecting our critical transportation infrastructure —
including our bridges and roads — takes all of us working together.

A key dimension of the Nation’s resilience is safeguarding our
democracy, which requires securing our election infrastructure.  We have
made tremendous progress working with State and local election officials
over the past several years, but there is more to be done.  We are
particularly focused on improving the physical security of election
officials as they face increasing threats of violence, securing election
systems from cyber attacks, and confronting one of the most significant
threats we see today:  disinformation campaigns designed to undermine
confidence in our elections, and ultimately, confidence in our democracy
and our democratic institutions.

The threats against our critical infrastructure are increasingly complex
and nuanced, and we all must be prepared to better protect ourselves
from malicious actors threatening our cyber and physical security.  That
means staying vigilant, investing in new security measures, being
prepared to respond to threats, and collaborating more with our
partners.  During Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month,
we reaffirm our commitment to protecting our infrastructure today and
securing it for tomorrow.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to recognize the importance of protecting
our Nation’s infrastructure and to observe this month with appropriate
measures to enhance our national security and resilience.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
