---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:42:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/national-alzheimers-disease-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:14:00-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Alzheimer\u2019s Disease Awareness Month,\_2021"
---
 
For more than 6 million Americans and the family members and friends who
love them, Alzheimer’s disease can be devastating.  This common form of
dementia is a cruel and fatal condition that erodes the ability to
think, to recall precious memories, and to live independently.  During
National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we stand with all those
families confronting this challenging disease and recommit ourselves to
improving treatment and finding a cure.  

A leading cause of death in seniors, Alzheimer’s exacts a heartbreaking
human toll on our Nation — as well as a deep economic toll, with the
cost of treatment exceeding $300 billion in 2020 alone.  But recent
advances in biomedical science offer hope for better days ahead.  As the
scientific community continues to make strides toward a better
understanding of Alzheimer’s — and, ultimately, a cure — it is critical
that we do all we can to expedite progress and alleviate the suffering
caused by this disease.

To that end, I have asked the Congress to fund a new program called the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H).  Modeled on the
Defense Advanced Research Project Agency, a Government program that led
to the creation of the Internet, GPS, and countless other vital
technologies, ARPA-H would accelerate our research on detecting,
treating, and curing diseases like Alzheimer’s.  My Administration is
also building on the progress of the Obama-Biden Administration’s
National Plan to address Alzheimer’s, which set our Nation on an
aggressive course to improve research, provide optimal medical care, and
enhance long-term services to meet the needs of families in the United
States currently living with this terrible disease.  As we pursue this
effort, my Administration is also committed to ensuring that people who
are disproportionately affected by Alzheimer’s and related dementias —
especially older Black and Brown Americans, who are 2 to 3 times more
likely to be affected — are seen, heard, and included in the quest to
treat and prevent these conditions. 

As we mark National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we also honor
those who care and provide for the victims of this devastating disease. 
The work of our Nation’s caregivers can be physically demanding and
emotionally exhausting — especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, when
caregivers have made substantial sacrifices to protect their loved ones
suffering from Alzheimer’s.  Caregivers deserve our respect as well as
our support, which is why the American Rescue Plan invested $145 million
to help caregivers provide for their loved ones — a foundation that my
Administration’s Build Back Better agenda will build upon.

I believe that our Nation stands at an unprecedented moment of
scientific promise — it is critical that we keep up the fight against
Alzheimer’s until a cure is found and continue to care for all those
affected by this condition in the meantime.  For resources and
information on living with or caring for someone with Alzheimer’s
disease, please visit www.Alzheimers.gov.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021
as National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month.  I call upon the people
of the United States of America to learn more about Alzheimer’s and to
offer their support to the individuals living with this disease and to
their caregivers.    
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
