---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-01'
modified_time: 2021-10-01 12:44:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/01/a-proclamation-on-fire-prevention-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-01 12:44:02-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Fire Prevention Week, 2021
---
 
During Fire Prevention Week, we honor our brave firefighters and first
responders who risk their lives to protect us every day and reaffirm the
importance of fire safety and preparedness.  This week, I call on all
Americans to educate themselves about fire prevention and safety and
recommit to taking the necessary steps to prevent fires.  Whether you
are in your own home or camping in one of America’s majestic National
Parks, taking the proper precautions and safety measures can help
prevent fires and save your life and the lives of your family and others
while protecting our natural wonders. 

Already this year, more than 44,000 wildfires have burned nearly 5.3
million acres of our land — an area roughly the size of the State of New
Jersey.  These fires have destroyed homes and priceless memories.  They
have forced families into shelters and filled the air with smoke for
hundreds of miles.  Precious lives have been lost.  The fires have
ground local economies to a halt, swallowed up family farms, and
disrupted supply chains that fuel jobs, businesses, and communities all
across the country.

These fires represent a code red for our Nation — and we know that,
unless we take bold action to address climate change, they will only
continue to gain in frequency and ferocity.  Scientists have warned us
for years that extreme weather will only get more extreme, and today we
are living it in real time.  Extreme weather, including wildfires, cost
America $99 billion last year; unfortunately, we are poised to break
that record this year.

That is why my Administration is committed to taking on the threat of
climate change and investing in America’s resilience.  We have proposed
investing billions of dollars to strengthen our wildfire preparedness,
resilience, and response.  These investments will not just save lives
and homes — they will also save industries and create new jobs.  When I
think about climate change, I always think about the millions of
good-paying, union jobs we can create — but we also need to think about
all of the jobs and industries we stand to lose if we fail to act boldly
enough.  The evidence is overwhelming that every dollar we invest in our
resilience saves us six dollars down the road, when the next fire does
not spread as widely and homes and businesses are spared.

Our response to this threat starts with our brave firefighters, who put
their lives on the line every day.  To better support the wildland
firefighters who serve our Nation so courageously, my Administration is
committed to making sure that we have enough firefighters on call who
are trained, equipped, and ready to respond.  That is why I took action
this summer to ensure that all of our Federal firefighters will earn a
minimum of $15 an hour.  My Administration has increased wildland
firefighter pay through bonuses and retention pay, extended seasonal
firefighter employment to ensure robust response throughout the fire
season, deployed new fire detection and air monitoring technologies,
invoked the Defense Production Act to increase the supply of equipment,
and brought additional aircraft and personnel to bear from both the
Department of Defense and our partner nations.  

During Fire Prevention Week, I call on all Americans to educate
themselves about fire safety, take the appropriate precautions when
encountering fires, and honor our courageous firefighters, volunteers,
and first responders.  I also encourage everyone to install and maintain
smoke alarms in their homes — critical elements of fire safety that have
helped significantly decrease United States home fire death rates over
the past 40 years.  By testing alarms every month and replacing them
every 10 years, we can be better prepared to respond quickly to fires
and prevent tragic loss of life. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 3 through
October 9, 2021, as Fire Prevention Week.  On Sunday, October 3, 2021,
in accordance with Public Law 107-51, the flag of the United States will
be flown at half-staff at all Federal office buildings in honor of the
National Fallen Firefighters Memorial Service.  I call on all Americans
to participate in this observance with appropriate programs and
activities and by renewing their efforts to prevent fires and their
tragic consequences.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
