---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:15:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/29/a-proclamation-on-national-veterans-and-military-families-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:15:55-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Veterans and Military Families Month, 2021
---
 
America has the greatest Armed Forces in the history of the world.  To
those who serve and those that serve alongside them — their families and
caregivers — we owe a debt we can never fully repay.  During National
Veterans and Military Families Month, we recognize and thank them for
their indispensable contributions and immeasurable sacrifices in support
of our national security.  As we approach this season of thanksgiving,
we send our gratitude to millions of service members, veterans, military
families, caregivers, and survivors who have served and continue to
serve our Nation.  I have said many times, and it comes from my heart —
we as a Nation have a sacred obligation to properly equip and prepare
our troops when we send them in to harm’s way and to support them and
their families, both while they are deployed and when they return home. 

The First Lady and I know that it is not only the person who wears the
uniform serving our country but also their families who make enormous
sacrifices for our Nation.  As the poet John Milton wrote, “They also
serve who only stand and wait.”  We understand the feelings of pride,
uncertainty, and fear when a loved one is deployed.  Every morning, you
wake up and say that extra prayer for them. 

Our veteran and military families do so much and ask for little.  They
are strong and adaptable, changing course to accommodate the needs of
our country, often foregoing personal wishes.  They are capable and
proud, holding down the home front during their loved one’s deployments,
coping through their absence and the risk of danger, and helping them
readjust when they come home.  

These families and their Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen, Marines, Guardians,
and Coast Guardsmen, are simply the best America has to offer.  When
they do not have what they need to thrive, it is not only individuals
who suffer.  If service members are worried that their spouse is
struggling to keep food on the table or that their child is having a
hard time at school, it is harder to focus on their mission.  That is
why supporting military families is a national security imperative.

Since the earliest days of my Administration, we have been committed to
a whole-of-government approach to responding to the real-time needs of
our military and veteran families.  Through Joining Forces, the White
House initiative to support veteran and military families, caregivers,
and survivors, my Administration is addressing military spouse
employment and entrepreneurship, military child education, and family
health and well-being.  The First Lady has met with our Nation’s
military and veteran families, caregivers, survivors, and advocates to
learn how we can better support and prioritize their needs.  Those
discussions help inform the efforts across the Government to share data,
create innovative solutions, and implement evidence-based programs and
policies.  In September, Joining Forces and the National Security
Council released a report outlining the first round of
Administration-wide commitments and proposals for supporting military
and veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.  We are committed to
continuing these efforts because we must, and we will, honor our sacred
obligation to support our military and veteran families and ensure they
receive the resources they need to thrive.

Throughout November, we show our appreciation to the spouses, partners,
children, caregivers, and survivors of our service members and veterans
for their selfless sacrifice on behalf of the Nation.  We honor them and
their invaluable contributions; we share their pride in our Armed
Forces; and we will never forget what they and their loved ones do for
us. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 2021 as
National Veterans and Military Families Month.  I call upon the people
of the United States to honor veterans and military families with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
