---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-10-08'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/10/08/a-proclamation-on-general-pulaski-memorial-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-10-08 10:44:57-04:00
title: A Proclamation on General Pulaski Memorial Day, 2021
---
 
On General Pulaski Memorial Day, we honor Brigadier General Casimir
Pulaski, a Polish-born hero of the American Revolution, who gave his
life 242 years ago in defense of our cause to establish a free and
independent Nation.  Known as the “Father of the American Cavalry” for
his leadership and military skills, General Pulaski’s service and
sacrifice remain a shining example of the countless contributions that
immigrants have made to help build our great Nation. 

Today, General Pulaski’s legacy and contributions to our democracy are
honored by more than 9 million Polish-Americans in communities across
our country.  Polish-Americans have played an integral role in the
growth of our Nation — defending our country in uniform, protecting our
communities as first responders, starting new businesses and growing our
economy, educating the next generation of American leaders, working on
the front lines of the pandemic, and creating art that inspires us, to
name just a few examples. 

In 1929, the Congress recognized General Pulaski’s enduring impact on
American society by declaring October 11, “General Pulaski Memorial
Day.”  Eighty years later, the Congress granted him honorary United
States citizenship.  Today, States, cities, and communities all across
our Nation celebrate the memory of General Casimir Pulaski at parks,
schools, and landmarks that bear his name — serving as a reminder of his
heroism and the sacrifice he made in defense of our newly formed
Nation. 

On this day, we celebrate the life of General Casimir Pulaski and the
ideals and democratic values for which he bravely gave his life — values
shared by the United States and Poland, which underpin the enduring bond
of friendship between our countries. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 11, 2021,
as “General Pulaski Memorial Day.”  I encourage all Americans to
commemorate this occasion with appropriate programs and activities
paying tribute to General Casimir Pulaski and honoring all those who
defend the freedom of our great Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
