---
date: '2024-10-08'
modified_time: 2024-10-09 07:48:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-08 14:43:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-progress-in-replacing-lead-pipes-and-creating-good-paying-jobs-milwaukee-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019\
  s Progress in Replacing Lead Pipes and Creating Good-Paying Jobs | Milwaukee,\_\
  WI"
---
 
Department of Public Works Field Headquarters  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

1:42 P.M. CDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everybody.  (Applause.)  Hello, Milwaukee! 
(Applause.)  It’s good to be back.  Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Welcome to Milwaukee, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it’s good to be back in Milwaukee.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love Biden-Harris!  Milwaukee loves Biden-Harris!

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

If you have a seat, have one.  (Laughter.)  I said that once and there
were no seats, and the guy looked at me like, “What the hell is the
matter with you?”  (Laughter.) 

Before I begin, I want to say we’re prepared for another horrible
hurricane to hit Florida.  I’ve directed my team to do everything it can
to save lives and help the communities before, during, and after this
hurricane. 

The most important message today for all those who may be listening to
this in the impacted areas is listen to the local authorities, follow
safety instruction, including evacuation orders.  This is serious.  And
you got to be safe, because people are dying.  People have died so far —
not from this hurricane, but from the last one. 

So, folks, let me — for this — get to today’s event.  

Shy, thank you for sharing your family’s story.  You said it all.  The
worst thing — and I know from experience — for a parent is something
happening to your children.  Your son, your family, <s>your</s> \[and\]
families like yours exposed to lead poisoning in our water, they deserve
a hell of a lot better than they’ve been getting.  And that’s why we’re
here. 

That’s why people like <s>Alfonso</s> \[Alonso\] are getting to work
removing those lead <s>pipe services</s> \[service lines\], delivering
clean water.   
  
Kamala and I go all the way back to Flint worrying about what happened
then — remember? — in Michigan.

AUDIENCE:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, providing what’s good for our health and for our
environment is also good for our economy and it’s good for jobs. 
(Applause.)

Folks, the middle class built this country, and organized labor unions
built the middle class.  (Applause.)  It’s a fact.

We’re lucky to have some great leaders here today who know how to get a
job done.  Tony has heard me say this before, but I think Tony is one of
the three best governors in the United States of America.  (Applause.)

And the great mayor, Chevy Johnson — Chevy, I tell you, you’re one of
the best mayors, pal.  (Applause.)  You really are. 

Our great administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency,
Michael Regan.  (Applause.)

And our great chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, Brenda
<s>Malloy</s> \[Mallory\].  (Applause.)  Brenda, where are you?  You’re
out — you’re out there somewhere.   

We’re here today because we’re finally addressing an issue that
should’ve been addressed a long time ago in this country: the danger
that lead pipes pose to our drinking water.   
  
For too long, local communities have known how important it was to deal
with this problem.  It hadn’t been given the national priority it
demanded though. 

I’m here today to tell you that I’m finally insisting that it gets
prioritized, and I’m insisting it get done.  (Applause.)

One of the most important things we’re doing today is establishing a new
rule that every lead pipe providing clean drinking water doesn’t — that
— that doesn’t provide clean wa- — must be replaced.  Every single one. 
Not only are we setting a priority, we’re showing up as a partner to get
it done. 

Over the past couple of years, we’ve provided billions of dollars to
states and communities to address this problem.  And today, I’m
announcing an additional $2 billion in — (applause) — in grants to
states and local communities to get the job done.  It matters. 

Folks, people often asking me, “Why do we have lead pipes in the first
place?”  You probably ask yourself that.  “How did that happen?”  Well,
it’s because when they were first put in place a long time ago, lead
pipes were incredibly durable and they didn’t rust.  But since then,
we’ve learned that lead pipes also leach poisonous toxins into the water
that lead to terrible health consequences, particularly in the
development of a child’s brain.  Think about what that does to a
parent’s peace of mind. 

When I was a senator back in 1986, I supported a law that stopped new
lead pipes from being put in the ground in the first place.  But that
still left millions of older lead pipes that were already in the ground
connected to homes, schools, childcare centers, and businesses,
including some 340,000 lead pipe service lines right here in Wisconsin. 

And over the years, we’ve only chipped away at the problem, but chipping
at a problem hasn’t fully solved it.  It’s taken too long.  It hasn’t
been given a high enough priority until now.  (Applause.) 

Folks, as Kamala would say, “This is the United States of America, for
God’s sake.”  There’s no safe — no safe level of lead exposure, period. 
None. 

And the only way forward is to replace every lead pipeline and connect
the American people to clean water.  No alternative.  And that’s why —
(applause) — that’s why Kamala and I are the first administration to
take on the challenge once and for all.  And we’re delivering. 

We know safe, clean drinking water is fundamental to the health of our
communities, to enhance our economic growth, to basic human dignity. 

That’s why we’ve already replaced 367,000 lead pipe <s>services</s>
\[service lines\] all across America.  And today — (applause) — nearly 1
million Americans no longer have to worry about the potential impacts of
lead in their water. 

Like Lillie Key right here in Milwaukee.  She’s a nursing assistant,
protecting the health of others.  She actually knows — actually at work
right now.  But in her own home, there was a lead pipe threat to her own
health and to all her grandchildren she helped raise there.  She was
spending a big chunk of her paycheck on bottled water every month
because it was too expensive to replace the lead pipes. 

But three — three weeks ago, Lillie got lead service line replaced for
free.  (Applause.)  How?  Because of what I call In- — our Investing in
America agenda. 

One of the many reasons Kamala and I fought so hard to pass the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — which I might add is over a trillion 200
billion dollars — was not only to modernize our nation’s infrastructure
— roads, bridges, ports, airports, transit system, electric grids,
affordable high-speed broadband — but also to get rid of the godforsaken
lead pipes drive cl- — dri- — deliver clean drinking water to everyone
in their homes, their schools, and their businesses. 

Right here in Wisconsin, we’ve invested more than $200 million,
replacing tens of thousands of lead pipelines.  And today — (applause) —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  No, thank you.  Thank you.

Today, we’re releasing another $43 million for Wisconsin as part of two,
six — $2.6 billion nationwide to support replacing lead pipe service
lines.  (Applause.)

And while the federal government can’t do it alone, we’re providing the
single largest investment ever to team up with states and cities to get
the job done together.  And I mean team up at every level. 

Right after I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Kamala announced
our administration’s ambitious blueprint to use every tool — every tool
at our disposal at the federal, state, and local level to protect our
families from lead poisoning.  As a result of that work, I’m announcing
a new rule, written into law from the Environmental Protection Agency,
that requires water systems across America replace lead pipe service
\[lines\] in — every single one in America within 10 years must be
done.  (Applause.) 

I want that rule into law no matter who is president.  It matters.

We’re seeing that collaboration here, where the city of Milwaukee will
now replace all of their lead pipe service lines within 10 years,
instead of what was projected to take 60 years to get it done.  That was
the projection. 

Folks, this is a big deal, as someone once said.  (Laughter.)

It’s about saving families from going through what Shy and Lillie’s
families had to go through, saving hundreds of thousands of mothers and
infants from low birth weights and children <s>with</s> \[from\] lasting
brain damage, protecting more than a thousand adults from premature
death from heart disease every single year because of lead. 

It’ll save lives, but it’ll also saves the taxpayers billions of dollars
over time. 

It’s about the basics.  It’s about clean water.  To me, it’s a simple
proposition. 

This is also about fairness.  Natio- — nationally, I’m directing nearly
half of this funding go to disadvantaged communities that have borne the
brunt of lead pipe poisoning for damn too long.  (Applause.) 

Studies show community of colors — cl- — community of — of color have
been the hardest hit.  One study showed Black children were at least two
times more likely to have elevated levels of lead in their blood than
children of other racial groups.  We have an obligation to make things
right.

Like all major investments we’re making in the environment, it’s also
about creating jobs — good-paying jobs, many of them union jobs for
laborers, plumbers, pipefitters, like <s>Alfonso</s> \[Alonso\]. 

That’s why my administration is bringing together the city of
Milwaukee’s local unions, educators, employers to create an Invest in
America workforce hub right here in Milwaukee.  (Applause.)  Sometimes,
you forget the basics.

This — this is go- — this hub is going to train and connect residents to
good-paying jobs replacing lead pipelines.  It’ll create new registered
apprenticeships, helping everyone, including women and people of color,
to access these jobs with good pay and benefits for themselves and their
families. 

And we’re also using the power of our example as a global leader,
helping replace lead pipes around the world.  Last month at the United
Nations, I was proud that my wife, Jill, and our international aid
agency, USAID, brought together 26 nations, funded primarily through
philanthropy, to launch a coalition to end childhood lead poisoning —
poisoning that kills more people in developing countries than HIV/AIDS
and malaria combined. 

Folks, replacing lead pipes is just one piece of our nation’s most
ambitious clean water agenda ever.

We’re upgrading outdated — (applause) — we’re upda- — we’re upgrading
outdated water mains and treatment plants, making them more resilient to
climate disasters.  That means less likely to break down after massive
floods and still run when the power grid goes down. 

We’re improving water systems on Tribal lands, where nearly half the
population still lacks clean water.  Half the population on Tribal lands
still lacks clean water.  It’s outrageous.  We’re committing to making
it right. 

And as part of my Canc- — (applause) — and as part of my Cancer Moonshot
initiative to end cancer as we know it, we’re detecting and removing
so-called forever chemicals, referred to as “PFAS.”  These are chemicals
that are found in many everyday products but are unsafe and shown to
contribute to cancer and other health conditions.  We set the first-ever
drinking water standard to protect 100 million Americans from PFAS —
(applause) — including folks all across Wisconsin.

Folks, what’s the government for if it cannot protect the public
health?  (Applause.)  And in the process, we’re creating jobs.  We’re
building a better America.  And clean water is just one critical part. 

For example, earlier this year, I was in Milwaukee with your governor
and your mayor when I announced nearly $36 million for the 6th Street
project.  As you know, during the ‘60s, so-called “urban renewal” swept
through this country.  The construction of I- — I-4 — I-94 and I-43 were
torn down.  Roughly — they tore down roughly 17,000 homes and 1,000
businesses were lost, displacing residents and businesses all along 6th
Street, all so — so the people outside the neighborhood could drive
downtown more quickly.

With bike lanes and bus lanes gone, speeding and reckless driving
increased, resulting in crash rates five times that of the city’s
average; locking people out of opportunities, leaving them more isolated
from the social and economic life for the rest of the city.  But not
anymore. 

We’re going to rebuild the 6th Street.  We’re going to — a future with
wider sidewalks for children walking to school, safer bike lanes for
residents and visitors, dedicated bus lanes to get to work faster, new
trees to provide shade, modern infrastructure to prevent sewage from
flowing into the Milwaukee River and Lake Michigan.  (Applause.)  We’re
making it easy for historic Black communities in the north and Latino
communities in the south to access jobs, schools, and entertainment
opportunities in the city and around a central hub.  This will be
life-changing. 

The bottom line is I said I’d keep my commitment to insist that all
communities have access to investments that improve safety and security
of their neighborhoods.  And that’s what we’re doing: giving everyone a
fair shot — (applause) — and, my dad would say, “leaving no one
behind.” 

Folks, there are some folks who don’t have any problem leaving people
behind, like my predecessor in the White House and his allies in
Congress; like your senator, Ron Johnson, who voted against —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  He voted against everything I just talked about — every
single thing.  In fact, Ron Johnson called the law that is removing
these lead pipe, <s>protection</s> \[protecting\] the — the public — for
public health, creating jobs in Wisconsin — he called it a “radical”
agenda.  (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s a radical agenda. 

THE PRESIDENT:  (The president makes the sign of the cross.)  (Laughter
and applause.)  I’m going to restrain my Irish side here.  (Laughter.) 

I don’t think there’s a damn thing radical about protecting kids from
lead poisoning — (applause) — protecting women from — from low birth
rates, protecting them from brain damage, and so much more. 

My predecessor, along with the senator, rolled back clean water
protections that kept industries from polluting our water and destroying
our wetlands.  They slashed the Environmental Protection Agency’s budget
and eliminated important programs that guaranteed clean water.

You may also remember, when the last guy was president, he promised
“Infrastructure Week” every week for four years — (laughter) — and he
didn’t build a damn thing.  (Applause.)

Folks, in plain talk, we can’t go backwards.  We have to keep moving
forward, protect the health and well-being of our families, our
communities, and our country and, in the process, growing our economy
and creating good-paying jobs.  We can’t wait any longer.  (Applause.)

Folks, let me close with this.  When folks see shovels in the ground on
all these projects that protect people’s lives and put people to work, I
hope they feel what I feel: pride — pride in their hometowns making a
comeback; pride in America, that we can get big things done when we work
together.

I’ve never been more optimistic — and I mean this from the bottom of my
heart.  I’ve never more mo- — more — in my whole life, been more
optimistic about our nation’s future. 

We just have to remember who the hell we are.  We’re the United States
of America.  (Applause.) 

And there is nothing — there is nothing beyond our capacity when we work
together.  So, let’s keep working together and get it done.  (Applause.)

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Thanks, everybody.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

2:02 P.M. CDT
