---
date: '2024-10-08'
modified_time: 2024-10-09 11:18:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-08 11:05:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/08/remarks-by-president-biden-after-briefing-on-the-federal-governments-response-to-hurricane-helene-and-the-preparations-for-hurricane-milton/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden After Briefing on the Federal Government\u2019\
  s Response to Hurricane Helene and the Preparations for Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

11:03 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thanks for your patience.  As you know, I put out a
statement this morning that I’m canceling my trip to Germany and to
Africa.  We’re going to try to re- — work those out later.  But I just
don’t think I can be out of the country at this time.  Number one. 

And number two, we — we’re going to stay focused on what’s a- — what’s
ahead of us right now.  I — I’ve been briefed by the senior leaders of
this administration and — who are driving our preparedness for Hurricane
Milton, which could be one of the worst storms in 100 years in Florida,
and continued efforts on Hurricane Helene. 

I’ve directed this team to do everything it can to save lives and our
communities and help our communities before, during, and after these
extreme weather events that — and — and that’s being done.  That’s being
done. 

I’ve spoken to all the political leaders in the region, some of them
more than once.  And they — they’ve — I’ve told them anything they ask
for, they can get, they — we’ve given — and we’ve gotten overwhelmingly
response — a positive response from everyone from the governors of
Florida up to North Carolina. 

And mayors, leaders, local (inaudible) have expressed their sincere
gratitude for the work of FEMA and for the work of my entire
administration. 

Now, I’ve also surged thousands of federal personnel on the ground
across the Southeast already and deliver every available resource as
fast as possible.  And my priority is to increase the size and presence
of our effort and — as we prepare for another catastrophic storm about
to make landfall.

You know, it’s been a — I’ve been in constant contact with my director
of the National Weather Service, Ken Graham, who has kept me informed
the last several days of what to anticipate.  You never know until it
happens, but they’re very — very engaged. 

He made clear to me just how dangerous this storm is, indicating that
winds had reached up 180 miles an hour — 180 — that — that’s not
guaranteed it’s going to hit the store at 180 miles, but they’ve reached
up to 180 miles an hour — and a possible storm surge, as it hits the
coast of Florida, of 15 feet, which can be devastating.

The current path of this is storm is expected to hit Tampa Bay area and
cut directly across the state — east to west, all the way across the
state — with the potential for this storm to both enter Florida as a
hurricane and leave Florida as a hurricane on the Atlantic coast.

This could be the worst storm to hit Florida in over a century.  And,
God willing, it won’t be, but that’s what it’s looking like right now.

I immediately approved the pre-landfall emergency declarations in
Florida — this is — is the second one in a week — second time in a week,
and there’ve been two before that, by the way. 

And I sent FEMA Administrator Criswell down to Florida yesterday to work
and — intensively with the state and local partners as we prepare to
deploy more resources.  She’s going to continue that work between
Florida and North Carolina in the coming days.

I’m calling on the airlines and other companies to provide as much
service as possible to accommodate evacuations and not to engage in
price gouging, to just do it on the level.

And last night, I spoke again with the governor of Florida, DeSantis,
and Tampa Mayor Castro and — or, excuse me, Castor — and I made it clear
to them they should reach out, including to me directly, with everything
else they may need as they see this storm hits.  I gave them my personal
number to contact me here in the White House.

Most importantly, I’ve urged everyone — everyone currently located in
Hurricane Milton’s path to listen to local officials and follow safety
instructions.  You all have been reporting on the highways and shoulders
being opened.  Everybody is heading out.  And if you’re under evacuation
or- — orders, you should evacuate now — now — now.  You should have
already evacuated. It’s a matter of life and death, and that’s not
hyperbole. It’s a matter of life and death.

So, let me add that FEMA has provided 300 ambulances to move people who
can’t move themselves out of health care facilities. 

And while we prepare for Hurricane Milton, we’re still surging resources
in North Carolina, in Georgia, South Carolina, Florida, Tennessee, to
respond to Hurricane Helene.  And it’s — it’s real.  The impact is still
there.

And we’re going to leave — we’re not going to leave until the job is
done.  It’s going to take time.  And before it’s all over, it’s going to
take tens of billions of dollars to get it done.

And Kamala and I are keeping all of you in our prayers out there. 
There’s a lot of people.   
  
The good news is, I re- — just before we called you in, I received
information that the number of missing persons has been significantly
reduced of lost from — from the first hurricane.  But we’ll have more
information on that later.

So, that’s the situation, and we’re — we’re not going to leave until the
job is finished.  It’s going to take a while.

Q    Sir, what’s the risk of political figures sharing misinformation
during this time?

THE PRESIDENT:  The past is prologue is real.  But the fact of the
matter is I — I think we have — I’ve been able to contact all the
governors.  They’ve — are sticking up for what they’ve asked for. 
They’re pointing out that they’re satisfied with everything they’re
getting.

But I can’t speak for others on the Internet and — and I mean, it’s just
— look, those who do it do it to try to damage the administration. 
Well, that’s — we can take care of ourselves.  But it misleads people. 
It puts people in circumstances where they panic, where they really,
really, really worry.  They think “Now we’re not being taken care of.”

And it really is — and it’s going to sound — I’ll use an old phrase:
It’s un-American.  It really is.

People are scared to death.  People know their lives are at stake — all
that they’ve worked for, all that they own, all that they value.  And
it’s just — it’s — it’s just — anyway.

Q    Mr. President, can you give us a sense of how Vice President —

Q    Mr. President, how soon do you think you’ll be able to travel to
Germany and Angola?

(Cross-talk.)

Q    (Inaudible) Vice President Harris’ role in this?

THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa, whoa, whoa.  Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait,
wait.  I’ll be — I’ll have plenty of time to talk about Angola.  I still
plan on going to Africa.  I’ll have plenty of time to talk about what’s
going on in — in Latin America and South America in terms of the
Amazon.  And I’m going to be talking today with my friend, the
chancellor of Germany, and we’re going to try to work that out.

We’ve already contacted all these people.  Okay?  But I’m going to be on
the phone today. 

I’m heading shortly — when I get up from here, I’m heading out to
Wisconsin, to Milwaukee.  And — but I think we can — I’m still planning
on visiting all the places I said I’d be and all the conferences I said
I’d participate in.

(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Mr. President — what’s your relationship like, Mr. President, with
the governor of Florida?  Is he cooperating as far as everything that
you would like to do with — with Hurricane Milton?

(Cross-talk.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The governor of Florida has been cooperative.  He said
he’s gotten all that he needs.  I talked to him again yesterday.  And I
— and I said, “Whatever you” — I said, “No, you’re doing a great job. 
It’s being — all being done well.  We thank you for it.”  And I
literally gave him my personal phone number to call.   
  
So, I don’t know — there was a rough start in some places, but every
governor — every governor, from Florida to North Carolina, has been
fully cooperative and supportive and acknowledged what this team is
doing, and they’re doing an incredible job.  But we got a lot more to
do.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Has the vice president been helpful in this as well, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

11:12 A.M. EDT
