---
date: '2024-10-01'
modified_time: 2024-10-01 21:30:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-01 21:42:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/01/remarks-by-president-biden-before-an-interagency-briefing-on-response-to-hurricane-helene/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before an Interagency Briefing on Response to\
  \ Hurricane\_Helene"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

4:01 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Okay. Before I begin, I wanted to say a few words about
Iran’s missile attack on Israel today.  
  
At my direction, the United States military actively supported the
defense of Israel, and we’re still assessing the impact. But based on
what we know now, the attack appears to have been defeated and
ineffective, and this is testament to Israeli military capability and
U.S. military.  
  
I’m also — it’s also a testament to intensive planning between the
United States and Israel to anticipate and defend against the brazen
attack we expected.  
  
Make no mistake, the United States is fully, fully, fully supportive of
Israel. And I just — I’ve been — spent the morning in the — and part of
the afternoon in the Situation Room and meeting with my whole national
security team and consulting with the Israelis indirectly, because — on
— in terms of their impact on us.  
  
And the national security team has been, as I said, in constant contact
with Israeli officials and their counterparts. And is — and this is
going to continue to be brought to me throughout the day.  
  
We still have to share updates and — when we get them, and we will do
that.  
  
And now I want to turn to what we’re going to be talking about today:
the damage done by this — this horrible hurricane.  
  
My top priority — and I mean this sincerely, because we’ve been through
a lot of these — my top priority is to ensure the communities devastated
by this hurricane get the help and support they need as quickly as
possible — as quickly as possible.  
  
As we watched the storm from the Gulf region form, I also directed FEMA
to redeploy a substantial number of assets and resources to ensure we
were ready to deal with what we expected and to support all the folks in
need.  
  
We had over 1,000 federal personnel, including search and rescue teams,
at the ready, on the ground before it hit.  
  
Maxwell Air Force Base in Alabama became the st- — staging ground for —
for responders throughout the entire region, with 2.7 million meals,
nearly 2 million liters of water ready to be distributed before the
hurricane hit.  
  
I immediately approved emergency declarations as soon as I received
requests from the governors or the state officials.  
  
Still, with all this preparation, this was a hurricane of unprecedented
and historic proportions.  
  
Over the past several days, I’ve been in regular contact with the
governors, the mayors, the county officials on — on — in all the
affected areas. That includes Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Tennessee, Alabama, and Virginia.  
  
Now, in the storm’s wake, I’ve directed my team, including the
leadership in key departments and agencies all across the government, to
send every — and I mean this seriously — every available resource that
we have at our disposal to the affected region. And that’s why we’re
here today with the Cabinet and those acting in Cabinet but — because
some are deployed already — the Department of Defense, Agriculture, HHS,
Transportation, Energy, Homeland Security, EPA, Commerce, Small Business
Association, and the U.S. Carmy the \[Army\] Corps of Engineers. We need
to be all working together, and that’s what we’re going to talk about —
that continued coordination we have going on.  
  
I’ve been in frequent contact with the governors and other leaders in
the impacted areas, and we have to jump-start this recovery process.
People are scared to death. People wonder whether they’re going to make
it.  
  
We still haven’t heard from a whole lot of people. This is urgent.
People have to know how to know how to get the information they need.  
  
So, we’ll be there until this work is done. I’m go- — it’s going to cost
— I predict to you; I don’t have a — a number — I think it’s going to
cost billions of dollars to restore these areas to where they were
before.  
  
Until the work is done, we’re going to stay.  
  
I’m going to — as I said, Congress needs to make sure that states have
every available resource. And we have an obligation.  
  
This is a storm of historic proportion. Nothing like this has happened
in the region since the turn of the 20th century. I think the last was
1914, 1916, in that ran- — range.  
  
So, that’s what we’re here to discuss: the detail of how we get all
that’s needed. And it’s going to take a long time. It’s going to take a
long haul to restore these communities.  
  
And I’m going to be heading down — anyway. I’ll be in the region on
Wednesday. And we’ve had people down there already. It’s just going to
be real- — this is really consequential. Homes — come home and they’re
just washed away; entire roads washed up; cliffs — I mean, it’s just
devastating.  
  
And so, we’re going to — it’s going to take a lot of work, a lot of
coordination. And if this were the middle of the term, I’d be asking
Congress for — to prepare to — they haven’t given me the money we need
now for — for this — materials that we need for dealing with these
devastating storms. It’s going to cost —  
  
(A cell phone rings.)  
  
That’s okay. It’s probably — is that the speaker calling me? (Laughter.)
He said he’s in, right? (Laughter.) Anyway.  
  
So, we’re going to — we’re going to now have our Cabinet meeting. And
thank you all for being here.  
  
Q Mr. President, on — on the Middle East, how are you advising Israel to
respond?  
  
Q How would — how would you like Israel to respond to Iran?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: That’s an active discussion right now. We’ve got to get
all the data straight. We’ve been in constant contact with the — with
the Israeli government and our counterparts, and that’s — remains to be
seen.  
  
Q Thank you.  
  
Q What is your message to Prime Minister Netanyahu, and have you spoken
with him today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: I haven’t spoken with him. We’ve s- — we have spoken with
all his people, and I’ll be talking to him. And my message will depend
on what we fin- — finally conclude is needed.  
  
Q What do you believe the consequences for Iran should be?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: That remains to be seen.  
  
Thank you.  
  
4:07 P.M. EDT  
  
