---
date: '2024-10-16'
modified_time: 2024-10-17 13:03:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-16 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-washington-crossing-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Washington Crossing,\_\
  PA"
---
 
Washington Crossing Historic Park  
Washington Crossing, Pennsylvania

3:53 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  (Applause.)  Hi.  Hi, everyone. 
Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon, Pennsylvania.  Good
afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon. 

Bob and Kristina, thank you so very much for that introduction and for
your friendship.  And as I’ve said to all the friends and leaders on the
stage with me — we had a chance to speak ahead of time — I thank you all
for everything that you are doing and the courage you are showing. 

You know, this is an extraordinary climate right now and — and I think
we all recognize the — the courage that you are each showing to speak
out so publicly and to put — as we are saying, because we truly believe
it — country over party.  So, thank you all. 

And can we please applaud — (applause) — Bob and Kristina and all of the
folks on the stage.  Please.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Truly.  Truly. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

So, if you all have a seat, please do sit.  (Laughs.)  Yes. 

So, as I think everyone here knows, we meet in a place that holds a very
special meaning for our country.  Here, on Christmas night, 1776,
General George Washington and over 2,000 troops crossed the icy Delaware
River in darkness, then marched to Trenton, where they surprised an
outpost of enemy soldiers and achieved a major victory in the American
Revolution. 

And after we won the war and achieved our independence, delegates from
across the nation gathered not far from here in Philadelphia to write
and to sign the Constitution of the United States.  (Applause.)

And we remember and reflect on what that moment was, knowing that
leading up to that, that work to write, to compose the Constitution of
the United States — that work was not easy.   
  
The founders often disagreed, often quite passionately, but in the end,
the Constitution of the United States laid out the foundations of our
democracy, including the rule of law, that there would be checks and
balances, that we would have free and fair elections, and a peaceful
transfer of power.  (Applause.)

And these principles and traditions have sustained our nation for over
two centuries — sustained because generations of Americans from all
backgrounds, from all beliefs, have cherished them, upheld them, and
defended them.  And now the baton is in our hands.

So, I am joined today by over 100 Republican leaders from across
Pennsylvania and across our country — (applause) — who are supporting my
candidacy for president of the United States, and I am deeply honored to
have their support. 

Some served in state houses, some in the United States Congress.  Some
worked for other Republican presidents and presidential nominees,
including Mitt Romney, John McCain, George W. Bush, George H.W. Bush,
and Ronald Reagan.  (Applause.)  And some, today, served in Donald
Trump’s own administration. 

We also have with us Republican voters from here in Pennsylvania and
beyond who have been active in their Republican parties for years, who
have supported Republican candidates up and down the ticket. 

Now, I say all that to make an obvious point.  In a typical election
year — (laughter) — you all being here with me might be a bit surprising
— dare I say, unusual.  But not in this election — not in this
election.  Because at stake in this race are the democratic ideals that
our founders and generations of Americans before us have fought for.  At
stake in this election is the Constitution of the United States it very
self. 

We are here today because we share a core belief that we must put
country before party.  (Applause.) 

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Indeed.  Because we cha- — and we chant that with
such great pride, because we all know we all have so much more in common
than what separates us.  (Applause.)   
  
And at some point in the career of the folks who join me on stage, one
of the other things that we have in common is, in our careers, we have
each sworn an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States. 
(Applause.)

And so, we know that sacred oath must always be honored and never
violated, and that we should expect anyone who seeks the highest office
in our land would meet that standard.   
  
We here know the Constitution is not a relic from our past but
determines whether we are a country where the people can speak freely
and even criticize the president without fear of being thrown in jail or
targeted by the military — (applause); where the people can worship as
they choose, without the government interfering — (applause); where you
can vote without fear that your vote will be thrown away.  (Applause.)

All of this and more depends on whether or not our leaders honor their
oath to the Constitution.  I have sworn an oath to uphold the
Constitution six times, including as vice president, as a United States
senator, and as the top law enforcement officer of the largest state in
our country.  (Applause.) 

And I have never wavered from upholding that oath.  And this is a
profound difference between Donald Trump and me — he who violated the
oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States and, make no
mistake, he who, if given the chance, will violate it again. 

Donald Trump lost the 2020 election.  (Applause.)  And he refused to
accept the will of the people and the results of a free and fair
election. 

He sent a mob — an armed mob — to the United States Capitol, where they
violently assaulted police officers, law enforcement officials, and
threatened the life of his own vice president.  And he refused to engage
in the peaceful transfer of power. 

Were it not for the courage and patriotism of Vice President Pence that
day, Donald Trump might have actually succeeded in overturning the will
of the American people.  Let’s reflect on that. 

And now Donald Trump is telling us how he intends to use power if he is
elected again.  He has stated that one of the biggest threats America
faces is, quote, “the enemy from within” — the —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — “the enemy from within.” 

But know where that language hearkens back to.  Understand and let us be
clear about what he is saying.  He considers any American who doesn’t
support him or bend to his will to be an enemy to our country. 

And further, he says that, as commander in chief, he would use our
military to go after them.  Honestly, let that sink in: use of the
American military to go after American citizens. 

And we know who he would target first, because he has at- — targeted
them and attacked them before: journalists whose stories he doesn’t
like, nonpartisan election officials who refuse to cheat by finding
extra votes for him, judges who insist on following the law instead of
following him. 

It is clear Donald Trump is increasingly unstable and unhinged. 
(Applause.)  And he is seeking unchecked power. 

Consider what his closest advisers have said.  His national security
advisor, two defense secretaries, his former chief of staff, his own
vice president all have warned America, Donald Trump is unfit to serve. 
Or listen to General Milley, Donald Trump’s top general.  He has called
Trump, and I quote, “fascist to the core,” and said, quote, “No one has
ever been as dangerous to this country.” 

So, think about that.  General Milley served in uniform for more than 40
years, commanding American forces around the world.  He has confronted
some of America’s worst enemies.  And he is saying no one has ever been
as dangerous to our country as Donald Trump. 

America must heed this warning, because anyone who tramples on our
democratic values, as Donald Trump has; anyone who has called for the,
quote, “termination” of the Constitution of the United States, as Donald
Trump has, must never again stand behind the seal of the president of
the United States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again. 

And to those — and to those who are watching, if you share that view, no
matter your party, no matter who you voted for last time, there is a
place for you in this campaign.  (Applause.)  The coalition we have
built has room for everyone who is ready to turn the page on the chaos
and instability of Donald Trump.

And I pledge to you to be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.) 
And I take that pledge seriously.  I take that pledge quite seriously. 

So, as I’ve mentioned, many of you know, I spent a career as a
prosecutor, in law enforcement.  And I will tell you, I never asked a
victim or a witness, “Are you a Republican, or are you a Democrat?”  I
never asked of anyone who needed help, if anyone who deserved attention,
where were they registered and who did they vote for.  The only question
I ever asked was, “Are you okay?”

And that is the k- — the kind of president I pledge to you that I will
be.  (Applause.)  That is my pledge to you.  Because we have too much to
do and too much good work to do to be relegated to — to requiring each
of us to be in some silo, disconnected from each other.  There’s too
much good to be done.

And the challenges that we face as a nation require us — if we truly
want to create solutions and strengthen our nation, the approach truly
requires that we understand we’re all in this together.  This is so much
more than rhetoric or a campaign.  (Applause.)  It really is about
tapping into the spirit of who we are as Americans, because we are all
in this together.  We are all in this together. 

And so, I pledge to be a president who actively works to unite us around
our highest aspirations.  I pledge to b- — you to be a president who is
realistic and practical and has common sense and to always fight for the
American people — (applause) — unlike Donald Trump, who, frankly, as we
have seen, cares more about running on problems than fixing problems. 

I want to fix problems, which means working across the aisle.  It
requires working across the aisle.  It requires embracing good ideas
from wherever they come. 

That is why I have pledged to appoint a Republican in my Cabinet. 
(Applause.)  That is why I have pledged to establish a council on
bipartisan solutions to recommend to me commonsense solutions to some of
the most pressing issues facing our country.  (Applause.)  Because
nobody has a corner on the good ideas.  (Laughter.)  They actually come
from many places. 

And one should — especially if they want to be a leader, one should
welcome those ideas — (applause) — and those ideas which are about, in
particular, strengthening the middle class, securing our border,
defending our freedoms, and maintaining our leadership in the world. 
(Applause.)

And all of this is to also say that I believe, for America to be the
world’s strongest democracy, we must have a healthy two-party system. 
(Applause.)  Because it is when we have a healthy two-party system that
leaders are then required to debate the merits of policy and to work,
yes, across the aisle regularly and routinely to get things done. 

And I have experienced firsthand how important and rewarding that kind
of bipartisan cooperation can be.  So, I’ll tell you.  When I was a
United States senator, I served on the Senate Intelligence Committee. 
It was actually my favorite committee for a number of reasons but
specifically this.  There, we dealt with some of the most pressing
issues affecting national security.  There, we would talk about hot
spots around the world and what we needed to do to focus on keeping
America safe and secure.  And to do that, we would review classified
information, which required us to meet in a secure room.  Adam, you
know, it’s called a SCIF.  (Laughter.)  Okay.

When we would go in that room, with all due respect, no cameras were
allowed — (laughter) — no press.  And we would roll up our sleeves and
get to work.  I’m telling you, senators of both parties would walk in
that room, take off their suit jackets, roll up their sleeves, have a
cup of coffee on the table, and we would have real conversations — real
conversations, as Americans, because we understood that what happened in
that room, well, the stakes were so high.  And therefore, it could not
be — we could not afford to let it be about whether one was a Democrat
or a Republican.  The stakes were too high. 

We were in that room, and it was all about us as Americans, about doing
what is in the best interest of the safety and security of our nation. 
I loved that work. 

And it was what we have as the theme of today.  It was country over
party in action — in action.  (Applause.) 

So, I know it can be done.  And that is the standard of leadership and
the aspiration that I have in terms of how we will work when, with your
help, I am elected president of the United States.  (Applause.)  So —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you.  Thank you.   
  
     So —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Got to get to work.  We got to get to work. 
(Laughter.)

So, let me just say an obvious point.  There’s a fundamental choice in
this election, a very fundamental choice: a choice between the
leadership that I pledge to offer to America — leadership that brings
folks together, that builds consensus and focuses on making life better
for you, with the knowledge that we have so much more in common than
what separates us; and on the other hand, the choice of someone who I
think we can guarantee will sit in the Oval Office plotting retribution,
stew in his own grievances, and think only about himself and not you. 

So, as I have said, our campaign is not a fight against something; it is
a fight for something.  (Applause.)   
  
     It is a fight for the fundamental principles upon which we were
founded.  It is a fight for a new generation of leadership that is
optimistic about what we can achieve together — Republicans, Democrats,
and independents who want to move past the politics of division and
blame and get things done on behalf of the American people. 

And when it all comes down to it, I know we are all here together this
beautiful afternoon because we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love
our country. 

And — and we are here because we know the deep privilege and pride that
comes with being an American and the duty that comes along with it —
(applause) — and the duty that comes along with it.   
  
     Imperfect though we may be, America is still that shining city upon
a hill that inspires people around the world.  (Applause.)  And I do
believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism to fight for the
ideals of our country.  (Applause.)

So, to people from across Pennsylvania and across our nation, let us
together stand up for the rule of law, for our democratic ideals, and
for the Constitution of the United States.  And in 20 days, we have the
power to chart a new way forward, one that is worthy of this magnificent
country that we are all blessed to call home. 

Thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless the United States
of America.  (Applause.)

Thank you all.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)

                         END                    4:17 P.M. EDT
