---
date: '2024-10-20'
modified_time: 2024-10-21 12:59:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-20 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-an-early-vote-event-jonesboro-ga/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at an Early Vote Event | Jonesboro,\_GA"
---
 
Divine Faith Ministries International  
Jonesboro, Georgia

1:47 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, church.  (Applause.)  Good
afternoon.  Good afternoon. 

Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  I will be brief, but please
have a seat. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  No, we are not going back. 

Bishop Battle, I want to thank you for warmly receiving me and so many
of us who — who joined you this afternoon — to thank you and the
congregation and first lady for all the work that you are doing and for
getting folks out to the polls today. 

I was — I’ve been in Georgia.  Today, I was — earlier, we were in
fellowship and prayer with my pastor, who — who flew out from — from San
Francisco, Reverend Dr. Amos C. Brown of Third Baptist Church in San
Francisco.  We were all together this morning. 

And I have to say that I do know that we have all been raised in the
church to understand “faith” is a verb.  (Laughs.)  It is about what we
know and can believe, despite what we see, but it also is something that
is going to manifest itself in our actions, our deeds, and our service. 

And I know everyone here today and this afternoon is committed to doing
just that, and this is an afternoon that is about faith in action.

And, Pastor, I have to say, there is so much at stake right now.  And
when we think about how we have learned and have understood and lived
the knowledge that ours is a loving God, and that we understand that for
us to do good works, it means to do it in the spirit of understanding
that our strength is not based on who we beat down, as some would try
and suggest.  Our strength is based on who we lift up. 

And that spirit is very much at stake in these next 16 days, which is:
Are we a country that honors, through our faith and our deeds, the
importance of kindness; of — of support; of understanding the dignity in
each other, the respect that we should have for each other? 

You know, we know, in terms of the parable of the Good Samaritan, that
we have learned and should live a life where in the face of a stranger,
we see a neighbor.  But that’s not what we see on the other side of this
oqua- — equation in this election.  It is constantly about berating
people and belittling people and name-calling. 

And I think we of faith, we who believe in our country and love our
country, know that we each as individuals and as a community have the
power to make decisions through these next 16 days that will be about a
statement about what kind of country do we want to live in and is ours a
country where the people will speak their word — the power of the people
will make the statement that ours is a country that, fueled by our
faith, is about doing things that are focused on what’s in the best
interest of our children, our families; giving people the resources they
need around assistance; helping people pull out of poverty — those who
want to work hard, who are working hard, but deserve to be seen and
uplifted.  And these are the issues in this election.

I offer as an example — one of the things that I am very focused on is
what we need to do to take care of our elders, right?  (Applause.)

So, as a point of personal experience, I will share with you.  When my
mother was sick — she passed away from cancer.  And I know this is “Pink
Sunday” for many of us.  We’re — we’re acknowledging what we knew t- —
need to do to fight breast cancer.

So, my mother, she — she actually did research in breast cancer, okay? 
And she was one of the very few who actually — a woman of color who was
doing this work. 

But when my mother was sick, I took care of her.  And for anyone who has
taken care of an elder in your family — a parent, a grandparent — you
know what that is.  It’s about trying to cook something that they’ll
feel like eating.  It’s about trying to give them the clothes that won’t
irritate their skin, to — to help them to put on a sweater.  It’s about
trying to figure out something you can say that brings a smile to their
face or gives them a reason to laugh.  It’s about dignity.  It’s about
dignity. 

So, part of how I think about what we need to do in the future of our
country is really have policies that are about sharing and giving and
recognizing dignity, which is why part of my plan is that instead of
having you have to either leave your job to take care of an elder in
your family or try to pull together the money to afford to bring
somebody in or — worse yet — have to reduce all of your savings to
qualify for Medicaid — I know what I’m talking about.  (Applause.) 

So, understanding it’s about dignity, part of my plan is that we are
going to have Medicare co- — cover the cost of in-home health care for
our seniors.  (Applause.)

And I could go on and on on the list of things that are about — from my
perspective, and a lot of it my lived experience — about what kinds of
policies a president of the United States should be leading and pushing
that are rooted in recognizing the dignity in each one of us and the
importance of lifting others up, especially those in need.  And as much
as anything else, that’s what’s at stake in this election. 

And so, I thank you for all you are willing to do to continue to be
leaders in this community, to get folks out to vote.  We have to remou-
— we have to remind people the power they have, in spite of those that
would try to diminish and make people feel powerless, in spite of those
who would try and suggest that, “Oh, if you vote, nothing will happen.” 
For sure, if you don’t vote, nothing will happen.  (Applause.)

I mean, recently, I was reminded: Jimmy Carter voted on his 100th
birthday.  (Applause.)  Seems to me everybody can vote.  (Laughs.) 

But this work is so important because, in these next 16 days, with your
help, I hope that we will continue to work on building back up
community.  The church knows best how to do that.  Let’s build back up
community. 

Let’s remind each other and perfect strangers we are all in this
together.  We have so much more in common than what separates us. 

So, let’s reclaim that spirit for our country as we fight for the
future, because we are not going back.  We are not going back. 
(Applause.)

And my final point is to thank the great Stevie Wonder, because my —
(applause) — you know, if one were to ever have a life dream — you know,
people talk about a bucket list.  I think I have just checked off a
whole big one — (laughter) — to have Stevie Wonder himself sing me
“Happy Birthday.”  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  So, I am truly blessed.

MR. WONDER:  Madam Vice President, I just want to — want to — if they
can just say —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh.

MR. WONDER:  (Singing.)  *People, keep on voting.*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Keep on voting!  People — I’m not going to sing in
here.  (Laughs.)

AUDIENCE:  (Singing.) *People, keep on voting.*

MR. WONDER: (Singing.)  *‘Til we reach the higher ground.*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  ‘Til we reach the higher ground.  (Laughs.)

MR. WONDER:  Yes!

BISHOP BATTLE:  Amen.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Bishop, I’m going to give you back the
mic.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

END                 1:55 P.M. EDT
