---
date: '2024-10-26'
modified_time: 2024-10-28 17:32:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-26 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-reproductive-health-care-clinic-portage-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Reproductive Health Care Clinic | Portage,\_\
  MI"
---
 
Private Office  
Portage, Michigan

2:40 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you all for allowing us to have this
conversation.  And one of the reasons that I wanted to visit with you is
you all are on the ground doing this very, very critical and important
work. 

And since the Dobbs decision came down two years ago, I do believe that
we as a country have faced a health care crisis, and, yes, it includes
the concern that we have about people’s access to abortion care and then
the punishing of women, the criminalization of health care providers,
but also we’ve seen clinics close around the country that provide all
types of care, from Paps to breast cancer screenings, HIV testing, and
so much else and just safe places for people to go. 

     DR. HENRY:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I know there’s also been an impact in terms of
students thinking about their career as physicians and what type of
practice they would actually engage in and where they would go. 

We’ve been talking about health care deserts —

     DR. HENRY:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which we know is a long-standing concern but then
exasperated by what we’ve seen most recently.

And so, I wanted to ask you, the experts, the trained and experienced
folks who do the noble and important work of health care, to share a bit
about how you are experiencing this moment in a way that can highlight
the realities of this moment, the harm, and the reason why people, like
here in the state of Michigan, should be concerned even though they’re
not in Texas, where I was and just left, but understanding if there were
a national abortion ban, what it would mean for women and people
throughout the country.

So, Doctor, if you want to lead the discussion, but I would love to hear
from you.

 DR. ROGERS:  Yes, we have Dr. Lakshmi Sundaresan that was going to
respond to that question, but I’ll just say that it is very important
that this not widen the gap of health disparities, that — that the care
of a — a woman is between her and her doctor, and that it not further
cause shortages of those physicians across the country.

DR. SUNDARESAN:  So, I’m a family medicine physician and an abortion
provider here on the western side of the state.  I think we don’t have
to imagine what a post-Dobbs world looks like.  We’re living in a world
that already has abortion bans that typically are regionally dependent.

Here on the western side of the state, we represent not only a safety
net for our region here in the Midwest, but over the last 18 months, we
— we’ve seen an influx of patients that are coming particularly from the
South and the Southeast because of care deserts and already restrictive
abortion bans.

But what we’re talking about here, especially with respect to this
election, is that — and you — you know this better than we do — is that
there’s an opportunity for multiple Supreme Court decisions that we will
all be living through not just in terms of the political landscape but
as physicians who are living through that experience with our patients.

And what is at stake is not just what we’re doing with respect to
abortion care but what reproductive justice means at-large.  We’re
talking about access to gender-affirming services.  We’re talking about
access to contraception.  And we’re talking about everyone’s ability to
access care.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and including, to your point, prenatal care,
postpartum care — all of that work that is done by physicians and — and
folks such as you and — and existing, in many states with the fear that
if you then do that work, somehow you may be punished or criminalized
for doing that work.

DR. SUNDARESAN:  And we have state protections in Michigan right now
after 2022, but there is still a very real possibility of a federal
ban. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  How do you think about this in the context
of what is happening in your profession and with — I — I know — I know
you, even though we’ve all met just now, well enough to know that you
are active in your profession —

     DR. HENRY:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and probably very much in touch with your
colleagues from around the country. 

How are physicians and medical students talking about this moment right
now and the fears, the challenges, the concerns and also what you would
like to do in terms of — now you have all these microphones in front of
you — right? — the public education about what this moment means from
your perspective?

MS. HINNERS:  Yeah, I think as medical students, we kind of have found
ourselves in this sort of limbo.  You know, we put all this hard work
and time into doing what we want to, and we’re supposed to be excited
about that, but there is this decision looming on November 5th that has
this chance to monumentally impact our careers before they even start. 
Like, we haven’t dipped our toe in the pond yet.

And I know for me personally, that is affecting my decision on residency
applications coming up soon.  Like, I would like to be able to practice
the medicine that I want to practice and give health care to people who
need it.  And, I mean, we’re not just talking about a few abortion
restrictions.  We’re talking about these very extreme bans that maybe
don’t even have exceptions for rape or incest and things like that. 

And I am a survivor of sexual assault.  I volunteer with survivors of
sexual assault.  And the thought that I, potentially in the future, will
not be able to provide people with the breadth of health care that I
think is required after such a traumatic event like that is enough to,
like, make me sick. 

So, I am doing all that I can to make sure that my future that I have
worked for for the past 26 years looks how I want it to, and I really
hope that other people are kind of joining me in that.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It does — this moment does require, among many
things, knowledge about what’s going on and also just empathy, which is
when we know that there are people who are suffering, don’t we,
collectively, as a society, want to end that suffering and give them the
care they need with the dignity they deserve. 

What else would you each or all like to share wh- — while we have all
these folks here, who can, I think, benefit — and I certainly can — from
what you all can share, in terms of what you see uniquely that we may
not see about the effect of Dobbs in this moment on your profession, on
your clients, on your — on your patients, on your community?  How are
you thinking about this moment in terms of even just what we do
legislatively, what we do from a policy perspective?

DR. ROGERS:  I am concerned about physicians in training, as our medical
students are, and them making decisions about where they would do
residency or where they would do training and that maybe not being in
states and areas where they don’t have abortion rights and women don’t
have the rights over their lives.  So, that could create a further
shortage in some of those areas where there’s already physician
shortages and there’s already health disparities.

DR. HENRY:  Yeah, because we already see where patients have to travel
miles and miles to get the care that they need, and there have been
stories where even when they get to those places to receive the help,
they can’t get it because the physicians are afraid, and that’s not what
we want.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Or, to your point, overwhelmed — right? —
in terms of you are taking in patients from states surrounding a state
that still provides care and — and do you have the hours —

     PARTICIPANT:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and do you have the personnel and staff to be
able to actually handle it.

     (The press departs as the conversation continues.)

                             END                2:48 P.M. EDT
