---
date: '2024-10-10'
modified_time: 2024-10-11 14:36:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-10 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/10/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-chandler-az/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Chandler,\_AZ"
---
 
Rawhide Event Center  
Chandler, Arizona

6:15 P.M. MST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Arizona!  (Applause.) 

All right.  Can we say thank you to Gerardo?  (Applause.)

Arizona!  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Oh, my goodness.  All right.  Okay. 
All right.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Thank you all.  Oh, my goodness. 
(Applause.)

Okay.  All right.  Okay.  Okay.  Come on.  Come on.  We got some work to
do.  We got some work to do.  We got some work to do.  (Applause.)  All
right.  We got some work to do.  (Laughs.)

Well, let me just say, it is good to be back in Arizona.  (Applause.) 
And thank you all.  There are so many — this is an extraordinary group
of leaders, and I thank you all for the time that you have taken to be
together —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — for us to have this kind — I love you back. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)

I want to thank Governor Lewis of the Gila River Indian Community —
(applause) — and to all the elected leaders here today.

Representative Gallego, who could not be with us, but, Arizona, let’s
send him to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)  And let’s send
former Navajo Nation President Jonathan Nez — (applause) — to the United
States Congress.

And let me say, it means so much to be back with the Gila River Indian
Community.  (Applause.)  Last summer, I became the first vice president
of the United States to visit this Tribal nation.  (Applause.)  And I
strongly believe that the relationship between Tribal nations and the
United States is sacred — (applause) — and that we must — and that we
must honor Tribal sovereignty — (applause); embrace our trust in treaty
obligations — (applause); and ensure Tribal self-determination. 
(Applause.)

And it is my promise: As president of the United States, I will defend
those principles always.  (Applause.)

And before I continue, I will say a few words about Hurricane Milton,
which has cut a path of devastation across Florida and follows closely,
of course, on the heels of the damage caused by Hurricane Helene to
communities across the Southeast.  I know, as you do, that our heart
goes out to everyone who has been impacted by these storms.

Our administration has mobilized thousands of federal personnel across
the region to work hand in hand with local and state officials to give
folks the help they need.  I have spoken with state, local officials —
both Republican and Democrat — to let them know we will be with you
every step of the way as you recover and rebuild.  (Applause.)  That is
who we are.  That is who we are.

So, moving forward, let me say that, Arizona, look, we have just 26 days
until Election Day — (applause) — 26 days.  And we are nearing the home
stretch. 

And this will be a very tight race until the very end.  And we are the
underdog.  We are the underdog.

AUDIENCE:  Woof!  Woof!  Woof!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  So — so, we have some hard work ahead of
us, but we like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work.  And
with your help, in 26 days, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We
will win.

And y’all might have seen — y’all might have seen that just last night,
Donald Trump officially ruled out any more debates. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, I think it’s a disservice to the voters. 
(Applause.)  I also think it’s a pretty weak move.  (Applause.)

But even if he will not debate, the contrast in this election is already
clear.  This election is about two very different vusions — two very
different visions for our nation.  One, his, focused on the past; the
other, ours, focused on the future — (applause) — including being
focused on the issues that matter most to working families across
America, like bringing down the cost of living, in- — (applause) —
investing in small businesses and entrepreneurs.  (Applause.)

Do we have any small businesses in the house?  (Applause.)  Yeah.  Bless
you.  Bless you. 

We believe in fighting to protect reproductive freedom.  (Applause.) 
And we will always fight to keep our nation secure and honor our
military service members.  (Applause.) 

These and so many others are the issues that matter to you and your
families, which is why you have taken the time out of your very busy
lives to be here this evening. 

But that is not what we hear from Donald Trump.  We don’t hear about
these issues.  Instead, from Donald Trump, it’s the same old, tired
playbook.  He has no plans — no plans for how he would address the needs
of the American people.  He is only focused on himself.  (Applause.)

Well, folks, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It’s time to turn
the page.  And America is ready for a new way forward — (applause) — and
ready for a new, optimistic generation of leadership for our country. 
(Applause.)  Which is why — Arizona, which is why Democrats,
Republicans, and independents are supporting our campaign — (applause) —
because they know we need a president who works for all the American
people — (applause) — all the American people, because we know we have
so much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.) 

And we are exhausted with those who would try and have us, as Americans,
point fingers at each other.  We’re tired of that.  (Applause.) 
Enough.  Enough.

And fighting on behalf of the American people has been the story of my
entire career.  I’ve only had, in my career, one client: the people. 
(Applause.)

As a young courtroom prosecutor, I stood up for women and children
against predators.  (Applause.)  As attorney general of California, I
took on the big banks — (applause) — delivered $20 billion for
middle-class families who faced foreclosure.  I stood up for veterans
and students being scammed — (applause) — being scammed by the big
for-profit colleges.  I stood up for workers being cheated out of their
wages.  I stood up for seniors facing elder abuse.  And it is my pledge
to you, as president of the United States, I will always fight for all
the American people — (applause) — for everyone.

And together, we will build a brighter future for our nation —
(applause) — a future where we build, for example, what I call an
“opportunity economy,” where everyone has the ability to compete and
have a real chance to succeed. 

Under my economic plan, we will bring down the cost of housing. 
Arizona, you know that’s an issue we need to deal with.  (Applause.)  We
will help first-time homebuyers with their down payments with $25,000
down payment assistance.  (Applause.)

We will help entrepreneurs start and grow small businesses, knowing you
are the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.)

We will expand health care in a way that makes Medicare cover home
health care for seniors — (applause) — because we know it’s just not
right that people have to spend down all their money to qualify for
Medicaid to be able to take care of what is basically about dignity,
when it comes to home health care.  (Applause.)  It’s about dignity. 

And so, part of my plan is to recognize you who are members of what we
call the “sandwich generation” — (applause) — who are taking care of
your young children and your parents at the same time — (applause) —
knowing what that does in terms of the emotional, the physical, the
mental burden that you are carrying just trying to take care of your
family.  And we need to have policies in our country that see you and
lift you up, knowing it is a matter of dignity and just what is right. 
(Applause.)

We will lower the cost on everything from health care to groceries,
taking on, for example, the issue of corporate price gouging.  I’ve done
it before, and I’m going to do it again.  (Applause.)

We will give a tax cut to 100 million Americans, including $6,000 during
the first year of your child’s life — (applause) — to help you be able
to buy a crib or car seat or all the things you need at that critical
stage of your child’s development. 

And all of this is to say, I will always put middle-class families
first.  (Applause.)  I come from the middle class.  I come from the
middle class, and I will never forget where I come from.  (Applause.)

Now, Donald Trump has a different plan. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just google Project 2025.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I continue to say, I can’t believe they put
that in writing.  (Laughter.)  You know, they — they published it, they
bound it, and they handed it out. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  They’re out of their minds!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “They’re out of their minds.”  (Laughter.)

And it is a detailed, dangerous blueprint for what he will do if he is
elected president again. 

Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Cut Social Security and Medicare is what he would
do.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” a 20
percent tax on everyday goods and necessities, which will cost — the
economists have said — the average American family nearly $4,000 more a
year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  On top of this, Donald Trump intends to end the
Affordable Care Act.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, Arizona, I was a member of the United States
Senate during that time — but during that time when he was president and
kept trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act.  And I’m going to
tell you about one particular night, which has a direct connection to
all of you. 

So, that one night, it was late, late, late in the night.  They were
trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act again, and it required one
more vote to keep it intact, and that vote was the late, great John
McCain.  (Applause.)  A great American, a war hero: John McCain.  And
I’ll never forget that night. 

So, we’re all standing in the chamber, and we’re waiting.  And then, you
know, in the Senate chamber, there are these big wooden doors, and it
was like out of a movie.  (Laughter.)  The wooden doors broke open, and
John McCain came walking into the well of the United States Senate —
(applause) — and said, “No, you don’t.  No, you don’t.  No, you don’t.” 

But Donald Trump is trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act still. 

And guess — here’s the thing.  He has no plan to replace it. 

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, you watched the debate.  You watched the
debate.  (Laughs.)  So, remember, he’s got, quote, “concepts of a
plan.”  “Concepts.” 

Okay, so let’s think about that.  You know, I’ve said, because it’s
true, he is an unserious man.  And the consequences of him ever being
president again are brutally serious.

Because think about this: concept of a plan.  So, he’s basically going
to threaten the health insurance of 45 million Americans based on a
concept and take us back then to what?  To the time when insurance
companies had the power to deny people with preexisting conditions. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  (Applause.)

We are not going back.  We are not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.  We’re
not going back, no.

AUDIENCE:  We are not going back!  We are not going back!  We are not
going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT: No, because — no, because we will move forward. 
(Applause.) 

Because ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom —
(applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body — (applause) — and not have her government tell her
what to do.

And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump, when he was president,
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with the
intention —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — that they would undo Roe, and they did as he
intended.  And now more than one in three women in America lives in a
state with a Trump abortion ban —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — including right here in Arizona, 3.5 million
women.  And many of these bans, like the one in this state, have no
exceptions even for rape and incest.  It is immoral.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I know we all know one does not have to abandon
their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do.  (Applause.)  Not the government.  If she
chooses, she’ll talk with her priest or her pastor or her rabbi or her
mam — imam, but not the government. 

So, Arizona, we need to fight this battle on every front.  And in this
election, you have the chance on the state level to vote yes on
Proposition 139 — (applause) — 139 — and protect your right to make your
own health care decisions.

And then, when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide — (applause) — as president of the United States, I will
proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly. 

But, look, in addition to that — you know, I’m traveling around the
country, and across our nation, guys, we are witnessing a full-on attack
on hard-won, hard-fought freedoms and rights, fundamental freedoms and
rights, like the freedom to vote, the freedom to be safe from gun
violence, the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride —
(applause) — and the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean
water.  (Applause.) 

A topic that looms large here in Arizona, and I know that topic well.  I
worked on drought resilience for years and helped secure historic
resources for communities across the West to invest in water
infrastructure, water recycling, and water storage.  And I promise you,
as president, I will continue to invest in drought resilience so that
communities like those across Arizona have what you need to thrive. 
(Applause.) 

So, look, so much is on the line in this election.  Twenty-six days to
go, and this is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher, because,
remember, a few months ago, the United States Supreme Court told the
former president he is effectively immune from whatever he does in
office. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, because you all know, just imagine Donald
Trump with no guardrails.  He who has vowed, if he were reelected, he’d
be a dictator on day one —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — who will weaponize the Department of Justice
against his political enemies, and who has called for the, quote,
“termination” of the Constitution of the United States of America. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let — let us be clear, someone who suggests we
should terminate the Constitution of the United States should never
again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States of
America.  (Applause.)  Never again. Never again.  Never again. 

So, it all comes down to this.  Generations of Americans before us have
led the fight for freedom, and now the baton is in our hands.  The baton
is now in our hands because we here know what is at stake, and we love
our country.  We love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country. 

And I do believe one of the highest forms of patriotism —

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  (Inaudible.)

And one of the highest forms, then, of patriotism, of the expression of
our love of our country is to fight for the ideals of our country and to
fight to realize the promise of America.  (Applause.) 

So, the election is in 26 days.  Here in Arizona, early voting has
already started statewide.  (Applause.)  You can cast your ballot today
or any day between now and November 5th.  (Applause.)  So, now is the
time to make your plan to vote.  (Applause.)  And if you have received
your ballot in the mail, please do not wait.  Fill it out today.  Return
it in today.  (Applause.)  I think some of you have.  (Laughs.)

Because, folks, the election is here.  The election is here, and we’ve
got to energize and organize and mobilize. 

And please, let’s always remember: Your vote is your voice, and your
voice is your power.  (Applause.)

And so, Arizona, I ask you, are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win. 

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.) 

                          END                 6:41 P.M. MST
