---
date: '2024-10-18'
modified_time: 2024-10-18 11:22:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-18 11:22:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/18/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-frank-walter-steinmeier-of-germany-at-an-order-of-merit-ceremony-berlin-germany/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Frank-Walter Steinmeier of Germany\
  \ at an Order of Merit Ceremony | Berlin,\_Germany"
---
 
Bellevue Palace  
Berlin, Germany

11:10 A.M. CEST

PRESIDENT STEINMEIER:  Please have a seat.  
  
Mr. President, so good to have you here.   
  
(Speaks German.)  (No translation provided.)  
  
Of the many stereotypes about Germany — our sense of humor — (laughter)
— our spontaneity, our irresistible joie de vivre — (laughter) — only
one is really true: We are good at keeping records.   
  
So, 44 and a half years ago, when the young Senator Joseph Biden came to
Bonn, a German civil servant — *ein guter Beamter*, as we like to say —
made a note — a rather extensive one, I should say — of this senator’s
visit.  And being Germans, you understand, we still have that note. 
(Laughter.)  (Holds up a document.)  This one.  Many pages.  
  
(Speaks German.) (No translation provided.)

That’s the content — the main content of report: “He is keenly
interested in the Federal Republic of Germany,” the note concludes.  And
it adds, “that this senator might look to a,” I quote again,
“significant political future.”  (Laughter.)  “Significant.”  What a
remarkable understatement.   
  
Today, you are the 46th President of the United States.  And under your
leadership, the transatlantic alliance is stronger and our partnership
is closer than ever.   
  
Mr. President, you are keenly interested in Germany.  That we have known
for almost half a century.  So, it is time for you to know that Germany,
in turn, is deeply grateful to you.   
  
Let me say, in the name of my country, thank you, Mr.  President. 
(Applause.)   
  
For Germany, the friendship with the United States has been, is now, and
will always be existentially important — existential both for our
security and our democracy.   
  
And yet, in this friendship, there have been and always will be times of
proximity and greater distance, times of agreement and times of
discord.  Even recently, just a handful years ago, the distance had
grown so wide that we almost lost each other.   
  
But — but, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the ups and downs of time,
there have been people who have stood by the transatlantic relations no
matter what.  And chief among those people, Mr. President, is you.   
  
You stand with us, sir, because you know that what binds us is so much
deeper than the news of the day.  What binds us is freedom, democracy,
and the rule of law.   
  
What binds us is the conviction that if liberal democracy is to have a
future in this troubled world, we have to secure it together.  
  
And what binds us are the lessons from our past — sacred lessons that
you described so hauntingly in your letter to our beloved Margot
Friedländer.   
  
Sir, when you were elected president, you restored Europe’s hope in the
transatlantic alliance literally overnight.  And then, only a year
later, came Putin’s war.   
  
When Putin invaded Ukraine, he didn’t just go after one country.  He
attacked the very principles of peace in Europe.   
  
Putin thought we would be weak.  He thought we would be divided.  But
the opposite was true.  NATO was stronger and more united than ever, and
that is, in no small part, Mr. President, thanks to your leadership.  
  
Mr. President, to have you in our most dangerous moment since the Cold
War, to have you and your administration on our side is no less than a
historical stroke of good fortune.  
  
For us here in Europe, the past two years have shown once again, America
truly is the indispensable nation.  But it has also shown something
else.  NATO is the indispensable alliance.   
  
So, in the months to come, I hope that Europeans remember America is
indispensable for us, and I hope that Americans remember your allies are
indispensable for you.   
  
We are more than just other countries in the world.  We are partners. 
We are friends.   
  
The choice on November the 5th is only Americans’ choice to make.  But
we, as Europeans, have a choice too.  We have the choice to do our part,
to be unwavering in our support for Ukraine, to invest in our common
security, to invest in our shared future, and, as you have done, sir, to
stand by the transatlantic alliance no matter what.  
  
Mr. President, when I visited you in the Oval Office a year ago on
October the 6th, just a few hours before Hamas’ brutal attack on Israel,
we spoke about the Middle East.  We spoke about Ukraine and Russia.  But
at the end — I will never forget that — at the end of our conversation,
you went to your desk and handed me a speech of yours not on foreign
policy but on the issue that you care most about and that you worry most
about — about democracy.   
  
I quote, “Democracies don’t have to die at the end of a rifle,” you say
in that speech.  “Democracies can die when people are silent, when they
are willing to give away that which is most precious to them because
they feel frustrated, tired, alienated.”  End of the quote.  
  
Your words, Mr. President, echoed deeply in our part of the world, and
they weigh even more heavily coming from the leader of the world’s
oldest and most time-tested democracy.   
  
So, let me say this from the bottom of my heart.  In this time when
democracy is under strain all around the Western world, you, Mr.
President, have been a beacon of democracy.   
  
You are a beacon not just by what you have done but by who you are, by
the example of your humility, your deep connection with the lives and
hopes of hardworking people, and, if you excuse that old-fashioned word,
by your decency. 

Decency is maybe what we are most at risk of losing.  But your decency,
sir, is a light that shines very far.  It certainly reached the hearts
of my fellow Germans. 

As U.S. president, you command the most powerful military.  You lead the
biggest economy in the world.  But maybe the most precious service to
democracy, the most joyful and reassuring thing for people is to know
that even this most powerful man in the world is, in the end, a
fundamentally decent human being. 

Mr. President, we all know that you love your Irish poets and that you
know them well.  I have heard you quote Seamus Heaney from memory, so I
hope you allow me to end with a quote from his “Republic of
Conscience.” 

I quote, “At their inauguration, public leaders must swear to uphold
unwritten law and weep to atone for the presumption to hold office.” 

“The presumption to hold office,” Mr. President.  It seems that you have
always had a deep sense of the inevitable presumption in holding office,
including the highest office — in being elevated above others, in a
society of equals.   
  
You have transformed this presumption into a deep sense of
responsibility, and you have carried that responsibility throughout your
career and have now decided, in the most noble tradition of American
leaders since Washington, to let democracy run its ever-changing and
uncharted course.   
  
Mr. President, on the historic occasion of your visit to Germany, my
country recognizes your decades-long dedication to the transatlantic
alliance, your outstanding political leadership in Europe’s most
dangerous moment, and your lasting moral example of service, sincerity,
and decency.  
  
It is now my great honor to bestow on you the Grand Cross special class
of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.   
  
And for that, Mr. President — may I say, dear Joe — congratulations. 
(Applause.)  
  
I have to read the document — one second — in German.  
  
(Speaks German.)  (No translation provided.)  (Applause.)  
  
(President Biden is presented the Grand Cross special class of the Order
of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany.)  (Applause.)  
  
It’s done.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me begin by saying I — I’m overwhelmed not just by
the award but by the words, Mr. President.  
  
Margot Friedländer, you are a voice of conscience and healing.  I’m
actually honored to be in your presence, for real.  
  
This award means so much to me for what it says about us, the journey
we’ve taken; the alliance we’ve strengthened; the way that we have, as
two separate nations, risen together to meet our moment.  
  
I think it’s fair to say, although I know I only look like I’m 40 years
old — (laughter) — I — I’ve seen a wide sweep of history.  
  
When I was born, our countries were at war.  As a young senator, I
visited West Berlin and saw what it meant to live in a divided city,
country, and continent.  And I forged a bond with Helmut Schmidt, your —
my first relationship of candor and trust with a German chancellor but,
thankfully, not my last.  
  
And then, in 1989, like millions of people around the world, I saw
70,000 brave souls gathered in Leipzig, crying — crying out for
freedom.  And the Berlin Wall came down 35 years ago this month.   
  
It was one of the greatest advances in human dignity in my lifetime. 
Some feared the reunification of Germany would revive old hatreds and
rivalries.  But leaders of America and Germany dreamed together of a
much better future.  
  
The achievement of a Germany whole and free lives on, exceeding, I
think, everyone’s expectations.  The dream of Europe whole and free
remains the work of our time, nor is that work more urgent than a
pushing back against Putin’s vicious attack against Ukraine.  
  
German leaders had the wisdom to recognize a turning point in history,
an assault on a fellow democracy, and also on principles that upheld 75
years of peace and security in Europe.  
  
Germany and the United States stood together to support the brave people
of Ukraine in their fight for freedom, for democracy, for their very
survival.  And I want to thank every leader across Germany’s government
who has worked tirelessly to ensure that Ukraine prevails and Putin
fails, and NATO remains strong and more united than ever.  
  
We head into a very difficult winter — (coughs) — but we cannot let up. 
We cannot — (an aide delivers a glass of water) — thank you so very
much.  That’s kind of you.  (Laughs.)  
  
We head to a dery — a very difficult winter.  But we cannot let up.  We
must sustain our support.  In my view, we must keep going until Ukraine
wins a just and durable peace consistent with the U.N. Charter, until
once again human dignity prevails.  
  
Let me close with this.  The times I have lived through have taught me
that history does move forward and things can get better if we determine
they must — that things can get better and that we should never
underestimate the power of democracy, never underes- — -estimate the
value of alliances.  
  
Germany — Germany has taught us all that change is possible and, for
better or for worse, countries can and do choose their own destinies and
the choices that leaders make at critical times truly matters.  
  
I want to thank the current leaders of Germany for the choice you’ve
made when it matters most.  
  
I hope you’ll forgive this once, but — if I forsake the great German
poets and quote an Irish poet.  (Laughter.)   
  
Seamus Heaney said in “The Cure at Troy” — he said, “History teaches us
not to hope on this side of the grave.  But then — but then, once in a
lifetime, a longed-for tidal wave of justice can rise up, and hope and
history rhyme.”  
  
When the Berlin Wall fell, hope and history rhymed.  When Kyiv stood,
hope and history rhymed.  
  
Many Americans and Germans always find the wisdom and the courage.  May
they keep making hope and history rhyme, because we can, because nothing
is beyond our capacity, in my view — nothing is beyond our capacity —
when we do it together.  
  
So, thank you again for this award.  I’m honored to accept.  I do not
deserve, but I’m honored to accept.  And that, if we continue to work
together, Germany has stood up in a way that is incredible.  
  
I want to thank you again for the award.  And may God bless you all. 
And may God protect our troops.  
  
Thank you so very much.  (Applause.)  
  
11:31 A.M CEST
