---
date: '2024-10-05'
modified_time: 2024-10-07 12:48:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-05 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/05/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-briefing-on-hurricane-helene-charlotte-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Briefing on Hurricane Helene | Charlotte,\_\
  NC"
---
 
NC National Guard Operations Building  
Charlotte, North Carolina

4:01 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Governor.  And I thank you all, everyone
here. 

I’ve talked with many of you within, actually, hours and certainly days
of Helene hitting this beautiful state.  And I thank you all for the
work you’ve been doing around the clock. 

Administrator, you and I have talked many, many times, and your team on
the ground, they’re just doing extraordinary work.  But the work that’s
happening here that is so positively impacting so many people is really
an example of the best we can do when we bring resources together at the
federal, state, and local level and tap into the kind of collegiality
that produces results.  And this is the work that you all have been
doing.

For the folks who are local, I also know what this means for each of you
as a leader — to be a leader at a time that your own homes, your
families, your friends, people you know, your community has been
directly hit. 

For the folks that work in your various divisions and offices, I know
that they’ve been showing up at a moment of need for others, even when
their own families and their own homes have been directly impacted.  I
think that these moments of crisis bring out some of the best of who we
can be and who we are. 

 I’ve been seeing and hearing the stories from here in North Carolina
about strangers who are helping each other out, giving people assistance
in every way that they need, including shelter, food, and friendship and
fellowship.  And — and so, I thank everyone for all the work that
they’ve been doing — those who are in the room and those who are out
there right now, working around the clock. 

And I’m also here because I wanted to make an announcement that
yesterday we added Mecklenburg County to the major disaster
declaration.  So, that means that we’re going to be getting substantial
resources in to help folks and, in particular, to help them now be able
to apply for federal assistance for a range of things that will be
including home repair; what folks need in terms of generators, or even
just compensation for the generators that they’ve had to buy; the kind
of shelter that they’ve had to seek, including hotels.

And federal assistance for these issues is, I know, extremely important,
because a lot of folks don’t save for these kinds of emergencies, and
when they hit, it takes a real drain on their resources and ability to
take care of themselves and their family. 

But, again, I thank everybody here.  I’m looking forward to our
briefing. 

And — and I will say that also we are looking forward to working with
our congressional partners.  And — and, Congresswoman, you’ve been a
great leader to work with your colleagues, as you always do, so that we
can get Congress to also issue the resources that FEMA will need to be
an active and resourced federal partner with all of you on the ground at
the state and local level. 

     And with that, let’s start our briefing. 

                               END                 4:04 P.M. EDT
