---
date: '2024-10-07'
modified_time: 2024-10-07 21:15:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-07 21:12:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/07/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-air-force-two-departure-joint-base-andrews-md/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Air Force Two Departure | Joint Base\
  \ Andrews,\_MD"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

5:09 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  So, I just got off the phone with
Administrator Criswell at FEMA, and I cannot stress enough to all the
folks in Florida, in the Tampa area: Please listen to evacuation
orders.  Please listen to your local officials, because I know a lot of
folks out there have survived these hurricanes before — this one is
going to be very, very serious.  

And I urge you to please just grab whatever you need.  Listen to the
orders you’re getting from your local officials.  They know what they’re
telling you, and they know what Milton is about to be.  So, please do
that.

The other point I’d make is that there is a lot of mis- and
disinformation being pushed out there by the former president about what
is available, in particular, to the survivors of Helene.  And first of
all, it’s extraordinarily irresponsible.  It’s about him; it’s not about
you.

And the reality is that FEMA has so many resources that are available to
folks who desperately need them now and resources that are about helping
people get back on their feet and rebuild and have places to go.  You
are entitled to these resources. 

People are entitled to these resources, and it is critically important
that people apply for the help that is there to support.  That — all of
those resources were created for just these kinds of moments, in an
emergency situation, knowing that folks are entitled to have the relief
that they so rightly need at this moment in time.

So, listen to your sheriffs.  Around the places that have been impacted
by Helene, listen to your local sheriff, who’s going to tell you
straight about what’s available to you and how, for so many reasons and
ways, there are no conditions attached to the relief that’s available to
you.

Q    Madam Vice President, Governor DeSantis — NBC is reporting Governor
DeSantis is ignoring your calls on hurricanes’ resources and — and
help.  How does that hurt the situation here?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know, moments of crisis, if — if nothing else,
should really be the moment that anyone who calls themselves a leader
says they’re going to put politics aside and put the people first. 

 People are in desperate need of support right now, and playing
political games with this moment, in these crisis situations — these are
the height of emergency situations — is just utterly irresponsible, and
it is selfish, and it is about political gamesmanship, instead of doing
the job that you took an oath to do, which is to put the people first.

     Q    Madam Vice President, Milton’s arrival —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

     Q    — what does it mean for resources?

                        END                     5:12 P.M. EDT
