---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 10:11:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 10:11:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/31/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-nikos-christodoulides-of-the-republic-of-cyprus-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Nikos Christodoulides of the Republic\
  \ of Cyprus Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

12:06 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. President, welcome.  Welcome to the Oval
Office.

PRESIDENT CHRISTODOULIDES:  Thank you very much, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good to see you.  Good to see you.

It was 10 years ago when I visited Cyprus last, as vice president of the
United States.  And — and, as I said, there is no limit to what our
nations can achieve if we work together. 

PRESIDENT CHRISTODOULIDES:  Exactly.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And we’ve been doing that for a long time. 

But I think that’s even more true today.  Today, we stood against
Russia’s vicious onslaught against Ukraine.  We launched a strategic
dialogue to increase cooperation across a range of issues, from energy
security to artificial intelligence.  And we surged humanitarian aid,
delivering 8,000 metric tons to Gaza. 

So, Mr. President, Cyprus made all this possible.  I want thank you for
your leadership in making that happen. 

And this year also marks the 50th anniversary of the artificial division
of the island.  I remember it well.  It was my first year as a U.S.
senator.  I remember sitting with (inaudible) — anyway, it’s — it’s a
sad day.

PRESIDENT CHRISTODOULIDES:  (Inaudible.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  But as a — it was a sad occasion, but I remain
optimistic about the possibility that a u- — reunited Cyprus and
bizonal, bicommunal federation is possible.  And the United States ready
— stands ready to provide any support we can toward that goal. 

Mr. President, thank you, again, for being here, and I look forward to
our conversation.

The floor is yours.

PRESIDENT CHRISTODOULIDES:  Mr. President, it’s a great honor to be at
the White House.  Thank you very much for your invitation.

As you very well know, our countries have been — have built a truly
strategic partnership and — and our relations — our relations are at a
strategic and historical high.

At the bilateral level, we are working closely on defense and security,
on energy, law enforcement, technology innovation.  There is a top
potential, and there is a clear and strong political will from both
countries, following also the first strategic dialogue that took place
in Cyprus last week to further enhance our partnership.

Mr. President, at — at the regional level, Cyprus is a predictable and
reliable partner of the United States in a region of great geopolitical
importance.  We are the member state of the European Union in the
region.  We have excellent relations with all of our neighbors.  And
we’re working closely with the United States and other partners to face
the current challenges, to send much-needed humanitarian assistance to
Gaza, to evacuate third-country nationals from — from the region.

With regards to — to Ukraine, Cyprus stands on the right side of
history.  And, Mr. President, it could have been different, having in
mind that my country is under Turkish occupation the last 50 years.  

And, Mr. President, I count on your support and the support of the
United States to resume negotiations and find a solution of the Cyprus
problem — solution in line with the U.N. Security Council resolution,
solution that is based on our common values and principles: democracy
and respect of human rights.

So, Mr. President, once again, thank you very much.  I’m looking forward
to our discussions.  Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m looking forward to it as well.  You’re a good
friend.  (Inaudible.)

PRESIDENT CHRISTODOULIDES:  Thanks.  Thank a lot.

12:20 P.M. EDT
