---
date: '2024-10-30'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 13:20:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-30 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-harrisburg-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Harrisburg,\_PA"
---
 
Pennsylvania Farm Show Complex & Expo Center  
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

4:30 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Pennsylvania!  (Applause.)  Good afternoon. 
(Applause.) 

All right.  All right.  Oh, we got the band in the house.  (Applause.) 
Good.  (Laughs.)  Okay.  We got some work to do.  (Applause.)  All
right.  All right.  Okay.  Okay.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Okay.  All right.  Okay.  Let’s settle
down.  We — we got some work to do.  We got some work to do.

But can we give it up, please, for Chris?  Thank you so very much —
(applause) — for all your leadership.  And, Mikayla, I was looking for
you.  I don’t know where you are, but I’m saying hello to you too,
because you are part of the reason I do what I do.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

All right, Harrisburg.  Are we ready to do this?  (Applause.) 

Are we ready to vote?  (Applause.)

Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)  Yes, you are right. 

Oh, it is good to be back in Pennsylvania and with so many incredible
leaders, including your extraordinary Lieutenant Governor Davis —
(applause); State Representative Kim — (applause); and Mayor Williams. 
And let’s send Bob Casey back to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)

All right.  Okay.  So, this election is underway, and I want to thank
everyone for taking the time out of your busy lives to be here this
afternoon for us to all be under one roof together, sharing this moment
of commitment to our country and each other.  I thank you all for the
time that you are taking for us to all be here together.  (Applause.)

All right.  So, now is the time to remind our neighbors and our friends
to make a plan to vote in person on Election Day — (applause) — or to
return your mail ballot. 

And, Pennsylvania, if you still have a mail ballot, you can take it to a
ballot drop box or an election office in your county by 8:00 p.m. on
Election Day.  Let’s spread the word and ask folks to go to
IWillVote.com if they need more information.  (Applause.)

So, I’m visiting with you this afternoon because we need you to vote,
Pennsylvania.  We need you to vote — (applause) — because we have just
six days left in one of the most consequential elections of our
lifetime.  And we have work to do.  We still have a lot of work to do,
but we like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work. 
(Applause.)  Hard work is joyful work.  (Applause.) 

And make no mistake, we will win.  We will win.  (Applause.)  We will
win.  

And part of the reason — and part of the reason we will win is because I
do believe when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight
for.  (Applause.) 

And we know we have an opportunity in this election to turn the page on
a decade of Donald Trump trying to keep us divided and afraid of each
other.  (Applause.)  That is who he is, but, Pennsylvania, that is not
who we are.  (Applause.) 

And I know plenty of folks are just exhausted with it all and know that
it is time to stop pointing fingers and to start locking arms.  It is
time — (applause) — it is time for a new generation of leadership in
America.  (Applause.)  And together, with you, we will do this.  And I
am ready to offer that leadership as the next president of the United
States of America.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let me just say, Pennsylvania, you know my
background.  I am not afri- — I am not afraid of tough fights.  For
decades as a prosecutor and the top law enforcement officer of our
biggest state, I won fights against the big banks that were ripping off
homeowners — (applause); against for-profit colleges that scammed
veterans and students; against predators who abused women and children;
and cartels that trafficked in guns, drugs, and human beings. 
(Applause.)

And if you give me the chance to fight on your behalf as president,
there is nothing that will stand in my way of working for you. 
(Applause.)

And, look, we know who Donald — Donald Trump is, right?  So, this is
someone who is not thinking about how to make your life better.  This is
someone who is unstable —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT: — obsessed with revenge —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — consumed with grievance —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and out for unchecked power. 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, look, in less than 90 days, either he or I
will be in the Oval Office. 

AUDIENCE:  You!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But — (laughs) — but — okay.  A- — (laughs) —

Because here’s the thing we know: If he is elected, on day one, Donald
Trump would walk into that office with an enemies list. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  When I am elected, I will walk in with a to-do
list.  (Applause.)  And at the top of my list is bringing down your cost
of living.  That will be my focus every single day as president. 
(Applause.)

I will give a middle-class tax cut to a hundred million Americans, enact
— (applause) — enact the first-ever federal ban on price gouging on
groceries — (applause) — and fight to make sure that hardworking
Americans can actually afford a place to live.  (Applause.)

If you are caring for an elderly parent, my plan will co- — cover the
cost of home care under Medicare — (applause) — so seniors can get the
help they need and the care they need to stay in their own homes. 
(Applause.) 

It’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity, which is why my plan will also
lower the cost of childcare — (applause) — cut — cut taxes for small
businesses, and lower health care costs, because I believe health care
should be a right and not just a privilege of those who can afford it. 
(Applause.)

On the other hand, Donald Trump’s answer to financial pressures is for
you to face the same deal you —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Here’s the thing.  Let me say — let me say
something.  Let me say something.  We are — ho- — we are six days out of
an election.  We are six days away from an election, and ours is about a
fight for democracy and your right to be heard.  (Applause.)  That is
what is on the line in this election.  That is what is on the line in
this election.

Look, everybody has a right to be heard, but right now, I am speaking. 
(Applause.) 

And one of the biggest issues that folks around the country want to talk
about and hear is about how we are going to bring down the price of
living for working people.  And people know that Donald Trump’s answer
to the financial pressures that you face is the same as the last time:
another trillion-dollar tax cut for billionaires and big corporations. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, he will pay for it with a 20 percent
national sales tax on everything you buy that is imported —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — clothes, food, toys, cell phones.  And a Trump
sales tax would cost the average family nearly $4,000 more a year.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  These are some of the issues that are on the line
in the next six days, and that’s why we are here, saying, “We will not
stand for it.”  We stand for working people.  (Applause.)  We stand for
middle-class growth and strength. 

We are here together because we know what’s on the line.  We know that
Donald Trump will try, like he has so many times, to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would throw millions of Americans off of
their health care and take us back to when insurance companies could
deny people with preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was?

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are not going back.  (Applause.)  We are
not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back, because ours is a fight
for the future — (applause) — and it is a fight for freedom, like the
fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make decisions about her
own body and not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.) 

And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump, when he was president,
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — with the intention that they would do just as
they did and overturn the protections of Roe v. Wade.  And now, in
America, one in three women in America lives in a state with a Trump
abortion ban, many with no exceptions even for rape and incest, which is
immoral — immoral.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, look, Donald Trump is not done.  He would ban
abortion nationwide — yes, even here in Pennsylvania, if he were
successful.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He would restrict access to birth control, put IVF
treatments at risk, and force states to monitor women’s pregnancies. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just google Project 2025.  Read the plans for
yourself.

And let us agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government shouldn’t be telling people what to
do — (applause) — not the government — not the government.  If she
chooses, she will talk with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam,
but not the government or Donald Trump telling people what to do. 
(Applause.)

And I — I pledge to you, when Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom, as president of the United States, I will proudly
sign it into law.  (Applause.)  I will proudly sign it into law.

So, Pennsylvania, I am asking for your vote.  (Applause.)  And here —
here is my pledge to you.  And here is my pledge to you.  As your
president —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You’re war criminals!  You’re (inaudible) —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — I pledge to seek common ground and commonsense
solutions to the challenges you face.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  And let me say — look, I’ll repeat it —
we are fighting for our democracy.  We love our democracy.  (Applause.) 
It can be complicated at times, but it is the best system in the world. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s okay.  It’s okay.  It’s okay.  It’s okay.  All
right.

So, look, I will continue with my point.  I pledge to you that, as
president of the United States, I will not be looking to score political
points.  I will be looking to make progress.  (Applause.)  And I pledge
to listen to experts, to those who will be impacted by the decisions I
make, and to the people who disagree with me.  (Applause.)

And at this particular moment, it should be emphasized that, unlike
Donald Trump, I don’t believe people who disagree with me are the “enemy
from within.”  (Applause.)  He wants to put them in jail.  I’ll give
them a seat at the table.  (Applause.)

And I pledge to be a president for all Americans and to always put
country above party and self.  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  That’s right.

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right. 

So, Pennsylvania, look, it all comes down to this.  We are all here
together and you have taken so much time out of your life to be here
because we love our country.  We love our country.  (Applause.)  And
when you love something, you fight for it.  (Applause.)

And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism, an
expression of our love of our country, to then fight for its ideals — to
fight for the ideals of our country and to fight for the promise of
America.  (Applause.)  That’s what this is about.

I have always believed in our nation’s promise because I have lived it. 
I grew up a child of the Civil Rights Movement.  (Applause.)  My parents
would take me to marches when I was in a stroller, where people from all
walks of life, all kinds of backgrounds, came together to fight for the
ideals of our country, the ideals of freedom and opportunity.

I’ve lived the promise of America.  I saw how hard my mother worked to
give her daughters the same chances our country gave her.  Growing up —
(applause) — growing up, I was blessed to have family by blood and
family by love — (applause) — who instilled in me — like all of us, who
instilled in me the values that have always defined our nation at its
best, like the value of community, of compassion, and faith.

I’ve lived the promise of America.  I’ve spent my life fighting for
people who have been hurt and counted out but who never stop believing
that, in our country, anything is possible.  (Applause.)

I’ve lived the promise of America, and I see the promise of America in
this beautiful assembly of people, of you who understand — (applause) —
what is at stake and also what we have yet to do.  That’s what this is
about.  This is about our joy and our optimism, about what has yet to be
done that we can do together as one community of people who love their
country.  (Applause.)

And I see, then, the promise of America in, for example, the women who
refuse to accept a future without reproductive freedom.  (Applause.)  I
see it — I see it in the men who support them.  (Applause.)  I see it in
Republicans who have never voted for a Democrat before but put the
Constitution of the United States before party.  (Applause.) 

I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who I know are
here right now, voting for the first time.  (Applause.)  Let me see your
hands.  Right?

And I love this generation of leaders, because, listen, you are rightly
impatient for change — (applause) —  you who are determined to live free
from gun violence, to tackle the climate crisis, and shape the world you
inherit.  (Applause.)  For these young leaders, let me tell you, no- —
none of this is theoretical for them.  It’s not political for them.  For
the young leaders, this is their lived experience.  And I see you, and I
see your power, and I am so proud of you.  (Applause.) 

Let’s hear it for our first-time voters.  Let’s h- — (applause).  I see
you.

So, Pennsylvania, we have six days to get this done.  (Applause.)  No
one can sit on the sidelines.  Let’s spend the next six days so when we
look back, we will know that we’ve done everything we could.  It’s time
to knock on doors, time to text and call voters, time to reach out to
family and friends and neighbors and classmates and coworkers. 

And please, in these next six days, let us be intentional about building
community.  (Applause.)  In these next six days, let us please be
intentional about building coalition.  (Applause.)  And let us remember,
we all have so much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.)

So, remember, your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power. 
(Applause.)

And I will end by asking you: Pennsylvania, are you ready to make your
voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God bless
you.  (Applause.) 

                   END                     4:55 P.M. EDT
