---
date: '2024-10-12'
modified_time: 2024-10-15 13:34:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-12 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-air-force-two-departure-joint-base-andrews-md-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Air Force Two Departure | Joint Base\
  \ Andrews,\_MD"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

4:42 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, guys.

Q    Hi, Madam Vice President.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, you saw I — I released my medical records
today. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I appreciate you.  (Laughs.)

So, today I released my medical records, as has, I believe, every
candidate for president of the United States except Donald Trump in this
election cycle.  And it’s just a further example of his lack of
transparency — that on top of his unwillingness to debate again, his
unwillingness to do an interview with “60 Minutes,” which, again, is
part of the norm of what anyone running for president of the United
States does. 

And I think that it’s obvious that his team, at least, does not want the
American people to see everything about who he is.  And you put that on
top of even the most recent reports of General Milley, one of the people
who worked the closest with Donald Trump, referring to him as being
“unstable.”  And it is clear to me that he and his team do not want the
American people to really see what it is that he is doing and whether or
not he actually is fit to do the job of being president of the United
States.  So —

Q    And are — you obviously don’t have insight into what his health is,
but from watching him, do you think he’s fit for office?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I will not give you a medical analysis of his
fitness.  But on every other le- — level, when it comes to what we
should expect in a president of the United States around having the
ability to actually exercise good judgment, both as commander in chief
and as the leader of this great country, we know that he does not have
the ability to do the job.  He is unfit for office. 

He talks at his rallies about fictional characters.  He constantly is in
a state of grievance about himself.  He has no plans for the American
people.  And then he just makes things up on a full-time basis with the
intention to make the people afraid, to make people fear that which they
should not be afraid of.  But he does it in a way that he thinks, I
think, will compel them to believe that somehow he is the savior, when,
in fact, he is quite unfit to do the job.

Q    For all the discussion that he had about President Biden’s mental
acuity, in particular, what do you think about President Trump’s acu- —
mental acuity and whether it’s declined since, say, his 2016 campaign?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I invite the public to watch his rallies and be the
decision-maker on his acuity, and you will see in his rallies how he
goes off on tangents, how he is not focused on the needs of the American
people with solutions to the issues that concern them the most.

Q    Can you give us a sense of what you want to do in North Carolina
this weekend?  And also, just broadly, the race is very tight still.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Yeah.

Q    Some Democrats are getting nervous and anxious.  What’s your
message to them?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I am looking very forward to returning to North
Carolina.  I’ve been spending a lot of time there, both during this el-
— election cycle but as vice president and even before. 

I look forward to talking with the people of North Carolina on a number
of levels, first and foremost to see how they’re doing in the wake of
the hurricane but also to talk with folks about how they are thinking
about the election and what they need. 

I’m going to be having some discussions with voters and folks who are on
the ground there and listening to them but also talking about my plan
for what we’re going to do to create an opportunity economy, what we’re
going to do to bring down the price of groceries, what we’re going to do
to put investments in small businesses and in the industries of the
future, what we are doing to invest in the American family through an
expansion of the Child Tax Credit. 

That’s what I’ll be talking with them about on the ground. 

Q    And Democratic fear —

(Cross-talk.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think — but let —

Q    (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Here, let me just finish — yeah. 

Listen, this is a — there’s no question — I say it in my rallies — this
is a tight race.  It is a margin-of-error race.  And that’s why I’m out
here and will continue, for the next 24 days, to be traveling around our
country, talking with folks about the issues that matter most to them,
and offering them what I believe to be solutions to the challenges that
they are facing. 

I’m going to be talking with them continuously about, for example, how
some of the most respected economists in the country — whether they be
the 16 Nobel Prize laureates or Goldman Sachs — have referred to my
economic policy as one that would strengthen America’s economy, as
compared to Donald Trump’s policies, which would weaken America’s
economy. 

I will be talking about the fact that I have the support of Republicans
who worked with both presidents Bush, Mitt Romney, John McCain, and
Donald Trump, who are supporting my candidacy because they believe that
it is important to put country above party when we are looking at the
other side of this equation, at a Donald Trump who has been clear that
he would terminate the Constitution of the United States and be a
dictator on day one. 

So, this is a tight race, but the choice is clear.  The voters have a
choice between what we are offering, which is to look to the future of
America and invest in the American people or a Donald Trump, who is
constantly trying to take us backwards. 

Thank you all.

END                 4:48 P.M. EDT
