---
date: '2024-10-04'
modified_time: 2024-10-05 09:02:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-04 11:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-flint-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Flint,\_MI"
---
 
Dort Financial Center  
Flint, Michigan

5:58 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Michigan!  (Applause.)  Hey!

Oh.  Oh, it’s good to be back in Michigan.  (Applause.)  Hey, everyone. 

Can we hear it for Eric Price?  (Applause.)

Oh, it’s good to be back in Michigan.  Thank you all so very much. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you so very much. 

And, Eric Price, thank you for your leadership of UAW 651, and all the
work that you do.  (Applause.)And I want to thank all the leaders who
are here.  This is — I mean, this is — we’ve got thousands of leaders
who are here, and I thank them — (applause) — including all our friends
in labor: Shawn Fain, April Verrett — (applause); all of the incredible
elected leaders, starting with the Governor Whitmer, who is amazing and
is my friend — my dear friend — (applause); Mayor Neeley; Senator
Stabenow; Senator Peters; Representative Slotkin, who we will elect to
the United States Senate.  (Applause.) 

And did you all see Magic Johnson?  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Remember his
number: 32?  Today we got 32 days until the election.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.) 

 So, 32 days — 32 days. 

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  We got some business to do.  We got some
business to do. 

All right.  Thirty-two days.  And we know we will do it.  (Applause.) 
And — and this is going to be a very tight race until the very end. 
This is going to be a very tight race until the very end.  We are the
underdog, and we know we have some hard work ahead. 

But here’s the thing about us: We like hard work.  (Applause.)  We like
hard work.  Hard work is good work.  Hard work is good work. 
(Applause.)

And with your help, in November, we will win.  We will win. 
(Applause.)  We are not playing around. 

 So, listen, we know this election is about two very different visions
for our nation: one focused on the past, and ours, which is focused on
the future.  (Applause.)  We are fighting for a future where we tap into
the ambitions and the aspirations of the American people and build what
I call an “opportunity economy” so every American has an opportunity to
own a home, build wealth, start a business.  (Applause.)

And I’m going to speak about small — do we have small-business owners in
the house right here?  (Applause.)  Right? 

Okay.  So, on the economy, I’m just going to spend a minute on small
businesses.  So — so — because let me tell you.  So, growing up, our
mother often worked very long hours, and so my sister, Maya, and I, we
would go over to Ms. Shelton’s house.  Ms. Shelton was from Louisiana,
and we called her our second mother.  And Ms. Shelton was a
small-business owner. 

And so, from being a child, I know who our small-business owners are. 
They are community leaders, civic leaders.  They mentor.  They hire
locally.  They build up the community.  They are part of the fabric of
the community.  (Applause.)  And small-business owners are the backbone
of America’s economy.  (Applause.)

So, in my plan to build an opportunity economy, one of the things I will
do is raise the start-up deduction from $5,000 to $50,000 to help
entrepreneurs start their small business.  (Applause.) 

You heard Eric talk about it.  We need to build more housing in
America.  (Applause.)  You know, my mother saved up for years to buy our
first homes.  I was a teenager by the time she saved up enough to do
that.  And right now, we know there’s a serious housing shortage in our
country, and it is part of what is driving up costs. 

So, we will cut the red tape and work with the private sector to build 3
million new homes and provide first-time homebuyers with a $25,000 down
payment assistance — (applause) — so you can just literally get your
foot in the door, and you’ll handle the rest. 

We need to lower the cost of living.  Look, our economy is making good
progress.  Just this morning, we got a solid jobs report, right? 
(Applause.)  Over 250,000 jobs created last month; unemployment fell;
and just a few weeks ago, the Federal Reserve cut interest rates, which
helps.  (Applause.) 

But there’s still more we need to do.  Prices for everyday things like
groceries are still too high.  You know it and I know it.  And I have a
plan on lowering costs on everything from health care to groceries,
including taking on corporate price gouging.  (Applause.) 

Because as attorney general, I saw what happens where — there are few of
them; they don’t — not everybody but those who take advantage of
desperate people — in particular, in the middle of an emergency — and
there needs to be consequence.  (Applause.)

I will give a tax cut to 100 million Americans, including $6,000
extending and expanding the Child Tax Credit, so during the first year
of a child’s life — (applause) — young parents have the support they
need to be able to buy a car seat, to buy a crib, to take care of their
child during that first year of their life, knowing it’s about setting
them on a path to do everything they have a natural desire to do.

 And, look, let me — I say all this to say: I will always put the middle
class and working families first.  I come from the middle class, and I
will never forget where I come from.  (Applause.)  I will never forget
where I come from. 

And we know we cannot have a strong middle class without American
manufacturing.  So, over the last three and a half years, we have
brought manufacturing back to America, creating 730,000 manufacturing
jobs.  (Applause.)  We announced the opening of more than 20 new auto
plants in the United States.  (Applause.)  And we did it by investing in
American industry and American workers.  (Applause.)

 And I will make sure that America — not China — wins the competition
for the 21st century — (applause) — which is why, under my plan, we will
invest in the industries that built America, like steel, iron, and the
great American auto industry.  I see you, Shawn.  (Applause.)   

And we will ensure that the next generation of breakthroughs, from
advanced batteries to electric vehicles, are not only invented but built
right here in America by American union workers.  (Applause.) 

And, Michigan, let us be clear: Contrary to what my opponent is
suggesting, I will never tell you what kind of car you have to drive. 
(Applause.)  But here’s what I will do.  I will invest in communities
like Flint — (applause) — Flint, which helped build the auto industry
and the UAW.  (Applause.) 

We will retool existing factories, hire locally, and work with unions to
create good-paying jobs, including jobs that do not require a college
degree — (applause) — because we understand a college degree is not the
only measure of whether a worker has skills and experience to get the
job done.  (Applause.) 

In fact, part of my plan is to outline all of the federal jobs that
should not require a college degree and make that clear.  And when I’m
elected, I’m going to challenge the private sector to take on the same
approach.  (Applause.)

     And then there’s Donald Trump. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Donald Trump has a very different approach. 
So, Donald Trump makes big promises, and he always fails to deliver. 
(Applause.) 

He said he was the only one who could bring back America’s manufacturing
jobs.  Remember that? 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And then America lost nearly 200,000 manufacturing
jobs when he was president —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — including — including tens of thousands of jobs
in Michigan.  And those losses started before the pandemic, making
Donald Trump one of the biggest losers — (applause) — of manufacturing
jobs in American history.

And his track record for the auto industry was a disaster.  He promised
workers in Warren that the auto industry would, I’ll quote, “not lose
one plant” during his presidency.  And then American automakers
announced the closure of six auto plants when he was president.

We need a medic over here.  We need a medic over here.  Right here.

Okay.  Can everyone part so the medic can come through, please?  Let’s —
let’s let the medic through.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s okay.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  He’s okay?  Okay.  Okay.  He’s okay.  All
right.  We’re good.  We got each other.  (Applause.)  Good.  Good. 
Good.

So, remembering, again, what Donald Trump talked about versus what he
did.  Then automakers — American automakers announced the closure of six
plants when he was president, including General Motors in Warren and
Stellantis in Detroit.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thousands of Michigan autoworkers lost their jobs. 
And when it came to building the cars of the future, Donald Trump sat on
the sidelines and let China dominate.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And then he talked down to American workers, saying
we can’t compete with Chinese workers. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And make no mistake, Donald Trump is no friend of
labor.  He encouraged automakers to move their plants out of Michigan so
they could pay their workers less. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when the UAW went on strike to demand higher
wages that they deserved, Donald Trump went to a nonunion shop — don’t
forget — and he attacked the UAW.  And he said striking and collective
bargaining don’t make, quote, “a damn bit of difference.” 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Remember how he’s talked about striking workers,
that you should fire them.  That’s how he talks about union labor. 
That’s how he talks about workers. 

But, Flint, we know — we know: Strong unions mean higher wages, better
health care, and greater dignity — (applause) — for union members and
for everyone.  (Applause.) 

 And on top of all of that, Donald Trump signed a $2 trillion tax cut
that mostly went to the wealthy and big corporations, not to working
people.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And now he is making the same empty promises to the
people in Michigan that he did before.  But we will not be fooled.  We
will not be gaslighted.  Donald Trump’s track record is a disaster for
working people.  (Applause.)

And if he wins again, it will be more of the same.  Check this out.  Two
days ago, his running mate — maybe you saw that. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, but — how about that Tim Walz, by the way? 
(Applause.)  (Laughs.)  That’s right.  That’s right. 

So, two days ago, Donald Trump’s running mate suggested that if Trump
wins, he might let the Grand River assembly plant in Lansing close down
—

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the same plant that our administration helped
save earlier this year, along with 650 union jobs.  (Applause.) 

Michigan, we together fought hard for those jobs.  And you deserve a
president who won’t put them at risk.  (Applause.)

And for anybody watching, you know, if you want to learn more about
Donald Trump’s plans, just google Project 2025. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is a detailed and dangerous blueprint for what
he will do if he is elected president.  Donald Trump will give
billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts, attack unions, cut
Social Security and Medicare, and impose a Trump sales tax — a 20
percent tax on everyday basic necessities, which will cost the average
pam- — family nearly $4,000 a year. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of this, Donald Trump intends to end the
Affordable Care Act —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — even after he tried to repeal it time and time
again when he was president and still has no plan to replace it. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Concepts of a plan!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You watched the debate.  You watched the debate. 
You saw that.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  He said —

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He said he, quote, has “concepts of a plan” —
concepts. 

Now, you know, I have said that I do believe he is an unserious man. 
And the consequences — and the consequences of him being president again
are absolutely, critically serious. 

Because, think about it.  Even on health care, he has a concept of a
plan.  So, he’s going to threaten the health insurance of 45 million
people in our country based on a concept? 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  To take us back — do you remember that? — when
insurance companies could deny people with preexisting conditions? 
Remember what that was like?

     Well, Michigan, we are not —

     AUDIENCE:  Going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — going back.  We are not going back.  (Applause.) 
We’re not going back.  We are not going back.

     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  No. 

     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because we will move forward.  Ours is a fight
for the future.  (Applause.)  Ours is a fight for the future, and ours
is a fight for freedom — (applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a
woman to make decisions about her own body and not have her government
tell her what to do.  (Applause.) 

     And these 32 days out from the election, it’s important that we
remind people how we got here.  Donald Trump handpicked three members of
the United States Supreme Court with the intention that they would
overturn Roe v. Wade, and they did.  And now more than one in three
women in America lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban, many with
no exceptions even for rape and incest, which is immoral. 

     And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom —
(applause) — as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it
into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly.

     And here’s what I want to say.  Look, and that’s not our only
battle.  Across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on other
hard-fought, hard-fon — -won freedoms and rights, like the freedom to
vote — (applause); the freedom to be safe from gun violence —
(applause); the freedom to join a union — (applause); the freedom to
love who you love openly and with pride — (applause); and the freedom to
breathe clean air and drink clean water.  (Applause.) 

     Flint — you know all too well, Flint, that clean water should be a
right for everyone, not just for the people who can afford it. 
(Applause.)  And as president, I will continue to work with communities
like Flint to ensure you not only have clean water but the opportunity
to recover economically and thrive.  (Applause.)

     So, Michigan, it all comes down to this.  We are all here together
because we know what is at stake, and we love our country.  (Applause.) 
We love our country.  We love our country. 

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We love our country.

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And because we love our country, we know it is
one of the highest forms of patriotism to then fight for the ideals of
our country and to fight to realize the promise of America.  That’s what
this is about.  (Applause.)  That’s what this is about. 

     So, Election Day is in 32 days.  (Applause.)  And already nearly 2
million ballots are in the hands of Michigan voters alone.  (Applause.) 

     So, if you have received your ballot, please do not wait.  Fill it
out and return it today.  Early voting starts statewide on October 26th,
and now is the time to make your plan to vote, because, folks, the
election is here.  The election is here.  (Applause.)

     And we need to energize, organize, and mobilize.  (Applause.)  And
remember: Your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power. 
(Applause.)

     So, Flint, today I ask: Are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)

     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

                        END                     6:25 P.M. EDT
