---
date: '2024-10-27'
modified_time: 2024-10-29 12:10:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-27 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-church-service-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Church Service | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Church of Christian Compassion  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

10:19 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, church.  Good morning.  (Applause.) 
God is good.  God is good. 

Good morning.  Please have a seat, everybody.  Please have a seat. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you,
thank you, thank you.

And I see all our leaders — young leaders here as well. 

So, Pastor Herndon, First Lady Herndon, I want to thank you so very much
for this warm welcome and for all you do.  We talked before we came back
in, and these have been days and years that I think, for so many people,
have challenged our faith and have really highlighted the importance of
the type of leadership that you so importantly and beautifully provide
to remind us that we are all in this together. 

And I’m so thankful to be with you.  I know of the work of this church
and this congregation.  (Applause.)  And I thank everybody: clergy,
church leadership, the elected officials who are here.  (Applause.)   
  
Mayor, I thank you for your sisterhood and your friendship and your
leadership.  Speaker McClinton, it is — you are just — (applause) — when
I look at the rising stars of our country, my goodness, the future is so
bright.

To every member here of the Compassion family, to all the elected
leaders, I thank you for the warm welcome this morning.  And it is truly
an honor to — (applause).  

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

And it is an honor to be with you today on Pastor Appreciation Month —
(applause) — right? — as we celebrate, of course, the leadership of this
house of worship.  And I also — (applause) — and I also bring greetings
from my pastor, Dr. Amos C. Brown from Third Baptist Church of San
Francisco.  (Applause.)  And it is good to be with everyone and worship
with you this morning.

So, in just nine days — (applause) — (laughs) — we have the power to
decide the fate of our nation for generations to come.  And on this day,
then — on this beautiful Sunday morning —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — I am reminded — (applause).  (Laughs.)

God expects us to help him.  (Laughter.)  We got work to do. 

But I am reminded of something that I think speaks deeply to this
moment.  The apostle Paul wrote about the power we possess, the power of
the people.  Right?  He wrote that God is able to do “more than we ask
or think” — (applause) — “according to his power that is at work in
us.” 

And Paul speaks of this power from experience.  In his life, he faced
every kind of test and trial imaginable: shipwreck, persecution,
prison.  And in every instance, he saw divine intervention.  But Paul
understood something profound, I believe, Pastor: that God’s power
doesn’t just work for us, it also works within us.  (Applause.)

I grew up in a church that took that lesson to heart.  As a little girl
on Sundays — and I know my sister was here recently.  My sister, Maya,
and I would go to 23rd Avenue Church of God in Oakland, California,
where we attended Sunday school, we sang in the children’s choir, and
where I first learned in a way that I fully understood the teachings of
the Bible and the power of faith. 

My earliest memories of those teachings are about a loving God —
(applause) — a faithful God, a God who asks us to speak up for those who
cannot speak for themselves and to defend the rights of the poor and the
needy — a God who empowers us to complete good works, not in our own
power but through faith. 

 At church, I learned faith is a verb.  We show it in our actions, in
our deeds, in our service.  And in hard times when we may grow weary in
doing good, we must remember the power that works in us. 

The divine power that transformed Paul’s life, guided him through
shipwreck, and sustained him through trials is the same power, church,
that works in us today in our daily lives, in our communities, and, yes,
in our democracy — (applause) — our power to advance freedom, justice,
and opportunity not just for some but for all God’s children —
(applause) — not just as the aspirations that are located in our
founding documents but in practice in our daily lives.

And today, as we look ahead to a moment that will define the very
character of our nation, I do believe Paul’s message holds great
urgency. 

As a nation, we face real challenges.  We carry real —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We carry —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s why we fight for our democracy.  That’s why
we fight for democracy.  (Applause.)  Every voice is important.  Every
voice is important.  Every voice is important.

That’s all right.  It’s all right.  It’s all right.  Every voice is
important.  (Applause.)  It’s all right.  That’s all right.

So — so, here’s the point.  There are th- — there are so many, for a
variety of reasons, that carry a heavy heart and that want and must be
heard.  We carry real burdens.  People feel real pain.  But like Paul,
we must remember that divine power works through our actions.  And we
have the power to move past division, fear, and chaos.  (Applause.) 

It is in and within our power to fulfill the promise of America, the
promise to create opportunity for every child, to protect our basic
freedoms; the power to do justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with our
God — power the Black church understood and has used for generations —
(applause) — all to help make sure America lives up to its extraordinary
potential. 

And so, I will close with this point.  We have nine days — (applause) —
nine days until we decide the future of our nation.  And I will tell you
what feeds my spirit.  What feeds my spirit as I travel around our
country, from state to state and church to church, I see —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But let me share with you what I see.  I see faith
in action all over, everywhere I go.  (Applause.)  I see remarkable
acts.  I see a nation determined to turn the page on hatred and division
— (applause) — to chart a new way forward. 

I see Americans from so-called red states and blue states who are ready
to bend the arc of history toward justice.  (Applause.)

I see young people organized for change.  (Applause.)

I see neighbors helping neighbors recover and rebuild from disasters. 
(Applause.)

I see voters standing together in the fight to defend freedom, knowing
we all have so much more in common than what separates us.

And while we know there are those who seek to deepen division, to spread
hate, to sow fear, and to cause chaos, who suggest that the measure of
the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down instead of, what
we know, the real measure of the strength of a leader is based on who
you lift up.  (Applause.)

But I see all this, and it tells me why this moment in our nation has to
be about so much more than partisan politics.  It must be about the good
work we can do together, about our fundamental values, and about who we
are as Americans and as people of faith.

Here in Pennsylvania right now, each of us has an opportunity to make a
difference, because in this moment, we do face a real question: What
kind of country do we want to live in?  (Applause.)  That’s before us
right now.  What kind of country do we want for our children and our
grandchildren: a country of chaos, fate — fear, and hate, or a country
of freedom, justice, and compassion? 

And the great thing about living in a democracy is we, the people, have
the choice to answer that question.  (Applause.)

So, let us answer not just with our words but with our works.  Yes, with
our prayers, but also with our pressing.  Yes with our fate — and also
our faith, but also our feet, as we walk to the polls.  (Applause.) 

And yes, in these nine days — these next nine days will test us.  They
will demand everything we’ve got.  But when I think about the days ahead
and the God we serve, I am confident that his power will work through
us, because, church, I know we were born for a time such as this. 
(Applause.)  And I have faith he is going to carry us forward. 

And the road ahead won’t be easy.  It will require perseverance and hard
work, but in times of uncertainty, scripture reminds us, “Weeping may
endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.”  (Applause.)

The path may seem hard, the work may seem heavy, but joy cometh in the
morning.

And, church, morning is on its way.  (Applause.)

God bless you.  God bless America.  (Applause.)

END                 10:32 A.M. EDT
