---
date: '2024-10-11'
published_time: 2024-10-11 18:25:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-scottsdale-az/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Scottsdale,\_AZ"
---
 
Grayhawk Golf Club  
Scottsdale, Arizona

12:12 P.M. MST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Please have a
seat.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Thank you.   
  
Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  I appreciate you.  Thank
you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  I’m touched.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  That means a lot.  Thank you, (inaudible). 
(Applause.)   
  
Thank you.  Please, please, please have a seat.  I’m — I’m very touched
and very honored.  And thank you, all leaders who are here. 

Mayor Giles, I thank you.  You’ve been an extraordinary friend.  And I
really — I so appreciate the courage that you have shown to be so open
and forward about the importance of us all working together, and your
support has meant the world to me.  So, in front of all of the friends,
I thank you very much for all you’ve done.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.

And former State Rep Shaw, I thank you as well.  Is sh- — I — there you
are.  (Laughter.)  Thank you for all the support that you have given as
well.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.

So, we are all here together because we love our country.  We love our
country.  And I was talking with some folks recently about the
importance of understanding the — the duality, frankly, that exists in
terms of our democracy. 

You know, as your vice president, I have now met over 150 world leaders
— presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings — and when we,
representing the United States, walk in those rooms, traditionally,
we’ve been able to walk in those rooms chin up, shoulders back, with the
earned and self-appointed authority to talk about the importance of
democracies, rule of law.  But I say, to a room of role models, here’s
the thing about being a role model: When you’re a role model, folks
watch what you do to see if it matches up to what you say. 

And I tell you because I have traveled the country recently — including
the many, many trips that I have taken over the last almost four years —
but recently, in particular, where world leaders, allies have come up to
me — we’re now on a first-name basis; I’ve met with so many of them so
many times — and they have said to me, “Kamala, I hope you guys are
going to be okay.”

One of the things that I think about and weighs on me sometimes is I
hope we, as Americans, really understand how important we are to the
world.  We are so important to the world.  Those people who fight for
democracy, who fight for freedom, who fight for a life in which they can
have opportunity, they hold us up and they hold us out as a model. 

And that, as much as anything, is at stake right now in this election. 
And I know I’m speaking to a group of people who know that and know that
well. 

You know, I was raised to believe that hard work is important, it is
important to look out for each other, it is important to understand that
the vast majority of u- — of us have so much more in common than what
separates us.   
  
I was raised in a community of folks who understood that when we stand
together, when we look for commonality, that’s when we thrive. 

And part of what we know has been happening in the last several years in
our country is there’s some powerful forces that are trying to divide us
as Americans, would have us and cheer us on if we point fingers at one
another. 

There’s this kind of backward thinking coming from some folks that
suggests that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who
you beat down, instead of what we know, which is the real measure of the
strength of a leader is based on who you lift up.  That’s strength. 
(Applause.)

But — but truly, like i- — but — but I mean that intentionally.  It’s
not only good and right.  That’s strength. 

Because that’s part of what is the perversion of what some people are
suggesting, as though it is a sign of weakness to have empathy, to have
some level of concern and care about the suffering of other people and
then take it upon oneself to do something about that that is about
lifting the condition of your fellow human being. 

So, when we think about what’s at stake in this election — whoa, it’s
packed with some stuff.  (Laughter.)  It’s packed with some fundamental
stuff — (applause) — I say rather articulately.  (Laughs.)  There’s so
much at stake. 

Mayor, you mentioned John McCain.  Okay.  So, I’ll tell you, I was in
the United States Senate for about four years, and — and I worked with
John McCain.  And so, I’ll tell you, so there was this — we were on a
committee together.  And, you know, these committee rooms in the United
States Senate, they’re very grand and — and very impressive.  And John
McCain was on one side of the dais; I was on the other — horseshoe. 

And he’s going after me.  He’s going after me.  We’re having some
conversation.  I think it was about one of the nominees.  This — this
was during President Trump’s years.  He’s going after me, and I’m going
back after him.  (Laughter.)  I’m going back after him.  And that was
it.  And this is what the public saw. 

And then I step onto the floor of the well of the Senate later that day
— we had votes — and I passed by John McCain, and he looks at me and he
says, “Kid, come over here.”  (Laughter.)  “You’re going to make a great
senator.”  (Laughter and applause.)  True story.  True story.  True
story.

That was John McCain.  That was John McCain. 

I was talking about him last night at a rally, right?  John McCain, who
— you know, we didn’t agree on everything, but, man, I mean, what about
an incredible American hero?  (Applause.) 

Again, strength — strength — right? — we know what the former president
said about John McCain; I’m not going to repeat it here — but strength.

John McCain stood on principle.  He stood on a belief in the — in the
importance of — of patriotism, of sacrifice, of what we stand for as a
country. 

And part of what I talked about at a rally last night is — I — I shared
with the folks in the room: I was there on the Senate floor, way into
the middle of the night, when it was yet another attempt of the former
president to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which, as we know, has
been literally a lifesaver for people, right?  (Applause.)  What it has
done to no longer allow preexisting conditions to be the reason that an
insurance company can’t give you assistance.  Right?

And you all may have seen it.  I was there on the floor that night, and
we were all standing around because whether or not the Affordable Care
Act would continue to be relied on one vote.  And we were all standing
on the floor.  And, of course, I had voted to keep it going.  And — and
I say this, and it sounds like it’s out of a movie, but this is how I
experienced it.

On the flo- — floor with my colleagues in the Senate well — it was late
into the night, and they — in the Senate, they had the — you walk onto
the Senate floor, and there are these big, wooden ornate doors.  And
those ornate doors opened — (laughter) — and John McCain came out. 

And he went to the floor, and he said, “No, you don’t.”  (Applause.)  He
said, “No, you don’t.”  “No, you don’t take away health care for
millions of people.” 

And that is but one example of an individual that we all respect who put
country before party in terms of what they thought was right.  I am
honored to have the endorsement of Jeff Flake, someone I also worked
with — (applause) — again, putting country before party.

And so, I say all of that to say that those are examples that are
situated right here in this beautiful state of Arizona, a tradition that
everyone, and all of us, I will say, stand on. 

And then, of course, most recently, what Maricopa did in terms of the
clerk refusing to participate in the intention to undo the will of the
people in a free and fair election.  The people of this state have
always shown extraordinary courage to stand up for the principles upon
which we as a country were founded.  And I thank you for that.  I thank
you for that.

I know we are going to win this election, and it is not going to be
easy.  There are forces at play that are making us, as-  — as Americans,
I think, call into question certain fundamentals that we have always
taken for granted, that is part of our pride: freedom — freedom —
freedom from the government making decisions about a person’s body, a
woman’s body; freedom to just be; freedom over matters of heart and
home, I like to say; fundamental principles around the importance of
rule of law, whether we should actually be concerned and have a question
— a legitimate question in an election for president of the United
States, the commander in chief, of whether they will abide by the oath. 
(Applause.) 

But imagine — imagine.  That’s a legitimate question we are asking. 
It’s not rhetorical.  It’s a legitimate question we are asking.

He who said that he would, quote, “terminate” the Constitution of the
United States.  He who said he would be a dictator on day one.  He who
intends to weaponize the Department of Justice against his political
enemies — take away the independence of the Department of Justice and
put in place loyalists.

Fundamental notions about who and what we are as a democracy are at play
in this election.  And you all, each of you, have had the courage to
say, hey, we may not agree on every single thing — that’s also what a
democracy looks like — but foundational, first principles cannot be in
question, not for the sake of our children, not for the sake of our
future and well-being, not for the sake of our standing in the world.

And so, I tell you all this to just reaffirm that we — we share not only
a concern but a commitment to our country and what’s most important
about, in a moment of crisis — dare I say, I think this is one — do we
stand together as Americans being our first identity and come together
around these issues?

And I — I’m going to actually announce — we have press in the room —
that I have decided also — not only will I have a Republican in my
Cabinet, but I’m also going to — I — I was talking to my team about it. 
I want to create some structure around the following, which is: I love
good ideas.  Wherever they come from, I love good ideas.  (Applause.) 
Right?

And so, part of what I intend to do, Mayor, and put some structure
around is creating a bipartisan council of advisers who can then give
feedback on policy as we go forward.  Because here’s the thing I also
understand and feel strongly about: In order for us as America to
maintain our status as the strongest democracy in the world, we need a
healthy two-party system.  We have to have a healthy two-party system. 
(Applause.)  We have to.  It’s in the best interest of all of us.  It’s
in the best interest of all of us. 

You know, the way that I like to lead — I bring folks in my office all
the time, and they know I don’t want any “yes” people.  I want people to
come in and, first of all, be prepared.  (Laughter.)  Yeah, no time to
waste.  But come in and then let’s — let’s, as I often say, kick the
tires on ideas.  Because the best ideas will survive those kinds of
challenges, and the best ideas will then be most relevant to the
American people, most in- — effective to the American people. 

And so, I’m going to create a bipartisan council so we can put some
structure around exactly this point and do the work that is important. 

And then I’m — I’m just going to close with this.  You know, again, I
think on the fundamentals, we have more in common than what separates
us, including across faiths. 

So, I know there are mem- — a lot of members of the LDS community here,
and you may or may not know my pastor actually spoke at the 100th
birthday of President Nelson.  (Applause.)  Yeah.  Yeah. 

And I just — and that wasn’t a plan as part of this.  It just is.  And —
and I just think if we think in our lives and in what we know, there are
so many examples of that point.  We have so much more in common than
what separates us, especially on the fundamentals. 

And so, with that, I say that I am committed to all of you to be a
president for all Americans and to work as we must — together — again,
knowing we have so much more in common than what separates us.  And on
the biggest and most important issues, I think we know that this is a
fight that is not against something as much as it is a fight that is for
something.  (Applause.)

Thank you. 

God bless you.  God bless you.  And God bless the United States of
America.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

                          END                 12:28 P.M. MST
