---
date: '2024-10-18'
published_time: 2024-10-18 16:48:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-grand-rapids-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Grand Rapids,\_MI"
---
 
Riverside Park  
Grand Rapids, Michigan

2:38 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, Michigan!  Good afternoon.  Can we
hear it for Brian?  (Applause.) 

Good afternoon, Michigan.  It is good — (applause) — oh, it is good to
be back.  It’s good to be back.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon.  Oh —
(laughs) — oh, my god.  Okay.  (Applause.)  Okay.  Thank you. 

Okay, let’s get to business.  Let’s get to business.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  I am very touched.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.  Oh, it’s good to
be back.  Thank you all very much.  Thank you.  Thank you. 

Okay, let’s get to work.  Let’s get to work.  Let’s get to work.  Let’s
get to work. 

So, let me first thank all of you for taking time out of your very busy
lives for us to all be here together this afternoon.  I thank you so
very much for all you do, all you have done, and all you will do over
these next 18 days.  Thank you all so very much.  (Applause.)  Thank
you. 

This is an incredible group of incredible leaders, and your voice
matters so much right now.  And I think there is so much about our
campaign that is about the spirit of reminding everyone that we’re all
in this together.  We are all in this together.  (Applause.)  So, thank
you. 

And to all the governors who are here with us today — (applause) — I’m
telling you, they’re riding thick.  They’re riding thick.  Oh, and they
are all — each one of them — such incredible leaders, both for their
state and our nation, and such dear friends.  And I thank you all,
including, of course, Michigan’s own Governor Whitmer — (applause) — who
we love as “Big Gretch.”  (Applause.)

And to the governors, I want to say you’ve been traveling the country
for our campaign, and I’m so deeply grateful for your support. 

I also want to recognize Senator Stabenow — (applause) — a champion for
Michigan; Representative Scholten, who we will reelect to the United
States Congress.  (Applause.)  And while we’re at it, let’s send
Representative Slotkin to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)

All right, so we got work to do.  Eighteen day — eighteen days left in
one of the most consequential elections of our lifetime.  And as you
know, everyone here knows, this election is truly about two very
different visions for our nation: Ours that is focused on the future;
Donald Trump’s that is focused on the past.  Ours, that is focused on
bringing down the cost of living for working families, investing in
small businesses, and entrepreneurs.  Ours, that is about protecting
reproductive freedom.  (Applause.)  

But none of that is what we hear from Donald Trump.  Instead, it is just
the same old, tired playbook.  He has no plan for how he would address
the needs of the American people, and he is, as we have seen, only
focused on himself.

And now he is ducking debates and canceling interviews.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Come on. 

Check this out.  His own campaign team recently said it is because of
exhaustion.  (Laughter.)  Well, if you are exhausted on the campaign
trail, it raises real questions about whether you are fit for the
toughest job in the world.  (Applause.)  Come on.  Come on.

So, for all these reasons and more, we are here because we know it is
time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It is time to turn the page because
America is ready to chart a new way forward.  (Applause.)  America is
ready for a new and optimistic generation of leadership that is all of
us — (applause) — all of us, which is why Democrats, Republicans, and
independents are supporting our campaign.  (Applause.) 

In fact, earlier this week, over 100 Republican leaders from across the
country joined me on the campaign trail, including some who even served
in Donald Trump’s own administration — (applause) — the people who know
him best, right? 

And I believe all of this shows that the American people want a
president who works for all the people.  (Applause.)  And that has been
the story of my entire career.  In my career, I’ve only ever had one
client: the people — the people.  (Applause.)

As a young courtroom prosecutor, I protected women and children.  As
attorney general of California, I fought for students and veterans.  As
vice president, I have stood up for workers and seniors.  And as
president, I will stand up for all Americans — all Americans. 
(Applause.) 

And together, we will build a brighter future for our nation.  Yes, we
will.  (Applause.)  Because, by the way, we will win.  (Applause.)  We
will win.  We will win.  Come on.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Yes, we will.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.  We will win.  And we will win.

And one of the reasons that we know we are working hard toward that win
is because we believe together in building a future — in what we can do
together as a nation — and a nation of people who see what we have in
common more than what separates us.   
  
 We will w- — build towards a future where we have an economy that works
for all Americans.  We will build what I call an “opportunity economy”
so that every American has an opportunity to own a home, buy a car,
build wealth, and start a business.  (Applause.)   
  
 In fact, do we have any small-business owners here?  (Applause.)  I
love our small businesses.  I got a plan for you.  I love our small
businesses.  Our small businesses are part of the backbone of America’s
economy.  Bless you all for the work you are doing.   
  
 So, under my plan, we will also bring down the cost of housing —
(applause) — and we will help entrepreneurs start and grow small
businesses.   
  
 My plan will expand Medicare to cover the cost of home health care for
our seniors — (applause) — so that more of our seniors can live with
dignity. 

And, you know, I’ll just give you a little background i- — in terms of a
personal story.  So, I took care of my mother when she was sick.  And
for any of you who have taken care of an elder relative, you know what
that is, right?  It’s about trying to cook something that they can eat. 
It’s about trying to find clothes that they can — they can handle on
their skin.  It’s about trying, from time to time, to think about
something that will put a smile on their face or maybe just make them
laugh.  It’s about dignity.   
  
But under the current system, and especially for those in the sandwich
generation who are raising young kids while you’re taking care of your
parents, it’s difficult.  And under the current system, to get help for
taking care of your seniors, unless you got the extra money sitting
around, you’d have to leave your job or pay down all your savings to
qualify for Medicaid.  That’s not right.  That’s not right.   
  
 So, my plan is about saying, let’s have Medicare cover the cost of home
health care for our seniors — (applause) — which is a matter of
understanding how real people are living and understanding the
importance of everyone being entitled to dignity.  (Applause.)

Our plan, in terms of an opportunity economy, will lower costs on
everything from health care to groceries.  I’ll take on corporate price
gouging, because I’ve done it before and I will do it again. 
(Applause.)  
  
My plan will also give middle-class tax cuts to 100 million Americans,
including $6,000 tax credit for the first year of a child’s life so that
our young parents — (applause) — can do what they naturally want to do,
which is parent their children well, but they don’t always have the
resources to be able to do it.  So, let’s help them out so that they can
buy a car seat, so that they can buy a crib, so that they can take care
of that baby’s needs during that critical phase of their development.   
  
     We all benefit from it.  We all benefit from it.  (Applause.)  
  
     Dignity.

My plan also invests in American manufacturing and innovation, because I
will make sure America, not China, wins the competition for the 21st
century.  (Applause.)   
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.

  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, to that point and with pride, we all say:
We must and we will invest in the industries that built America, like
steel, iron, and the great American auto industry.  (Applause.)  And we
will ensure that the next generation of breakthroughs, from advanced
batteries to electric vehicles, are not just invented but built right
here in America by American union workers.  (Applause.)  
  
 And, Michigan, I know I’m going to tell you what you already know, but
let us be clear for folks who are watching from different parts of the
country.  Contrary to what my opponent is suggesting, I will never tell
you what kind of car you have to drive, but here is what I will do.  I
will invest in manufacturing communities like Kent County. 
(Applause.)   
  
Together, we will retool existing factories, hire locally, and work with
unions to create good-paying jobs — (applause) — including jobs that do
not require a college degree, because here’s where I come from.  I know
a college degree is not the only measure of the skills and experience of
a qualified worker.  (Applause.)  
  
And I intend to reexamine federal jobs, when you all elect me president
— (applause) — to assess those jobs that should not have that
requirement, and then I intend to challenge the private sector to do the
same.  (Applause.)  
  
 Now, all of this is to say Donald Trump has a different approach.  He
makes big promises — (laughs) — and he always fails to deliver.  
  
So, remember he said he was the only one — you know how he talks. 
(Laughter.)  He — the only one who could bring back America’s
manufacturing jobs.

Then, America lost almost 200,000 manufacturing jobs when he was
president.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Facts.  Including tens of thousands of jobs right
here in Michigan.  And those losses started before the pandemic, making
Donald Trump one of the biggest losers — (applause) — of manufacturing
jobs in American history. 

And his track record for the auto industry was a disaster.  He promised
workers in Warren that the auto industry would, and I’m going to quote,
“not lose one plant” during his presidency.  Those were his words, “not
one plant.” 

Then American automakers announced the closure of six auto plants when
he was president, including General Motors in Warren and Stellantis in
Detroit.  Thousands of Michigan autoworkers lost their jobs.  And Donald
Trump’s running mate recently suggested that if they win, they would
threaten the Grand River Assembly plant in Lansing.  Okay?

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The same plant our administration protected earlier
this year, saving 650 union jobs — (applause) — 650 union jobs.  His
running mate called those “table scraps.” 

So, we fought hard for those jobs, and we believe that you deserve a
president who will protect them and not insult them.  (Applause.)

And make no mistake, Donald Trump is no friend of labor.  Let’s be
really clear about that.  No matter what the noise is out there, he is
no friend of labor.  Just look at the record.  Instead of his rhetoric,
look at the record.  And let’s not fall for the okey-doke.  (Laughter.) 

Seriously.  He encouraged automakers to move their plants out of
Michigan so he could pay — they could pay their workers less. 
Understand what that was about: so they could pay their workers less. 

And when the UAW went on strike to demand the higher wages they
deserved, Donald Trump went to a nonunion shop —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and attacked the UAW, and he said — he said,
striking and collective bargaining don’t make, quote, “a damn bit of
sense” — “a damn bit of difference” is what he said exactly.  That it
doesn’t make a, quote — pardon my language — “a damn bit of difference,”
is what he said. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He don’t make a damn bit of sense.  (Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right, brother.  (Laughs.)

So, Michigan, you know better.  Strong unions mean higher wages —
(applause) — better health care, and greater dignity for union members
and for everyone, whether or not you are part of a union.  (Applause.) 
Get that straight.  Get that straight.

Which is why, when I am president, I will sign the PRO Act into law and
make it easier for workers to join a union and negotiate for better pay
and working conditions.  (Applause.)

And now Donald Trump is making the same empty promises to the people of
Michigan that he did before, hoping — hoping you will forget how he let
you down the last time.  But we will not be fooled, because we know how
to read Project 2025.  For those who haven’t seen it, just google it. 

You know, I just have to keep repeating, I can’t believe they put that
thing in writing.  I cannot beli- — they — they put it in — they put it
in writing.  They bound it.  They — they published it, and they handed
it out.  (Laughter.)  And now they’re trying to run from it.  Come on. 

And so, we’ve read it.  It’s a detailed and dangerous blueprint for what
Donald Trump intends to do if he were elected president.  So, that’s why
we know — not only because it’s what he did before — that’s why we know
Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts,
attack unions, cut Social Security and Medicare —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — get rid of that hard-fought, hard-won $35 cap on
insulin for our seniors.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Check out what’s in it.  It will make it easier for
companies to deny overtime pay for workers —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” which
is basically — he’s talking about at least a 20 percent tax on everyday
necessities, which economists have measured will cost the average family
nearly $4,000 more a year.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of this, Donald Trump intends to end the
Affordable Care Act — okay? — and has no plan to replace it. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  “Concepts”! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You watched the debate.  (Laughs.)  So, you
remember, he has, quote, “concepts of a plan.” 

AUDIENCE:  “Concepts of a plan!”

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Concepts of a plan.”

So, he’s going to threaten — he’s going to threaten the health insurance
of 45 —

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need a medic over here.  We need a medic over
here.  Let’s — let’s clear a path so they can come through, please.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Don’t forget he’s out on bail! 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Espionage!  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we got jokes over here, grounded in reality. 
(Laughter.)

     We okay?  Okay.  We’re okay.  Thank you all. 

     So — (applause) — we’re good.  Okay.

So, you know, where I was going with that is many of you may have heard
me say, I do believe that Donald Trump is an unserious man, and the
consequences of him ever getting back into the White House are brutally
serious — brutally serious. 

So, on that point about “concepts of a plan,” it’s funny.  We thought it
was ridiculously hilarious when we first heard it.  But here’s the thing
about that.  He is basically going to threaten the health insurance of
45 million people based on a concept and take us back to when insurance
companies could deny people with preexisting conditions.  You remember
what that was like?

Well, we are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back.  We’re
not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because we intend to move
forward — (applause) — because ours is a fight for the future, and it is
a fight for freedom — (applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a
woman to make decisions about her own body and not have her government
tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

And we here remember how we got to this place, because then-President
Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme
Court with the intention that they would undo the protections of Roe v.
Wade, and they did as he intended. 

And now, in America, one in three women lives in a state with a Trump
abortion ban, many of these with no exception even for rape and incest,
which means you’re telling a survivor of a violation to their body that
they don’t have a right to make a decision about what happens to their
body next? 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s immoral.  That’s immoral. 

And I think we all know one does not have to abandon their faith or
deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her
what to do — (applause) — not the government.  If she chooses, she will
talk to her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam but not the
government — not some — some people up in a state capitol — not Donald
Trump.

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No. 

So, let me tell you, when Congress passes a bill to restore the
reproductive freedoms nationwide, with your help, as president of the
United States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly. 
Proudly.  Proudly. 

And across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on other
hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights — fundamental freedoms and
rights.  I’m traveling our country.  I mean, attacks on the freedom to
vote. 

You know, in the state of Georgia, they passed a law that makes it
illegal to give people food and water for standing in line to vote.  You
know, the hypocrisy abounds.  What happened to “love thy neighbor”? 
Right?

Attacks on the freedom to join a union, attacks on the freedom to be
safe from gun violence, attacks on the freedom to love who you love
openly and with pride.  (Applause.)

So much is on the line in this election, and you all are spending your
precious time here together because we know this is not 2016 or 2020. 
The stakes are even higher this time for many reasons, including
because, just months ago, the United States Supreme Court basically told
the former president he is effectively immune no matter what he does in
the White House.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Because we know — just imagine Donald Trump
with no guardrails.  Just imagine.  He who has vowed he would be a
dictator on day one.  He who calls Americans who disagree with him the
“enemy from within.”  You know where that language comes from?  The
“enemy from within,” talking about Americans.  He who says he would use
the military to go after them — American citizens.  He who has called
for the, quote, “termination” of the Constitution of the United States
of America. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are clear: Someone who suggests we should
terminate the Constitution of the United States should never again have
the privilege of standing behind the seal of the president of the United
States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again.  Never again.  Never
again. 

AUDIENCE:  Never again!  Never again!  Never again!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Never again. 

So, Michigan, it all comes down to this.  We know why we’re here
together.  We know what’s at stake.  And we are here together for one of
the most important of all the reasons: We are here together because we
love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country. 

We love our country, and we know that it is one of the highest forms of
an expression of love of our country, of patriotism, to then fight for
our ideals, to fight to realize the promise of America.  That’s what our
campaign is about. 

And Election Day is in 18 short days.  Okay?  And here in Michigan,
early voting starts on Saturday, October 26th, which is one week from
tomorrow.  (Applause.) 

So, now is the time to make your plan to vote.  Make a plan.  Make a
plan.  And if you have received your ballot in the mail, please do not
wait.  Fill it out and return it today. 

Because, folks, the election is here.  The election is here right now. 
And like I know everybody here knows to do, we’ve got to energize and
organize and mobilize and remind our neighbors and our friends that
their vote is their voice and your voice is your power.   
  
In a democracy, while we can hold on to it, our vote is the power that
each of us as an individual has.  It’s an extraordinary power, and we
will not give it away, and we will not let anyone suppress or silence
our power.  Don’t ever let anybody take your power from you. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, Michigan, today I ask you, then, are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)  
  
     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)  
  
     And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  
  
     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)  
  
                             END                3:07 P.M. EDT
