---
date: '2024-10-23'
modified_time: 2024-10-23 21:24:40-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-23 21:24:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/23/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-at-the-brookings-institution/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan at the Brookings\_Institution"
---
 
Brookings Institution  
Washington, D.C.

Good morning, everyone.  And thank you so much, David, for that
introduction and for having me here today.  It’s great to be back at
Brookings.

As many of you know, I was here last year to lay out President Biden’s
vision for renewing American economic leadership, a vision that
responded to several converging challenges our country faced: the return
of intense geopolitical competition; a rise in inequality and a squeeze
on the middle class; a less vibrant American industrial base; an
accelerating climate crisis; vulnerable supply chains; and rapid
technological change.

For the preceding three decades, the U.S. economy had enjoyed stronger
topline aggregate growth than other advanced democracies, and had
generated genuine innovation and technological progress, but our
economic policies had not been adapted to deal effectively with these
challenges.  That’s why President Biden implemented a modern industrial
strategy, one premised on investing at home in ourselves and our
national strength, and on shifting the energies of U.S. foreign policy
to help our partners around the world do the same.

In practice, that’s meant mobilizing public investment to unlock private
sector investment to deliver on big challenges like the clean energy
transition and artificial intelligence, revitalizing our capacity to
innovate and to build, creating diversified and resilient global supply
chains, setting high standards for everything from labor to the
environment to technology.  Because on that level playing field, our
logic goes, America can compete and win.  Preserving open markets and
also protecting our national security and doing all of these things
together with allies and partners.

Since I laid this vision out in my speech at Brookings last year, I’ve
listened with great interest to many thoughtful responses, because these
are early days.  Meaningful shifts in policy require constant iteration
and reflection.  That’s what will make our policy stronger and more
sustainable. 

So, today, I’m glad to be back here at Brookings to reengage in this
conversation, because I really believe that the ideas I’m here to
discuss and the policies that flow from them are among the most
consequential elements of the administration’s foreign as well as
domestic policy, and I believe they will constitute an important legacy
of Joe Biden’s presidency. 

I want to start by reflecting on some of the questions I’ve heard and
then propose a few ways to consolidate our progress.

One overarching question is at the core of many others: Does our new
approach mean that we’re walking away from a positive-sum view of the
world, that America is just in it for itself at the expense of everyone
else? 

In a word, no, it doesn’t.  In fact, we’re returning to a tradition that
made American international leadership such a durable force, what Alexis
de Tocqueville called “interest rightly understood.”  The notion that
it’s in our own self-interest to strengthen our partners and sustain a
fair economic system that helps all of us prosper.

After World War Two, we built an international economic order in the
context of a divided world, an order that helped free nations recover
and avoid a return to the protectionist and nationalist mistakes of the
1930s, an order that also advanced American economic and geopolitical
power.

In the 1990s, after the collapse of the Soviet Union, we took that order
global, embracing the old Eastern bloc, China, India, and many
developing countries.  Suddenly, the major powers were no longer
adversaries or competitors.  Capital flowed freely across borders. 
Global supply chains became “just in time,” without anyone contemplating
potential strategic risk.

Each of these approaches was positive-sum, and each reflected the world
as it was.

Now, the world of the 1990s is over, and it’s not coming back, and it’s
not a coherent plan or critique just to wish it so.

We’re seeing the return of great power competition.  But unlike the Cold
War era, our economies are closely intertwined.  We’re on the verge of
revolutionary technological change with AI, with economic and
geopolitical implications.  The pandemic laid bare the fragilities in
global supply chains that have been growing for decades.  The climate
crisis grows more urgent with every hurricane and heat wave. 

So we need to articulate, once again, de Tocqueville’s notion of
interest rightly understood.  To us, that means pursuing a strategy that
is fundamentally positive-sum, calibrated to the geopolitical realities
of today and rooted in what is good for America — for American workers,
American communities, American businesses, and American national
security and economic strength.

We continue to believe deeply in the mutual benefits of international
trade and investment, enhanced and enabled by bold public investment in
key sectors; bounded in rare but essential cases by principled controls
on key national security technologies; protected against harmful
non-market practices, labor and environment abuses, and economic
coercion; and critically coordinated with a broad range of partners. 

The challenges we face are not uniquely our own and nor can we solve
them alone.  We want and need our partners to join us.  And given the
demand signal we hear back from them, we think that in the next decade,
American leadership will be measured by our ability to help our partners
pull off similar approaches and build alignment and complementarity
across our policies and our investments. 

If we get that right, we can show that international economic
integration is compatible with democracy and national sovereignty.  And
that is how we get out of Dani Rodrik’s trilemma.

Now, what does that mean in practice?  What does this kind of
positive-sum approach mean for trade policy?  Are we walking away from
trade as a core pillar of international economic policy? 

U.S. exports and imports have recovered from their dip during the
pandemic, with the real value of U.S. trade well above 2019 levels in
each of the last two years.  We’re also the largest outbound source of
FDI in the world. 

So, we are not walking away from international trade and investment. 
What we are doing is moving away from specific policies that, frankly,
didn’t contemplate the urgent challenges we face: The climate crisis. 
Vulnerable, concentrated, critical mineral and semiconductor supply
chains.  Persistent attacks on workers’ rights.  And not just more
global competition, but more competition with a country that uses
pervasive non-market policies and practices to distort and dominate
global markets. 

Ignoring or downplaying these realities will not help us chart a viable
path forward.  Our approach to trade responds to these challenges. 

Climate is a good example.  American manufacturers are global leaders in
clean steel production, yet they’ve had to compete against companies
that produce steel more cheaply but with higher emissions intensity. 
That’s why, earlier this year, the White House stood up a Climate and
Trade Task Force, and the task force has been developing the right tools
to promote decarbonization and ensure our workers and businesses engaged
in cleaner production aren’t disadvantaged by firms overseas engaged in
dirtier, exploitative production.

Critical minerals are another example.  That sector is marked by extreme
price volatility, widespread corruption, weak labor and environmental
protections, and heavy concentration in the PRC, which artificially
drops prices to keep competitors out of the marketplace. 

If we and our partners fail to invest, the PRC’s domination of these and
other supply chains will only grow, and that will leave us increasingly
dependent on a country that has demonstrated its willingness to
weaponize such dependencies.  We can’t accept that, and neither can our
partners. 

That’s why we are working with them to create a high-standard, critical
minerals marketplace, one that diversifies our supply chains, creates a
level playing field for our producers, and promotes strong workers’
rights and environmental protections.  And we’re driving towards
tangible progress on that idea in just the next few weeks.

In multiple sectors that are important to our future, not just critical
minerals, but solar cells, lithium-ion batteries, electric vehicles, we
see a broad pattern emerging.  The PRC is producing far more than
domestic demand, dumping excess onto global markets at artificially low
prices, driving manufacturers around the world out of business, and
creating a chokehold on supply chains.

To prevent a second China shock, we’ve had to act. 

That’s what drove the decisions about our 301 tariffs earlier this year.

Now, we know that indiscriminate, broad-based tariffs will harm workers,
consumers, and businesses, both in the United States and our partners. 
The evidence on that is clear.  That’s why we chose, instead, to target
tariffs at unfair practices in strategic sectors where we and our allies
are investing hundreds of billions of dollars to rebuild our
manufacturing and our resilience. 

And crucially, we’re seeing partners in both advanced and emerging
economies reach similar conclusions regarding overcapacity and take
similar steps to ward off damage to their own industries, from the EU to
Canada to Brazil to Thailand to Mexico to Türkiye and beyond.  That’s a
big deal.

And it brings me back to my earlier point: We’re pursuing this new trade
approach in concert with our partners.  They also recognize we need
modern trade tools to achieve our objectives.  That means considering
sector-specific trade agreements.  It means creating markets based on
standards when that’s more effective.  And it also means revitalizing
international institutions to address today’s challenges, including
genuinely reforming the WTO to deal with the challenges I’ve outlined. 

And it means thinking more comprehensively about our economic
partnerships.  That’s why we created the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework
and the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity.  That’s why we
also gave them such catchy names. 

Within IPEF, we finalized three agreements with 13 partners to
accelerate the clean energy transition, to promote high labor standards,
to fight corruption, and to shore up supply chain vulnerabilities before
they become widespread disruptions.  And within APEP, we’re working to
make the Western Hemisphere a globally competitive supply chain hub for
semiconductors, clean energy, and more. 

And that leads to the next question I’ve often been asked in the last
year and a half: Where does domestic investment fit into all of this? 
How does our positive-sum approach square with our modern industrial
strategy?

The truth is that smart, targeted government investment has always been
a crucial part of the American formula.  It’s essential to catalyzing
private investment and growth in sectors where market failures or other
barriers would lead to under-investment.

Somehow, we forgot that along the way, or at least we stopped talking
about it.  But there was no plausible version of answers on
decarbonization or supply chain resilience without recovering this
tradition.  And so we have.

We’ve made the largest investment ever to diversify and accelerate clean
energy deployment through the Inflation Reduction Act.  And investments
are generating hundreds of billions of dollars in private investment all
across the country; rapid growth in emerging climate technologies like
sustainable aviation fuels, carbon management, clean hydrogen, with
investments increasing 6- to 15-fold from pre-IRA levels. 

This will help us meet our climate commitments.  This will advance our
national security.  And this will ensure that American workers and
communities can seize the vast economic opportunities of the clean
energy transition and that those opportunities are broadly shared.  And
that last part is crucial. 

The fact is that many communities hard hit in decades past still haven’t
bounced back, and the two-thirds of American adults who don’t have
college degrees have seen unacceptably poor outcomes in terms of real
wages, health, and other outcomes over the last four decades.

For many years, people assumed that these distributional issues would be
solved after the fact by domestic policies.  That has not worked. 

Advancing fairness, creating high-quality jobs, and revitalizing
American communities can’t be an afterthought, which is why we’ve made
them central to our approach. 

In fact, as a result of the incentives in the IRA to build in
traditional energy communities, investment in those communities has
doubled under President Joe Biden.

Now, initially, when we rolled this all out, our foreign partners
worried that it was designed to undercut them, that we were attempting
to shift all the clean energy investment and production around the world
to the United States.

But that wasn’t the case, and it isn’t the case. 

We know that our partners need to invest.  In fact, we want them to
invest.  The whole world benefits from the spillover effects of advances
in clean energy that these investments bring. 

And we are nowhere near the saturation point of investment required to
meet our clean energy deployment goals, nor will markets alone generate
the resources necessary either. 

So, we’ve encouraged our partners to invest in their own industrial
strength.  We’ve steered U.S. foreign policy towards being a more
helpful partner in this endeavor.  And our partners have begun to join
us.  Look at Japan’s green transformation policy, India’s
production-linked incentives, Canada’s clean energy tax credit, the
European Union’s Green Deal.

As more and more countries adopt this approach, we will continue to
build out the cooperative mechanisms that we know will be necessary to
ensure that we’re acting together to scale up total global investment,
not competing with each other over where a fixed set of investments is
located.

The same goes for investing in our high-tech manufacturing strength.  We
believe that a nation that loses the capacity to build, risks losing the
capacity to innovate.  So, we’re building again.

As a result of the CHIPS and Science Act, America is on track to have
five leading-edge logic and memory chip manufacturers operating at
scale.  No other economy has more than two.  And we’re continuing to
nurture American leadership in artificial intelligence, including
through actions we’re finalizing, as I speak, to ensure that the
physical infrastructure needed to train the next generation of AI models
is built right here in the United States. 

But all of this high-tech investment and development hasn’t come at the
expense of our partners.  We’ve done it alongside them. 

We’re leveraging CHIPS Act funding to make complementary investments in
the full semiconductor supply chain, from Costa Rica to Vietnam. 

We’re building a network of AI safety institutes around the world, from
Canada to Singapore to Japan, to harness the power of AI responsibly. 

And we’ve launched a new Quantum Development Group to deepen cooperation
in a field that will be pivotal in the decades ahead.

Simply put, we’re thinking about how to manage this in concert with our
allies and partners, and that will make all of us more competitive.

Now, all this leads to another question that is frequently asked:  What
about your technology protection policies?  How does that fit into a
positive-sum approach?

The United States and our allies and partners have long limited the
export of dual-use technologies.  This is logical and uncontroversial. 
It doesn’t make sense to allow companies to sell advanced technology to
countries that could use them to gain military advantage over the United
States and our friends. 

Now, it would be a mistake to attempt to return to the Cold War paradigm
of almost no trade, including technological trade, among geopolitical
rivals.  But as I’ve noted, we’re in a fundamentally different
geopolitical context, so we’ve got to meet somewhere in the middle. 

That means being targeted in what we restrict, controlling only the most
sensitive technologies that will define national security and strategic
competition.  This is part of what we mean when we say: de-risking, not
decoupling.

To strike the right balance, to ensure we’re not imposing controls in an
arbitrary or reflexive manner, we have a framework that informs our
decision-making.  We ask ourselves at least four questions:

One, which sensitive technologies are or will likely become foundational
to U.S. national security? 

Two, across those sensitive technologies, where do we have distinct
advantages and are likely to see maximal effort by our competitors to
close the gap?  Conversely, where are we behind and, therefore, most
vulnerable to coercion?

Three, to what extent do our competitors have immediate substitutes for
U.S.-sensitive technology, either through indigenous development or from
third countries, that would undercut the controls?

Four, what is the breadth and depth of the coalition we could plausibly
build and sustain around a given control?

When it comes to a narrow set of sensitive technologies, yes, the fence
is high, as it should be. 

And in the context of broader commerce, the yard is small, and we’re not
looking to expand it needlessly.

Now, beyond the realm of export controls and investment screening, we
will also take action to protect sensitive data and our critical
infrastructure, such as our recent action on connected vehicles from
countries of concern.

I suspect almost no one here would argue that we should build out our
telecommunications architecture or our data center infrastructure with
Huawei. 

Millions of cars on the road with technology from the PRC, getting daily
software updates from the PRC, sending reams of information back to the
PRC, similarly doesn’t make sense, especially when we’ve already seen
evidence of a PRC cyber threat to our critical infrastructure.

We have to anticipate systemic cyber and data risks in ways that,
frankly, we didn’t in the past, including what that means for the future
Internet of Things, and we have to take the thoughtful, targeted steps
necessary in response.

This leads to a final, kind of fundamental question: Does this approach
reflect some kind of pessimism about the United States and our inherent
interests? 

Quite the contrary.  It reflects an abiding and ambitious optimism.  We
believe deeply that we can act smartly and boldly, that we can compete
and win, that we can meet the great challenges of our time, and that we
can deliver for all of our people here in the United States. 

And while it’s still very early, we have some evidence of that.  This
includes the strongest post-pandemic recovery of any advanced economy in
the world.  There’s more work to do, but inflation has come down.  And
contrary to the predictions that the PRC would overtake the U.S. in GDP
either in this decade or the next, since President Biden took office,
the United States has more than doubled our lead.  And last year, the
United States attracted more than five times more inbound foreign direct
investment than the next highest country. 

We are once again demonstrating our capacity for resilience and
reinvention, and others are noticing.  The EU’s Draghi report, published
last month, mirrors key aspects of our strategy. 

Now, as we continue to implement this vision, we will need to stay
rigorous.  We will need, for example, to be bold enough to make the
needed investments without veering into unproductive subsidies that
crowd-out the private sector or unduly compete with our partners.

We’re clear-eyed that our policies will involve choices and trade-offs. 
That’s the nature of policy.  But to paraphrase Sartre, not to choose is
also a choice, and the trade-offs only get worse the longer we leave our
challenges unchecked.

Pointing out that it’s challenging to strike the right balance is not an
argument to be satisfied with the status quo.

We have tried to start making real a new positive-sum vision, and we
have tried to start proving out its value.  But we still have our work
cut out for us. 

So I’d actually like to end today with a few questions of my own, where
our answers will determine our shared success: 

First, will we sustain the political will here at home to make the
investments in our own national strength that will be required of us in
the years ahead? 

Strategic investments like these need to be a bipartisan priority, and I
have to believe that we’ll rise to the occasion, that we won’t
needlessly give up America’s position of economic and technological
leadership because we can no longer generate the political consensus to
invest in ourselves.

There is more we can do now on a bipartisan basis. 

For example, Congress still hasn’t appropriated the science part of
CHIPS and Science, even while the PRC is increasing its science and
technology budget by 10 percent year on year.

Now, whether we’re talking about investments in fundamental research, or
grants and loans for firms developing critical technologies, we also
have to update our approach to risk.  Some research paths are dead
ends.  Some startups won’t survive.  Our innovation base and our private
sector are the envy of the world because they take risks.  The art of
managing risk for the sake of innovation is critical to successful
geostrategic competition. 

So, we need to nurture a national comfort with, to paraphrase FDR, bold
and persistent experimentation.  And when an investment falls short, as
it will, we need to maintain our bipartisan will, dust ourselves off,
and keep moving forward.  To put it bluntly, our competitors hope we’re
not capable of that.  We need to prove them wrong.  We need to make
patient, strategic investments in our capacity to compete, and we need
to ensure fiscal sustainability in order to keep making those
investments over the long term.

The second question: Will we allocate sufficient resources for
investments that are needed globally? 

Last year, here at Brookings, I talked about the need to go from
billions to trillions in investment to help emerging and developing
countries tackle modern challenges, including massively accelerating the
speed and scale of the clean energy transition. 

We need a Marshall Plan-style effort, investing in partners around the
world and supporting homegrown U.S. innovation in growing markets like
storage, nuclear, and geothermal energy. 

Now, trillions may sound lofty and unachievable, but there is a very
clear path to get there without requiring anywhere near that level of
taxpayer dollars, and that path is renewed American leadership and
investment in international institutions. 

For example, at the G20 this fall, we’re spearheading an effort that
calls for the international financial institutions, the major creditors
in the private sector, to step up their relief for countries facing high
debt service burdens so they too can invest in their future. 

Or consider the World Bank and the IMF.  We’ve been leading the charge
to make these institutions bigger and more effective, to fully utilize
their balance sheets and be more responsive to the developing and
emerging economies they serve.  That has already unlocked hundreds of
billions of dollars in new lending capacity, at no cost to the United
States.  And we can generate further investment on the scale required
with very modest U.S. public investments and legislative fixes.  That
depends on Congress taking action. 

For example, our administration requested $750 million — million — from
Congress to boost the World Bank’s lending capacity by over $36 billion,
which, if matched by our partners, could generate over $100 billion in
new resources.  This would allow the World Bank to deploy $200 for every
$1 the taxpayers provide.

We’ve asked Congress to approve investments in a new trust fund at the
IMF to help developing countries build resilience and sustainability. 
Through a U.S. investment in the tens of millions, we could enable tens
of billions in new IMF lending.

And outside the World Bank and the IMF, we’re asking Congress to
increase funding for the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment, which we launched at the G7 a couple of years ago. 

This partnership catalyzes and concentrates investment in key corridors,
including Africa and Asia, to close the infrastructure gap in developing
countries.  It strengthens countries’ economic growth.  It strengthens
America’s supply chains and global trusted technology vendors.  And it
strengthens our partnerships in critical regions. 

The private sector has been enthusiastic.  Together with them and our G7
partners, we’ve already mobilized tens of billions of dollars, and we
can lever that up and scale that up in the years ahead with help on a
bipartisan basis from the Congress.

We need to focus on the big picture.  Holding back small sums of money
has the effect of pulling back large sums from the developing world —
which also, by the way, effectively cedes the field to other countries
like the PRC.  There are low-cost, commonsense solutions on the table,
steps that should not be the ceiling of our ambitions, but the floor. 
And we need Congress to provide us the authorities and the seed funding
to take those steps now.

Finally, will we empower our agencies and develop new muscle to meet
this moment? 

Simply put, we need to ensure that we have the resources and the
capabilities in the U.S. government to implement this economic vision
over the long haul.  This starts by significantly strengthening our
bilateral tools, answering a critique that China has a checkbook and the
U.S. has a checklist. 

Next year, the United States is going to face a critical test of whether
our country is up to the task.  The DFC, the Ex-Im Bank, and AGOA, the
African Growth and Opportunity Act, are all up for renewal by Congress. 
This provides a once-in-a-decade chance for America to strengthen some
of its most important tools of economic statecraft. 

And think about how they can work better with the high-leverage
multilateral institutions I just mentioned.  The DFC, for example, is
one of our most effective instruments to mobilize private sector
investments in developing countries.

But the DFC is too small compared to the scope of investment needed, and
it lacks tools our partners want, like the ability to deploy more equity
as well as debt, and it’s often unable to capitalize on fast-moving
investment opportunities.  So, we put forward a proposal to expand the
DFC’s toolkit and make it bigger, faster, nimbler. 

Another gap we need to bridge is to make sure we attract, retain, and
empower top-tier talent with expertise in priority areas.

We’re asking Congress to approve the resources we’ve requested for the
Commerce’s Bureau of Industry Security, Treasury’s Office of Investment
Security, the Department of Justice’s National Security Division. 

If Congress is serious about America competing and winning, we need to
be able to draw on America’s very best.

Let me close with this:

Since the end of World War Two, the United States has stood for a fair
and open international economy; for the power of global connection to
fuel innovation; for the power of trade and investment done right to
create good jobs; for the power, as Tocqueville put it, of interest
rightly understood.

Our task ahead is to harness that power to take on the realities of
today’s geopolitical moment in a way that will not only preserve
America’s enduring strengths, but extend them for generations to come. 
It will take more conversations like this one and iteration after
iteration to forge a new consensus and perfect a new set of policies and
capabilities to match the moment. 

I hope it’s a project we can all work on together.  We can’t afford not
to. 

So, thank you.  And I look forward to continuing the conversation,
including hearing some of your questions this morning. 
