---
date: '2024-10-09'
modified_time: 2024-10-10 11:59:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-09 17:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/09/remarks-by-president-biden-on-hurricane-milton/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Hurricane\_Milton"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

5:34 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening. 

Within a few hours, Hurricane Milton is expected to make landfall on the
west coast of Flor- — the western coast of Florida.  Already, we’re
seeing impacts from the storm, including significant winds and heavy
rain.  And there has also been frequent and widespread tornado warnings
throughout the day, and they’re continuing and expected to expand as
Milton moves over land, including a few that have already touched down
in souther- — in South Florida. 

Currently, Milton is a Category 3, with wind speeds up to 120 miles per
hour.  But no one should be confused: It’s still expected to be one of
the most and worst destructive hurricanes to hit Florida in over a
century. 

You know, both the heads of the National Hurricane Center and the
National Weather Service made it very clear in conversations I’ve had
with them earlier today: Milton still carries incredible
destructiveness.  It can wipe out communities.  It can cause loss of
life.  Storm surge is still expected to be up to 13 feet. 

So, I urge everyone in Hurricane Milton’s path to listen to local
officials and follow all the safety instructions they give.  At this
point, evacuation is probably difficult, so I encourage people to look
for safer shelter.  Sometimes moving just a — a few miles can mean the
difference between life and death. 

We’ve already approved emergency declarations for Florida.  We have
thousands of federal personnel on the ground.  And we have staged and
are ready to go — we have 20 million meals, 40 million liters of water. 

At my direction, the secretary of Defense, Austin, has pre-positioned
search and rescue teams, helicopters, and highs-water veh- — high- —
high-water speed vehicles as close to the storm as possible so they’re
ready to conduct lifesaving missions. 

And the administrators of — the administrator of FEMA will be on site
tonight in Florida and the state’s emerge- — in the state’s emergency
operations center.  Both Administrator Criswell and I will be in
constant contact with state and local officials in the hours ahead. 

Once the storm hits, we’re going to work with state officials to clear
debris, restore power, and it — do it as fast as possible.  The Army
Corps of Engineers will pump out water and decrease flooding. 

We’ve already directed the Department of Defense to be ready to provide
active-duty service members to support Florida after the storm — after
the storm surge if Governor DeSantis requests the help, which I expect
he might, just like we did in North Carolina. 

I have surged over 1,000 U.S. Coast Guard personnel to perform search
and rescue missions and reopen the Port of Tampa as soon as possible. 

Now, I want to reiterate a point.  I made clear earlier today to the
folks who have been impacted by Helene, this impact — and will be now
impacted by Milton: Over the last few weeks, there has been reckless and
irresponsible and relentless promotion of disinformation and outright
lies about what’s going on.  It’s undermining confidence in the people
in Florida and the incredible rescue and recovery work that has been
undertaken. 

Literally, there are — there are thousands of fellow Americans who are
putting their lives at stake and putting it on the line to do the
dangerous work that needs to be done now.  And it’s harmful to those who
most need the help. 

Quite frankly, these lies are un-American.  And there is simply no place
for them — not now, not ever. 

Former President Trump has led this onslaught of lies. 

Assertions have been made that property is being confiscated.  That’s
simply not true.  They’re saying people impacted by these storms will
receive $750 in cash and no more.  That is simply not true, either.  And
they’re saying that money needed for these crises are being diverted to
migrants.  What the hell — heck are they talking about?  Stop it.  It’s
outrageous.  It’s just not true. 

Now the claims are getting even more bizarre.  Marjorie Taylor Greene,
the congresswoman from Georgia, is now saying the federal government is
literally controlling the weather — we’re controlling the weather.  It’s
beyond ridiculous.  It’s so stupid.  It’s got to stop. 

Let me close with this.  As difficult as these days and weeks have been,
we’ve seen incredible courage by so many of our fellow Americans. 

I want to thank all the first responders for running toward danger
instead of away from it, for saving lives and making a difference: FEMA
personnel risking their lives, climbing on hillsides to reach people who
— cut off by <s>Helena</s> \[Helene\]; Army National Guard flying
through gale wind force that — it’s amazing what they’re doing;
firefighting lifting collapsed wood and metal in attempt to get — see if
there are survivors — any survivors under the debris, risking their
lives; Coast Guard teams repelling from helicopters to rescue people and
risking their own lives. 

And there are countless friends and neighbors who have sacrificed for
the greater good: volunteers leaving their own families behind to help
search for someone else’s family, fellow Americans looking out for one
another. 

That’s America at its very best.  That’s who we are.

So, my final message tonight is to the people of Florida and all the
impacted states: We’ve got your back.  We’ve got your back.  And Kamala
and I will be there for as long as it takes to rescue, recover, and
rebuild. 

May God bless you all.  And may God protect those serving in the eye of
this storm on behalf of our nation. 

Thank you.

Q    Why do you think —

Q    Mr. President —

Q    — Trump is spreading misinformation?

Q    — the Kremlin has confirmed that —

Q    Why do you think Trump is —

Q    — former President Trump has sent testing kits — 

Q    — is spreading misinformation?

Q    — to — to President Putin during the height of the pandemic.  Do
you have a comment, sir?

Q    Why do you think Trump is —

THE PRESIDENT:  Speaking of un-American.

Q    Why do you think Trump is spreading misinformation?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know.  I — I simply don’t know.  You can
speculate, but it — I — I just find it — I mean, I — and I’ve use the
wor- — phrase more than I’ve used it ever in my whole career:
un-American.  It’s un-American.  It’s not who the hell we are.  What are
they talking about?

Q    Sir, have you considered calling him and asking him to stop doing
that — to stop spreading this?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, come on.

Q    Mr. President, does Governor DeSantis need to take Vice President
Harris’ calls?

THE PRESIDENT:  All I can tell you is I’m talking to Governor DeSantis. 
He’s been very gracious.  He’s thanked me for all we’ve done.  He knows
what we’re doing.  And — and I think that’s important. 

Q    Can you say that Florida has everything it needs for this storm?

Q    How was your call with Netanyahu today?

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  We didn’t talk about the storm.

5:41 P.M. EDT
