---
date: '2024-10-29'
modified_time: 2024-10-31 14:03:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-29 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-10/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Event"
---
 
The Ellipse  
Washington, D.C.

7:38 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, America!  (Applause.)   Good evening,
everyone.  Good evening.  And thank you for taking the time out of your
busy lives. 

     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
Thank you, everyone. 

So, listen, one week from today, you will have the chance to make a
decision that directly impacts your life, the life of your family, and
the future of this country we love.  (Applause.)  And it will probably
be the most important vote you ever cast. 

And this election is more than just a choice between two parties and two
different candidates.  It is a choice about whether we have a country
rooted in freedom for every American or ruled by chaos and division. 
(Applause.)

Many of you watching have probably already cast your ballots —
(applause) — but I know many others are still considering who to vote
for or whether you’ll vote at all.  So, tonight, I will speak to
everyone about the choice and the stakes in this election. 

Look, we know who Donald Trump is.  He is the person who stood at this
very spot nearly four years ago and sent an armed mob to the United
States Capitol to overturn the will of the people in a free and fair
election.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  An election that he knew he lost.  Americans died
as a result of that attack.  One hundred and forty law enforcement
officers were injured because of that attack. 

And while Donald Trump sat in the White House watching as the violence
unfolded on television, he was told by his staff that the mob wanted to
kill his own vice president, and Donald Trump responded with two words,
“So what?”

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  America, that’s who Donald Trump is, and that’s who
is asking you to give him another four years in the Oval Office —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not to focus on your problems, but to focus on
his. 

And Donald Trump has told us his priorities for a second term.  He has
an enemies list of people he intends to prosecute.  He says that one of
his highest priorities is to set free the violent extremists who
<s>insaulted</s> \[assaulted\] those law enforcement officers on January
6th.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Donald Trump intends to use the United States
military against American citizens who simply disagree with him —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — people he calls, quote, “the enemy from within.”

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  America, this is not a candidate for president who
is thinking about how to make your life better.  This is someone who is
unstable, obsessed with revenge, consumed with grievance, and out for
unchecked power.  Donald Trump has spent a decade trying to keep the
American people divided and afraid of each other.  That is who he is.

But, America, I am here tonight to say that is not who we are. 
(Applause.)  That is not who we are.  That is not who we are.   
  
 You see, what Donald Trump has never understood is that *e pluribus
unum* — “out of many, one” — isn’t just a phrase on a dollar bill.  It
is a living truth about the heart of our nation.

Our democracy doesn’t — it doesn’t ac- — require us to agree on
everything.  In fact, we like good arguments from time to time.  Just
think of your own family, right? 

It’s not the American way to not have disagreements.  We don’t shy away
from robest debate — robust debate.  In fact, we like a good debate,
don’t we?  We like a good debate.  (Applause.)

And the fact that someone disagrees with us does not make them the
“enemy within.”  (Applause.)  They are family, neighbors, classmates,
coworkers.  They are fellow Americans, and as Americans, we rise and
fall together.  (Applause.)

America, for too long, we have been consumed with too much division,
chaos, and mutual distrust.  And it can be easy then to forget a simple
truth: It doesn’t have to be this way.  (Applause.)  It doesn’t have to
be this way.   

It is time to stop pointing <s>figers</s> \[fingers\] — we have to stop
pointing fingers and start locking arms.  It is time to turn the page on
the drama and the conflict, the fear and division.  It is time for a new
generation of leadership in America.  (Applause.)  And I am ready to
offer that leadership as the next president of the United States of
America.  (Applause.)

Now, look, let me say — let me say, I recognize this has not been a
typical campaign.  (Laughter.)  Even though I’ve had the honor of
serving as your vice president for the last four years, I know —
(applause) — but I know that many of you are still getting to know who I
am. 

Well, let me tell you.  I am someone who has spent most of my career
outside of Washington, D.C., so I know that not all the good ideas come
from here.  I am not afraid of tough fights against bad actors and
powerful interests — (applause) — because, for decades, as a prosecutor
and a top law enforcement officer of our biggest state, I won fights
against big banks that ripped off homeowners, against for-profit
colleges that scammed veterans and students, against predators who
abused women and children, and cartels that trafficked in guns, drugs,
and human beings. 

And I did this work because, for as long as I can remember, I have
always had an instinct to protect.  There’s something about people being
treated unfairly or overlooked that, frankly, just gets to me.  I don’t
like it.  It’s what my mother instilled in me: a drive to hold
accountable those who use their wealth or power to take advantage of
other people, the drive to protect hardworking Americans who aren’t
always seen or heard and deserve a voice.  And I will tell you that is
the kind of president I will be.  (Applause.)

And, look, I’ll be honest with you, I’m not perfect.  I make mistakes. 
But here’s what I promise you: I will always listen to you, even —
(applause) — even if you don’t vote for me.  I will always tell you the
truth, even if it is difficult to hear.  I will work every day to build
consensus and reach compromise to get things done.  (Applause.)  And if
you give me the chance to fight on your behalf, there is nothing in the
world that will stand in my way.  (Applause.)

So, look, in less than 90 days, either Donald Trump or I will be in the
Oval Office.  Okay?  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  On day one — on day one —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on day one, if elected — on day one, if
elected, Donald Trump would walk into that office with an enemies list. 
When elected, I will walk in with a to-do list — (applause) — full of
priorities of what I will get done for the American people. 

And I will work with everyone — Democrats, Republicans, and independents
— to help Americans who are working hard and still struggling to get
ahead. 

I have been honored to serve as Joe Biden’s vice president — (applause)
— but I will bring my own experiences and ideas to the Oval Office.  My
presidency will be different, because the challenges we face are
different. 

Our top priority as a nation four years ago was to end the pandemic and
rescue the economy.  Now our biggest challenge is to lower costs — costs
that were rising even before the pandemic and that are still too high. 

I get it.  I still remember our mother sitting at that yellow Formica
table late at night, cup of tea in hand, a pile of bills in front of her
trying to make it all work.  And I’ve heard from so many of you who are
facing even greater financial pressures.

Donald Trump’s answer to you is the same as it was the last time:
another trillion dollars in tax cuts for billionaires and big
corporations.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, he will pay for it with a 20 percent
national sales tax on everything you buy that is imported. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Think about it: clothes, food, toys, cell phones. 
A Trump sales tax that would cost the average family nearly $4,000 more
a year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of that, you will pay even more if
Donald Trump finally gets his way and repeals the Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would throw millions of Americans off their
health insurance and take us back to when insurance companies had the
power to deny people with preexisting conditions. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are not going back.  (Applause.)  We are
not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back, because we also know Donald
Trump would deliver tax cuts to his billionaire donors.  I will deliver
tax cuts to working people and the middle class.  (Applause.)

I will make sure you have a chance not just to get by, but to get ahead
— (applause) — because I believe in honoring the dignity of work. 
(Applause.)

I will enact the first-ever federal ban on price gouging on groceries —
(applause); cap the price of insulin; and limit out-of-pocket
prescription costs for all Americans.  (Applause.)

I will fight to make sure that hardworking Americans can actually afford
a place to live.  (Applause.)  I’ll never forget how our mother saved up
and how excited she was when she could finally afford to buy our first
home.  I remember how excited she was.  And I know that owning a home is
not only a measure of financial security, it’s about the pride of your
hard work.

And, as president, I will fight to help first-time homebuyers with your
down payment, take on the companies that are jacking up rents, and build
millions of new homes.  (Applause.)

For years, we have heard excuses about why America can’t build enough
housing.  Enough with the excuses.  I’m going to cut the red tape and
work with the private sector and local governments to speed up building
and get it done.  (Applause.)

And the cost of housing isn’t the only financial pressure on
middle-class families.  I have met so many young people who have a
natural desire to parent their children well but not always the
resources to do it.  So, I’ll fight for a Child Tax Credit to save them
some money — (applause) — which — which will also lift American children
out of poverty.  (Applause.)

I’ll work to lower the cost of childcare, which is out of reach for too
many working families today. 

And for too many people in the sandwich generation, who are raising
young children and taking care of a parent, juggling all of it is
extremely difficult. 

You know, I took care of my mother when she got sick — cooking
<s>fodes</s> \[foods\] that — food that she had a taste for, finding
clothes that would not irritate her skin.  And understand, as I do, that
caregiving is about dignity.  It is about dignity.  (Applause.)

And currently, if you need home care and you don’t have some money to
hire someone, you and your family need to deplete your savings to
qualify for help.  That’s just not right.

So, we’re going to change the approach and allow Medicare to cover the
cost of home care — (applause) — so seniors can get the help and care
they need in their own homes.  (Applause.)

Now, Donald Trump has a different approach.  He tried to cut Medicare
and Social Security every year he was president. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Look, I believe that when people have worked hard
their entire life, they deserve to retire with the benefits they have
earned.  (Applause.) 

And I believe in the fundamental freedom of Americans to make decisions
about their own bodies and not have their government tell them what to
do.  (Applause.)

I will fight to restore what Donald Trump and his hand-selected Supreme
Court justices took away from the women of America.  (Applause.)  That
today one in three women in America — think about it — one in three
women in America lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban, many with
no exceptions even for rape and incest. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The idea that a woman who survives a crime of a
violation to her body should not have the authority to make a decision
about what happens to her body next — that is immoral.  That is
immoral. 

And Trump is not done.  He would ban abortion nationwide, restrict
access to birth control, and put IVF treatments at risk and force states
to monitor women’s pregnancies. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just google Project 2025 and read the plans for
yourself. 

And, look, I think we all know one does not have to abandon their faith
or deeply held beliefs to simply agree the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  Not the government. 

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it
into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly.

And, look, on another subject, politicians have got to stop treating
immigration as an issue to scare up votes in an election — (applause) —
and instead treat it as the serious challenge that it is that we must
finally come together to solve. 

I will work with Democrats and Republicans to sign into law the border
security bill that Donald Trump killed.  (Applause.)

When I was attorney general of a border state, I saw the chaos and
violence caused by transnational criminal organizations that I took on. 
And when I am president, we will quickly remove those who arrive here
unlawfully, prosecute the cartels, and give Border Patrol the support
they so desperately need.  (Applause.)

     At the same time, we must acknowledge we are a nation of
immigrants.  (Applause.)  And I will work with Congress to pass
immigration reform, including an earned path to citizenship for
hardworking immigrants like farmworkers and our DREAMers.  (Applause.)

As commander in chief, I will make sure America has the strongest, most
lethal fighting force in the world.  (Applause.)  Donald Trump, on the
other hand, has shown his contempt for our nation’s heroes, calls them
“suckers” and “losers” —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — called a four-star Marine general, a, quote,
“lowlife.” 

I will always honor, never denigrate, the service and sacrifice of our
troops and their families and fulfill our sacred obligation to care for
them.

I will strengthen, not surrender, America’s global leadership. 
(Applause.)  And I will stand with our friends, because I know that our
alliances keep American people safe and make America stronger and more
secure.  (Applause.)

Look, world leaders think that Donald Trump is an easy mark, easy to
manipulate with flattery or favor.  And you can believe that autocrats
like Putin and Kim Jong Un are rooting for him in this election.

I will always uphold our security, advance our national interest, and
ensure that the United States of America remains, as we must forever be,
a champion of liberty around the world.  (Applause.)

America, we know what Donald Trump has in mind: more chaos, more
division, and policies that help those at the very top and hurt everyone
else.  I offer a different path, and I ask for your vote.  (Applause.)

And here is my pledge to you.  I pledge to seek common ground and
commonsense solutions to make your life better.  I am not looking to
score political points.  I am looking to make progress.  I pledge to
listen to experts, to those who will be impacted by the decisions I
make, and to people who disagree with me.  Unlike Donald Trump, I don’t
believe people who disagree with me are the enemy.  He wants to put them
in jail.  I’ll give them a seat at the table.  (Applause.)

I pledge to you to approach my work with the joy and optimism that comes
from making a difference in people’s lives, and I pledge to be a
president for all Americans — (applause) — and to always put country
above party and self.  (Applause.)

I love our country with all my heart — (applause) — and I believe in its
promise, because I’ve lived it.  I grew up as a child of the Civil
Rights Movement.  My parents would take me to marches in a stroller,
where crowds of people of all races, faiths, and walks of life came
together to fight for the ideals of freedom and opportunity.

I’ve lived the promise of America.  I saw how hard our mother worked to
give her daughters the same chances this country gave her.  Growing up,
I was blessed to have family by blood and family by love, who instilled
in me the values of community, compassion, and faith that have always
defined our nation at its best.

I’ve lived the promise of America.  I’ve spent my life fighting for the
people who have been hurt and counted out but never stopped believing
that in our country, anything is possible.

I’ve lived the promise of America, and I see the promise of America in
all of you.  In all of you, I see it.  (Applause.) 

I see it in the young people who are voting for the first time —
(applause) — who are determined to live free from gun violence and to
protect our planet and to shape the world they inherit.  (Applause.)

I see it in the women who refuse to accept a future without reproductive
freedom — (applause) — and the men who support them.  (Applause.)

I see it in Republicans who have never voted for a Democrat before —
(applause) — but have put the Constitution of the United States over
party.  (Applause.)

I’ve seen it in Americans, different in many respects, but united in our
pursuit of freedom, our belief in fairness and decency, and our faith in
a better future.

America, I know the vast majority of us have so much more in common than
what separates us.  I know it.  And that’s why I am in this race: to
fight for the people, just like I always have.  (Applause.)

Nearly 250 years ago, America was born when we wrested freedom from a
petty tyrant.  Across the generations, Americans have preserved that
freedom, expanded it, and, in so doing, proved to the world that a
government of, by, and for the people is strong and can endure. 
(Applause.)

And those who came before us — the patriots at Normandy and Selma,
Seneca Falls and Stonewall, on farmlands and factory floors — they did
not struggle, sacrifice, and lay down their lives only to see us cede
our fundamental freedoms.  (Applause.)

They didn’t do that only to see us submit to the will of another petty
tyrant.  (Applause.)

These United States of America, we are not a vessel for the schemes of
wannabe dictators.  (Applause.) 

The United States of America is the greatest idea humanity ever devised
— a nation big enough to encompass all our dreams, strong enough to
withstand any fracture or fissure between us, and fearless enough to
imagine a future of possibilities. 

So, America, let us reach for that future.  Let us fight for this
beautiful country we love.  And in seven days, we have the power — each
of you has the power to turn the page and start writing the next chapter
in the most extraordinary story ever told. 

I thank you all.  God bless you.  And may God bless the United States of
America.  (Applause.) 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

                             END                8:08 P.M. EDT
