---
date: '2024-10-30'
published_time: 2024-10-30 16:11:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-air-force-two-departure-joint-base-andrews-md-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Air Force Two Departure | Joint Base\
  \ Andrews,\_MD"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

10:11 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  Good morning.  Good morning. 

Well, last night was a good night.  We had the chance, in front of
100,000 people, to talk about what’s at stake in this election and to
point out that the American people have a real choice and — and a very
important decision to make in six days.  And it is about who will not
only lead the country but occupy the White House, where critical
decisions are made that include how we think about who we are as a
nation and whether we are going to be a nation of people who attempt to
unify and break through this era of divisiveness, or are we going to be
a nation of people who has a president stewing in the Oval Office over
his enemies list.

And I think that the turnout last night and the kind of feedback that we
are receiving is a strong indication that the American people actually
want a leader who is going to bring us together, and that’s the type of
leader I intend to be.

Q    Have you talked to President Biden since his comment last night
about “garbage”?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Listen, I think that, first of all, he clarified
his comments.  But let me be clear: I strongly disagree with any
criticism of people based on who they vote for.  It’s — you heard my
speech last night and continuously throughout my career. 

I believe that the work that I do is about representing all the people,
whether they support me or not.  And as president of the United States,
I will be a president for all Americans, whether you vote for me or
not. 

     (Cross-talk.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s my responsibility, and that’s the kind of
work that I’ve done my entire career, and I take it very seriously. 

Q    Have you spoken to him about his comments and — and his intention?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He did call me last night, but this didn’t come
up. 

Q    Did he speak to you about —

Q    Are you concerned about what impact this may have on voters, on the
divisiveness of the election, and whether or not it’s going to dissuade
some people from supporting you because of your affiliation with the
president and this administration?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’ve been very clear with the American public.  I
respect the challenges that people face.  I respect the fact that we all
have so much more in common than what separates us and that most people
want a president that understands that, that gets that, and approaches
their role of leadership that way. 

I’ve been very clear, from my earliest years as a prosecutor, I never
asked anyone, “Are they a Democrat or Republican?”  The only thing I
asked folks is, “Are you okay?”  And that’s the kind of president I will
be.

     Q    And what did you talk about with the president?

     Q    Madam Vice President, on a separate subject, last night you
mentioned removing people in the country who are here illegally.  What
do you mean?  Is that — that’s an immigration statement, obviously. 
Were you referring to people who have come here before illegally, or can
you expand on what you meant by that comment?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What I intend to do on the issue of immigration, as
I said last night and have said continuously, is we need to fix our
broken immigration system in a number of ways.  We need to strengthen
the border and put more resources at the border, which is why I support
the bipartisan bill that Donald Trump killed that would have otherwise
put 1,500 more border agents at the border; put more resources into
prosecuting transnational crime; and would, very importantly, put more
resources into stemming the flow of fentanyl, which is killing people
around the country.  And when I am elected president, I will bring that
bill back, and I will sign it into law. 

I also have done the work and — and have — and — and my policy going
forward will strengthen what we need to do to deal with, for example,
illegal entries between ports of entry.  That is something that we need
to tighten up. 

 I will do the work also about ensuring that we pass comprehensive
immigration reform in a way that we allow hardworking people who have
earned citizenship a path to actually be able to gain citizenship
because they have earned it, and that includes everyone from our farm- —
farmworkers to DREAMers.

     Q    And just to follow up on the —

     (Cross-talk.)

     Q    Madam Vice President, do you sympathize if any voters do feel
—

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Once again?

Q    Do you sympathize with any voters who do feel offended by or
insulted by the “garbage” comments? 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I am running for president of the United States.  I
will be traveling to three states today to do what I have been doing
throughout, which is talking with the American people about the fact
that, first of all, I get it, in terms of the concerns they have about
challenges like the price of groceries. 

Second, my highest priority is to address that and to lift them up
around their ambitions, their aspirations, and their dreams, which is
why I have a very specific and detailed plan about strengthening our
economy.  Leading economists have reviewed my plan and indicated it will
strengthen the economy and that Donald Trump’s plan will weaken the
economy. 

So, I’m going to be spending full time, as I’ve been, talking with the
American people, whoever they voted for last time.   
  
And as I have said and will repeat over and over again — I am sincere in
what I mean: When elected president of the United States, I will
represent all Americans, including those who don’t vote for me, and
address their needs and their desires. 

                              END                    10:16 A.M. EDT
