---
date: '2024-10-14'
modified_time: 2024-10-15 13:37:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-14 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-erie-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Erie,\_PA"
---
 
Erie Insurance Arena  
Erie, Pennsylvania

7:45 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Pennsylvania!  (Applause.)  Can we
hear for Karen?  (Applause.)  Wow. 

Hey, everybody.  Hi.  All right.  Oh, it is good to be back in
Pennsylvania.  (Applause.) 

Hey, everybody.  All right.  All right.  All right.  Come on.  We got
work to do.  We got work to do.  Okay. 

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, sweetheart.  Hi.

Okay, okay, thank you.  Thank you everybody.  Thank you everybody. 
(Applause.)

And I want to thank all of the leaders who are here.  Thank you all for
taking time out of your busy lives to be here this evening and for all
of us to be together. 

Can we hear for Senator Fetterman — (applause); your next state attorney
general Eugene DePasquale — (applause); Mayor Schember — (applause); Bob
Casey, who could not be here tonight because he’s out doing what he
needs to do to get reelected to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)

All right.  Okay, let’s get to work.  Let’s get to work. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!  (Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Okay, so here’s the thing, Pennsylvania, we
got just 22 days until Election Day — 22 days — (applause) — and we are
nearing the home stretch. 

But here’s the thing, this is going to be a tight race until the very
end.  Okay?  We are the underdog.  We are running like the underdog.  We
have some hard work ahead of us.  But here’s the thing also: we like
hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work.  And with your help, in
22 days, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win. 

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.  We will win.

And here’s why — and here’s why, because this election is about two very
different visions for our nation.  One, his, focused on the past.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And ours, focused on the future.  (Applause.)

We are focused on issues that matter most to families across America,
like bringing down the cost of living, investing in small businesses and
entrepreneurs, protecting reproductive freedom — (applause) — and
keeping our nation secure. 

But that is not what we hear from Donald Trump.  Instead, it is just the
same old, tired playbook.  He has no plan for how he would address the
needs of the American people and American families.  He is only focused
on himself. 

Well, folks, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It’s time to turn
the page.  Turn the page, because America is ready to chart a new way
forward.  (Applause.) 

And America is ready for a new and optimistic generation of leadership —
(applause) — which is why Democrats, Republicans, independents are
supporting our campaign — (applause) — because we need a president who
works for all the American people.  (Applause.)  We are all in this
together. 

And as you all know, this has been the story of my entire career.  My
entire career, I’ve only had one client: the people.  (Applause.)

As a young courtroom prosecutor, I stood up for women and children
against predators.  As attorney general of California, I took on the big
banks, fought to deliver $20 billion for middle-class families who faced
foreclosure.  (Applause.) 

I stood up for veterans and students who were being scammed by
for-profit colleges — (applause); for workers who were being cheated out
of the wages they were due — (applause); for seniors facing elder
abuse. 

And it is my pledge to you, as president, I will always fight for all
the American people — (applause) — always.  And together — together, we
all will build a brighter future for our nation.  (Applause.)  Together,
we will build a future where we have what I call an “opportunity
economy,” where everyone can compete and have a real chance to succeed —
not just to get by, but to get ahead.  (Applause.)

Under my economic plan — and, by the way, you know, so, dude wants to
talk about his plans, which really are about cutting taxes for the
richest people.  Please do check out the Wall Street Journal or Goldman
Sachs or the 16 Nobel laureates or Moody’s, who have all analyzed the
plans and said mine will strengthen the economy, his will make it
weaker.  (Applause.)  Okay?

So, under my economic plan, we will bring down the cost of housing —
(applause) — and help first-time homebuyers — giving them $25,000 for
down payment assistance, so you can just — (applause) — so you can just
get your foot in the door.  You’ll do the rest.  You’ll save up.  You’ll
work hard.  But just to help people get their foot in the door. 
(Applause.)

We will help entrepreneurs start and grow small businesses.  How many
small-business owners do we have here?  (Applause.)  Right?  I love our
small businesses.  I love — you guys know — it’s a part of my story —
you know, my mother worked hard.  We grew up — we lived in an apartment
above a daycare center, and it was owned —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Woo!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — by our — yes, daycare centers.  Bless you. 
(Laughter.)

And it was owned by Ms. Shelton, who we think of and thought of as — as
our second mother.  And she was a small-business owner.  And Ms.
Shelton, she was like all of you who do this work.  You are business
leaders, but you are community leaders.  You are civic leaders.  You
mentor.  You hire locally.  I love our small businesses.  Small
businesses are part of the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.)

So, you all know what I’m talking about.  And as we move forward, what
we are going to do in terms of knowing that small businesses must get
the support you need to start up and to grow. 

We will expand, under my economic policy, Medicare to cover home health
care for seniors — (applause) — so more seniors can live at home with
dignity.  And like so many of my priorities, it is born out of a
personal experience. 

Look, when my mother got diagnosed with cancer, I took care of her.  And
for any of you who have taken care of someone — a senior, in particular
— you know what that’s like, and it’s about trying to cook something for
them that they might enjoy eating.  It’s about trying to make sure that
they have something that they can wear that won’t irritate their skin,
right?  It’s about trying to, from time to time, find a way to just
bring a smile to their face or make them laugh.  It’s about dignity. 
It’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity.  (Applause.)

But far too many people who want and need to take care of family
members, either you have to leave your job or spend down everything you
have to be able to qualify for Medicaid.  That’s not right. 

I look at the sandwich generation.  So, we — we refer to folks who are
raising young children and taking care of your parents, “the sandwich
generation.”  You’re right in between balancing all of that.  It’s a lot
of pressure, and you need and deserve to have the support to be able to
handle all of that in a way that we know you are adding so much to our
community, societies, and our economies. 

So, I have a plan, and my plan is to make sure Medicare — not so you
have to pay down everything and get on Medicaid — so that Medicare helps
pay for home health care — (applause) — so you can do the work you need
to get done in terms of the seniors in your life. 

Under our plan, we will lower the cost on everything from health care to
groceries. 

Look, I’m going to take on corporate price gouging, just like I’ve done
before.  I’m going to do it again.  (Applause.)

And give a middle-class tax cut to 100 million Americans, including
$6,000 during the first year of your child’s life — (applause) —
knowing, again, the vast majority of parents want to parent their
children well, but don’t always have the resources to do it.  And so, by
expanding the Child Tax Credit that helps a young family buy a car seat,
buy a crib, do the things in that so fundamental stage of their child’s
development just to get them on the road to what they desire and want to
do.  And we all benefit from it.  We all benefit from it.  (Applause.)

So, all of this is to say I will always put the middle class and working
families first.  I come from the middle class, and I will never forget
where I come from.  (Applause.)  Never forget where I come from. 
Never. 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So — so I just outlined for you a little bit — a
little bit about my plan.  Now let’s talk about Donald Trump.  Well —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He — he had — he has a very different plan.  Take,
for example, Project 2025.  Just google it. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is a detailed and dangerous plan for what he
will do if he is elected president. 

You know, you all probably heard me say Donald Trump — I think in our
collective opinion, certainly mine — is — is an unserious man. 
(Laughter.)  But the consequences of him ever being president again are
brutally serious — brutally serious. 

So, on Project 2025 and his plan, Donald Trump will give billionaires
and corporations massive tax cuts, like he’s done before, cut —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — cut Social Security and Medicare.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The plan on that end is to get rid of the $35 cap
on insulin for seniors —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to make it easier for companies to deny overtime
pay for workers. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You g- — you got to read the plan. 

I mean, the fact they put it in writing is a whole other thing to be
discussed.  (Laughter.) 

And he plans to impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” a 20 percent tax
on everyday necessities, which economists have measured will cost the
average American family more than $4,000 a year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to
get rid of the Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and he has no plan to replace it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Concepts!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  You guys watched the debate.  (Laughs.) 
Right.  He has, quote, “concepts of a plan.”  “Concepts.”

But seriously, think about it — in all seriousness, he’s going to then
threaten health insurance coverage for 45 million people based on a
concept?  (Laughter.)  The seriousness of this cannot be overlooked. 
Think about that — taking us back to a time we all remember when
insurance companies could deny people with preexisting conditions.  You
remember what that was?

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are not going back.  We are not going
back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  No.  We —

And why are we not going back?  Because we will move forward —
(applause) — because ours is a fight for the future.

And it is a fight for freedom, like the fundamental freedom of a woman
to make decisions about her own body and not have her government telling
her what to do.  (Applause.)

And we all remember how we got here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three
members of the United States Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade, and
they did. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And now — now, in America, one in three women lives
in a state with a Trump abortion ban.  Think about that.  Many of these
bans have no exceptions, even for rape and incest, which is saying to a
survivor of a crime of a violation to their body that you have no right
to make a decision about what happens to your body next.  That’s
immoral.  That’s immoral.

And let us agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to
do — not the government.  (Applause.)  No.  No. 

If she chooses, she will talk with her priest, her rabbi, her pastor,
her imam, but not the government telling her what to do.  Not a bunch of
folks up at a state capitol telling her what to do, as though she
doesn’t know what’s in her own best interest and they know better.  Come
on. 

And it is my pledge to you, when Congress passes a bill to restore the
protections and reproductive freedom nationwide, as president of the
United States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly
sign it into law.  Yes, I will.  Yes, I will. 

So much is on the line in this election. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So much is on — I love you back.  (Applause.)  And
listen, so much — so much is on the line in this election. 

And we have to remember, this is not 2016 or 2020; the stakes are even
higher, because a few months ago, the United States Supreme Court just
told the former president that he would be essentially immune —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — from anything he does while he’s in office. 

Now, just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails, right?

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He — he who has vowed, if reelected, that he will
be a dictator on day one.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That he would weaponize the Department of Justice
against his political enemies.  He who has called for the, quote,
“termination” of the Constitution of the United States.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well — well — well —

AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on.  Hold
on.  Hold on.  Hold on. 

Because see, here’s the thing, the courts will handle that.  Let’s
handle November, shall we?  (Applause.)  We’ll handle November.  We’ll
handle November. 

And we are clear.  Look, anybody who says they would terminate the
Constitution of the United States should never again stand behind the
seal of the president of the United States.  (Applause.)  Never again. 
Never again.  Never again.

And so, after all these years, we know who Donald Trump is.  He is
someone who will stop at nothing to claim power for himself.

And you don’t have to take my word for it.  I’ve said for a while now:
Watch his rallies, listen to his words.  He tells us who he is, and he
tells us what he would do if he is elected president.  So, here tonight,
I will show you one example of Donald Trump’s worldview and intentions.

Please roll the clip.

(A video is played.)

AUDIENCE:  Booo — 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So — so, you heard him — so, you heard his words. 
You heard his words coming from him.  He’s talking about the enemy
within Pennsylvania.  He’s talking about the enemy within our country,
Pennsylvania.  He’s talking about that he considers anyone who doesn’t
support him or who will not bend to his will an enemy of our country. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s a serious issue.  He’s saying — he is saying
that he would use the military to go after them.  Think about this. 

And — and we know who he would target.  And we know he — who he would
target because he has attacked them before: journalists whose stories he
doesn’t like, election officials who refuse to cheat by filling extra
votes and finding extra votes for him, judges who insist on following
the law instead of bending to his will. 

This is among the reasons I believe so strongly that a second Trump term
would be a huge risk for America and dangerous.  (Applause.) 

Donald Trump — Donald Trump is increasingly unstable and unhinged —
(applause) — and he is out for unchecked power.  That’s what he’s
looking for.  He wants to send the military after American citizens.  He
— he has worked to prevent women from making their own health care
decisions and threatened your fundamental freedoms and rights like the
freedom to vote, the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom
to breathe clean air and drink clean water, the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)

So, here in Pennsylvania, I say to those who know best: When freedom is
on the line, Americans always answer the call.  We always answer the
call.  (Applause.)

And in this election —

AUDIENCE:  Vote!  Vote!  Vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Vote.  Vote. 

And so, to your point, in this election, we will answer the call again,
because it all comes down to this.  We are all here together because we
know what’s at stake, and we are here together because we love our
country.  We love our country.  We love our country.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  We love our country. 
And — and I do believe one of the highest forms of patriotim —
patriotism that there is — one of the highest forms of patriotism is to
fight for the ideals of our country.  (Applause.)  That is borne out of
love of country to fight to realize the promise of America. 

So, Election Day is in 22 days — 22 days.  And here in Pennsylvania,
early voting has already started.  (Applause.)  Yep.  And, Erie County,
you are a pivot county.  (Applause.)  How you all vote —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and thank you, because how you all vote in
presidential elections often ends up predicting the national result. 
(Applause.)  Yeah.  Yes. 

AUDIENCE:  Erie!  Erie!  Erie!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The chant is “Erie.”  “Erie.”  (Laughs.)  That’s
right. 

And so, in Erie County, you can vote early in person at the Erie County
Voter Registration Office — (applause) — from now until Tuesday, October
29th.  And so, now is the time to make your plan to vote. 

And if you have already received your ballot in the mail, please do not
wait.  Fill it out and return it today or tomorrow, but please get it
out. 

And remember the deadline to register to vote in Pennsylvania is Monday,
October 21st.  So, if you or anyone you know has not yet registered, now
is the time because, look, the election is here and we need to
organize.  We need to mobilize.  We need to energize folks.  And we need
to remind everybody that their vote is their voice, and your voice is
your power.  (Applause.)

So, Erie, I ask you, then, are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win. 

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.) 

                        END                8:13 P.M. EDT
