---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-22 11:18:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 17:56:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/21/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-national-arts-and-humanities-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at National Arts and\
  \ Humanities\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

5:50 P.M. EDT

THE FIRST LADY:  Welcome to the White House!

The poet Gwendolyn Brooks, a past recipient of the National Medal of
Arts, once said that sometimes it’s easier to stay home — while it’s
easier to stay home, “art urges voyages.” 

The artists, scholars, and patrons we’re honoring tonight have given us
a gift: They’ve gone on those voyages.  And when they returned, they
expressed our shared humanity in new ways, helping us integrate all of
our hope, joy, and hard-earned wisdom into the one life we’re given and
the one nation we all share.

In paintings and films, in songs and scenes, poetry and history, they’ve
uncovered the memories we didn’t know we held onto and the dreams we
didn’t dare say out loud.  And they remind us of the transcendent
moments of truth and beauty and that they are not out of our reach. 
Sometimes, they just require a voyage within ourselves of — toward the
people around us.

Joe and I are so grateful to be here tonight with these extraordinary
medal recipients.  (Applause.)  Each of you has helped us venture out to
see our world with clarity, empathy, and courage. 

Thank you and congratulations.  (Applause.)

Now it is my pleasure to introduce the chair of the National Endowment
for the Arts, Maria Rosi- — Rosario Jackson. 

Chair Jackson, you’ve empowered so many people to go on creative
journeys, and you’ve helped us weave the arts and humanities into every
part of our lives.  We are deeply grateful to have you as a champion of
this community. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

(The program continues.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.

Welcome to the White House, and thank you for making me look good in
front of the love of my life and the life of my love — (laughter) — my
daughter, Ashley Biden.  Ashley.  (Laughter and applause.)

Welcome to the White House, again, the newest recipients of the National
Medal of Arts and Humanities.  And truly inspiring individuals and truly
extraordinary group. 

Jill and I just welcomed each of them and their families in the Oval
Office, where they received their medals and official citations. 

And just like across the country, in the Oval Office, you see deep
impact of the arts, humanities on our national history.  Across from the
Resolute Desk is a bust of Dr. King and Robert F. Kennedy.  I can see
them from where I sit.  They’re two of my political heroes who often
quoted the wisdom of poets and philosophers, artists and advocates. 

Just last week, I delivered a eulogy for Ethel Kennedy, which was a
great honor, and — Robert Kennedy’s widow.  She was a hero in her own
right who supported the arts and the humanities in advancing the causes
of human rights and social justice. 

While the service was a celebration of life at a Catholic church with
plenty of prayer and reflection, it was a literal concert.  Stevie
Wonder, Sting, Kenny Chesney — (laughter) — St. Martin choir each
performed.  It was deeply moving.  Different genres in each voice echoed
through the cathedral and reverberated in our hearts.  That’s the power
of the arts and humanities in America. 

And today, Jill and I are truly proud to continue that legacy by
awarding two of our nation’s highest honors to 39 extraordinary
Americans.  Again, congratulations to all of you.  (Applause.)  And to
your families as well.  (Laughter and applause.) 

The National Medal of Arts to honor outstanding contributions to the
excellence, growth, support, and availability of the arts in the United
States and the National Humanities Medal to honor those who\[se\] work
has depended on the nation’s understanding of humanities and broadened
our citizens’ engagement with history, literature, philosophy, and so
many other subjects. 

Now, I could spend all day talking about each one of you, and if it
weren’t so many, I would.  (Laughter.) 

But just let me just say this.  You have broken barriers.  You’ve blazed
new trails.  You redefined culture.   You are the truth-tellers, the
bridge-builders, the change-seekers.  And above all, you’re the masters
of your craft who have made us a better America with all you’ve done,
and it’s a better America.  That’s what you’ve done.  (Applause.)  I
mean it. 

Bringing all of our rich and diverse cultures to the masses; showing us
the beauty of this land and the people that inhabit this land; bringing
new characters to life to influence who we all can be. 

You also help us find meaning and purpose in the ordinary as well as the
extraordinary, providing hope, wisdom, and laughter when we need it and
we need a way forward, and transporting us through the past and the
future to help us make sense of the present, because that’s what it
does: make sense of the present.  With absolute courage, you combat
racial stereotypes, confront ghosts of history, and speak truth to
power. 

As Jill Biden’s husband, I know the power of women in this room. 
(Laughter.)  I know — you think I’m kidding.  I’m not.  (Laughter.)  All
the women in my family are smarter than all the men, and that’s not a
joke.  (Laughter.)  You think I’m joking.  I’m not.  I know you don’t
think I’m joking. 

I know the power of women in this room to get things done and uplift the
next generation of pioneers, proving a woman can do anything a man can
do and then some.  And that includes being president of the United
States of America.  (Applause.)  Just saying. 

You know, the artist’s gift is a sixth sense to imagine something no one
else can carve, paint, write, sing, dance, or film until they set their
visions free — you know, our vision of our nation’s North Star, the idea
that we’re all created equal and deserve to be treated equally
throughout our lives.  We’re the most unique nation in the world.  We’re
the only nation founded on an idea — an idea.  Not a joke.  An idea. 
All others are geography and other ethnicities. 

But we never, never, never — we’ve never walked away from the idea that
all of us are created equal and deserve to be treated that way
throughout our lives.  While we’ve never fully lived up to this idea,
we’ve never walked away from it either — away from it either, because of
you — I mean this sincerely — because of you, the people in this room,
all of you who we honor in this per- — in person today and those whose
spirits are with us. 

Folks, let’s take a moment to recognize those honorees who are no longer
with us: Anthony Bourdain, Selena, Ruth Asawa.  You know, they were
larger than life.  We remember every song, every sculpture, every meal,
every moment they shared with us.  We miss them dearly. 

Let me close with this.  I — I’m a — we have a tendency to go on too
long here because you’re an incredible group.  (Laughter.)  No, you
really are.  You’re an incredible group. 

It’s clear Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, our entire administration
believe in the power of the arts and humanities.  And it matters.  It
matters now more than ever.  This is a very consequential time for the
arts and humanities in America.  Extreme forces are banning books,
trying to erase history, spreading misinformation.  But because of you —
I mean this — because of you, we keep our books open.  You make
history.  We combat lies with truth. 

This administration supports the arts and humanities as essential pieces
of America’s might and dynamism, whether it’s helping local venues and
theaters get through the pandemic or opening the White House for a range
of groundbreaking concerts and exhibits. 

For example, we surprised Elton John while we — with the National
Humanities Medal during the concert on the South Lawn.  At the
first-ever Juneteenth conference at the White House, we heard the great
Jennifer Hudson sing from her soul about the glory that will come. 

And one of the things we’re most proud of is that Jill instilled a new
exhibition — installed a new exhibition in the East Wing, featuring
artwork from children of military families.  You know, through the eyes
of a child, we see the power of the arts and humanities — through the
eyes of a child — to inspire and imagine a future — a future worthy of
our dreams. 

In fact, 85 years ago, a 10-year-old boy was listening to the radio.  He
heard the voice of Marian Anderson standing in the light of the Lincoln
Memorial from the shadow of Jim Crow and singing, “My country ‘tis of
thee, sweet la- — sweet land of li- — of liberty.”  (Applause.)

Look, folks, showing her pride in America and calling for national
unity, her performance is described as a “concert that sparked the Civil
Rights Movement.” 

Nearly 25 years later, that 10-year-old boy stood on those same steps. 
His name was Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.  And he  declared a dream
during the March on Washington.  He asked Marian Anderson to perform
once again, and she did.  She sang, “He’s got the whole world in his
hands.” 

My fellow Americans, today we honor that legacy, and we remember the
power in all your hands — and I mean it sincerely — your hands. 

Look, I’d like to ask the following medal- — medalists to stand, if
you’re able, to be recognized.

Let’s recognize the class of 2022 National Medal of Arts recipients. 
The class of 2022.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

And, folks, the class of 2022 medal recipients are here and are — you
just heard them.

But the class of 2023, please — of the Arts — stand.  (Applause.) 

And, folks, you know, you’re an incredible group of people.  You know,
there’s one other thing I want to say to you all, is that, you know the
class of 2022 National Medal recipients — Humanities reci- — of the
class of 2023 National Medal of Arts recipients.  I’d like to see you
guys stand as well.

Did I already have you stand?  (Laughter.) 

2023, come on.  (Applause.)

National humanitarians — look, you guys are something else. 
(Laughter.)  Class of 2023 Humanities Medal recipients are something
else.  (Applause.) 

Well, I tell you what, there — congratulations, you all. 

Look, you know, there’s a — there’s a symn based — a hymn based on the
22nd Psalm of my church.  It says, “May he raise you up on eagle’s wings
and bear you on the breath of dawn and let the light to shine upon you. 
Until we meet again, may God hold you in the palm of his hand.” 

We need you.  We need you badly now.  Thank you, thank you, thank you
for making us better.  I love you.

Please enjoy the reception.  God bless you all.  (Applause.)  

6:13 P.M. EDT
