---
date: '2024-10-10'
modified_time: 2024-10-11 12:05:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-10 16:07:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/10/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-initial-impacts-of-hurricane-milton-and-the-federal-governments-ongoing-support-to-state-and-local-officials/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Initial Impacts of Hurricane Milton and\
  \ the Federal Government\u2019s Ongoing Support to State and Local\_Officials"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:02 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon. 

Q    Good afternoon.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll be brief.  Last night, Hurricane Milton made
landfall, as we all know, on the west coast of Florida.  It brought
hurricane winds, heavy rains, including 10 to 20 inches of rain in the
Tampa area overnight. 

Storm surge measurements are still being taken, but 38 tornadoes ripped
through 13 counties.  Four deaths have been reported thus far. 

It’s too early to know the full account of the damage though, but we
know lifesaving measures did make a difference.  More than 80,000 people
followed orders to safety — to safely shelter last night.  And we’ve had
search and rescue teams at the ready for any calls for help this
morning. 

There are still very dangerous conditions in the state, and people
should wait to be given the all-clear by their leaders before they go
out.  We know from previous hurricanes that it’s often the case that
more lives are lost in the days following the storm than actually during
the storm itself. 

Vice President Harris and I have been in constant contact with the state
and local officials.  And we’re offering everything they need.  I must
have spoken to somewhere between 10 and 15 mayors and county executives
and all the governors.

And, in fact, starting this morning, we are getting direct assessments
from the storm of FEMA and Director Criswell as well, also Florida
Governor DeSantis, with whom I had a chance to speak. 

And the vice president and I have just convened a meeting this morning
with the leaders of the Department of Homeland Security, the Department
of Defense, including Northcom commander, who has responsibility for
providing defense support to civilian authorities — and that,
apparently, is going very well — as well as from the Coast Guard and
FEMA, we’ve received reports. 

We focused on what the American military can do like no one else can:
provide emergency support for communities in need and we’re required by
the governor in a federal — and — required by the governor in the
affected states.  And I’ve spoken to all the governors — not today, all
of them, but I’ve spoken to all of them thus far.  And how we can be
ready to go in an instant when the call comes. 

At my direction, Defense Secretary Austin has provided a range of
capabilities both to Florida for Hurricane Milton as well as the states
impacted by Hurricane Helene.  And the more capabilities are available,
we assess the pressing needs, we can get whatever they need. 

To the servicemen and women who are on the ground responding to this —
these disasters: Thank you.  Thank you for pr- — your professionalism,
your dedication to every mission you’re given.  And you’re repeating it
again.

This is a whole-of-government effort that also includes the Department
of Energy and Department of Transportation, the Department of Health and
Human Services, and the Department of Housing and Urban Development,
which is providing mortgage relief for impacted homeowners. 

As directed, FEMA is going to open disaster recovery centers all across
the impacted communities right away so there’s one stop for the
residents can go to to learn about the support they might need.  And
that  — it’ll be advertised where those places are.

Three million people are without power.  But more than <s>40 million</s>
\[40,000\] power work- — powerline workers have come from around the
country, from Canada to Florida, to restore power across the state. 

In addition, the Federal Aviation has authorized Florida Power and Light
to fly large drones before other manned aircraft can get up in the sky
to quickly assess the damage on the ground so ground crews can restore
power as quickly as possible. 

The Coast Guard and the Army Corps of Engineers are assessing how fast
they can reopen the Port of Tampa to get fuel, food, water, and other
basic goods flowing into the area again and quickly. 

Additionally, Vice President Harris and I said yesterday and we’ll say
it again: To anyone who seeks to take advantage of our fellow Americans’
desperation, whether you’re a company engaging in price gouging or a
citizen trying to scam your neighbors, we will go after you and we will
hold you accountable. 

Now, not only that.  Our fellow Americans are putting their lives on the
line to do this dangerous work and received death thre- — some received
death <s>penalties</s> \[threats\] yesterday as a result of reckless,
irresponsible, and relentless disinformation and outright lies that
continue to flow.  Those who engage in such lies are undermining the
confidence in the rescue and recovery work that’s opening and ongoing. 
As I speak, they’re continuing. 

These lies are also harmful to those who most need help.  Lives are on
the line.  People are in desperate situations.  Have the decency to tell
them the truth.  

So, let me say this.  To all the people impacted by Hurricane Helene and
Hurricane Milton, despite the misinformation and lies, the truth is
we’re providing the resources needed to rescue, recover, and rebuild —
and rebuild. 

Let me close with this.  I know recovery and rebuilding projects can
take a long and difficult time.  But as — long after the press and the
cameras move on, I promise you — you have to pick up the pieces still. 
I want you to know we’ll do everything in our power to help you put the
pieces back together and get all that you need. 

May God bless you.  And may God bless our troops and our first
responders, who are — many — in some cases risking their lives to help. 

Thank you very much.  I’ll be reporting again tomorrow.

Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, on FEMA funding.  On FEMA funding.  How much time
does Congress have to act before FEMA or the SBA run out of money?

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s in discussion now, and I don’t want to give you —
mislead you.  I think in terms of the SBA, it’s pretty right at the edge
right now.

And I think the Congress should be coming back and moving on emergency
needs immediately.  And they’re going to have to come back after the
election as well, because this is going to be a long haul to- — for
total rebuilding.  It’s going to take several billion dollars.  It’s not
going to be a matter of just a little bit.

But we’re providing now to make sure people have the emergency relief
they need with dollars just to be able to get a prescription filled, to
get a baby formula do- — all the thing- —  
  
That $750 that they’re talking about, Mr. Trump and every- — all those
other people know it’s a lie to suggest that’s all they’re going to
get.  That’s bizarre.  It’s bizarre.  They got to stop this.  It’s s- —
I mean, they’re being so damn un-American with the way they’re talking
about this stuff.

But there’s going to be a need for significant amounts of money.  We’re
already underway at trying to calculate what the cost will be because
you don’t want to mislead anybody.  We want to make sure all the costs
are able to be covered.

Q    Have you spoken to Speaker Johnson about coming back before the
election to vote?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I haven’t.

Q    Mr. President, are you calling on Congress to come back early?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think Congress should move as rapidly as they can,
particularly on the most immediate need, which is small business.

Q    Mr. President, the vice president said yesterday that — that FEMA
has what it needs.  There’s enough resources.  They don’t need — that
Congress does not need to come back right away.  Who’s right?

THE PRESIDENT:  FEMA has what it needs.

Q    Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s different than SBA.

Q    Okay.  So, it’s SBA that — they need to come back and do SBA?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, but they’re going to need a lot more.

Q    Mr. President, wh- — what did you — what did Prime Minister
Netanyahu tell you about his plans relating to retaliation against Iran?

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s coming over to help with the storm.

Q    Mr. President, have you spoken with former President Trump at all —

THE PRESIDENT:  Are you kidding me?

Q    — about the disinformation?

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Mr. President Trump — former President Trump,
get a life, man.  Help these people. 

Q    Will you hold him accountable?  You said you were going to hold
those accountable.

THE PRESIDENT:  The public will hold him accountable. 

Q    The —

THE PRESIDENT:  You better, in the press, hold him accountable because
you know the truth. 

Q    Well, do you plan to speak with former President Trump?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.

2:10 P.M. EDT
