---
date: '2024-10-18'
published_time: 2024-10-18 11:27:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/18/remarks-by-president-biden-and-chancellor-olaf-scholz-of-germany-in-joint-statements-to-the-press-berlin-germany/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany in Joint\
  \ Statements to the Press | Berlin,\_Germany"
---
 
German Chancellery  
Berlin, Germany

12:34 P.M. CEST

CHANCELLOR SCHOLZ:  (As interpreted.)  Mr. President. 

(Speaking English.)  Dear Joe, it is my great pleasure to welcome you
here to the Chancellery in Berlin as a friend of Europe, as a friend of
Germany, and, above all, as my friend.  Welcome.

(As interpreted.)  Dear Joe, our cooperation the past three years was
extraordinarily close and full of trust.  I know that this is not
something that we can take for granted, even among good partners as the
U.S. and Germany have been for many, many decades. 

I would like to take this opportunity here and today to express my
gratitude and say thank you.  Thank you, Mr.  President. 

The times in which we’re living are extremely challenging indeed.  With
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, war has returned back to Europe.  The
European security order has been shaken in its very foundations. 

It is all the more important that we reacted decisively and stood
closely together and unequivocably condemned this blatant violation of
international law and stand by our Ukrainian friends’ side. 

It is thanks to your leadership that Putin’s plans failed, that Ukraine
wasn’t overrun within a few days.  But it is thanks to the bravery of
Ukrainian armed forces and the support of many states — above all, the
United States and Germany — Ukraine stands up to imperialist Russia
since more than two and a half years. 

Together, we commit to Ukraine’s sovereignty and integrity so that
Russia cannot subjugate Ukraine by force.  We stand by Ukraine’s side as
long as it is necessary.  Putin has miscalculated.  He cannot sit and
ride out this war.

Together, therefore, we decided, with our G7 partners, to support
Ukraine with a loan package to the tune of 50 billion U.S. dollars by
the end of this year. 

Together, we commit to a strong NATO Alliance which defends every square
inch of its territory.  Every member of our alliance can rely on that. 
And together, we commit to the fundamental principles of the free world
as enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 

Mr. President, from the very beginning of the war, we closely
coordinated ourselves across the Atlantic.  It has made us strong.  It
has made the Alliance strong, and we will continue to do that. 

Our position is clear.  We continue to support Ukraine as strongly as
possible.  At the same time, we are making sure that NATO does not
become a party to this war so that this war does not lead to an even
bigger catastrophe.  We are very much aware of this responsibility, and
no one can shoulder this responsibility for us. 

Of course, the situation in the Middle East is also on our agenda.  The
barbaric terrorist attacks of Hamas on Israel of October 7th has
massively destabilized the situation. 

Israel has the right to defend itself.  It is important to me to say
this very clearly.  We stand by Israel’s side, and we fully agree that
it is now more important than ever before to prevent further escalation
and a regional conflagration.

With the death of Hamas leader Sinwar, who was responsible for the
horrific terrorist attacks, we hopefully now see a tangible prospect of
a ceasefire in Gaza, an agreement that leads to the release of hostages
held by Hamas. 

Joe, your efforts — we always supported your efforts in this conflict,
and we will continue to do so.  Our common objective remains a credible
political process towards a two-state solution, and we will continue to
be fully committed to that. 

In Lebanon, we’re working towards a situation that the conflict leads to
a diplomatic process as soon as possible.  It is clear the people in
Northern Israel have to be able to live free of fear and insecurity. 
Lebanon deserves a future in self-determination, stability, and
security. 

Originally, your visit was scheduled to take place last Friday and had
to be postponed due to the severe hurricanes.  And I’m delighted that
you were able to come today.  It affords us the opportunity to talk
about the challenging global situation in great detail bilaterally but
also together with the French president, Emmanuel Macron, and the
British Prime Minister, Keir Starmer, who will join us later. 

In my view, we need such talks at highest levels to make progress in the
most important, pressing issues. 

(In English.)  Joe, thanks again for taking the time for this visit.  It
is a strong signal of our transatlantic unity and of our friendship.

Please.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Chancellor — Olaf, it’s great to see you again,
and I do apologize for having to cancel the first time around, but we
did have a crisis in our southeastern border with hurricanes and
tornadoes.  But we’re here because Germany is — Germany is my country’s
closest and most important of allies. 

When Putin launched his brutal invasion in Ukraine, you reminded us all
why this alliance is so essential.  Under your leadership, Chancellor,
Germany rose to meet the moment.  You showed the wisdom to recognize
that this war marked a turning point in the history, an assault on the
very principles of the protected peace and security in Europe for more
than 75 years. 

And then you summoned the resolve to act, remaking Germany’s foreign
policy to reckon new realities — with new realities to stand strong and
steadfast with Ukraine. 

America and Germany are the two largest supporters of Ukraine in its
fight for survival as a free and independent nation.  As Ukraine faces a
tough winter, we must — we must sustain our resolve, our effort, and our
support. 

And I know the cost is heavy, but make no mistake, it pales in
comparison to the cost of living in the world where aggression prevails,
where large states attack and bully smaller ones simply because they
can. 

Today, the chancellor and I are going to discuss ongoing efforts to
surge support to Ukraine’s military; to shore up Ukraine’s civilian
energy infrastructure, which is under constant assault and bombardment
from Russia; and to help Ukraine recover by unlocking the value of
frozen Russian assets.

I also want to recognize Germany’s decision to spend 2 percent of your
gross domestic product on defense.  Please keep it up, because it
matters. 

Our alliance with Germany extends far beyond Ukraine and Europe.  It’s
global. 

Today, the chancellor and I will discuss regional security in the Middle
East, including the ongoing domestic efforts regarding Lebanon and
Gaza. 

The death of the leader of Hamas represents a moment of justice.  He had
the blood of Americans and Israelis, Palestinians and Germans, and so
many others on his hands.

I told the prime minister of Israel yesterday: Let’s also make this
moment an opportunity to seek a path to peace, a better future in Gaza
without Hamas.  And I look forward to discussing Iran. 

Olaf and I spoke the morning after Iran launched 200 ballistic missiles
at Israel earlier this month.  With our G7 counterparts, we agreed to
coordinate our response through sanctions and other measures, and that
is what we have done. 

I’m grateful for Germany’s cooperation holding Iran accountable for
destabilizing policies, including providing missiles and drones to
Russia to use against Ukraine. 

And just this week, the European Union followed Germany, the UK, and
France in sanctioning Iran’s leading airlines.  This followed our own
oil sanctions.  This coordination is going to have to continue. 

I also want to thank Germany for standing firm against a vicious surge
of antisemitism, hatred, and extremism we’re witnessing today.  Some of
it fueled by foreign misinformation.

As domestic — as democratic allies, we have to remain ever vigilant
against what I call the “old ghosts in new garments,” ancient hatreds
resurfacing.  Our charge is to make sure that the forces holding our
societies together and binding us in the common cause of human dignity
and freedom remain stronger — stronger than the forces seeking to pull
us apart. 

And finally, Chancellor, I deeply appreciate your partnership and the
many times you’ve forsaken the easy choice to make the right choice. 
Your act of statesmanship and friendship has made possible the safe
return and unjustly detained Americans and Germans and the reunion of
brave Russian dissidents to their families.  I want to thank you, thank
you, thank you. 

I value our conversations, and I look forward to them — this one is —
particularly.  And I want to — I really mean it — I want to thank you
for your friendship, not only personally, but I don’t see how we
maintain stability in Europe and around the world without a tight
German-U.S. relationship.  And you’re the leader to do it. 

Thank you.   
  
12:45 P.M. CEST
