---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-11-01 19:17:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/31/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-north-las-vegas-nv/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | North Las Vegas,\_\
  NV"
---
 
Craig Ranch Amphitheatre  
North Las Vegas, Nevada

9:15 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Nevada!  (Applause.)

Can we hear it for Jennifer Lopez?  (Applause.) 

Happy Nevada Day, everybody!  (Applause.)  Happy Nevada Day.  It is good
to be back.  Hello, Nevada.  Good evening.  Good evening.  Good
evening.  (Applause.)  And happy Diwali to everyone celebrating. 

So, listen, Las Vegas, are we ready to do this?  (Applause.)  Are we
ready to vote?  (Applause.) Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)

 All right.  All right.  It is good to be back and to be with so many
incredible leaders, including, of course — and for anybody who has a
seat, please do feel like sitting.  (Laughs.) 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  *Sí, se puede!* 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  *Sí, se puede*.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

I want to thank Senator Jacky Rosen, who we must reelect to the United
States Senate.  (Applause.)  And while we’re at it, let’s reelect
Representatives Horsford, Titus, and Lee.  (Applause.) 

Can we please applaud Maná?  (Applause.) 

We also have my dear husband, the second gentleman, with us this
evening.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

 And we are joined by Tribal leaders from across the country here for
the National Conference of American Indians.  (Applause.)  And I have to
say, I strongly believe that the relationship between Tribal Nations and
the United States is sacred and that we must honor Tribal sovereignty
always and embrace our trust and treaty obligations and ensure Tribal
self-determination.  (Applause.)  And, as president, I will defend these
principles always.  (Applause.)

All right.  So, Nevada, tomorrow, Friday, November 1st, is the last day
to vote early in person.  And, Nevada, if you are voting by mail, please
do not wait.  Sign the envelope and return your ballot as soon as
possible.  Your ballot must be returned to a drop box or postmarked by
Election Day next Tuesday, November 5th.  Go to IWillVote.com.  And to
all the leaders here, please help get the word out.  (Applause.)

 And we need you to vote, Nevada, because we have just five days left in
one of the most consequential elections of our lifetime, and we have
work to do.  But we like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good
work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is joyful work.  (Applause.) 

 And make no mistake, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will
win.  We will win. 

     AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we will win — we will win because here’s what I
believe: When you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for. 
(Applause.)  And we all know we have an opportunity in this election to
turn the page on a decade of Donald Trump trying to keep us divided and
afraid of each other.  We’re done with that.  We’re done.  (Applause.) 
We’re exhausted with it.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we know that is who he is.  That is who he is. 
But, Las Vegas, that is not who we are.  That is not who we are, and it
is time for a new generation of leadership in America.  (Applause.)  And
I am ready to offer that leadership as the next president of the United
States.  (Applause.)

 And, Nevada, you know me.  I’m not afraid of tough fights. 
(Applause.)  For decades, as a prosecutor and the top law enforcement
officer of our biggest state — the first cousin of Nevada — (laughs) — I
won fights against the big banks that ripped off homeowners.  I won
fights against for-profit colleges that scammed veterans and students,
against predators who abused women and children.  I won fights against
cartels that trafficked in guns and drugs and human beings. 

And I pledge to you, if you give me the chance to fight on your behalf
as president, there is nothing in the world that will stand in my way. 
(Applause.)

And, look, we all know who Donald — Donald Trump is.  This is not
someone who is thinking about how to make your life better.  This is
someone who is increasingly unstable, obsessed with revenge —

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — consumed with grievance —

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and he’s out for unchecked power.

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, look, in less than 90 days, it’s either going
to be him or me in the Oval Office.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And here’s the thing we know — and this is part of
what we’re fighting for, because we can — we have the image of what it
could be — it won’t be, but what it could be if he was elected.  If he
were reelected, on day one, Donald Trump would walk into that office
with an enemies list. 

When I am elected, I will walk in with a to-do list on behalf of you —
(applause) — on behalf of you.  And at the top of my list is bringing
down the cost of your living.  That will be my focus every single day as
president. 

I will give a middle-class tax cut to over 100 million Americans. 
(Applause.)  I will enact the first-ever federal ban on corporate price
gouging on groceries.  (Applause.)  I will make housing more affordable
by building more homes and by taking on those corporate landlords who
unfairly buy up all those properties and then jack up your rent. 
(Applause.) 

And we will fight for working families by raising the minimum wage and
eliminating taxes on tips for service and hospitality workers. 
(Applause.) 

And if you are caring for an elderly parent — you know, I took care of
my mother when she was sick.  If you are taking care of an elderly
parent — this is personal for me — my plan will cover the cost of home
care for your elder parent under Medicare — (applause) — so you don’t
have to spend down your savings in order to qualify for Medicaid, so
seniors can get the help and care they need to stay in their homes.  And
this is just a matter of dignity.  (Applause.)  Dignity. 

Dignity is why I will lower the cost of childcare, because we know
families are struggling right now and folks just need a little bit to
not just be able to get by but get ahead.  It’s about dignity, and it’s
about values that you bring to your position of leadership. 

 And as far as I’m concerned, we’re done with the idea that the measure
of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down, when we know
the real measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you lift
up.  (Applause.)

We will cut taxes for small businesses.  Do I see any small-business
owners in the house?  (Applause.)  I love our small businesses.  You all
are part of the backbone of America’s economy. 

We will lower health care costs, because here’s the value I bring to
that.  I believe health care should be a right and not just a privilege
of those who can afford it.  (Applause.) 

On the other hand, Donald Trump’s answer to the financial pressures you
face is the same as it was last time: another trillion dollars in tax
cuts for billionaires and big corporations.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, he will pay for it with a 20 percent
national sales tax on everything you buy that is imported.  Think about
that: clothes, food, toys, cell phones.  A Trump sales tax, the
economists say, would cost the average family an extra $4,000 a year. 

And on top of that, Donald Trump still is trying to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he has a powerful friend in Congress, the
speaker of the House, who recently said — who recently said there will
be, quote, “No Obamacare if Trump wins” —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would have the effect, if they were to win,
to put millions of Americans off of their health insurance — to throw
millions of Americans off of their health insurance, to take us back to
that time when insurance companies had the power to deny people with
preexisting conditions.  Do you remember what that was?

     Well, we are not —

     AUDIENCE:  Going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — going back.  We’re not going back.  We’re not
going back. 

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because ours is a fight
for the future — (applause) — and it is a fight for freedom, like the
fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and
not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.) 

And we all remember how we got here.  When Donald Trump was president,
he hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with
the intention that they would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.  They
did as he intended.  And now, in America, one in three women lives in a
state with a Trump abortion ban, many with no exceptions even for rape
and incest, which is immoral.

And Donald Trump isn’t done.  Did anybody hear what he just said
yesterday?  He said — I mean, come on.  Right?  So, he said that he will
do what he wants — now I’m about to quote — whether the women “like it
or not.” 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This is the same person who said that women should
be “punished” for their choices. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He simply —

     AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I hear you.  But you know what? 

     AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know what?  The courts are going to handle
that.  The courts will handle that.  (Applause.)  We’ll handle
November.  How about that?  (Applause.)  We’ll handle November.

Because, see, we know the man simply does not respect the freedom of
women or the intelligence of women to be able to make decisions about
their own lives.  And we know, if he were elected, he would ban abortion
nationwide, restrict access to birth control, put IVF treatments at
risk, and force states — listen to this — to monitor women’s
pregnancies. 

Don’t believe me.  Look at — just google Project 2025, which I cannot
believe they put in writing.  (Laughter.)  And —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  I love you back.  I love you back. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  I love you back. 

And on this topic, I know everyone here knows and agrees that one does
not have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government shouldn’t be telling her what to do — (applause) — not the
government and not Donald Trump. 

So, Nevada, to make your right heard and to protect your right to make
your own health care decisions, I would also recommend you vote yes on
Question 6.  (Applause.)  And make sure you vote up and down the ballot
to truly protect your rights.  (Applause.)

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom
nationwide, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it
into law.  (Applause.)  I will proudly sign it into law.  So —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  When we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  — we win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Nevada, on that point, I am here to ask for
your vote.  I am here to ask for your vote.  And here is my pledge to
you.  And here is my pledge to you. 

As president, I pledge to seek common ground and commonsense solutions
to the challenges you face.  I pledge to not try to score political
points but to make progress — to make progress in your lives and in our
country.

I pledge to listen to those who will be impacted by the decisions I
make.  I pledge to listen to experts.  I pledge to listen to people who
disagree with me because, you see, unlike Donald Trump, I don’t believe
that people who disagree with me are the enemy.  (Applause.)  He wants
to put them in jail.  I’ll give them a seat at the table.  (Applause.) 
That’s what real leadership looks like.  (Applause.) 

And I pledge to always put country above party and self and to be a
president for all Americans.  (Applause.)

And — and now, with five days left in this campaign, my opponent is also
making a closing argument to America.  I don’t know if may- — you may
have seen I — I talked in Washington, D.C., the other day.  You know, he
likes to compare crowd sizes.  I had 100,000 people there.  (Applause.) 
(Laughs.) 

But listen to what he’s saying as his closing argument.  It’s all about
hate and division.  Jennifer talked about it.  It’s all about hate and
division.  And it’s not just what he says; it’s what he will do. 

Because, if elected, you can be sure he will bring back family
separation policies, only on a much greater scale than the last time. 
We can imagine what he will do with unchecked power, because recall
that, recently, the United States Supreme Court — now this is what’s
different from 2016 and 2020 — the Court said essentially that he will
be immune no matter what he does in the White House.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, for all the reasons we know, it is time to
turn the page on Donald Trump.  (Applause.)  Let’s turn the page. 

And it all — it all comes down to this.  You all have taken time out of
your busy lives to be here tonight, and I thank you for that.  And I
thank you for that.  (Applause.) 

And I know that one of the biggest reasons we are all here together
tonight is because we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our
country, and we know, when you love something, you fight for it. 
(Applause.)  When you love something, you fight for it. 

     And I do — and —

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and —

     AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  We love you!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you.  And, yes — (laughs) —

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And here’s the thing. 

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  And I do believe it is one of the
highest forms of patriotism, of our expression of our love for our
country, to then fight for the ideals of our country and to fight to
realize the promise of America. 

And I have always believed in our nation’s promise because I have lived
it.  You know, I grew up a child of the Civil Rights Movement.  My
parents would take me to the marches when I was in a stroller, where
people from all walks of life came together to fight for freedom and for
opportunity. 

You know, growing up, I saw how hard my mother worked to raise her
daughters and give us the same chances our country gave her.  And I was
blessed to have family by blood and family by love — (applause) — who
instilled in me the values of community, of compassion, and faith. 

And I’ve spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and who
have been counted out but who never stopped believing in what our
country can do and what is possible. 

I have lived the promise of America, and today I see the promise of
America in everyone here tonight — (applause) — everyone here tonight,
in all of us.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  *Sí, se puede!* 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  *Sí, se puede.*

*    * AUDIENCE:*  Sí, se puede!*  *Sí, se puede!*  *Sí, se puede!* 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I see the promise of America.  (Laughs.)

     AUDIENCE:*  Sí, se puede!*  *Sí, se puede!*  *Sí, se puede!* 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I see the promise of America in the fathers and
mothers who work hard every day for your children’s future.  I see it in
the women who refuse to accept a future without reproductive freedom and
the men who support them.  (Applause.)  I see it in Republicans who have
never voted for a Democrat before but have put the Constitution of the
United States before party.  (Applause.) 

And I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who are here
and are voting for the first time.  (Applause.)  Oh, I love Gen Z.  I
love you guys.  (Laughs.)  I love you guys. 

And here’s what I love about our young leaders: You guys are rightly
impatient.  (Applause.)  You are rightly impatient for change.  You, our
young leaders who are determined to live free from gun violence, to take
on the climate crisis.  You intend to shape the world you inherit. 

I love that about you, because, for you, none of these issues is
theoretical.  It’s not political.  This is your lived experience.  And I
see you, and I see your power.  And I’m so proud of you. 

And I want everyone here — let’s applaud our first-time voters. 
(Applause.)  I’m so proud of our first-time voters and our young
leaders.  Let’s applaud them, our young leaders.  (Laughs.)

And I know the people of Nevada, you are “Battle Born” — (applause) —
and ready for the hard work ahead.  So, we got five days to get this
done — five days.  (Applause.)  And no one can sit on the sidelines. 

     AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let’s spend the next five days so that when we
look back on these days, we will have no regrets that we did everything
we could, that we knocked on doors, that we text and we called folks, we
reached out to family and friends and classmates and neighbors and
coworkers. 

And as we do, I have another request of you.  In these next days, let us
please be intentional about building community.  (Applause.)  Let us
please — you know, these — these years, this Trump era, you know, this —
this time of trying to have people point their fingers at each other,
the division, the hate, the — the trying to make people feel alone, when
we all know we all have so much more in common than what separates us. 

So, let’s be intentional in building community.  Let’s be intentional in
building coalitions.  And let us remember: Your vote is your voice, and
your voice is your power.  (Applause.)  It’s your power.  Don’t ever let
anybody take your power from you. 

 So, Nevada, today, I then ask you —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Kamala!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Are you ready — are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

                        END                     9:40 P.M. PDT
