---
date: '2024-10-02'
published_time: 2024-10-02 21:57:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-response-and-recovery-efforts-following-hurricane-helene-augusta-ga/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Response and Recovery Efforts Following\
  \ Hurricane Helene | Augusta,\_GA"
---
 
Meadowbrook Neighborhood  
Augusta, Georgia

4:35 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’m here in Augusta to, first and foremost,
thank the federal, state, and local leaders.  Mayor, I want to thank you
for your leadership, in particular, on the ground.

I am here to personally take a look at the devastation, which is
extraordinary, and it is — and particularly devastating in terms of the
loss of life that this community has experienced, the loss of normalcy,
and the loss of critical resources. 

And so, I’m here today to — to thank all of those who are working to get
folks the support and the relief that they so desperately need and so
rightly deserve.  And — and that includes the fact that still, in this
community, up to 60 percent of the residents here do not have power. 
Many have been without running water for at least a couple of days now. 
Many are — have water but no hot water.

I was just talking with one of the members of the community and her
daughter who lost her husband.  And — and there is real pain and trauma
that has resulted because of this — this hurricane and what has happened
in terms of the aftermath of it. 

I do want to acknowledge and thank the first responders, who have been
extraordinary.  Having met with them, they are the kind of folks that
are the heroes in moments of crisis who do extraordinary work that is
about lifting up other people.

As it relates in particular to the leaders who are here and doing that
work, including the first responders, most of them, as it relates to the
local folks, are folks who have personally and their families have
personally experienced loss and devastation.  And yet they leave their
home, leave their family to go to centers like where I was earlier to do
the work of helping perfect strangers. 

And it really does highlight the nobility of the kind of work that these
public servants have dedicated themselves to, which can be, in moments
of crisis like this, so selfless in the way that they do that work.

The president and I have been paying close attention from the beginning
to what we need to do to make sure the federal resources hit the ground
as quickly as possible, and that includes what was necessary to make
sure that we provided direct federal assistance.  And that work has been
happening. 

I want to thank the governor for his leadership and his close
coordination with the federal government, with our administration.  And
I want to thank the local leaders for, together, creating a task
force-like response, knowing that we are at our best when we work
together and coordinate resources, coordinate our communications to the
maximum effect for the community that has been impacted.

And the federal relief and assistance that we have been providing has
included FEMA providing $750 for folks who need immediate needs being
met, such as food, baby formula, and the like.  And you can apply now. 

For anyone who is watching this, who has been affected, there are FEMA
personnel who are going door — door to door to interact personally with
folks, especially those who do not have electricity.  But also, that —
that aid, — if you have electricity, can be applied for online, and I
encourage people to do that.  FEMA will just basically verify your
address, and then the process should take hold. 

FEMA is also providing tens of thousands more dollars for folks to help
them be able to deal with home repair, to be able to cover a deductible
when and if they have insurance, and also hotel costs. 

Today, I’m also announcing that the president has approved the
governor’s request for 100 percent federal reimbursement of local
costs. 

And, Mayor, as you have pointed out, the — the burden to local
governments, including state — the state government, is — is pretty
immense.  And so, by announcing today and — and making the dedicated
resources to cover 100 percent of local costs will have a huge impact on
our ability to get relief to people as quickly as possible. 

And that will include, for example, what the federal government will do
to reimburse local and state governments around issues like debris
removal, which you can see just up and down this street, much less in
other areas of the state and in the region, this is a big issue.  I was
speaking with one of the residents of the community who needs that big
tree removed so she can actually get to work and — and make sure that
her child is able to get to school when the schools reopen.  So, this is
a very big part of the recovery process. 

That money of the federal reimbursement will also help with emergency
services that are now being provided by the state so that they can be
reimbursed and then have the resources to keep providing those emergency
services.   
  
Also, we will be covering the local government costs for food, wa- —
water, and shelter — again, resources that are desperately needed by the
members of this community.   
  
And so, my final point to the — to the residents of this community and —
and the region is that we are here for the long haul.  There is the work
that we have done together that was the immediate response — well,
preparation for and then the immediate response after.  But there’s a
lot of work that’s going to need to happen over the coming days, weeks,
and months.  And the coordination that we have dedicated ourselves to
will be long-lasting to get families, to get residents, to get
neighborhoods back up and running.   
  
And — and my last point is this.  I think that in these moments of
hardship, one of the beauties about who we are as a country is — is
people really rally together and show the best of who they are in
moments of crisis.  And we have seen that throughout the region where
communities are coming together; where — where people are helping
perfect strangers; where they are providing food, wa- — water, shelter
for their neighbors, and that neighbor may be somebody they’ve never met
before but are doing the work of helping each other out.   
  
And I think it really highlights the fact that the vast majority of us
have so much more in common than what separates us and that the best of
— the strength of who we are is we come to each other’s aid in a time of
need. 

So, I thank everyone for doing that kind of work every day.  
  
And with that, there is more work to be done.  Thank you all.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Do you have an update on the death toll, Madam Vice President, or
on people who are missing?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I — I did receive updates in terms of what’s
happening in the state.  And — and so far, the number looks to be 33. 
The — the mayor was just sharing with me —  
  
PARTICIPANT:  Seven in Ri- — Augusta-Richmond County alone.  Seven.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Seven alone in August-Richmond County.  So, the
numbers are coming in.  And part of the challenge of being accurate at
this moment is that there are still so many areas that are remote, also
rural areas, areas that are not easily accessible.  So, the assessment
of the damage is being done across the board.  And, of course, the — the
highest priority is to locate and determine individuals, people who are
in need and making sure we’re getting to them as quickly as possible.   
  
     Thank you.   
    

                             END                4:44 P.M. EDT
