---
date: '2024-10-17'
modified_time: 2024-10-18 12:31:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-17 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-la-crosse-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | La Crosse,\_WI"
---
 
University of Wisconsin-La Crosse  
La Crosse, Wisconsin

3:59 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Wisconsin!  (Applause.)  Hi, everyone.  Oh. 
(Applause.)

Can we hear it for Cisco?  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, Wisconsin.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s
wonderful to be back and here at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. 
Thank you all.  (Applause.)  Go Eagles!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Oh,
it’s good to meet everyone.

And, Mark Cuban, thank you for all that you are and being a partner in
this.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

So, some of you may know, when I was five years old, we lived in
Wisconsin.  (Applause.)  My parents taught at the University of
Wisconsin in Madison for a time.  And every now — every time I come now,
when I land, Governor Evers will greet me, and he’ll say, “Welcome
home.”  (Applause.)  So, it is good to be back in Wisconsin.  (Laughs.)

And this is a room full of leaders, and I thank you all for taking the
time out of your busy lives to be here to have this conversation. 

I want to thank Mayor Reynolds.  Thank you for the warm welcome and all
you do.  (Applause.)

And, La Crosse, let’s reelect someone who has spent her career fighting
for the families of Wisconsin: your senator, Tammy Baldwin. 
(Applause.)  We need her in Washington.  We need her in Washington. 
Good.

So, Election Day is in 19 days — (applause) — 19 days.  And — and if —
anyone, if you all have a chair or a seat, please do seat — sit, for
anyone who has a chair.  Okay?  (Laughter.)

So, listen, we are nearing the home stretch, and this is going to be a
tight race until the very end.  And we —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You got this!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We got this.  (Applause.)  I see you.

And — and reality check: We are the underdog.  Okay?  And that’s why I’m
here with you, and you are taking the time to do the hard work that is
necessary.  It’s why I’m campaigning for every vote, because I want and
intend to be a president for all Americans — (applause) — and no matter
their political party, where they live, or where they get their news. 
Okay?  (Laughter and applause.)

And on that point, last night, you may have seen I went on Fox News. 
(Applause.)  And while I was doing that, Donald Trump was at a Univision
town hall where a voter asked him about January 6th.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  So, now, we here know January 6th was a
tragic day.  It was a day of terrible violence.  There were attacks on
law enforcement.  A hundred and forty law enforcement officers were
injured; some were killed. 

And what did Donald Trump say last night about January 6th?   He called
it a — quote, “a day of love.”

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But — but it points out something that everyone
here knows.  The American people are exhausted with his gaslighting —
(applause) — exhausted with his gaslighting.  Enough. 

We are ready to turn the page.  (Applause.)  Let’s turn the page.  We’re
done.   
  
     And, Wisconsin —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I’ll — (laughs).  And we’re not going back,
because this election — (laughs) —

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because we know that this
election is about two very different visions for our nation: one that
has focused his on the past and ours that is focused on the future. 
(Applause.)

As represented by everyone here, and especially the students who are
here right now — (applause) — yeah, you guys.  You guys.  Yeah.  Yeah. 
It’s about you guys.  It really is.  It really is.

And we know that America is ready for a new way forward.  (Applause.) 
We are ready for a new and optimistic generation of leadership —
(applause) — which is why Democrats and independents and Republicans are
supporting our campaign. 

In fact, just yesterday, I was with over 100 Republican leaders from
across the country who joined me on the campaign trail.  (Applause.) 
Really.  And as they said, it was about putting country before party. 
And some of them served in Donald Trump’s previous administration — the
people who know him best.   Okay?

And I believe, and I think we all know, Americans want a president who
works for all the American people.  (Applause.)  It’s what we deserve. 
And that has been the story of my entire career. 

 In my career, I’ve only ever had one client: the people.  (Applause.) 
When I was a young courtroom prosecutor, I stood up for women and
children against predators.  As attorney general of California, I took
on the big banks, fought to deliver $20 billion for middle-class
families who faced foreclosure.  I stood up for veterans and students
being scammed by for-profit colleges.  (Applause.)  I stood up for
workers who were being cheated out of the wages they were due, stood up
for seniors facing elder abuse.

And I promise, as president, I will always fight for all the American
people.  And together — together, we can and we will build a future — a
brighter future for our nation.  That’s why we’re all here together.  We
love our country.  (Applause.) 

Together, we will build, in that future, what I call an opportunity
economy, which is where every American has an opportunity to own a home,
to start a business, to build wealth.  Under my plan — and I know this
is a big deal for the young people here — we will bring down the cost of
housing.  (Applause.)  Because there was a time that generations of
Americans could count on the American dream, but for far too many these
days, it is just out of reach. 

So, we will deal with the housing supply.  And I will commit to creating
a $25,000 down payment assistance so you can, for the first-time
homebuyers, just get your foot in the door.  (Applause.) 

We will help entrepreneurs and sm- — small businesses to begin and grow
because we know small businesses are part of America’s backbone in terms
of the strength of our economy. 

You know, the woman who helped raise my sister and me was a
small-business owner.  I know — are we — do we have small-business
owners who are here?  Raise your hand.  (Applause.)  Yeah.  You are not
only business leaders; you are civic leaders, you are community leaders,
and you really are part of the backbone of America’s economy, and we’ve
got to invest in you and make your jobs easier.  (Applause.)

My plan will help expand Medicare to cover home health care for
seniors.  (Applause.)  And this is personal for me.   
  
So, part of you may know — part of — some of you may know that, when my
mother was sick, I — I took care of her.  And for anybody who has taken
care of an elder parent when they are in their time of need, the work
includes trying to cook something that they feel like eating — right? —
helping them put on a sweater, trying to make them just laugh from time
to time.  Right?  It’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity.  (Applause.)

But for far too many people, including people in the sandwich
generation, who are raising young children and taking care of a parent —
oh, it’s so rough.  And so, my plan is this.  It’s to say, instead of
how it currently is, which is, in order for you to be able to get help
to come in, you’re going to have to pretty much get rid of all your
savings to qualify for Medicaid — what I’m saying is, no, this is a
matter of dignity and it is a matter of your ability to participate in
the workforce and be productive and have a quality of life. 

So, we’re going to change the system so Medicare will cover your ability
to have home health care for your elder parent.  (Applause.)  Because,
you see, part of the difference between the way we see our country and
the world and the way my opponent sees it is we actually see real people
and care about them — (applause) — and have a sense of understanding
about how tough times can be but how good times can be if we put the
work into solving problems instead of trying to run on problems, like
Donald Trump.  (Applause.)

And so, that’s why we will also lower costs on everything from health
care to groceries, including taking on corporate price gouging, which
I’ve done before and I will do again.  (Applause.) 

And we will give a middle-class tax cut to 100 million Americans,
including $6,000 for young parents for star- — parents who are just
starting out during the first year of their child’s life, knowing the
vast majority of our parents have a natural desire to parent their
children well but not always the resources to do it.  And so, this is
about helping folks out to be able to buy a car seat and a crib just
during that most critical phase of their child’s development. 

This is all about dignity, and this is about understanding.  (Applause.)

And so, I share this to say I will always put the middle class and
working families first.  It’s where I come from, and I will never forget
where I come from.  (Applause.)  I will never forget where I come from. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you, Kamala!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, Donald Trump has a different plan. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you back, by the way.  Thank you. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

     Donald Trump has a different plan.  So, just google Project 2025.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now we’re at a — a place of higher learning, so I
must say — (laughter) — I can’t believe they put that thing in writing. 
I really can’t.  (Laughter and applause.)  They — they put it in
writing.  They bound it.  Like, they bound it and handed it out. 

So, look, we read it, right?  It’s a detailed and dangerous blueprint
for what he will do if he is elected president. 

You know, I said many times — you’ve heard me say — Donald Trump is an
unserious man, and the consequences of him ever getting his foot back in
the Oval Office are brutally serious — brutally serious.  (Applause.) 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Donald Trump — right? — that’s why we’re here
together, and we — we’re here because we know we got work to do still. 

Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He will cut Social Security and Medicare.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He will get rid of the $35 cap on insulin for
seniors. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He will make it easier for companies to — check
this out — he will make it easier for companies to deny overtime pay for
workers —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and will impose what I have named a “Trump sales
tax,” because, essentially, he plans on putting a 20 percent tax, if not
higher, on everyday basic necessities, which economists have estimated
will cost the average American $4,000 more a year. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to
end the Affordable Care Act.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he has no plan to replace it. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  “Concepts”!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You guys watched the debate.  (Laughter.)  He has,
quote, “concepts of a plan” — “concepts” — “concepts.”  (Laughter.)

So, here’s the thing.  Again, it’s a serious issue, right?  So, he’s
going to threaten the health insurance coverage of 45 million people in
America based on a concept —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — taking us back to when insurance companies had
the power to deny people with preexisting conditions.  You remember what
that was?  Well, we are —

     AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  We are
not going back.  We are not going back.  (Laughs.)  We’re not going
back.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back, and just like Wisconsin’s
state motto tells us, we will move —

     AUDIENCE:  Forward!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — forward.  (Applause.)  We will move forward.

Because ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom —
for freedom — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body and not have her government tell her what to do. 
(Applause.)   

Right.  I see you.  Thanks.

And, again, we’re not going to be gaslighted on this.  We remember
Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme
Court wi- —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — with the intention that they would undo the
protections of Roe v. Wade, and they did as he intended.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Lies.  Lies.  That’s a lie.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, you guys are at the wrong rally.  (Laughter and
applause.)  No, I think you meant to go to the smaller one down the
street.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Come on.

So — but back to the matter at ha- — we need a medic here.  We need a
medic.  We — right here, and then pr- — let’s part the way so someone
can come through and bring help. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  She’s okay.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sh- — okay?  Okay.  All right.  We’re good.

So, on the subject of his intention and what he actually did to undo the
protections of Roe v. Wade, let’s understand what has happened since. 
It is now the case that, in America, one in three women live in a state
with a Trump abortion ban.  Many — many of these bans have no exception
even for rape or incest.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And you react that way because we understand the
idea that someone who calls themselves a leader would even make no
exceptions for a survivor of a violation to their body, and to tell that
survivor they have no right to make a decision about what happens to
their body next, that’s immoral.  That’s immoral.  It’s immoral. 
(Applause.)

And I know we all agree one does not have to abandon their faith or
deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her
what to do.  (Applause.)  If she chooses, she will talk with her priest
— if she chooses, she will talk with her priest or her pastor, her
rabbi, her imam but not the government telling her what to do. 

And it is my pledge to you that when Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom nationwide, as president of the United States, I
will proudly sign it into law — (applause) — proudly — proudly sign it
into law.   
  
     So — 

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Lots of work — lots of work to do.

So, listen, so much is on the line in this election.  You all know
that.  Again, that’s why you’re here. 

And this is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher, because a few
months ago, the United States Supreme Court told the former president he
is effectively immune no matter what he does in the White House.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now think about that.  Think about that.  Just
imagine Donald Trump with no guard rails.  Right?  He who has vowed, if
reelected, he will be a dictator on day one. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He who has called — he who has called for the,
quote, “termination” of the Constitution of the United States of
America.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let us be very clear: Someone who suggests we
should terminate the Constitution of the United States should never
again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States. 
(Applause.)  Never again.  Never again.  Never again.

And then consider the comments that he made just in the last few days,
because he just — he’s got more.  (Laughter.)  He said he will target
and punish those who disagree with him or refuse to bend to his will. 
He calls these Americans “the enemy within” —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and says that he would use the American military
to go after American citizens: journalists whose stories he doesn’t
like, nonpartisan election officials who refuse to cheat by finding a
few extra votes for him, judges who insist on following the law instead
of following him.

It is for reasons like these that General Mark Milley, the former
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff — Donald Trump’s top general — has
called Trump, and I quote, “fascist to the core.”  (Applause.)

And it is clear Donald Trump is increasingly unstable and unhinged and
will stop at nothing to claim unchecked power for himself.  He wants to
send the military after American citizens.  He wants to prevent women
from making decisions about their own body.  He wants to threaten
fundamental freedoms and rights, like the freedom to vote, the freedom
to be safe from gun violence, to breathe clean air and drink clean
water, and the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride. 
(Applause.)

So much is on the line in this election.  So much is on the line. 

And, Wisconsin, when it comes down to it, look, we are all here together
because we know what is at stake.  We are all here together because we
love our country.  (Applause.)  And I do believe it is the highest form
of patriotism to then fight for the ideals of our country and fight —
Cisco, you said it — to realize the promise of America — (applause) —
the promise of America. 

So, Election Day is in 19 days.  And here in Wisconsin, early voting
starts next Tuesday, October 22nd.  (Applause.)  So, now is the time to
make your plan to vote.  And if you have received your ballot — if you
have received your ballot in the mail, please do not wait.  Fill it out
and return it today. 

And remember that Wisconsin has same-day voter registration, right? 
(Applause.)  So, if you are not registered to vote, you can register
when you vote.  And please do vote early or on election day because the
election is — and bring an ID — (laughs) — (applause) — because the
election is here. 

 And, listen, I’m telling everybody what you already know and have been
doing.  We’ve got to energize.  Let’s mobilize.  Let’s organize.  Let’s
— let’s continue in this process, also, to do what everyone here is
doing: Let’s build community.  (Applause.)  You know?  Let’s — let’s
build coalitions. 

Let’s remind each other that we are all in this together.  Let’s remind
each other we have so much more in common than what separates us. 
(Applause.) 

 And let’s do all this knowing that our vote is our voice, and your
voice is your power.  (Applause.)

 So, Wisconsin, today, I then ask you: Are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)

     God bless you.  God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

                         END                     4:26 P.M. CDT
