---
date: '2024-10-18'
modified_time: 2024-10-18 16:42:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-18 16:42:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-campaign-rally-grand-rapids-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Campaign Rally | Grand Rapids,\_\
  MI"
---
 
Riverside Park  
Grand Rapids, Michigan

2:03 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, guys. 

Well, we’re back in Michigan, and it’s good to be back.  And again, we
have a situation where the former president is insulting the people of
the state — this time saying that autoworkers — that their important and
good and highly skilled work could be performed by a child — which is
just further evidence that Donald Trump comes from a place where he
really does not appreciate or understand how most people in our country
work very hard for all that they have and that there is great dignity in
their work.

In addition, I’ve — you know, I’ve been hearing reports that his team,
at least, is saying he’s suffering from exhaustion.  And that’s
apparently the excuse for why he’s not doing interviews and, of course,
he’s not doing the CNN Town Hall.  He refuses to do another debate.

And, you know, look, being president of the United States is probably
one of the hardest jobs in the world.  And so, we really do need to ask:
If he’s exhausted being on the campaign trail, is he fit to do the job? 
And I think that’s a question that is an open-ended question that he
needs to answer.

     Q    Madam Vice —

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.

     Q    Madam Vice President, there’s a lot of —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, sure.

     Q    You’re in a state where there’s a lot of opposition to you
from pro-Palestinian voters.  In light of the recent news this week in
the Middle East, I mean, does your message to them change?  What’s your
message to them in the final few weeks?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, my message remains, first of all, we have got
to end this war.  And I think that what has happened now with the — the
killing of Sinwar creates an opportunity for us to end this war and
bring the hostages home.  And I think everyone wants this war to end,
and this is an opportunity to actually get there.

     Q    Madam Vice President, can you explain why it’s — sort of the
race still remains incredibly tight?  I know you’ve been out
campaigning.  What’s your, sort of, like, thesis of the case of why it
remains so tight?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Looks, it’s — it’s an election for president of the
United States.  It’s not supposed to be a cakewalk for anyone.  There
are very important issues at play.

And I am clear and I think the people that you hear right now in the
background are clear that Donald Trump is unfit for the office, he is
unstable, and he, frankly, is a danger to our democracy, as has been
described by his former chief of staff, secretaries of Defense, national
security advisor, and former vice president.

     Q    The former president has been critical of you not attending
the Al Smith dinner last night.  As you were talking about him being
exhausted, do you think that that’s one reason why he chose to go to New
York City rather than come out here on the campaign trail?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m beyond getting into the head of Donald
Trump, but I will say it should be a concern.  If he can’t handle the
rigors of the campaign trail, is he fit to do the job?  I think it’s a
legitimate question.

     Thank you all.

                             END                2:06 P.M. EDT
