---
date: '2024-10-13'
modified_time: 2024-10-14 14:47:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-13 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-church-service-greenville-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Church Service | Greenville,\_NC"
---
 
Koinonia Christian Center  
Greenville, North Carolina

12:35 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, church.  Good afternoon.

Oh, please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  (Laughter.) 

Bishop O’neal, I thank you so very much.  We — we’ve had some time to
visit before we came out into the sanctuary, and I just thank you for
the leadership that you have provided for so long. 

You know, in times of crisis, and — and we’re looking at the images of
the aftermath of the hurricane.  But it — it is easy in these moments of
crisis to — to question our faith, to sometimes lose our faith for a
moment, because what we see is so hard to see that we lose faith or a
vision of those things we cannot see but must know.  (Applause.)

And you are such a leader in all of those ways, and I thank you. 
(Applause.)  I’m honored to be with you.  I’m honored to be with you. 
I’m honored to be with you.  Thank you.

 And, KCC family, thank you for welcoming me today.  (Applause.) 
(Laughs.)  Thank you.  And thank you for the opportunity to allow me to
worship with you.  It does my heart and soul good. 

So, scripture teaches, “Let us not become weary in doing good, for at
the proper time we will reap a harvest if we do not give up.” 
(Applause.)

So, I first encountered the words of Galatians as a young girl at 23rd
Avenue Church of God in Oakland, California, which is where I sang in
the children’s choir and first learned the teachings of the Bible.  My
earliest memories of those teachings are about a loving God, a God who
asks us to speak up for those who cannot speak for themselves, to defend
the rights of the poor and the needy. 

And so, at an early age, I learned that faith is a verb.  It is
something we show in action and in service.  And we show it by heeding
the words of my pastor, who Bishop spoke with yesterday, Reverend Dr.
Amos C. Brown, who often invokes the words that we all know: One must do
justice, love mercy, and walk humbly with our God. 

That truth is important at all times and especially in moments of
difficulty and disaster, especially in moments like this, as we navigate
storms that have inflicted so much harm across our country.

And to all those who have loved ones who have been affected by Hurricane
Milton and Hurricane Helene, Doug and I, my husband, are holding of you
close in our hearts and in our prayers.  And we are thinking of everyone
who has been affected by these storms. 

Now, I know Helene’s impact was further west, but I also know that the
people of Greenville, like all Americans, have been inspired by the way
communities are coming together, Bishop, in the wake of these storms. 
Amid ruined homes, downed power lines, swollen rivers that have been
choked with debris, we have seen — we have seen children rescued by
neighbors in a kayak; we have seen those who have lost everything
gathering donations for others. 

You know, it’s been my experience to see that in a moment of crisis,
isn’t it something when you know that, often, it is the people who have
the least, give the most?  (Applause.)  Right?

Moments of crisis, I believe, do have a way of revealing the heroes
among us, the angels among us, and of showing us all the best of who we
are.  And these hurricanes have revealed heroes around all of us, heroes
who do not ask the injured or stranded whether they are a Republican or
a Democrat — (applause) — but who simply ask, “Are you okay?”; who ask,
“What can I do to help?” — heroes who, as I like to say, see in the face
of a stranger, a neighbor. 

Yet, church, there are some who are not acting in the spirit of
community.  And I am speaking of those who have been literally not
telling the truth — lying — about people who are working hard to help
folks in need; spreading disinformation, when the truth and facts are
required.  And the — the problem with this, beyond the obvious, is it’s
making it harder, then, to get people lifesaving information, if they’re
led to believe they cannot trust. 

And that’s the pain of it all, which is the idea that those who are in
need have somehow been convinced that the forces are working against
them in a way that they would not seek aid.  

And let’s let that sink in for a moment.  Right now, fellow Americans
are experiencing some of the most difficult moments in their lives. 
Yet, instead of offering hope, there are those who are channeling
people’s tragedies and sorrows into grievance and hatred.  And one may
ask, “Why?”  And I think, sadly, frankly, the motives are quite
transparent: to gain some advantage for themselves, to play politics
with other people’s heartbreak.  And it is unconscionable. 

Now is not a time to incite fear.  (Applause.)  It is not right to make
people feel alone.  That is not what — and this is a church full of
leaders — that is not what leaders, as we know, do in crisis. 

Now is a time to bring folks together, to come together, to be there for
one another, and follow the example of all of the heroes all around us. 
And now is the time to live up to the fundamental values that reflect
our nation at its best: the values of compassion and community and
honesty and decency — the values that define the people of Greenville,
the — the people of North Carolina, and — and the people like a fellow
who I met recently.  His name is Eddie Hunnell.  And I’m going to tell
you a quick story about Eddie Hunnell.

So, I met him in Charlotte the other week.  He was visiting Grassy Creek
for his son’s wedding when he saw a woman in the raging floodwaters. 
First, he tried to rescue her by canoe.  When that didn’t work, this ma-
— a perfect stranger, he’s watching — he jumped in the river and pulled
her ashore. 

And when I talked with Eddie about his act of courage, here’s what he
said to me.  He said, “Well I didn’t feel I had a choice.”  But, of
course, he had a choice.  Of course, he had a choice.

But his choice was to take a risk for the sake of another.  Didn’t even
reflect on the risk he might have been taking.  (Applause.)  Right? 

His choice was to follow his conscience.  His choice was, in the words
of Isaiah, to be “a refuge for the needy in their distress.” 
(Applause.)  He chose to remember that we are all in this together.

And if that is true during a terrible storm, it is also true when the
storm passes.  (Applause.)  It is true in our everyday lives.

When Paul wrote his letter to the church in Galatia, he knew folks might
feel the weight of the burden of doing good, that they may feel a
temptation to turn away from others in their time of need, to believe,
“What does it matter?”  But Paul reminded them and us that God calls us
not to become weary of doing good. 

Because we each have the power — God tells us this — the power, each one
of us, to make a difference.  And that tells us that the measure of our
strength will be clear when we see what we can do to lift other people
up — (applause) — just as Eddie did and as the heroes and the angels in
this church and all over are doing after these storms.  Across North
Carolina, Florida, and impacted communities, we are witnessing faith in
action.  (Applause.)

So, I close with this.  Let us continue to look in the face of a
stranger and see a neighbor.  (Applause.)  Let us recognize that when we
shine the light in moments of darkness, it will guide our feet onto the
path of peace.  And let us always remember that while weeping may endure
for a night, joy cometh in the morning.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.) 

Thank you.  May God bless you.  And God bless the United States of
America.

Thank you, church.  (Applause.) END    
