---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-22 15:50:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-liz-cheney-at-a-campaign-event-brookfield-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Liz Cheney at a Campaign Event | Brookfield,\_\
  WI"
---
 
Sharon Lynne Wilson Center for the Arts  
Brookfield, Wisconsin

7:09 P.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, everyone.  Good evening.

MR. SYKES:  And, Vice President, wel- — welcome back to Wisconsin.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:   It is good to be back.  You — you know, I — so,
Tony Evers.

MR. SYKES:  (Laughs.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s funny about his playlist.  Is it really that
long?  (Laughter.)

MR. SYKES:  No.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

Every time I — I land in Wisconsin — almost every time, Tony Evers, the
governor, will meet me on the tarmac.  And because I did live in
Wisconsin when I was five years old, every — (applause) — he will say,
“Welcome home.”  So, I do feel and have a connection to Wisconsin and
feel a sense of connection.

MR. SYKES:  Actually, we all have connections to Wisconsin, which —
which makes this event, I think, so important, with 15 days to go. 

So, let’s just dive right into all of this.  There are actually
undecided voters out there.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. SYKES:  And there are undecided voters here.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. SYKES:  People who have never voted for a Democrat.  Moderates,
conservatives who voted for people named Bush and Cheney and Ford and
Reagan —

MS. CHENEY:  Yay.  (Claps.)  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. SYKES:  And — and Bob Dole.  Wow, that’s a — that’s throwback, isn’t
it?

But I guess the question is: What is your pitch to them?  Why should
they do something they’ve never done before?  Why should they cross over
party lines and vote for you?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I start from the belief, based on the lived
experience, that the vast majority of us have more in common than what
separates us. 

I also know that you all are here spending time that you could be
spending doing a number of other things, with all of the obligations you
each have, and you are here because we, together, love our country.  We
love our country, and we believe in the foundational principles that are
at stake in this election. 

I believe that when we think about who we are as the American people,
there is more we have in common than what separates us when we think
about what is at stake in terms of our democracy, rule of law, the
Constitution of the United States, national security, the standing of
our country in the context of the world.  All of that is at stake. 

And I will share with you, Charlie, when I was in the Senate for — for
those four years that I was there, my favorite committee was the Senate
Intelligence Committee, and I’m going to tell you why.  We would walk
into that meeting in a SCIF, which is a — a secure room.  We’d have to
leave our cell phones outside.  The press, with all due respect, were
not allowed in.  No cameras. 

People would walk in, Democrats and Republicans, take off their suit
jacket, roll up their sleeves, and we’d dispense with who was a
Republican and who was a Democrat.  We were all Americans.  We were all
in that room with one singular purpose: to concern ourselves as our
highest priority with the security and well-being of the United States
of America. 

I think those things are at stake in this election.  (Applause.)

MR. SYKES:  Congresswoman Cheney, you know how hard this is, though. 
You know how hard it is to break away from tribal loyalty to do
something you haven’t done before.  So, I’d like you to address that as
well. 

Lindsey Graham was on television yesterday saying, “What do you ‘Never
Trump’ Republicans — you know, what — what are you thinking of?  How
could you possibly do all of this?”

There are a lot of people who are listening to us who may be
disillusioned with what’s happening with the Republican Party, but they
w- — they don’t they — they — they’re afraid of paying the price,
because there is a cost to all of that. 

So, what do you say to those Americans?

MS. CHENEY:  Well, don’t listen to Lindsey Graham.  Number one. 
(Laughter and applause.)  It’s good life advice, actually. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

MS. CHENEY:  But what I say is that, at the — what undergirds everything
that we are as a nation — everything that we are as a nation is the rule
of law and it’s our Constitution. 

And when you — when you look at what Donald Trump did after the last
election, when you look at the cruelty that’s involved in someone who
watches an attack on the United States Capitol, an attack conducted by
people in his name, and refuses for over three hours to tell the mob to
leave — I mean, I really — people just need to think about what that —
that — that’s — that’s depravity.  He watched the attack happen, and
people kept asking him, “Please tell the people to leave.”  And law
enforcement officers were being brutally beaten and the Capitol was
being assaulted, and he would not tell people to leave for over three
hours. 

That cruelty is the same cruelty that we see when he lies about the
federal government’s disaster response, when he puts people’s lives at
risk because he won’t tell the truth.  He’s a man who’s unfit to be the
president of this good and honorable and great nation. 

And so, I’ve spent a lot of time working — before I was elected to
Congress — in countries around the world that — that weren’t free or
where people were trying to achieve their freedom, and I know how
fragile — how fragile this — this can be, how fragile democracy can be. 

And so, in — in this election, we have a choice.  We have the choice of
somebody, in Vice President Harris, who you know is going to uphold the
rule of law.  You know that she’s going to lead this country with a
sincere heart.  You know that she is going to always be thinking about
what is best for this nation.  We might not agree on every issue, but —
but she is somebody that you can trust and someone that our children can
look up to.  And I think it’s so important for us to cast the vote for
Vice President Harris this time around.  (Applause.)

MR. SYKES:  You know, Vice — Vice President, I w- — I was thinking about
one of your social media posts recently where you go through all the
things that Donald Trump has bailed out of: that he won’t debate you,
that he won’t — that he won’t do interviews, that he’s refusing to
release certain information.  And — and you asked an interesting
question: What is he hiding?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. SYKES:  So, what, in fact, is he hiding?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — I wonder what is he hiding.  I also
wonder what his staff is trying to hide by — by preventing or suggesting
he not debate me again, not do these interviews.  It is the norm, as you
know, that presidential nominees will do a “60 Minutes” interview.  He
has refused to do that.  He is pulling out of interviews left, right,
and center. 

And I think that we — what we see about him in public, whether it be his
rallies or, as you said, the — the — would it — would it be called a —
just a solo dance?  I — I don’t — I — (laughter).

MR. SYKES:  I don’t know that is has a — I don’t even know if it has a
name to it.

MS. CHENEY:  “Dance” is really generous.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What — (laughs).  Yes.

MR. SYKES:  Yeah, the word “dance” would be generous.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What — what that was.

I — I think it does lead us and it should lead us to observe that he is
increasingly unstable. 

But you don’t have to take my word for it.  Listen to the people who
know him best, the people who worked with him in the White House, in the
Oval Office, in the Situation Room: his former chief of staff; two
former secretaries of Defense, his secretaries of Defense; his former
national security advisor; and, of course, his former vice president. 
And they have each talked about the — the chief of staff — that Donald
Trump has contempt for the Constitution of the United States. 

Not only has that been said by a former chief of staff of the former
president, but we know he has openly talked about his intention to
terminate the Constitution of the United States. 

I have taken that oath six times: as district attorney twice — elected
and reelected; as attorney general of the largest state, in California,
twice; as a United States senator; and actually now as vice president. 
And the congresswoman and I have talked about that.  That is an oath one
must take seriously.  It is a duty to defend and honor and uphold the
Constitution of the United States. 

He has said he would terminate it.  Anyone who wants to be president of
the United States should never again be able to stand behind the seal of
the president of the United States, having said they would terminate the
Constitution of the United States.  (Applause.)

And, again, most recently, the report is that the former chairman of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff, a decorated general, said of Donald Trump that he
is “fascist to the core.”  These are the people who know him best,
people who worked with him. 

And so, yes, we can talk about that moment on stage of the music and all
that, but I think it’s very important that we acknowledge, and I have
said publicly, Donald Trump is an unserious man, and the consequences of
him ever being president of the United States again are brutally serious
— brutally serious.

I — to — to the congresswoman’s point, I have now, as vice president of
the United States, met over 150 world leaders — presidents, prime
ministers, chancellors, and kings — many of them, multiple times; we are
on a first-name basis — most of them allies in connection with NATO, and
— and I’ve met with them in connection with our standing, rightly, with
Ukraine.  The world is watching this election, and our allies are
worried, because the reality is that when we, as the United States of
America, walk in these rooms around the world, we walk in chin up,
shoulders back, with the earned and self-appointed authority to talk
about the importance of democracy and rule of law.

And being a role model — this is a room of role models — we know, as a
role model, people watch what you do to see if it matches up to what you
say. 

One of my very real fears, Charlie, to be candid, is I hope that we, as
the American people, fully understand how important America is to the
world.  I hope we really, really understand that — (applause) — because
this is about what will happen to and — and with us as Americans, but it
will impact people around the world.

MR. SYKES:  Let me follow up on that, Congresswoman, because I was on a
podcast recently with — with another pundit who was saying that she was
afraid that America was sleepwalking into authoritarianism, that
American voters were not sufficiently alarmed.  And as the vice
president just said, the former chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff
just said that Donald Trump was the most dangerous threat facing the
country. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MR. SYKES:  Do Americans — in this last 15 days, do they understand
that?  And what has to happen in the next two weeks for them to really
understand the danger?

MS. CHENEY:  Yeah, I — I think that they — I think they do.  And, you
know, one of the things I — I remind people is that although not every
Republican who is casting a vote for Vice President Harris will say
publicly that they are — there’s clearly, you know, a threat associated
with that in some instances — but — but millions will.  And — and they
will do that for a whole range of reasons, but — but what you mentioned
is so important. 

I mean, when I think about — you know, I — the first time I ever voted
was for Ronald Reagan.  I’ve known presidents well.  Obviously,
particularly, I know a vice president well — (laughter) — in addition to
Vice President Harris.  And — and I watch how our presidents have
operated.  And even when there have been presidents that we have
potentially disagreed with on issues, they’ve respected the
Constitution.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

MS. CHENEY:  I mean, think about the 2000 election and how close that
was and what Vice President Gore did in — in his concession speech and
in ensuring that we had the peaceful transfer of power. 

And so, I — I would just urge people — again, you don’t have to — to
take my word for it, but — but look at what the people closest to Donald
Trump are saying about him.  Look at the testimony of the leaders of his
Justice department, the leaders of his campaign, the most senior
officials in his White House.  Look at their testimony in front of the
Select Committee.  You know, they’re the ones that — that told us
everything that we know about his plan to overturn the last election,
about what he did watching the attack from his dining room. 

We’ve never faced a threat like this before, and I — I think it’s so
important for people to realize this republic only survives if we
protect it, and that means putting partisan politics aside and standing
up for the Constitution and for what’s right and loving our country
more.  (Applause.)

MR. SYKES:  Do — do you — do you think we’ll be hearing more from some
of those folks in the next 15 days — the generals, the chiefs of staff,
the people who really understand exactly how unfit Donald Trump is?

MS. CHENEY:  I do.  I also think that — you know, that they have been
very clear so far. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. CHENEY:  I mean, you’ve had — you’ve had hundreds of national
security officials who served in Republican administrations endorse the
vice president —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Publicly, yeah.

MS. CHENEY:  Yeah.  And all of the things that — that — you know, the
fact that these people aren’t endorsing — the fact that Vice President
Pence, who was the most loyal person there was to Donald Trump — he
won’t endorse him because he knows Donald Trump asked him to violate his
oath of office. 

Now, that should also give you a lot of pause about J.D. Vance.  J.D.
Vance is there because he will do what Donald Trump wants, and that
makes him a particular danger to the republic as well.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and I’ll add to that point: Understand also
what happened in the last few months when the Supreme Court essentially
told the former president he will be immune from anything he does in
office.  So, whereas, before, there was at least some threat of
consequence and accountability, that no longer exists. 

And to the congresswoman’s point, imagine Donald Trump — based on
everything we know about him and everything we see now and before —
imagine him with no guardrails, because all of those folks who worked
with him before, they’re not — those who held him back, who attempted to
ensure that he would follow the law are no longer there.  And — and we
have the Supreme Court decision, so the stakes are very high.

MR. SYKES:  Okay.  Let’s go to the audience for some questions.  We — we
have some undecided voters who have some questions for you, Madam Vice
President.

Let’s go to Lisa Brockman from Madison.  Lisa is a small-business
owner. 

Q    Hi.

MR. SYKES:  Good evening. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  I have a question on reproductive
freedom.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    And I am — come from a conservative, Christian, pro-life family,
and I was a Republican until Donald Trump’s presidency.  (Laughs.)  Like
most Americans, I believe in a woman’s right to choose.  And with the
overturning of Roe v. Wade, my 21-year-old daughter now has fewer rights
than her mother or her grandmothers.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    I no longer recognize the Republican Party.  They have introduced
bills for everything from restricting birth control to bringing homicide
charges for abortion.  It is such an extreme, radical agenda by any
standards, and it seems less about the unborn and more about controlling
women. 

So, my question is: What are your thoughts on this extremism, and how
can we restore those fundamental human rights that have been taken away
from the American women?

MR. SYKES:  Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, to your point, when Donald Trump was president,
he hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with
the intention that they would undo the protections of Roe, and they did
as he intended.  And now there are at least 20 states in our country
that have criminalized health care providers, to your point. 

I mean, in Texas, the — the law provides for prison for life for a
doctor, nurse, health care provider for doing what they believe is
health care and in the best interest of their patient. 

Punishing women.  I was actually just this week, just a few days ago, in
the state of Georgia with the mother of a young woman who died because
of Georgia’s abortion ban, and she had to go to another state.  And it’s
a long and very tragic story that did not have to be.

And here’s how I think about this issue.  One does not have to abandon
their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree that the government — these
folks in a state capitol, much less Donald Trump — should not be making
this decision for her.  If she chooses, she will talk with her priest,
her pastor, her rabbi, her imam, but not the government. 

And — and I also have found, though, since the two years that the Dobbs
decision came down, that this happened, I have had conversations with a
number of people who were opposed to abortion and remain opposed to it
but did not intend for the harm that we are seeing to happen.  And I
think as this has — this decision came down and we are seeing the harm,
there are more and more people who are agreeing that this should not be
the government making this decision for women and their families.

And the way that we will address this is, eventually, Congress needs to
pass a law restoring those protections, and we need to agree that, in
our society, you know, we should not have laws that are treating people
in a way that is causing such harm. 

I’ll give you another example of the harm that is going on.  I started
my career as a prosecutor.  I have prosecuted everything from low-level
offenses to homicides.  But one of the reasons I became a prosecutor is
because, when I was in high school, I learned that my best friend was
being molested by her stepfather.  And so, I said to her, “You have to
come live with us.”  I called my mother.  My mother said, “Of course,”
and she did.  And I made a decision early in my life that I wanted to do
the work that was about protecting vulnerable people. 

There are some of these bans that include no exception for rape or
incest.  I have specialized in those kinds of cases.  And the — the
notion that we would tell a survivor of a crime that is a violation to
their body that they have no right to make a decision about what happens
to their body next — I mean, I think that’s just unconscionable.  I
think it’s immoral. 

And so, this is one of the issues that is at play.  And when this issue
has been on the ballot, since the Dobbs decision came down, in so-called
red states and so-called blue states, the American people have voted for
freedom.  (Applause.)

MR. SYKES:  Congresswoman Cheney, I’d like to get your thoughts on this
as well. 

MS. CHENEY:  Yeah.  You know, I am — I’m pro-life, and I have been very
troubled, deeply troubled by what I have watched happen in so many
states since Dobbs.  And I have been troubled by the extent to which you
have women who, as the vice president said, in some cases, have died,
who can’t get medical treatment that they need because providers are
worried about criminal liability. 

You know, we’re facing a situation today where I think that it’s an
untenable one.  And I think that as we deal with issues like this one,
having a president who understands how important compassion is, who
understands that these shouldn’t be political issues, that we ought to
be able to have these discussions and say: You know what?  Even if you
are pro-life, as I am, I do not believe, for example, that the state of
Texas ought to have the right, as they’re currently suing to do, to get
access to women’s medical records. 

I mean, there are some very fundamental and fundamentally dangerous
things that have happened.  And — and so, I think that it’s crucially
important for us to find ways to have the federal government play a role
and protect women from some of the worst harms that we’re seeing. 

But — but, again, I just think that if you look at the difference in —
in the way that Donald Trump is handling this issue — you know, Donald
Trump, at one point, called for criminal penalties for women.  Now, you
know, he — he’s been now trying to — to, you know, sort of be all over
the place on this issue, although he expresses great pride for what’s
happened.

And — and I think the — the bottom line on this, as on so many other
issues, is, you know, you just can’t count on him.  You cannot trust
him.  We’ve seen the man that he is.  We’ve seen the cruelty.  And
America deserves much better.  (Applause.)

MR. SYKES:  Thank you.  Thank you, Lisa.

So, we — we have another question.  Carolyn Mitchell from Wauwatosa has
a question for the vice president as well. 

Q    Hi.  I have concerns about the strength and the health of the
Medicare and the Social Security system.  There have been a lot of
suggestions for improving or protecting it, some of them raising the age
for full acceptance of Social Security.  There’s also the idea that we
would end the cap on — on the Social Security tax.  There is also the
suggestion that we raise the tax rate on both Medicare and Social
Security.  And, of course, the last one is to reduce the benefits. 

So, my question for you is: How can we protect the health of both Social
Security and Medicare without reducing the benefits?

MR. SYKES:  Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first of all, thank you for your question. 
Actually, just today, I believe it was — within the last 24 hours or so
— an independent review of Donald Trump’s policy on Social Security has
indicated that, under his policy, Social Security would become insolvent
in six years. 

And what I and you and, I think, most of us know is that we have many,
many seniors in our country where their Social Security check is their
only form of income.  It’s everything and the only thing they have to
live on, to pay rent, groceries, all of that.  And so, we must protect
Social Security.   
  
     If you look at Donald Trump’s Project 2025, the — the plan that
they have if he is elected — or reelected president, it — it would
attack Social Security.  It would attack Medicare.   
  
     And back to the point about just what is in the interest of
dignity.  The president of the United States should have as one of their
highest concerns the dignity of the American people and, in particular,
those who have lived a productive life, who deserve to be able to retire
and go into their senior years with the dignity of not worrying about
whether they’re going to have a roof over their head or be able to
eat.   
  
     So, my plan includes what we need to do to strengthen the solvency
of Social Security.  It includes what we’re going to need to do and work
with Congress to make sure we’re putting more into it.  And it cannot be
about cutting benefits, because right now, those benefits are barely
adequate as it is.   
  
     What we must also do is continue to strengthen Medicare around what
we’ve been working on, which is to allow Medicare to negotiate
prescription medication costs for our seniors.   
  
     So, in the last four years, we have now capped the cost of insulin
at $35 a month for seniors.  This is a huge issue for so many who have
otherwise either taken a bus trip to Canada to try and get their
prescription medication — you’re smiling; you know what I’m talking
about — or — not that you have; I’m not suggesting that.  (Laughter.) 
I’m not suggesting that.  And we’ve also capped the cost of — of
prescription medication at $2,000 a year for our seniors, understanding,
again, that this is a related issue, which is what is causing our
seniors to be on the verge of bankruptcy and — and homelessness, by the
way.  
  
     The other work that we have to do is to deal with home health care
and how Medicare is covering that.   
  
     So, part of my plan is — right now, the only way that there will be
coverage for home health care is, generally speaking, Medicaid, which
means that the family or the individual would have to spend down all of
their savings to be able to be eligible for Medicaid.  And, frankly, I
think it’s just — that’s — that’s wrong, and it’s — it’s just wrong.  
  
     You know, I took care of my mother when she was sick, and the work
that needs to happen to support our seniors to be able to stay in their
home, to be able to live a life with dignity should include that we will
pay attention to the fact that not everybody can afford that help, not
everyone has a family member who can do it. 

And so, my plan includes having Medicare cover home health care work for
seniors — (applause) — so that you can stay in your home, for example,
and have someone who can prepare a meal and help you put on a sweater. 
But the — the core point being dignity and understanding that we should
not have a society that allows or requires our seniors to — to go into
poverty in order to qualify for the care that they may need that, I
think, we — most would agree — should provide.  (Applause.)  
  
     Thank you.  
      
     MR. SYKES:  And we have another question from the audience, from
Dan — Dan Voboril, who is a retired school teacher, taught at MPS, and
now lives in Waukesha.  Again, a genuinely undecided voter, I
understand.  
  
     Q    Thank you.  Good evening.  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  Come on, Dan.  (Laughter.)   
  
     Q    What did you say?  
  
     I was told I was going to be an alternate, so I was a little
worried about getting my question.  But —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Take your time.  Take your time.  
  
     Q    This is a question that — I actually retired from MPS, but I
currently teach, and I teach at a private Catholic school.  I’m a
Catholic, but I’ve also been pro-life, pro-choice depending.  But I have
five daughters, and I think it’s my duty to continue — with the children
I teach as well — to see that we need to respect women, and I’ve really
come to the conclusion that this toxicity that exists is just rather
embarrassing.  And as a lifelong Republican, who I thought your father
would be a great president —  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  Thank you.  
  
     Q    — not to say George wasn’t, but — (laughter) — but I’ve come
to this realization, and it’s — it’s been very difficult.  So, I’m just
— my big question was, for the future of my children and also students
that I encounter and try to show that we have to have some kind of
civility like we did back in the — the ‘80s, when Ronald Reagan and Tip
O’Neill, of course, could talk about things and solve problems, and now
it’s trying to get one better than the other.   
  
     And so, I’m just wondering, in your position now, how to convince
people like me, who some of my siblings might be questioning what I’m
doing here, but — (laughter) — I — I think, like you said, we have to be
courageous, and that’s what I’m trying to be.  And so, what do you think
we can do in the last 15 days — or you can, Madam Vice President — what
you can do to try to get some of these people to cross over?  I know you
already said that some of them probably won’t say who they’re voting
for, but — or something I could take with me to say, “This sounds very
good,” or, “We got to at least listen to this.”  
  
     MR. SYKES:  To reduce the toxicity?  Is that —  
  
     Q    Yes.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  Okay.  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  Yeah, I — I think that — that, you know, you’ve really
put your finger on something that’s so important, and you see it as a
teacher.  You know, any of us who are around young children — I see it
as a mom.  My kids aren’t so young anymore, but — but, you know, the —
when they look at how elected officials and, in particular, how Donald
Trump is conducting himself now, that’s — that’s not — that’s not a
lesson that anybody would look up to.   
  
     And — and I think about it often from the perspective of the men
and women who’ve worn the uniform of our country and who have sacrificed
so much for our freedom, all of us have an obligation to be worthy of
that sacrifice. 

And in this — (applause) — you know, in this moment, there — there are
millions of good and honorable people who Donald Trump has just
fundamentally betrayed.  And — and I think it’s so important for — for
people to think about this from the perspective of, you know, the
decision to give somebody the power of the presidency means that you’re
handing someone the most awesome and significant power of any office
anywhere in the world, and — and you have to choose people who have
character, choose people of good faith.   
  
     You know, the — the framers knew this.  The framers knew that —
that it was so important that, you know, we take an oath but that also,
fundamentally, you had to have people of character.  And Donald Trump
has proven he’s not one of those people by his actions.   
  
     So, you know, what I — what I say to people is, look, for us to get
back to a time where we are actually having policy debates and
discussions and disagreements, we have to protect what undergirds all of
this, and — and what undergirds all of it is the Constitution.  And we
have to be willing to say, as a nation, “We’re better than
partisanship.”   
  
     We know — and I say this as someone who spent a lot of years
engaged in partisan battles and — and there are important debates we
have to have.  But if — if we allow someone again — if we give him the
power again to, you know, do all of the things he tells us he’s going to
do — he says he’ll terminate the Constitution; he says he’ll deploy the
military against the “enemy within” — that — that is a risk that we just
simply can’t take as a nation.  And — and I think that, you know, this
vote, this election cycle, this time around has to be about so much more
than partisanship. 

And I will just end this by saying: And I also know because I have spent
time with Vice President Harris, because I have come to understand what
she believes about how she will govern, that she will be a president for
all Americans, that she’s committed to listening and committed to having
viewpoints, some of which, you know, come from different ends of the
political spectrum.   
  
     And — and if you think about how you conduct, you know, your life
outside of politics, how we all conduct our everyday lives, those are
the kinds of people that you trust.  Those are the kinds of people you
can work with.  Like, if you wouldn’t — if you wouldn’t hire somebody to
babysit your kids, like, you shouldn’t make that guy the president of
the United States.  (Laughter and applause.)  I mean, that’s, like,
pretty basic.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  So — so —  
      
     MS. CHENEY:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  Madam Vice President, that — this question goes to the
heart of our discussion tonight, because it’s almost — it is not about
politics.  It’s not about left versus right.  We’re talking about the
culture and the impact, the coarsening of the culture, the way in which
we have been taught to fear and hate one another, and how our —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  — debates have just devolved into sort of trolling one
another.  How do we get back from that?  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I think that Dan raised — and, Charlie,
your point is — is really also hitting on we have to tap into and — and
rejoice, frankly, in the spirit of who we are as Americans.  And we are
an ambitious people.  We have aspirations.  We have dreams.  We are
optimistic by nature.  And we, I think, value certain qualities in our
leaders.   
  
     To your point as — being a teacher, all of — those of us who are
parents or parent in any form, the — the notion over the last several
years coming from Trump and those who follow him, meaning people like
who he’s running with — not his voters, but just others — the notion
that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat
down is just wrongheaded.   
  
     I think most of us would agree that the — that the real measure of
the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up.  I think most of
us would agree — (applause) — and most of us would agree that it is —
when we talk about character, it is the sign of strong character to have
empathy, to have some level of concern and care about the well-being of
other people and then to do something about that.  
  
     And I think there’s so much about this election that calls into
question whether we are on a track with a Donald Trump as president to
actually teach and to — and to show our children our definition of a
leader, and is that it.  
  
     One of the issues that I think has resulted in the kind of toxicity
that you have been describing is that he tends to encourage us as
Americans to point our fingers at each other.  That’s not in our best
interest.  The vast majority of us have so much more in common than what
separates us.   
  
     We are stronger as a nation when we are working toward a common
goal, at least on the most basic, fundamental priorities.   
  
     And I think in this election, you can look at, for example, how he
presents in his — in his events to know that he really does not have a
plan for America that is about investing in our future, investing in our
children, investing in — in our economies and new industries, investing
in our relationships around the world.  It’s all about himself and his
personal grievances.  And do we want a president of the United States
who spends full time plotting revenge while they sit in the Oval Office
or a president who is actually focused on the American people?  
  
     I would also say, as a — as a point that I think the congresswoman
exemplifies in so many ways, the strength of our democracy requires a
strong two-party system.  It really does.  (Applause.)  It requires that
we have healthy debate — that we have healthy debate based on — you
know, based in logic and fact and that we — we debate it out — have
good, vigorous debates — have a good fight over policy.  That’s good for
democracy.  But not to point our fingers and call each other names over
trivial, petty grievances.   
  
     So, I think all of that is at stake in this election, and — and
tapping into the commonalities that we have around some of these
fundamental principles, I think, is going to be key.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  Well, that’s why the stakes are so high, right? 
Because the presidency is a role model, but America is a role model to
the rest of the world.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  So, in the very short amount of time we have left,
Congresswoman Cheney, just talk a little bit more about the — the stakes
for the world.  We haven’t talked about the stakes for the future of
Ukraine, NATO, of all the other democracies who are looking to us.  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  They’re so, so high, Charlie.  And, you know,
America’s safety and security depends upon America leading, and it
depends upon allies. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. CHENEY:  And when you have someone who is erratic and chaotic and
unstable, that puts all of us at risk.  
  
     I — I tell people often — you know, I spend a lot of time working
on national security issues.  And when people that I know in the — in
the Republican Party tell me they might be considering voting for Trump
from a national security perspective, I ask them: Go look at his
national security policies.  Please, go look at them, because what he’s
proposing in terms of withdrawing from NATO; welcoming Vladimir Putin to
attack our NATO Allies; praising — he — he praises Kim Jong Un, the
leader of North Korea, and President Xi of China and Putin of Russia. 
And if you listen to him, he doesn’t just praise those people
generally.  He praises them for their cruelty —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  — for their tyranny.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
     MS. CHENEY:  That’s not who we are as a nation.  It’s not who we
are. 

And the world needs us to be better.  And our own security and our own
freedom requires that we have a president who understands America has to
lead and that our strength comes both from our greatness and also from
our goodness.  And that’s Vice President Harris.  (Applause.)  
  
     MR. SYKES:  And you have the last word.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and just to — thank you.  Thank you.

MR. SYKES:  You get the last word.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But — but just as a point of emphasis on this
important point: Understand that this is an individual, Donald Trump,
who is easily manipulated by flattery, and we’ve seen that.  We’ve —
don’t forget he — he dared to even consider vi- — inviting the Taliban
to Camp David.  Remember all this.  The love letters with Kim Jong Un.  
  
     Let’s remember what we just most recently — what was reported. 
During the height of COVID, Americans were dying by the hundreds a day. 
Nobody could get their hands on COVID tests.  You remember what that
was.  During that time, he secretly sent COVID tests to Vladimir Putin
for his personal use.  
  
     On the issue of Ukraine, he says, “Oh, well, I’d solve that in a
day.”  Well, I don’t think we as Americans think that the president of
the United States should solve an issue like that through surrender, and
understand that’s what would happen.  (Applause.)  Understand that’s
what would happen.  Vladimir Putin would be sitting in Kyiv if Donald
Trump were president.   
  
     And understand what that means as — so much that our allies
understand, and that’s why they’re concerned about this election.  If —
if Putin were to get away with invading the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Ukraine because America, the leader in bringing the allies
together in standing for fundamental international rules and norms, like
sovereignty and territorial integrity — if Vladimir Putin got away with
that, you think he wouldn’t march next right into Poland and the rest of
Europe?  Because Donald Trump wants to please somebody that he considers
to be a strongman, who he admires?  
  
     So, on this and so many issues, the stakes are extremely high.   
  
     But I — I would say this as — as a final point for now.  This is
not as much an issue of what we are against as what we are for.  And
I’ll end my point where I started: We love our country, and our country
is worth fighting for.  (Applause.)  And that’s how I think of this.   
  
     We — our — our democracy will only be as strong as our willingness
to fight for it.  And you all are taking your time out of your lives to
be here because we, I think, agree on that among the most fundamental
principles at stake.   
  
     And I thank you for the time you’ve taken, and I hope to earn your
vote, by the way.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
      
     Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
     MR. SYKES:  And we have 15 days to make a decision. 

     Thank you all for coming here to (inaudible).  Thank you,
Congresswoman Liz Cheney.  Vice President Kamala Harris, thank you so
much.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                7:54 P.M. CDT
