---
date: '2024-10-31'
modified_time: 2024-11-02 14:26:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-31 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/31/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-phoenix-az/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Phoenix,\_AZ"
---
 
Talking Stick Amphitheatre  
Phoenix, Arizona

1:53 P.M. MST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Arizona.  (Applause.)  Hi, everyone. 

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Okay, we
have work to do.  Thank you.  Thank you.

Can we hear from Ruben Gallego?  (Applause.)

And I’ve known Ruben a long time and, of course, Arizona knows him so
well.  He is a veteran of the Marine Corps, a proven leader, a champion
for all of Arizona, and please send him to the United States Senate. 
(Applause.)

 So, it’s so good to be back in Arizona and Phoenix.  Are we ready to do
this?  (Applause.)

     Are we ready to vote?  (Applause.)

     Are we ready to win?  (Applause.)

     Oh, it’s good to be back and to be with so many incredible
leaders. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I love you!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I love you back.  (Laughter.)

I want to thank Governor Hobbs; Senator Kelly; Gabby Giffords —
(applause); Mayors Gallego, Romero, and Giles — (applause); Ambassador
Jeff Blake.  (Applause.)  I am so grateful to all of you for your
support.

And to all the Tribal leaders, the elected leaders, community leaders
here today — (applause) — I thank you.

And let’s hear it again for Los Tigres Del Norte.  (Applause.)

Okay, work to do.  So, Arizona, tomorrow, Friday, November fir- — by the
way, Happy Halloween.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

So, tomorrow, Friday, November 1st is the last day to vote early in
person.  And if you are voting by mail and still have your ballot,
please take it to any drop box in your county or any voting location by
7:00 p.m. on Tuesday, November 5th.  And you can go to IWillVote.com to
get all the information you need.

And to all the leaders here: Please help spread the word on that. 
(Applause.)  Okay?

And we need you to vote, Arizona, because we have five days left —
(applause) — five days left in one of the most consequential elections
of our lifetime.

And we have work to do, but we like hard work.  (Applause.) 

Hard work is good work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is joyful work. 
(Applause.)

And make no mistake, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will
win.  We will win. 

And we will win because we know that it’s very clear to all of us here:
When you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for. 
(Applause.)

And we love our country.  And we love our country.  And we know, in this
election, we have an opportunity to turn the page on a decade of Donald
Trump trying to keep us divided and afraid of each other.  We’re done
with that.  We’re exhausted with that.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we know — and we know that’s who he is.  But,
Phoenix, that is not who we are.  (Applause.)  That is not who we are. 
And it is time for a new generation of leadership in America.
 (Applause.)  And I am ready to offer that leadership as the next
president of the United States.  (Applause.)

And, Arizona, many of you know me.  I’m not afraid of tough fights.  For
decades, I was a prosecutor.  I was the top law enforcement officer of
the biggest state in our country, and I have won fights.  I won fights
against the big banks that ripped off homeowners, against for-profit
colleges that scammed veterans and students, against predators who
abused women and children.  And we are fighting for democracy —

     (A protestor disruption can be heard.)

     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that’s all right.  That’s all right.  Democracy
can be complicated, but we believe in democracy and the right of
everyone — (applause) — to have their voices heard.  It’s all right.

 And I have fought for many who have harmed other human beings.  I have
fought against the cartels that trafficked in guns, drugs, and human
beings, and it is my pledge to you that if you give me the chance to
fight on your behalf as president, there is nothing in the world that
will stand in my way.  (Applause.)

     And look, we all know who Donald Trump is.  This is not —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because here’s the thing we all know: He is not
someone who is thinking about how to make your life better.  This is
someone who is unstable, obsessed with revenge, consumed with grievance,
and out for unchecked power.  And in less than 90 days, it will either
be him or me in the Oval Office.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, we’re going to get this done.  And — and I
thank you.  I thank you.  And here’s the thing, because we’re really
clear, and we can all picture it — we can picture the Oval Office,
right?  And if he is elected, on day one, Donald Trump would walk into
that office with an enemies list.  On day one, when I am elected, I will
walk in with a to-do list.  (Applause.)

     And on top of my list is bringing down —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  *Sí, se puede, sí*.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  *Sí,
se puede*.

AUDIENCE:  *Sí, se puede*!*  Sí, se puede*!*  Sí, se puede*!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  And on top of my list, in that spirit, is
bringing down your cost of living.  (Applause.)  It’s an issue that we
need to address, and it will be my focus every single day as President.

I will give a middle-class tax cut to over 100 million Americans. 
(Applause.)  I will enact –I will enact the first-ever federal ban on
corporate price gouging on groceries.  (Applause.)  I will fight to make
sure that hardworking Americans can actually afford a place to live. 
(Applause.)

And if you are caring for an elderly parent — look, I took care of my
mother when she was sick. 

     (A protestor disruption can be heard.)

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  If you are taking care of an elderly parent, I
understand what you are experiencing, and my plan will cover the cost of
care under Medicare for the seniors in your life who need help and
support.  (Applause.)

Because so much of my plan, for me, is about the dignity that all people
deserve, which is why my plan inlu- — includes lowering the cost of
childcare, cutting taxes for small businesses, and lowering health care
costs. 

Do we have small businesses in the house?  (Applause.) 

I will focus on health care, because this is where I come from.  I
believe access to health care should be a right and not just a privilege
of those who can afford it.  (Applause.)

On the other hand, Donald Trump’s answer to th- —

     (A protestor disruption can be heard.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, guys, you know what?  Here is the thing. 
Let’s talk for a moment about Gaza.  We all want this war to end and get
the hostages out.  (Applause.)  And I will work on it full time when I
am elected president, as I’ve been.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’ve got your back!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I have yours.  (Applause.)

So, there’s a contrast in this election on so many issues, including our
plans for America’s economy.  Donald Trump’s answer to the financial
pressures you face is the same as the last time: another trillion
dollars in tax cuts for billionaires and the biggest corporations, and
this time he will pay for it.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And this time, his plan is a 20 percent national
sales tax on everything you buy that is imported: clothes, food, toys,
cell phones.

A Trump sales tax, according to The Economist, would cost the average
American family an additional $4,000 a year.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of that, Donald Trump still wants to get
rid of the Affordable Care Act —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — also known as Obamacare, and he has a powerful
friend in Congress, the speaker of the House, who recently said, if
Trump wins, there will be, quote, “no Obamacare,” which would throw —
understand the meaning of that.  It would throw millions of Americans
off of their health insurance and take us back to the time, which we
remember, when insurance companies could deny people with preexisting
conditions.

     Well, we are —

     AUDIENCE:  Not going back! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back. 
(Applause.)  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We are not going back.  We’re not going back. 
We’re not going back.

And we are not going back because ours is a fight for the future, and it
is a fight for freedom — (applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a
woman to make decisions about her own body and not have her government
tell her what to do.  (Applause.) 

And remember how we got here: Donald Trump hand-selected three members
of the United States Supreme Court —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — with the intention that they would undo the
protections of Roe v. Wade, and they did as he intended.  And now, in
America, one in three women lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban,
many with no exceptions even for rape and incest, which is immoral.  

And — and — and Donald Trump is not done.  Did everyone hear what he
just said yesterday?  That he will do what he wants, quote — and here’s
where I’m going to quote — “whether the women like it or not.”

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     Vote!  Vote!  Vote!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we must vote, because this is the thing.  You
know, there’s a saying that you got to listen to people when they tell
you who you are — who they are.  And this is not the first time he has
told us who he is.  He does not believe women should have the agency and
authority to make decisions about their own bodies. 

This is the same man who said women should be punished for their
choices.  He simply does not respect the freedom of women or the
intelligence of women to know what’s in their own best interest and make
decisions accordingly.

But we trust women.  (Applause.)  We trust women, which is why, yes, we
will vote, because we also understand, if he was elected, he has been
pretty clear in his behavior and his deeds.  He will ban abortion
nationwide.  He will restrict access to birth control, put IVF
treatments at risk, and force states to monitor women’s pregnancies. 

 And you don’t have to take my word for it.  Just google Project 2025.

 AUDIENCE:  Booo —

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Read the plans for yourself.

And I think everyone here knows that we can agree one does not have to
abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government
shouldn’t be telling her what to do.  (Applause.)  Not the government. 
Not the government.

So, Arizona, to protect your right to make your own health care
decisions, I would recommend you vote yes on Proposition 139 —
(applause) — and make sure you vote up and down the ballot to truly
protect that right.

     And it is my pledge to you: When Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom, as president of the United States, I will proudly
sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly.

So, Arizona, I’m here to ask for your vote — (applause) — which I would
be so honored to have.  And here is my pledge to you.  As president, I
pledge to you to seek common ground and commonsense solutions to the
challenges you face.

I will tell you I am not looking to score political points.  I am
looking to make progress. 

     I pledge to you to listen to experts, to listen to those who will
be impacted by the decisions I make, and I pledge to you to listen to
people who disagree with me.

And unlike Donald Trump, I don’t believe that people who disagree with
me are the enemy.  Who — he wants to put them in jail.  I’ll give them a
seat at the table — (applause) — because that’s how a democracy works,
and that’s how real leaders work.  (Applause.)

And I pledge to you to always put country above party and above self and
to be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.)  That is my sincere
pledge to you.

 And so, Phoenix, with five days left in this campaign, my opponent is
also making his closing argument to America —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And you’ve probably seen a bit of it.  It is an
argument that is full of hate and division.  He insults Latinos,
scapegoats immigrants.  And it’s not just what he says, it’s what he
will do.  If elected, you can be sure he will bring back family
separation policies —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — only on a much greater scale than last time.  And
it is time then to turn the page on Donald Trump.  (Applause.)  We are
done with that. 

So, five days out, and it all comes down to this.  We are here together,
and you all have taken time out of all the demands on your life and your
busy schedules.  You have taken the time to be here because I know we
all love our country.  We love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our
country.

And when you love something, you fight for it.  You fight for it. 

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Yes.  And with that spirit — and with this
spirit, we know that one of the highest forms of patriotism, the love
that we have for our country, is to then fight for its ideals and to
fight to realize the promise of America.  That’s what this is about. 

And I have always believed in our nation’s promise, because I have lived
it.  I grew up as a child of the Civil Rights Movement.  My parents
would take me to marches when I was in a stroller.  And people, during
that time, would come together from every walk of life, together from
every background, every race, and come together to fight for freedom and
opportunity.  (Applause.)

Gro- — growing up — when I was growing up, I saw how hard my mother
worked to give her two daughters the same chances our country gave her. 
And I was blessed to have family by blood and to have family by love —
(applause) — who instilled — who instilled in me the values of community
and compassion and faith.

I’ve spent my life fighting for people who have been hurt and counted
out but never stopped believing that anything in our country is
possible. 

I have lived the promise of America, and today I see the promise of
America in everyone here, in all of you.  (Applause.)

I see the promise of America in the women who refuse to accept a future
without reproductive freedom — (applause) — and the men who support them
— (applause); in the fathers and mothers who work hard every day for
their children’s future — (applause); in Republicans who have never
voted for a Democrat before but put the Constitution of the United
States before party.  (Applause.)

 And I see the promise of America in all the young leaders who are
voting for the first time.  (Applause.)  Where are you?  Let me see you.

And I love this generation of leaders.  You are rightly — (applause) — I
mean, you guys are rightly impatient for change.  (Applause.)  And you
are determined to live free from gun violence, to tackle the climate
crisis, to shape the world you inherit.  (Applause.)

And for our young leaders — here’s the thing.  None of this is
theoretical for them.  It’s not political.  For you all, it is your
lived experience.  And I see you, and I see your incredible power, and I
am so proud of you.  So, can we hear it for the first-time voters who
are here?  (Applause.) 

Although, why aren’t you guys in class?  (Laughter.)  It’s okay.

So, Arizona, we have five days to get this done, and no one can sit on
the sidelines.  Let’s spend the next five days so that when we look back
on these five days, we’ll know we did everything we could. 

So, let’s knock on doors.  Let’s text and call voters.  Let’s reach out
to family and friends and neighbors and coworkers and classmates. 

And as we do, here is my request.  Let us please be intentional about
building community.  Let us be intentional about building coalitions. 

You know, there’s been so much about these last several years that is
making people feel alone, making people point their fingers at each
other as though we’re not all in this together. 

 So, let’s approach this with the spirit that is about bringing folks
back together, and reminding everyone, the vast majority of us have so
much more in common than what separates us.  (Applause.)  So, let’s
approach it that way.  Let’s approach it that way.  We will be the
stronger for it.

And always remember: Your vote is your voice and your voice is your
power.  (Applause.)

So, Arizona, today, I ask you: Are you ready to make your voices heard? 
(Applause.)

     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win! 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.

                             END                2:17 P.M. MST
