---
date: '2024-10-02'
published_time: 2024-10-02 14:23:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/02/remarks-by-president-biden-before-air-force-one-departure-joint-base-andrews-md-5/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Air Force One Departure | Joint Base Andrews,\_\
  MD"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

12:30 P.M. EDT

Q    Sir, do you have a view on automation with the dockworkers strike?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — look, we’re going down to see what — the
damage done.  I’m going to be going back again to other states.  But
here’s the thing, this natural disaster is incredibly consequential. 
The last thing we need on top of that is a man-made disaster: what’s
going on at the ports.

We’re getting pushback already, and we’re hearing from the folks
recently that they’re having trouble getting product they need because
of the port strike. 

And, look, there’s a — there’s a consortium of mak- — basically six
owners that control all the ports from all the way to the East Coast,
down around the Gulf.  And — and they’ve made — they’ve made incredible
profits — over 800 percent profit since the pandemic, and the owners are
making tens of millions of dollars in this. 

The last thing they need is to profit off of this.  It’s time to — for
them to sit at the table and get this strike done. 

Q    Will you be communicating with them directly about any of this?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, we have.  We have.  I haven’t personally, but we
have. 

Q    Can you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Okay?

Q    Can you tell us anything about Iran and Israel’s possible —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Look —

Q    — retaliation?

THE PRESIDENT:  I called a meeting of the G7 today.  We’re working on a
joint statement all of us agree on — from Japan to France to Germany to
— et cetera.  And what we’re doing in that regard is we’re making it
clear that there are things that have to be done.  And it’s — obviously,
Iran has gone way out of — I mean, is way off board.  We’re going to —
putting together a joint statement.  Hasn’t been done yet.  It will be
done before too long, probably by the time we land.  And there’s going
to be some sanctions imposed on Iran. 

Q    Sir, do — do you — sorry.  Do you have a view on the workers’ fight
for restrictions on technology or automation for the dockworkers?

THE PRESIDENT:  No — look, they just need to sit down and talk, because
I — remember, we negotiated a similar strike on the West Coast before,
and they worked it out.  It’s time — they won’t even talk.  So, let’s
get that done.

Q    Sir, and — sir — sir, can I ask you: What is your —

Q    Would you support an attack on the — would you support an attack on
Iran’s nuclear sites by Israel?

THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is no.  And I think there’s things — we’ll be
discussing with the Israelis what they’re going to do, but they — every-
— all seven of us agree that they have a right to respond, but they
should respond in proportion. 

Thank you. 

Q    Sir, could I ask you: What is your advice to Israel as far as how
they should respond to this right now?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll leave that to — I’ll — we’re giving them that
advice. 

Q    Okay.  When will you talk to Bibi?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — we’ve been talking to Bibi’s people the whole
time.  And it’s not necessary to talk to Bibi.  I’ll probably be talking
to him relatively soon, my guess.

Thank you.

12:33 P.M. EDT
