---
date: '2024-10-04'
published_time: 2024-10-04 18:24:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-redford-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Redford,\_MI"
---
 
Redford Fire Department Station 1  
Redford, Michigan

2:03 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  (Applause.) 

Oh, good afternoon, everybody.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  It is
my great honor to be with everybody this afternoon.

Matt, I want to thank you for your leadership and for all that you do
for so many.

You know, everyone here, you all have chosen to live a life of service
in the most extraordinary way.  And I’m so thankful to all of you — to
Matt, for your leadership — and everybody here. 

And it is so good to be in the house of labor.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)  Thank you all.  Thank you all. 

And, you know, yours is a profession that is more than a profession.  It
really is about a calling. 

You know, my — I was just telling Matt — my brother-in-law just retired
as a firefighter in California.  So, for me, this is personal and it is
professional.  I know what you guys do, and I know your character.  I
know your families.  I know what it means for the whole community for
you all to take on the lives that you have decided to live, and I’m so
thankful to you.

You guys work long shifts with unpredictable hours in some of the most
dangerous conditions.  You do so on behalf of people you’ve never met. 
Sometimes, those people will never know your name, but because of what
you do with such sincerity and the highest level of skill and
professionalism, their lives are forever better.  And they always know
and have the comfort of going to sleep at night knowing that should any
tragedy come their way that you guys are out there and would be there.

It’s an extraordinary thing you do, and it’s a great gift that you have
that you give.  And so, I am so thankful to you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

And, of course, I am thankful for the union that supports you and your
right to all that you deserve in terms of the wages and the benefits
that you so rightly have earned.  (Applause.)

And I also want to thank the other brothers and sisters from labor who
are here from UAW — (applause); IBE- — IBEW; LIUNA.  Where are your
orange T-shirts?  I know you’re here somewhere.  I thank you all, all of
you. 

So, look, just yesterday, we saw another example of the power of
collective bargaining — right? — when the longshoremen and the U.S.
Maritime Alliance came together, ended a strike, and reached an
agreement on a record wage.  Right?  (Applause.)  They did good.  They
did good. 

And I say, everywhere I go, look, collective bargaining benefits
everybody.  And you know the — the term — and I’m looking at our young
leaders who are here.  I’m so glad you guys are here.  (Applause.)  So,
collective bargaining, it’s really — it’s just a basic logical point. 

So, here’s what it means.  It means that in any negotiation, you want
the outcome to be fair.  Right?  We all want fairness, right?  Everybody
wants fairness — or should. 

So, here’s the thing about collective bargaining.  If you want the
outcome to be fair, you got to realize, if you’re requiring the one
worker to negotiate against the big entity, do we really think that the
outcome is going to be fair?  Probably not.  But if you let the workers
together, as the collective, then negotiate against the big entity, it’s
more likely that the outcome will be fair.  

That’s the basic point of collective bargaining.  That’s the basic point
of why we want our unions to be able to do their work on behalf of
workers every day, because we know when union wages go up, everyone’s
wages go up.  (Applause.)  Yeah. 

And when union workplaces are safer, all workplaces are safer. 
(Applause.) 

And the bottom line is: When unions are strong, America is strong. 
(Applause.)  And our unions have always fought to make our nation, then,
more equal, more fair, and more free. 

And in this election, in 32 days, everything we have fought for is on
the line. 

This election is about two very different visions for our nation: one
that is focused on the past, and ours that is focused on the future. 

We fight for a future where we protect the fundamental freedom to
organize.  We fight for a future where workers, all workers, are treated
with dignity and respect; a future where we tap into the ambition and
the aspirations of the American people and build what I call an
“opportunity economy” so that every American has an opportunity to buy a
home, start a business, build wealth — intergenerational wealth for
their family. 

Over the last three and a half years, our nation has seen historic
small-business creation as an example of that focus. 

In Michigan alone, we have seen more than 500,000 new small-business
applications.  And when I am president, I plan to build on that progress
and that success, including by raising the start-up deduction — tax
deduction for small businesses from $5,000 for — to $50,000 to help more
entrepreneurs start a small business. 

I’ll tell you guys, my sister and I were raised by our mother, who
worked very hard, and we lived on an apartment above a daycare center. 
And it was run by and owned by the woman that we called our second
mother, who lived two houses down.  She was a small-business owner, and
her name was Ms. Shelton. 

And I grew up as a child knowing about who our small businesses are,
right?  They’re leaders in the community.  They’re civic leaders.  They
hire locally.  They train.  And so, that’s one of the reasons I’m
focused on small businesses as part of how we lift up the middle class
in America’s economy.

We need to also build more housing in America.  Housing is too
expensive. 

My mother saved up for years, until I was a teenager, when she was able
to buy our first home. 

And right now, we have a serious housing shortage in America, and that’s
part of what is driving up costs.  And so, we are going to cut red tape,
we’re going to work with the private sector, and we’ll build 3 million
new homes by the end of my first term — (applause) — including —
including providing first-time homebuyers with a $25,000 down payment
assistance so they can just get their foot literally in the door to be
able to invest in the American dream — (applause) — which not everyone
has access to these days.

We need to lower the cost of living, because, look, our economy, while
we’re making good progress — just this morning, in fact, we got a solid
jobs report: over 250,000 jobs created last month, unemployment fell. 
And just a few weeks ago, the Federal Reserve cut down interest rates,
which is going to be great for a lot of folks.  But there’s still more
work we need to do. 

Prices for everyday things like groceries are still too high.  You know
it, and I know it.

And so, we have a plan to lower costs on everything from health care to
groceries, including what I’ve done in my career as attorney general,
which is we got to take on corporate price gouging. 

We got to take on what we need to do to understand that if you want to
grow the middle class, we need more middle-class tax cuts.  And the tax
cut that is part of my plan will give a tax cut to 100 million
Americans. 

We need to expand Child Tax Credit, and I will do that to expand it to
$6,000 so that for the first year of a child’s life, their parents have
the resources that they need to be able to buy a crib or a car seat, and
in that very critical stage of their child’s development, just be able
to do more than get by but be able to get ahead. 

And I say all this to say, I will always put the middle class and
working families first.  I come from the middle class, and I will never
forget where I come from.  I will never forget where I come from. 
(Applause.)

And we know we cannot have a strong middle class without American
manufacturing. 

Over the last three and a half years, we brought manufacturing back to
America.  We created 730,000 manufacturing jobs and announced the
opening of more than 20 new auto plants in the United States.  And we
did it by investing in American industry and American workers.

And I want to make sure that America, not China, wins the competition
for the 21st century.  (Applause.)

So, under my plan, we will invest in the industries that built America,
like steel, iron, and the great American auto industry — (applause) —
yeah — so we can ensure that the next generation of breakthroughs, from
advanced batteries to electric vehicles, are not only invented but built
right here in America by American union workers.  (Applause.)

So, the election is in 32 days, and Americans have a big choice to
make.  And I think it’s very important, then, to point out Donald Trump
has a very different approach than mine. 

And let’s be real about who Donald Trump is.  Let’s be real.  This is a
time for real talk. 

He was handed $400 million on a silver platter and filed for bankruptcy
six times.  This is a man who has only ever fought for himself.  This is
a man who has been a union buster his entire career, who has called
union leaders, quote, “Dues Sucking” people.  And as president, he did
not lift a finger to save the pensions of millions of American workers. 

We did.  We did.  (Applause.)

This is a man who sold promise after promise to American workers but
never delivered, who said he supports so-called right-to-work laws “100
percent.”  Those are his words. 

He who joked and laughed about firing striking workers.  You remember
that? 

AUDIENCE:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Who rolled back labor standards and made it easier
for companies that break labor laws to get federal contracts. 

And Donald Trump is a man who tried to cut funding for our first
responders, including SAFER grants for firefighters. 

So, brothers and sisters, as we stand here in a house of labor, we will
not be fooled.  We will not be gaslighted.  Donald Trump’s track record
is a disaster for working people, and he’s trying to gaslight people all
over our country.  But we know the facts and we know the truth: He is an
existential threat to America’s labor movement.  Just look at his track
record to know. 

He said he was the only one who could bring back America’s manufacturing
jobs — Michigan knows what I’m about to say — then America lost nearly
200,000 manufacturing jobs when he was president, including tens of
thousands of jobs in Michigan.  And those losses started before the
pandemic, so we’re clear, making Donald Trump one of the biggest losers
of manufacturing jobs in American history.  (Applause.)

And recall his record — his track record for the auto industry.  He
promised workers in Warren that the auto industry would, quote, “not
lose one plant” during his presidency.  Then American automakers
announced the closure of six auto plants when he was president,
including General Motors in Warren and Stellantis in Detroit.  Thousands
of Michigan autoworkers lost their jobs. 

And now he is making the same empty promises to the people of Michigan
that he did before, hoping you will forget how he let you down.  But we
know, if he wins again, it will be more of the same. 

Everything he intends to do is spelled out in Project 2025.  If
reelected, he intends to launch a full-on attack on unions and the
freedom to organize.  He will ban public-sector unions, roll back
workplace safety protections, and appoint a union buster to run the
Department of Labor.

And on top of that, Donald Trump will give billionaires and the biggest
corporations massive tax cuts like he did last time. 

He will cut Social Security and Medicare and impose what I call a Trump
sales tax, a 20 percent tax on everyday goods and necessities, which
will cost — the economists have said — which will cost the average
American over $4,000 a year more. 

And if that weren’t enough, he intends to end the Affordable Care Act. 
And even after he tried to repeal it time and time again when he was
president, he still has no plan to replace it. 

Did you guys see the debate?  (Laughter and applause.)  “Concepts of a
plan.”  He has “concepts of a plan.”  (Laughter.)  Come on. 

And, you know, I’ve said many times he is an unserious human —
(laughter) — but the consequence of him is quite serious, because think
about that: “concepts of a plan.” 

So, he’s going to threaten the health care and health coverage of 45
million people in America based on a concept — think about that — to
take us back to when insurance companies could deny people with
preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was like?

So, look, I’m here to say, and I think we all know: It’s time to turn
the page.  It’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  We’re not going
back. 

America is ready to chart a new way forward, because we are not going
back. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No, we’re not.  We’re not going back.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, we’re not.

And so, it all comes down to this.  We are here together because we know
what is at stake.  And we are here together — and I’m looking at the
young leaders — because we love our country.  We love our country. 
(Applause.)  Yes, we do.  We love our country.

And I do believe it is the highest form of patriotism to then fight for
the ideals of our country and to fight to realize the promise of
America. 

We have 32 days to get this done, and we know this is going to be a very
tight race until the very end.  And we are the underdog, so we have some
hard work ahead of us.  But I know who’s here.  We like hard work.  Hard
work is good work.  Hard work is good work.  (Applause.)

And we know what we stand for, so we know what to fight for.  We stand
for opportunity, we stand for dignity, and we stand for the future.

And so, we know when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win. 

God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                 2:20 P.M. EDT
