---
date: '2024-10-15'
modified_time: 2024-10-16 16:02:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-15 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-an-iheartradio-watch-party-detroit-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During an \u201CiHeartRadio\u201D Watch Party\
  \ | Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
Cred Cafe  
Detroit, Michigan

6:36 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Aw.  Well, let me thank Tommy — that’s my T-shirt? 
(Applause.)  “Detroit vs. Everybody,” I’m with that.  (Applause.)  All
right.  

I want to thank everybody so very much.  Tommy (inaudible), thank you
for also this incredible — I — I just love this saying: “Detroit vs.
Everybody.”  Because, you know, I — I was sharing with some folks, when
I got to Howard, when I went to college, coming from Oakland — and my
immediate, fast friends were from Detroit.  (Laughter.)  So, before I
even knew anything, I knew about that Cass Tech, I knew about —
(applause).

And I just feel a kindred spirit whenever I come to Detroit.  But to
have the support and the hard work of all the leaders who are here means
so much.  And I just — I thank you.  I thank you. 

Look, we have 21 days until this election.  (Applause.)  We will win. 
(Applause.)  We will win.  But — thank you both.  It — it’s going to be
hard work, though.  It’s a tight race. 

But here’s the thing that I know about everybody that’s here: We like
hard work.  Hard work is good work.  Hard work is good work.  And there
is so much at stake. 

I just finished doing Charlamagne’s show.  And, you know, we talked
about a lot of issues, but there’s so much about this election — and, by
the way, early voting, everybody knows, it starts in four days in here
Michigan, and Detroit is going to help deliver Michigan, by the way. 
(Applause.)  And Michigan is going to help us win.  (Applause.)

There is so much about this election and what is in front of us with
this election that really is about two different paths and two different
visions.  And ours really is about the future, and the other side really
is about trying to take us backward. 

And — and what I want to say about the slogan “Detroit vs. Everybody,”
about the heart and soul that I know about Detroit: This is a town of
people who have grit, who have determination, and who have optimism and
ambition and apply to that a lot of hard work, which makes Detroit a
first-class city in the United States of America now and always has. 
(Applause.)

And so, I am honored to be with everybody and to work with you with what
we need to do over these next days.  And, yes, it includes supporting
our entrepreneurs. 

You know, I was talking to Charlamagne about it.  I think you guys had a
viewing thing here, right?

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, you know, a part of my — my feeling about it is
that, look, we are a nation of people who have ambition, who have
aspirations, who have dreams.  And — and we need to tap into that,
knowing that not everybody necessarily has the opportunity to actually
achieve their goals but not for lack of innovation and ideas and hard
work and grit. 

So, a lot of my vision for what we need to do as we move forward as a
new generation of leadership for America is about making sure that
people have access to opportunity, which is why a big part of my plan is
to build what I call an “opportunity economy,” which includes, for
homeownership, giving people who are first-time homeowners a $25,000
down — down payment assistance to be able to buy their first home; which
is why I know when I look at the tax code, a $5,000 deduction for
startup companies, for small businesses is not enough for anybody to
start up a small business in 2024, and I’m extending it to $50,000 to
give people that opportunity, which is why I know in building an
opportunity economy for young parents what we don’t lack for families
and individuals who have a natural desire to parent their children well
but not always the resources to do it. 

So, I will extend the Child Tax Credit to $6,000 — (the vice president
is handed a new handheld microphone to replace a malfunctioning
microphone) — and get a new mic in the process — (laughter and applause)
— thank you — to be able — $6,000 Child Tax Credit, which for the first
year of that child’s life helps that young family buy a car seat, a crib
— things for that child that get them on the path to where we know they
will succeed. 

And, you know, it’s interesting because — because when we talked on the
show just now, he — we talked about the fact that — you know, I — I
think about the economy in a way that is about uplifting people, but it
is not to the exclusion of also knowing what strengthens America’s
economy overall.

So, when I talk about extending the Child Tax Credit, giving people down
payment assistance for the first-time homebuyers, helping our small
businesses start up a small business and grow —

When I think about these things, it is, yes, thinking about individuals
who just need the opportunity, but also it’s about growing America’s
economy overall, which is why I am clear and the best economists in our
country are clear that my plan, compared to Donald Trump’s, will
strengthen our economy.  His will weaken it.  My plan will strengthen
our economy.  He’s — his will exasperate inflation.  His will invite a
recession by the middle of next year. 

So, where we stand in this election is about focusing on the future of
our nation, but it’s also about building up the strength of our nation. 

And so, I’ll end with this.  This is going to be a hard race.  We are
going to win.  And part of the way we are going to win is, over these
next 21 days, doing the work that you all are committed to doing, which
is why you have taken the time out of your busy lives to be here this
afternoon.  We’re going to do the work.

     AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s about knocking on doors and calling people
and emailing and reminding them of the power that the people possess to
determine the future of our country. 

Ours is a campaign that is about fuel from the power of the people and
about building community and building coalitions and, in the process,
building up our country to maximize our strength and our potential. 

And I thank everybody here for your — for your hope, for your prayers,
for your support, for your hard work.  And I look forward to seeing you
out in all of these beautiful neighborhoods that are Detroit as we do
the work of bringing home a victory.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

                             END                6:43 P.M. EDT
