---
date: '2024-10-03'
modified_time: 2024-10-04 10:28:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-03 13:49:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-response-and-recovery-efforts-following-hurricane-helene-ray-city-ga/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Response and Recovery Efforts Following Hurricane\
  \ Helene | Ray City,\_GA"
---
 
Shiloh Pecan Farm  
Ray City, Georgia

4:19 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Hey, family.  How you
doing?  Good to see you.   
  
Folks, a week ago, Hurricane Helene became one of the strongest
hurricanes ever — ever to hit Florida and this part of Georgia.  Roofs
ripped off the buildings; massive trees crashed into powerlines, setting
off loss of heat — electricity; flooding wiped out homes.  We were just
down in Florida to see homes that were — I mean, just wiped away.  Just
— there was an entire island gone.   
  
Families — they lost everything including — including loved ones,
including family members.   
  
And I know it isn’t the first time.  Just over a year ago, a major
hurricane hit these same communities.  A couple months ago, Hurricane
Debby did the same thing.  Three in a row.  Three in a row.  You’ve been
through hell.  Three in a row.   
  
And I want you to know: I see you, I hear you, I grieve with you, and I
promise you we have your back.  We’re going to stay until you’re
restored.   
  
Earlier today, I was briefed by Florida officials on the damage, and I
met with first responders who have been working nonstop to provide aid
and support to survivors.  I did a walking tour of Keaton Beach with a
bipartisan group of officials to survey what a 15-foot surge — 15-foot
surge — some places it went as high as three stories — does to a coastal
community.   
  
Then I came here to Georgia to meet all of you, to see firsthand how
you’re doing as well, because we’re really in this together.  We’re —
it’s separate states, but we’re the United States of America.   
  
I want to thank Governor Kemp, who I spoke with again this morning, and
Senator Warnock, who is behind me; and <s>Senator</s> \[Representative\]
Austin Scott, Representative Sanford Bishop — old friends.  
  
In moments like this, it’s time to put politics aside.  Again, it’s not
one state versus others; it’s the United States.  
  
You know, there’s no Democrats or Republicans out here.  It’s what we do
to make sure we are — restore the economy.  Only Americans are here. 
And this been — I’ve been committed to being president for all of
America.   
  
In fact, all the major bills we’ve gotten passed, from over a
trillion-dollar bill relating to infrastructure to $368 billion bill on
— on dealing with climate; a whole range of bills we got passed.  Well,
guess what?  The fact of the matter is more money from those bills has
been spent in red states — red states than in blue states — more in red
states than blue states.  As I said, I — didn’t matter where it was or
who needed help.  Not based on party.  Who needed help?  
  
And I mean this sincerely.  Che- — check it out.   
  
Our job is to help as many people as we can — as many as we can.  And
also, by the way, when you do that, I hope we begin to break down this
rabid partisanship that exists.  I mean that sincerely.  There’s no
rationale for it.  There’s no rationale for it.   
  
And so, it doesn’t matter who we help; it’s who’s needed help.  And,
look, we’re going to help as many people as we can.   
  
That’s why, days before this storm hit, I pre-positioned extensive
resources on the ground throughout the Southeast — extensively — first
responders, search and rescue teams, food, water, ambulances.   
  
Before Helene had made landfall, I also immediately <s>improved</s>
\[approved\] emergency declarations your governor and others asked for
and — so all of us could focus on the first responders and standing up
emergency operations centers. That was the focus.  
  
And yesterday, I approved governor’s req- — Governor Kemp’s request for
a federal government to cover 100 percent — 100 percent of the cost for
debris removal, emergency protective measures for three months — 100
percent.  I must tell you, your senator had a little bit to do with that
when he called me —  
  
SENATOR WARNOCK:  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  —  beforehand.  
  
But all kidding aside, we’re doing the same for Florida as well, as well
as we’re doing for North Carolina.   
  
Folks, this is going to pay for the urgent work to clear the mud, remove
the downed trees, provide temporary housing.   
  
And on top of this, the Department of Agriculture — and I have with me
th- — the secretary of Agriculture today — is on the ground to support
farmers, ranchers, and small businesses impacted by this storm.   
  
And FEMA teams are knocking — literally knocking on doors to register
folks so they can receive assistance to buy what they urgently need,
from prescription drugs, if they lost everything —  
  
For example, I was just down in — in Florida.  One home — what people
really worry the most about is not just losing their home, it’s they
lose everything that mattered to them.  They move — they — they — they,
you know, lose that picture of their mom and their dad when they were
kids.  They look — I mean, all things that are personal.  They look at —
at family jewelry, the ring that was — the engagement ring, all those
things.  
  
And there was one rescuer who said there was a young family who had —
their entire — their entire home was lifted up and taken out into
basically what we’d call a bayou — it’s not a bayou, but it’s flat space
on — out in the middle of a marsh.  They went out there to cut a road
through with their vehicles that they got out there.  They went in, and
all they wanted to was re- — just receive — get back what they — they
lost.  They lost their home, but they were mor- — even more concerned
about the personal things that mattered so much to the families.  
  
And so, this is going to pay, as I said, this 100 percent to clear all
the things that are — needed to be cleared.   
  
And on top of this, the Department of Agriculture is on the ground
supporting ranchers, farmers, and small businesses.  And, as I said, the
FEMA teams are knocking on doors to register people so they can receive
assistance.  
  
Think of all the people out there throughout the country, here in the
Southeast, that have lo- — they need prescriptions filled; they don’t
have the money.  They’ve lost everything.  They don’t have any way to —
to fill their prescriptions.  Or baby formula — they can’t afford it. 
They don’t know where to get it — how to get it.  
  
And so, we’re registering folks so they can receive this assistance and
buyers — needed things they badly need.  
  
This direct assistance is now being delivered — it’s being now,
directly, with more to come.   
  
But, folks, this entire project is going to cost billions of dollars —
not tens of thousands, not millions, not a billion — billions of
dollars, because it comes through — it goes through so many states.  
  
You know, and Congress has an obligation, to me — it seems to me to
ensure that states have the resources they need.   
  
Let me close with this.  I’m standing here beside Buck, the owner of
this pecan farm.  This afternoon, we — we talked — we got a chance to
talk a little bit, and he showed me what he lost — talked about what he
lost — and his dad — acres of orchards wiped out, trees uprooted, debris
everywhere.  Decades of progress gone in a single instant.  But through
it all, Buck hasn’t lost hope.   
  
In fact, he reminds me of another Georgia farmer who just turned 100
years old.  President Jimmy Carter once said, “Tremendous progress can
be made if we persevere through difficult challenges.”  This is a
difficult challenge we’re facing.  This storm is extremely difficult for
our country.   
  
To all the first responders, police officers, and volunteers who ran
toward danger; to all the survivors and families who had their lives and
livelihoods torn apart: We’ve got to get — we’ve got a lot of work ahead
of us.   
  
I was with — as I said, I was down in Florida today, and a gentleman
walked and he handed me a small pamphlet, a book that his wife had just
written about how they lost their son.  Their son died last time out in
their home.  You know, a lot of people are in real trouble.   
  
But I want you know, as I said, we see you, we’re with you, and we’re
going to preserve and persevere to get through all of this.   
  
Because, folks, this is the United States of America.  (Inaudible) we’re
the United States of America.  And there’s not a damn thing we can’t get
done — nothing beyond our capacity when we work together and put
politics aside.   
  
So, God bless you all.   
  
And now it’s my honor to introduce Buck, who’s going to say a few
words.  Buck, the podium is yours.  
  
(The program continues.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, Speaker Johnson has said a supplemental can wait
until after the election.  What kind of timeline do you have in mind,
sir?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We can’t wait.  We can’t wait.  People need help now.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, some South Georgia counties are still needing
approval.  Will that get approved?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
Q    Yes?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’re going through the process.  It approves almost
everything that’s been put forth.  I imagine every country in this state
will be funded.  
  
Q    Every county.  Thank you.

4:38 P.M. EDT   
