---
date: '2024-10-11'
published_time: 2024-10-11 15:30:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-a-call-with-jewish-voters-marking-high-holidays/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During a Call with Jewish Voters Marking\
  \ High\_Holidays"
---
 
Teleconference

11:07 A.M. MST

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Douglas.  Thank you, my darling
husband. 

And I want to thank you in front of all of the friends for all of the
leadership that you have shown and the inspiration that you have given
so many and, in particular, our young people.  Many of you may know,
Doug has been visiting everything from summer camps to youth
organizations and reminding our young leaders of the importance of their
pride and their strength, especially at moments like this.  So, thank
you, Doug.

And it is wonderful to be with so many friends during the High
Holidays.  And my wish, of course, for everyone is that you have a good
New Year ahead and an easy fast.

Now, I know this year, as Ilan said, the High Holidays come at a
particularly difficult time. 

And earlier this week, of course, we marked the one year since the
brutal Hamas terrorist attack on October 7.  And I know it has just
rekindled what has been an enduring and deep fear among Jews not just in
Israel but in the United States and around the world.

And I know how the existence of a secure, democratic homeland for the
Jewish people means so much for Jews and all of us, regardless of where
they live.

I will never forget October 7, and the world must never forget.  And we
all must work to ensure nothing like the horrors of that day can ever
happen again.

To that end, as president, it is my pledge that I will always ensure
Israel has what it needs to defend itself from Iran and Iran-backed
terrorists.  And I will always support Israel’s right to defend itself. 
My commitment to the security of Israel is unwavering.

And this — as Doug has said, as Ilan knows — has been a lifelong
commitment, starting, as many of you know, when I was a young girl and
collected donations on behalf of the Jewish National Fund to plant trees
for Israel.  Many of you probably recall those little blue boxes.

And, as president, I will always work to ensure the safety and security
of the people of Israel and Jewish people here in the United States and
around the world. 

When it comes to the war in Gaza, we have seen so much suffering and
pain over the past year, and it is time to bring the conflict to an
end.  And I am working to ensure it ends such that Israel is secure, the
hostages are released, the suffering in Gaza ends, and the Palestinian
people can realize their right to dignity, freedom, and
self-determination. 

We are not giving up on a ceasefire and hostage deal.  We cannot.  And I
will never stop fighting for the release of all the hostages, including,
of course, the seven American citizens, living and deceased, who are
still held.  We are fighting for them every day.  As Ilan and Doug have
mentioned, I have met and spent time with their families.  And we cannot
and will not rest until all the hostages are home. 

We know Hamas is not the only threat Israel faces.  On October 8,
Hezbollah began launching rockets at Israel, and the Houthis in Yemen
began targeting Israeli cities. 

And what is the common thread?  Well, we all know: Iran, which has now
also directly attacked Israel twice.

I am clear-eyed.  Iran is a destabilizing and dangerous force. 

When Donald Trump was president, he let Iran off the hook.  After Iran
and its proxies attacked U.S. bases and American troops, Trump did
nothing.  And he pulled out of the nuclear deal without any plan,
leading to an unconstrained Iranian nuclear program. 

On the other hand, our administration struck Iranian proxies in Iraq and
Syria when they attacked American troops, and we are the first
administration to ever directly defend Israel. 

On April 13, I joined President Biden and our national security team for
more than five hours as we and a coalition of nations that we brought
together responded to Iran’s unprecedented attack.  And then, of course,
last week, on October 1st, I was in the Situation Room for more than
three hours coordinating in real time with our military leadership as
our forces intercept milsi- — missiles over the skies of Israel. 

Make no mistake, as president, I will never hesitate to take whatever
action is necessary to defend American forces and interests from Iran
and Iran-backed terrorists, and I will never allow Iran to acquire a
nuclear weapon. 

Diplomacy is my preferred path to that end, but all options are on the
table. 

And let’s be clear.  Donald Trump is not only a threat on the world
stage.  As we have seen a rise in antisemitism in our own country, Trump
has espoused dangerous and hateful antisemitic tropes, creating fear and
division.  He praised some of the neo-Nazi marchers in Charlottesville
as, quote, “very fine people.”  He reportedly said Hitler did some,
quote, “good things.” 

I have spent my entire career fighting antisemitism.  I prosecuted hate
crimes as a district attorney.  I continued this work as attorney
general of California, where I published an annual report on hate crimes
to ensure that policymakers and law enforcement respond with a sense of
urgency and an understanding of the ubiquity of the problem. 

And as vice president, I am proud to be implementing the first-ever
National Strategy to Combat Antisemitism, which, of course, Doug was an
extraordinary leader in making sure would be created. 

And as president, I will do everything in my power to combat
antisemitism whenever and wherever we see it. 

On the topic of antisemitism, I know, across the country, many Jewish
parents, grandparents are worried for their children who are on college
campuses.  And I know many Jewish students have feared attending class
in recent months. 

As we know, in a democracy, everyone has a right to make their voices
heard.  I believe in the freedom of speech.  I also believe there is no
place for hate or violence in our country. 

When individuals participate in calls to violence and harassment against
Jews, that is antisemitism, and I condemn it.  When Jews are targeted
because of their beliefs or identity and when Israel is singled out
because of anti-Jewish hatred, that is antisemitism, and I condemn it. 

     Each university must ensure all students and faculty are safe and
secure on campus. 

In the United States of America, we can and we must ensure people can
peacefully make their voices heard, while we also stand up for the rule
of law and stand up against hate, and this is a priority for me. 

     In conclusion, I will say, everyone, I believe, should have the
freedom to practice their religion and express their faith and the
freedom to be safe from violence and fear.  In many ways, that is what
we are fighting for in this election. 

     Ours is a fight for freedom, like the freedom of a woman to make
decisions about her own body, like the freedom to be safe from gun
violence, like the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride. 

     So, to the friends gathered, I know part of the reason we are on
this call together is we love our country.  And I do believe it is the
highest form of patriotism, of an expression of love for our country to
fight for the ideals of our country. 

     Election Day is in 25 days, and early voting is already starting in
some states.  So, let’s, please, in the spirit of the holidays and in
the spirit of this moment, let’s please use these next 25 days to
continue the work of building community and building coalitions.  Let’s
remind each other we have so much more in common than what separates
us. 

     And let’s implement that spirit by also texting our friends, family
members, and neighbors to make sure they know the stakes and to make
sure they know their power in this moment. 

     And as we continue to energize, organize, and mobilize, let us know
that we are all in this together, in this fight for our democracy, for
our country. 

     And as I always say, when we fight, we win. 

     Thank you all.  And please take care. 

Thank you. 

                               END                 11:16 A.M. MST
