---
date: '2024-10-18'
modified_time: 2024-10-21 13:05:16-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-18 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-oakland-county-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Oakland County,\_MI"
---
 
Oakland Expo Center  
Oakland County, Michigan

8:11 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Michigan!  (Applause.)  Can we hear
it for Mia?  (Applause.) 

(The audience sings “Happy Birthday to You.”)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  All right. 
Okay.  Thank you.  And we need to get to work.  All right, thank you
all. 

It is so good to be back in Michigan.  (Applause.)  It is so good to be
back.  I want to thank everyone for taking the time out of your busy
lives to take the time to be here this evening.  I thank you all so very
much.  (Applause.)

Can we please hear it for Stab- — wait — can we please hear for Senator
Stabenow, who was here earlier?  (Applause.)

County Executive, Dave Coulter — (applause);  Representative Stevens,
who we need to elect to the United States Congress — (applause); and
let’s send Representative Slotkin to the United States Senate —
(applause) — because we need them in D.C.  We need them in D.C. 

I also want to thank all of the leaders of the Arab American community
who are here.  (Applause.)  As everyone know, this community has deep
and proud roots in the Detroit metro area, and I am proud to have the
support of Arab American leaders like Wayne County Deput- —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, we need a medic.  Okay, we need a medic.  Let’s
figure out a way to part a little bit so that we can bring a medic in
over here, please.  Okay? 

Okay, it looks like we need a medic over there, too.  Is that what we’re
saying?  Okay.  Okay.  We got a lot of folks in here.  It’s a little
warm.  Let’s just make sure we’re looking out for each other.  Okay? 
(Applause.)

Okay.  Are we okay?  All right, it looks like we’re good.  We’re okay? 
All right.  Okay.  Thank you.

And always, to our first responders, thank you for your work. 

So, as I was saying, our Arab American community has deep and proud
roots in the Detroit metro area, and I am very proud to have the support
of Arab American leaders like Wayne County Deputy Executive Assad
Turfe.  (Applause.) 

And listen, I know this year has been very difficult given the scale of
death and destruction in Gaza and given the civilian casualties and
displacement in Lebanon.  It is devastating. 

And now, Sinwar’s death can and must be a turning point.  (Applause.) 
Everyone must seize this opportunity to finally end the war in Gaza —
(applause); bring the hostages home; and end the suffering once and for
all.  And I continue to believe diplomacy is the answer to bringing
lasting stability across the Israel-Lebanon border. 

And as vice president and, with your help, as president, I will do
everything in my power to achieve these goals — (applause) — and work
toward a future with security and dignity for all people in the region. 

So, thank you all.

And, Michigan, listen, we got 18 days to get this done — 18 short days. 
And you all wouldn’t be here spending your precious time here with all
the other obligations you’ve got if you did not know this is probably
one of the most consequential elections of our lifetime.  (Applause.) 

And it’s going to be a tight race until the very end, and we are the
underdog and running as the underdog.  But make no mistake, we will
win.  (Applause.)  We will win.  We will win.  Yes, we will.  We will
win. 

And we will win because we understand — and we will win because we
understand what is at stake.  This — this election is about two very
different visions for our nation: one, Donald Trump’s, that is focused
on the past —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT: — and the other — and the other, ours, that is
focused on the future.  (Applause.)

We are focused on a future where we bring down the cost of living,
invest in small businesses and entrepreneurs, protect reproductive
freedom.  (Applause.) 

That is in the future that we are fighting for.  But as you all know,
that’s not what we’re hearing from Donald Trump.  Instead, it is the
same old, tired playbook.  He has no plan for how he would address the
needs of the American people.  No plan. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Concepts!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can I hear it again?  No plan. 

AUDIENCE:  No plan!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he is only focused on himself. 

And now, check this out, he is ducking debates and canceling
interviews. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You saw his own campaign team is saying it’s
because of exhaustion.  All right, well, here’s

the thing, if you are exhausted from the campaign trail, it raises real
questions about you are fit for the toughest job in the world.
(Applause.) 

And so, folks, for these reasons and more, it is time to turn the page. 
(Applause.)  Let’s turn the page, because America is ready to chart a
new way forward — (applause) — ready for a new and optimistic generation
of leadership — (applause) — that is all of you; it’s all of us — which
is why Democrats, Republicans, independents are supporting our
campaign. 

In fact, you may have seen earlier this week, over 100 Republican
leaders from across the country joined me on the campaign trail —
(applause) — including some who served under Donald Trump’s
administration, because, you know, they know him best.  They understand
what’s at stake. 

And I believe Americans want a president and deserve a president who
works for all the American people — all the American people. 
(Applause.)

And that has been, as you all know, the story of my entire career.  I’ve
only, in my career, had one client: the people.  One client. 
(Applause.)

As a young courtroom prosecutor, I protected women and children.  As
attorney general of California, I fought for students and veterans who
were being scammed by those for-profit colleges.  (Applause.)  As vice
president, I have stood up for workers and seniors.  And as president, I
will fight for all the American people — always. (Applause.)   Always. 

And —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And, together, us and you — we will together — like
I want you to shout your own name for a minute.  Let’s do that really
quickly.  Shout your own name for a minute.

(The audience members shout their names.)

(Laughs.)  That’s what I’m talking about, because it’s about your
family.  It’s about you.  That’s what I’m talking about.  That’s what
I’m talking about.  Because together, we will build a brighter future
for our nation.  (Applause.)  Together.  Together. 

A future where we build what I call an “opportunity economy” so that
every American has an opportunity to own a home, buy a car, build
wealth, start a business.  (Applause.)  Right? 

Under my plan, we will deal with things like bringing down the cost of
housing.  (Applause.)  We will help entrepreneurs start and grow a small
business.  Do we have any small-business owners here?  (Applause.)  Our
small businesses are the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.)

My plan will expand Medicare to cover home health care for seniors. 
(Applause.)  And look, as with so many of the issues that are priority
issues for me, including small businesses, the issue of home health care
—

Look, I’m going to just go off script for a moment.  So, when my mother
was — when my mother was sick, I took care of her.  And for anyone here
who has or is taking care of an older relative, you know what it is. 
It’s about trying to cook something that they feel like eating.  It’s
about trying to put some clothes on them that won’t irritate their skin,
right?  It’s about, from time to time, trying to figure out what you can
say that will bring a smile to their face or make them laugh.  It’s
about dignity.  It’s about dignity. 

And here’s the — here’s the deal.  When you look at everyone who is
doing that and then you look at the — what we call the “sandwich
generation,” which are people who are raising your young children and
taking care of your parents, it’s a lot. 

And either you have enough money to afford to have somebody come in and
help you, which most people don’t, or you might have to give up your
job, which means you’re cutting off a source of income for your
household, or you have to spend down your savings to qualify for
Medicaid.  That’s just not right. 

So, my plan is to say that we are going to fix it so that Medicare
covers the cost of home health care work for seniors — (applause) —
because it’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity, so more seniors can
live at home with dignity.  (Applause.)

Our plan will lower costs on everything from health care to groceries. 

I’m going to take on corporate price gouging like I’ve done before.  I’m
going to do it again.  (Applause.)

My plan will also give middle-class tax cuts to 100 million Americans,
including $6,000 during the first year of a child’s life, because here
is where I’m coming from: The vast majority of our young parents have a
natural desire to parent their children well, but not always the
resources.  And so, looking at expanding the child tax credit — again,
it’s about dignity.  It’s about recognizing that folks just need a
little help to buy a car seat or a crib or the essential needs for your
child during such a critical stage of their development.  (Applause.)

And by the way, we all benefit from that.  Everybody benefits from
that.  (Applause.)

So, these are just some examples of our plan. 

And all of that to say, look, I will always — I will always stand and
fight for the middle class and working families of America. 
(Applause.)  I come from the middle class, and I will never forget where
I come from.  (Applause.)

My plan also invests in American manufacturing and innovation, and I
will make sure America, not China, wins the competition for the 21st
century.  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Exactly right.  Exactly right.

And Michigan knows — and Michigan knows better than most what that
means, about investing in American industry.  (Applause.)  Under my
plan, we will invest in the industries that built America, like steel,
iron, and the great American auto industry.  (Applause.)

And contrary to what my opponent is suggesting, I will never tell you
what kind of car you have to drive.  (Applause.)  But here’s what I will
do: I will invest in communities like Oakland County and Detroit. 
(Applause.)  We will retool existing factories and hire locally and work
with unions to create good-paying jobs — (applause) — including, by the
way, jobs that do not require a college degree. 

Because this is how I feel — (applause) — look, this is how I feel about
that.  We all know a college degree is not the only measure of the
skills and experience of a qualified worker.  (Applause.)  So, part of
my plan is to do an assessment of all the federal jobs, which will be
under our jurisdiction, to figure out which of them should be rethought
of in terms of whether or not it actually requires a college degree. 
And the next step on that is going to be to challenge the private sector
to do the same.  (Applause.)

I will also protect the pensions of union members and retirees —
(applause) — including yesterday, when I announced the protection of the
full-earned pension benefits of more than 22,500 retirees under the
Detroit Carpenters Pension Fund.  Because back to the point about
dignity, I understand the dignity of work, and I understand the
importance of having dignity in your retirement.  (Applause.)

Now, Donald Trump has a different approach. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I don’t need to tell you, he’s full of big
promises, but always fails to deliver.  Always fails to deliver.  So,
remember he said he was the only one — you know how he talks — “the only
one”– (applause) –who could bring back America’s manufacturing jobs. 
Remember when he said that?  And then America lost almost 200,000
manufacturing jobs when he was president —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — including tens of thousands of jobs right here in
Michigan. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And those losses started before the pandemic —
okay? — making Donald Trump one of the biggest losers — (applause) — of
manufacturing jobs in American history.  (Laughs.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And his — and his track record for the auto
industry was also a disaster. 

He promised workers in Warren — you remember?  He promised workers in
Warren that the auto industry would — and I’m going to quote — “not lose
one plant” during his presidency.  Then, American automakers announced
the closure of six auto plants when he was president —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — including General Motors in Warren and Stellantis
in Detroit.  Remember that? 

Thousands, thousands of Michigan autoworkers lost their jobs.  And
Donald Trump’s running mate — you know, because the position was vacant
and he had to fill it, right?  (Laughter.)  You know, for the young
people here — you know, when you go for an interview, and you sit down
at the interview and you ask the person who’s interviewing, “Why’s the
job vacant?”  (Laughter.) 

So, Donald Trump’s current running mate recently suggested that if they
win, they would threaten the Grand River Assembly plant in Lansing.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  The same plant that our administration protected
earlier this year, saving 650 union jobs.  (Applause.)

And remember, Donald Trump encouraged automakers to move their plants
out of Michigan so they could pay their workers less.

And when the UAW went on strike — (applause) — when the UAW went on
strike to demand the higher wages that you deserved, Donald Trump went
to a non-union shop.  Remember?

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he attacked the UAW.  And he said striking — he
said striking and collective bargaining don’t — and I’mma quote — “don’t
make a damn bit of difference.”  That’s what he said —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — about striking and collective bargaining. 

Well, Michigan, you know better.  We know better.  Strong unions mean
higher wages, better health care, and greater dignity — (applause) — for
union members and everyone else,

because you don’t have to be a member of a union to thank unions for
your five-day workweek and your vacation time and your sick leave. 
Thank a union.  (Applause.)

Which is why, when I am president, with your help, I will sign the PRO
Act into law — (applause) — and make it easier for workers to join a
union and negotiate for better pay and working conditions. 

And now Donald Trump is making the same empty promises to the people of
Michigan that he did before, hoping you will forget how he let you down
the last time. 

But we’re not falling for the okey doke.  No, and we won’t be fooled. 

Just, for example, google Project 2025 —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which I still, by the way, find it fascinating to
think that they actually put that in writing.  (Applause.)  I mean, they
put it in writing.  They published it, they bound it, and gave it out,
right? 

And here’s the thing, to read it is to know it is a detailed and
dangerous blueprint for what he will do if he is elected president. 
Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts;
cut Social Security and Medicare; get rid of the $35 cap on insulin for
seniors that you all helped us get; make it easier — he will — and read
it — make it — he will make it easier for companies to deny overtime pay
to workers —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and he intends to impose what I call a “Trump
sales tax,” which is at least 20 percent, if not more, of a tax on
everyday basic necessities, which economists have estimated will cost
the American family an additional $4,000 a year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And if that weren’t enough, on top of this and all
of this, he plans to end the Affordable Care Act.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he has no plan to replace it.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He has concepts!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He has — because he has, quote, “concepts of a
plan.”  (Laughs.)

So, you all have heard me say, you know, I think — I think Donald Trump
is an unserious man.  And the consequences if he were to ever get in —
back into the White House, are — are absolutely dangerously serious. 

Because, think about it, he’s going to threaten that health insurance
coverage of 45 —

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay, so here’s the thing — here’s the thing about
that — here’s the thing about that.  The courts are going to take care
of that.  (Applause.)  We’re going to take care of November.  We’re
going to take care of November.  How about that?  Right.  We’ll take
care of November.  (Applause.)

But, again, “concepts of a plan.”  So, think about it in terms of the
serious nature of this.  He’s basically threatening the health insurance
coverage of 45 million Americans based on a concept.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And taking us back to when — you remember? —
insurance companies could deny people with preexisting conditions.  You
remember what that was?  And that’s why we are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back. 

We are not going back.  No, we are not going back.  We will move
forward.  (Applause.)  We will move forward.  (Applause.)

Because ours is a fight for the future.  (Applause.)  Ours is a fight
for the future.  And it is a fight for freedom — (applause) — like the
fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body —
(applause) — and not have her government tell her what to do. 

And we are — we remember how we got here, right?  Donald Trump
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with the
intention —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — that they would undo the protections of Roe v.
Wade, and they did as he intended. 

And now, check this out, in America, one in three women live in a state
with a Trump abortion ban —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — many with no exception even for rape and incest,
which — which means you’re telling someone who is a survivor of a
violation to their body that they have no right to make a decision about
what happens to their body next?  That is immoral.  Immoral. 

And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to
do with her body — (applause) — not the government, not the government. 
No. 

If she chooses, she will talk with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi,
her imam, but not the government and some folks up in a statehouse
telling her what’s in her own best interest. 

And so, here’s my pledge to you.  When Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom nationwide, as president of the United States, I
will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly sign it into law.

And across our nation — listen, I’m traveling the country, and I’ll tell
you, across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on hard-won
freedoms and rights, including the freedom to vote. 

Let me tell you, I — in places like Georgia, where I’m spending some
time, you know, they passed a law that makes it illegal to give people
food and water for standing in line to vote. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I mean, the hypocrisy abounds.  What happened
to “love thy neighbor”? 

Attacks on the freedom to join a union.  Attacks on the freedom to be
safe from gun violence — Mia talked about that.  Attacks on the freedom
to love who you love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)

So, I say all that to say what you know — which is again, why you are
spending your precious time here.  There is so much on the line in this
election.  And this is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher,
because, remember, a few months ago, the Supreme Court of the United
States basically told the former president that he is effectively immune
from doing whatever he does in office. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.  Just
imagine.  He who has vowed, if reelected, to be a dictator on day one;
he who calls Americans who disagree with him, the “enemy from within.” 
You know where that language comes from?  And says that he would use the
military — the American military to go after the American people. 

He who has called for the quote, “termination” of the Constitution of
the United States of America.  And —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let us be very clear, someone who suggests we
should terminate the Constitution of the United States of America should
never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United States
of America.  (Applause.)  Never again. Never again.  Never again. 
(Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, we are not going back, and so this is how we’re
going to make sure we don’t go back.  Okay, so, here — let’s get to the
business then.

So, Michigan, it all comes down to this.  We are here together because
we know what is at stake.  We are here together, most importantly, also
because we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country.

And I do believe it is one of the highest expressions and forms of love
of our country and patriotism to then fight for the ideals of our
country and to fight — (applause) — and to fight to realize the promise
of America. 

So, Election Day is in 18 days, okay?  And here in Michigan, early
voting starts on Saturday, October 26th, one week from tomorrow. 

If you live in Wayne County, you can vote in person even sooner.  Early
voting in Detroit starts tomorrow.  (Applause.)  Okay?

So, now is the time to make your plan to vote.  And if you have received
your ballot in the mail, please do not wait.  Fill it out tonight and
return it.  Because, folks, the election is here, and we need to — as
you know best how to do — we need to energize, we need to organize, we
need to mobilize — (applause) — knowing — knowing our vote is our voice
and your voice is your power.  (Applause.)

So, Michigan, today, I ask you: Are you ready to make your voices heard?
(Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

Because when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we in.

God bless you.  And God bless America.  (Applause.) 

                             END                8:46 P.M. EDT
