---
date: '2024-10-25'
modified_time: 2024-10-25 21:58:22-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-25 21:58:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/25/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-record-of-delivering-for-tribal-communities-including-keeping-his-promise-to-make-this-historic-visit-to-indian-country-lavee/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019\
  s Record of Delivering for Tribal Communities, Including Keeping His Promise to\
  \ Make this Historic Visit to Indian Country | Laveen Village,\_AZ"
---
 
Gila Crossing Community School  
Laveen Village, Arizona

10:44 A.M. MST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m Joe Biden.  I’m Jill Biden’s husband  (Laughter.)

Gov, thank you for that introduction and to the Gila Indian River
Community — the — Gila — yeah, Gila — nothing wrong with me — (laughter)
— Gila River Indian Community for welcoming me today. 

You know — (applause) — I say this with all sincerity, this, to me, is
one the most consequential things I’ve ever had an opportunity to do in
my whole career and as president of the United States.  It’s an honor —
a genuine honor to be in this special place on this special day. 

Thank you to Senator Mark Kelly, a great friend, who also is married to
an incredible woman who is my friend. 

Please have a seat, by the way.  (Laughter.)

And Congressman Greg Stanton.  I saw Greg when I came in.  He’s over
there somewhere.  Greg, thank you.

And I’m putting these glasses on because I’m having trouble seeing
this. 

And all the elected leaders and the Tribal community leaders for being
here. 

You know, I can’t tell you what a special thanks I have for Deb Haaland,
my Interior secretary.  I was determined — (applause) — I was determined
— I made a commitment when I became president to have an administration
that looked like America.  Except you’re America, and there’s — never
has been — never has been a Native American, an Indigenous person who
was on — in the Cabinet or in a — in the secretary’s job or any
consequential job in a presidential administration.

She’s the first — but it’s clearly not the last — Native American
Cabinet secretary ever.  (Applause.)  And her historic and dedicated
leadership is strengthening the relationship between the Tribal Nations
and the federal government — is unlike ever happened before. 

That’s why we’re here today. 

You know, when I got to the Senate, I was only 29 years old.  I had to
wait 17 days to be eligible.  And I had — after I got elected, w- —
while I waiting, my wife and daughter were killed and my two boys were
badly injured.

And a guy that came to my assistance was a guy named Danny Inouye.  And
the first thing he taught me — not a joke — was, “Joe, it is not
‘Indians.’  It’s ‘Indian Nations’ — Indian N-” — (applause) — No, I — he
was serious, deadly earnest about it.

It’s been 10 years since a sitting president — president came and
visited Indian Country.  That’s simply much too long.

And that’s why I am here today not only to fulfil my promise to be a
president that — first president to visit Indian Country but, more
importantly, to right a wrong, to chart a new path toward a better
future for us all.

I am also here because, as I said, my wife Jill has been here 10 times
in Indian Country, literally.  The first lady sends her love and said,
“Joe, make sure you come home.”  (Laughter.)  Because every time she
goes — she spent a lot of time in, excuse me for saying this, the Navajo
Nation.  I’m worried — (applause) — every time she goes, I’m worried
she’s not coming home.  (Laughter.)

I watched that beautiful performance just now, and it moved me deeply. 
It’s a reminder of everything Native people enjoy and employ: sacred
traditions, culture passed down over thousands of — thousands of years. 
(Applause.)  

Long before there was a United States, Native communities flourished on
these lands.  They practiced democratic government before we ever heard
of it, developed advanced agriculture, contributed to science, art, and
culture.  (Applause.)

But eventually, the United States was established and began expanding,
entering treaties with sovereign Tribal Nations.  But as time moved on,
respect for s- — for Tribal sovereignty evaporated, was shattered,
pushing Native people off their homelands, denying — denying their
humanity and their rights, targeting children to cut their connection to
their ancestors and their inheritance and their heritage. 

At first, in the 19- — 1800s, the effort was voluntary, asking Tribes to
sell their children — to send their children away to vocational
schools.  But then — then the federal government mandated — mandated the
removal of children from their families and Tribes, launching what’s
called the Federal Indian Boarding School era — era.  Over a 150-year
span — 150 years — from the early 1800s to 1870 — to 1970.  One of the
most horrific chapters in American history.  We should be ashamed.  A
chapter that most Americans don’t know about.  The vast majority don’t
even know about it. 

I was — I was at my hotel today.  I told the pe- — the hotel staff, as
we were leaving.  They said, “Where are you going?”  I told them.  They
said, “What are you doing?”  I told them.  They said they’re Natives
here.  They said, “I never knew that.  I never knew that.”  Think of how
many people don’t know.

As president, I believe it’s imper- — important that we do know — know
generations of Native children stolen, taken away to places they didn’t
know with people they never met who spoke a language they had never
heard.  Native communities silenced.  Their children’s laughter and play
were gone. 

Children would arrive at schools.  Their clothes taken off.  Their hair
that they were told was sacred was chopped off.  Their names literally
erased and replaced by a number or an English name. 

One survivor later recounted her days when taken away.  She said, quote,
“My mother standing on that sidewalk as we loaded into a green bus.  I
can see the image of my mom burned into my mind and my heart where she
was crying.”

Another survivor described what it was like at the boarding school, and
I quote, “When I would talk in my Tribal language, I would get hit.  I
lost my tongue.  They beat me every day.”

Children abused — emotionally, physically, and sexually abused.  Forced
into hard labor.  Some put up for adoption without the consent of their
birth parents.  Some left for dead in unmarked graves. 

And for those who did return home, they were wounded in body and in
spirit — trauma and shame passed down through generations. 

The policy continued even after the Civil Rights Act, which got me
involved in politics as a young man.  Even after the Civil Rights Act
was passed in 1964, it continued. 

All told, hundreds and hundreds of Federal Indian Boarding Schools
across the country.  Tens of thousands of Native children entered the
system.  Nearly 1,000 documented Native child deaths, though the real
number is likely to be much, much higher; lost generations, culture, and
language; lost trust. 

It’s horribly, horribly wrong.  It’s a sin on our soul.

I’d like to ask, with your permission, for a moment of silence as we
remember those lost and the generations living with that trauma. 

(A moment of silence is observed.)

After 150 years, the United States government eventually stopped the
program, but the federal government has never — never — formally
apologized for what happened until today. 

I formally apologize — (applause) — as president of the United States of
America, for what we did.  I formally apologize.  And it’s long
overdue.  
  
At the Tribal school — at a Tribal school in Arizona, a community full
of tradition and culture, and joined by survivors and descendants to do
just that: apologize, apologize, apolo- — rewrite the history book
correctly.  (Applause.)  
  
I have a solemn responsibility to be the first president to formally
apologize to the Native peoples — Native Americans, Native Hawaiians,
Native Alaskans — <s>and</s> \[at\] Federal Indian Boarding Schools. 

It’s long, long, long overdue.  Quite frankly, there’s no excuse that
this apology took 50 years to make. 

The Federal Indian Boarding School policy and the pain it has caused
will always be a significant mark of shame, a blot on American history. 

For too long, this all happened with virtually no public attention, not
written about in our history books —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yeah, what about the people in Gaza?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — not taught in our schools.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  What about the people in Palestine, huh?

(Cross-talk.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let her talk.  Let her talk.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible) empty promise for our people.  How can you
apologize for a genocide while committing a genocide in Palestine?  
  
Free Palestine!  Free Palestine!

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Get out of here!

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Free Palestine!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  Let — let her go.  There’s a lot of innocent
people being killed. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  There’s a lot of innocent people being killed, and it
has to stop.  
  
For those — (applause) — for those who went through this period, it was
too painful to speak of.  For our nation, it was too shameful to
acknowledge.  But just because history is silent doesn’t mean it didn’t
take place.  It did take place.  (Applause.)

While darkness can hide much, it erases nothing.  It erases nothing. 
Some injustices are heinous, horrific, and grievous.  They can’t be
buried, no matter how hard people try. 

As I’ve said throughout my presidency, we must know the good, the bad,
the truth of who we are as a nation.  That’s what great nations do. 
We’re a great nation.  We’re the greatest of nations.  We do not erase
history; we make history.  We learn from history, and we remember so we
can heal as a nation.  It takes remembering.

This formal apology is the culmination of decades of work by so many
courageous people, many of whom are here today: survivors and
descendants, allies and advocates — like the nation’s Native American
Boarding School Healing Coalition and other — (applause) —

All of you who are part of that, stand up.  Stand up.  (Applause.)  As
my grandfather would say, you’re doing God’s work.

And other courageous leaders who spent decades shining a light on this
dark chapter.  And leaders like Secretary Haaland, whose grandparents
were children at one of those boarding schools. 

U.S. Interior Department, the same department that long ago oversaw
Federal Indian Boarding Schools — guess what? — the extensive work on
the — breaking ground, it’s happened with her.  It’s appropriate that
she is bringing an end to what that very agency did.  (Applause.) 
Groundbreaking report documenting what happened. 

We owe it to all of you across Indian Country.  The truth — the truth
must be told.  And the truth must be heard all across America. 

But this official <s>apolocy</s> \[apology\] is only one step toward and
forward from the shadows of failed policies of the past.  That’s why
I’ve committed to working with Indigenous communities across the country
to write a new and better chapter of our — in our history, to honor the
solemn promise the United States made to Tribal Nations, to fulfill our
federal trust and treaty obligations.  It’s long, long, long overdue. 
(Applause.)

And I say this with all sincerity, from day one, my administration, Jill
and I, Kamala and Secretary Haaland, our entire administration have
worked to include Indigenous voices in all we do.  Along with Secretary
Haaland, I’ve appointed Native Americans to lead across the federal
government.

I signed a groundbreaking executive order to give Tribes the — more
autonomy to make your own decisions — (applause) — requiring federal
agencies to streamline grant appro- — grant appropriations and
applications, to comanage federal programs, to eliminate heavy-handed
reporting requirements.  It’s about representing your autonomy.  And, I
might add, it’s a hell of a lot more efficient when you do it too. 
(Applause.)

Folks, I’m proud to have reestablished the White House Council on Native
American Affairs — (applause); relaunched the White House Tribal Na- —
Tribal Nations Summit — (applause); and taken historic steps to improve
Tribal consultation.  (Applause.) 

With the historic laws I’ve signed, we’re making some of the most
significant investments in Native communities ever — ever in American
history. 

It’s part of my Invest in America agenda, and it’s helping all Americans
from every state and every Tribe, and that’s good for all America. 

Helping Native communities get through the pandemic with vaccine shots
in arms and checks in pockets. 

I’m proud this helped cut child poverty in Native communities by more
than one third.  (Applause.) 

I’m proud our economy — our economic plan has created 200,000 jobs for
Native Americans, record-low \[un\]employment in Native communities. 

With the strong support from Secretary Haaland and all of you, we’re
finally modernizing Tribal infrastructure, for God’s sake — (applause) —
building new roads, new bridges; delivering clean water, affordable
high-speed broadband in every Native community; and so much more. 

Folks, we’re just getting started.  We’re making historic climate
investments in clean energy, conservation, and clean water \[for\]
Native communities, including co-stewardships of our land and waters. 

We just des- — designated the first National Marine Sancrutary —
Sanctuary proposed by Indigenous communities, which is off the coast of
California.  We just got that done.  (Applause.)  And I have restored
and designated multiple national monuments to honor Tribal Nations,
including the Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon, right here in
Arizona, where I had the honor of visiting.  (Applause.)  It was
breathtaking.  It was breathtaking.

I secured the first-ever advanced funding for Indian Health Services —
(applause) — so Tribal hospitals can plan ahead, order supplies, hire
doctors and know that the money will be there.  (Applause.)  

We’re also preserving ancestral Tribal homelands, restoring salmon and
other native fish, recognizing the value of Indigenous knowledge and
languages, especially those damaged in the boarding school era. 

In fact, my administration was proud to defend the Indian Child Welfare
Act — (applause) — an act that was passed in <s>1970</s> \[1978\] in no
small part to remedy the harms of 150 years of taking Native children
away from their families. 

But you all know, that act was challenged just a few years ago in the
summer of 2023.  Those who opposed us challenged — challenged on the
grounds that Native families should not have priority over everyone else
in adopting Native children.  Well, I took that all the way to the
Supreme Court and we won.  We won.  (Applause.)

We also extended mental health programs through the Bureau of Indian
Education so young people have the tools to end cycles of generational
trauma. 

As an educator, this is something Jill cares deeply about, my wife, just
as she’s traveled across Native communities to increase access to health
care and so much more, including helping open the first cancer
<s>cure</s> \[care\] center in Navajo Nation.  (Applause.)  
  
And more to do — a lot more to do.  
  
And, by the way, the infrastructure bill is over a trillion dollars. 
It’s not a decade.  I mean, it’s not a quarter.  It’s going to be there
for a decade.  Much, much more to come, and you got to get your fair
share.   

By \[re\]authorizing the Violence Against Women Act — an Act I took
great pains in writing 30 years ago, we also — (applause) — we also
<s>reasirmed</s> \[reaffirmed\] Tribal sovereignty and expanded Tribal
jurisdiction in cases where outside <s>predators</s> \[perpetrators\]
harm members of your Nation. 

And as we mark Native Americans History Month in November — this
November, we recognize the contributions of Indigenous people in — to
American history.  You — you are the first Americans.  I might add,
you’re among the most patriotic Americans.  (Applause.)  Well, that’s a
fact.  The whole of America should know, all Americans should know
Indigenous people volunteer to serve in the United States military five
times more than any other single group.  (Applause.)  Five times. 
Five.  Five.  Five.  (Applause.)  Many having paid the ultimate
sacrifice in every war since our founding. 

To all of you, thank you — thank you for serving in so many ways — as
first responders, artists, entrepreneurs, educators, doctors,
scientists, and so much more — sharing your culture and your knowledge
for the good of future generations, believing in possibilities — the
possibility to usher in a new era to a nation-to-nation relationship
grounded in dignity and respect.  It matters.   
  
My dad used to have an expression.  He’d say, “Joey, everyone — everyone
— is entitled to be treated with dignity.  Everyone.”  “Everyone is
enti-” — he meant it.  (Applause.)

Well, let me close with this.  It’s about restoring your dignity.  
  
I know no apology can or will make up for what was lost during the
darkness of the Federal Boarding School policy.  But today, we’re
finally moving forward into the light. 

As president of the United States, I’ve had the honor to bestow our
nation’s most prestigious medals to distinguished people and
organizations all across America.  That includes Native Americans who
survived the boarding school era. 

Early in my term, I bestowed the Medal of Freedom — our highest civilian
honor — on a man my grandfather, who was an Irish immigrant and was not
treated very well because he was an Irish Catholic in the coal-mine era
in Scranton — but he went on to be an all-American football player at
Santa Clara.  And every time they’d talk about all-Americans, he’d say,
“Joey, the greatest athlete in American history is Jim Thorpe.” 
(Applause.)  Oh, I’m seri- — I knew a lot about Jim Thorpe before some
of you probably even knew.  (Laughter.)  
  
As a child, Jim was taken from his home but went on to become one of the
greatest athletes ever, ever, ever in all of American history. 

And earlier this week, I bestowed two other revere- — revered medals —
the National Medals of Arts and the National Medal of the Humanities —
to 39 extraordinary Americans and organizations, including <s>Roseta
Wrol</s> \[Rosita Worl\], an Alaskan Native.  (Applause.) 

More than 80 years ago, she was a six-year-old when she was taken to a
federal boarding school.  She spent three years without her family, her
family not knowing if she’d ever come home.  Nine years old, she was one
of those who did come home.   
  
Over the next seven decades, she became a leading anthropologist and
advocate, building a new era of understanding.  Her story, from being
taken from her home as child to standing in the Oval Office receiving
one of the nation’s most consequential medals, is a story of the truth,
the power of healing. 

When <s>Roseta</s> \[Rosita\] sees young people signing tradi- — singing
traditional songs, just like we heard today, she says, and I quote, “We
will hear the voices of our ancestors, and we are now hearing it through
our children.”

For too long, this nation sought to silence the voices of generations of
Native children, but now your voices are being heard.    

That’s the America that we should be.  That’s the America we can all be
proud of.  That’s who we are.  For God’s sake, let’s make sure we reach
out and embrace, because you make us stronger.  You are America.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

11:07 A.M. MST
