---
date: '2024-10-13'
modified_time: 2024-10-15 12:38:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-13 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-greenville-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Greenville,\_NC"
---
 
East Carolina University  
Greenville, North Carolina

4:39 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  North Carolina!  Good afternoon, North Carolina! 
(Applause.)  Oh, my goodness.

Can we hear for Thomas?  (Applause.)

Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  It is good to be at E.C.U.  (Applause.) 
And it’s so wonderful to be back in North Carolina.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  It is so good — I see you. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  North Carolina loves you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank
you.

And I want to thank — there — this is — this is an auditorium packed
with incredible leaders.  And I thank you all for taking the time this
Sunday afternoon with all that you have going on.  (Applause.)  I thank
you.  I thank you.  Thank you all. 

I want to also thank State Senator Smith; State Senator Hunt, your next
lieutenant governor — (applause); Congressman Davis, a proud graduate of
ECU.  (Applause.)  And let’s elect Josh Stein as your next governor. 
(Applause.) 

And he and Governor Cooper are not here today because they are s- —
they’ve been working around the clock dealing with the hurricane
recovery efforts.  (Applause.)  And we want to always thank them and all
the — the incredible local, state, and federal leaders who have been
working together for North Carolina. 

I was here eight days ago in the aftermath of Hurricane Helene.  And
since then, of course, another powerful storm — Hurricane Milton — cut a
path of destruction through Florida.  And our hearts — I know, all of us
— and our prayers go out to everyone who’s been impacted by these
storms.  (Applause.)

I have spoken to both state and local officials, both Republican and
Democrat, to let them know we will be with you every step of the way as
you recover — (applause) — because in times like this, we stand together
as one nation.  That is who we are.  (Applause.)

So, North Carolina — (applause) — we have 23 days until Election Day. 
And we are nearing the homestretch.  We are nearing the homestretch.

Now, listen, let me just say, I know we are really excited to see each
other.  I couldn’t be more excited to see everybody here, but I’m going
to tell you: It’s going to be a tight race until the very end, and we
are running as the underdog. 

So, we have some hard work ahead of us, but we like hard work. 
(Applause.)  Hard work is good work. 

And with your help, in 23 days, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win. 
We will win.  Yes, we will.  We will win. 

So, what we know —

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.  And here’s why — and here’s why.  One
of the reasons is that — we all know and we are gathered here together
because we know this election really is about two very different visions
for our nation.  One, his, focused on the past.  The other, ours,
focused on the future.  (Applause.)

Ours is a campaign focused on issues that matter, for example, to
working families across America, like bringing down the cost of living,
investing in small businesses and entrepreneurs.  (Applause.)  How many
small-business owners do we have here?  (Applause.)  Thank you. 

We are focused on protecting reproductive freedom.  (Applause.)  We are
focused on keeping our nation secure.  (Applause.) 

But none of that is what we hear from Donald Trump.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Instead — instead, from him, we are just hearing
from that same old, tired playbook.  He has no plan for how he would
address the needs of the American people.  He is only focused on
himself. 

And he’s not — but here’s the thing, North Carolina — and he’s not being
transparent with the voters.  He’s not being transparent. 

So, check this out.  He refuses to release his medical records. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’ve done it.  Every other presidential can- —
every other presidential candidate in modern era has done it. 

He is unwilling to do a “60 Minutes” interview, like every other major
party candidate has done for more than half a century. 

He is unwilling to meet for a second debate. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And here’s the thing — here’s the thing.  It makes
you wonder.  It makes you wonder: Why does his staff want him to hide
away? 

One must question — one must question: Are they afraid that people will
see that he is too weak and unstable to lead America?  (Applause.)  Is
that what’s going on?

So, folks, for these reasons and so many more, it is time to turn the
page.  (Applause.)  It is time to turn the page, because America is
ready to chart a new way forward, ready for a new and optimistic
generation of leadership — (applause) — which is why Democrats,
independents, and Republicans are supporting our campaign — (applause) —
because they and we know we need a president who works for all the
American people.  (Applause.) 

And that has been the story of my entire career.  I have only ever had
one client: the people.  (Applause.)

As a young courtroom prosecutor, I stood up for women and children
against predators.  (Applause.)  As attorney general of California, I
took on the big banks and delivered $20 billion for middle-class
families who faced foreclosure.  (Applause.)  I stood up for veterans
and students being scammed by the big for-profit colleges.  (Applause.) 
I stood up for workers being cheated out of the wages they were due,
stood up for seniors facing elder abuse. 

And as president, it is my pledge to you that I will always fight for
all the American people.  (Applause.) 

And together, we will build a brighter future for our nation, and that
future includes building what I call an opportunity economy, where
everyone can compete and have a real chance to succeed. 

Under my economic plan, we will bring down the cost of housing and help
first-time homebuyers with a $25,000 down payment assistance. 
(Applause.)  We will expand Medicare to cover home health care for
seniors — (applause) — so more seniors can live at home with dignity;
and give more support to the sandwich generation, to those of you who
are raising young children and taking care of your parents.  (Applause.)

And, look, I just have to say something about home health care and the
need that I know so many people have for help.  Look, so, when my mother
was sick, after she had been diagnosed with cancer, I took care of her. 
And for those of you who have taken care of somebody who needs that kind
of help, it’s about trying to cook something that they have a taste for
and want to eat.  It’s about trying to find something that they can wear
that — that is not irritating their skin and is soft enough.  It’s about
trying, from time to time, to figure out something you can do to just
bring a smile to their face or make them laugh, right? 

It’s the work that is about giving folks dignity.  But far too many
people — on this issue of home health care — if you need the support to
give that care to your family member, it means either paying down and
losing as much as you can to be able to afford to have Medicaid or
having to leave your job, which means cutting off a very important part
of your income, just to give people in your life the dignity and the
support they deserve.

That’s why I’m saying we’re going to have Medicare cover that home
health care — (applause) — to help you — to help you. 

We will lower costs, including on everything from health care to
groceries.  I will take on corporate price gouging.  I’ve done it
before, and I’ll do it again.  (Applause.)

I will give a middle-class tax cut to 100 million Americans, including
$6,000 during the first year of your child’s life, knowing that the vast
majority of parents have a natural desire to parent their children well
but not always the resources to be able to do it.  And so, extending the
Child Tax Credit to $6,000 to give folks the ability to be able to buy
that car seat or that crib in that most fundamental phase of their
child’s development. 

So, all this to say, I will always put the middle class and working
people first.  (Applause.)  I come from the middle class, and I will
never forget where I come from.  (Applause.)

Now, Donald Trump, well, he has a different plan.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just Google “Project 2025.”  It is a detailed and
dangerous blueprint for what he will do if he is elected president. 

Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts,
cut Social Security and Medicare, make it easier for companies to deny
overtime pay for workers. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He would get rid of that $35 cap on insulin for
seniors. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He would impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” a
20 percent tax on everyday basic necessities which will cost the average
American family $4,000 more a year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on — on top of all of this, Donald Trump
intends to end the Affordable Care Act.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he has no plan to replace it. 

Did you see the debate?  He has “concepts of a plan.”  (Applause.)

So — okay, so he’s going to threaten the health insurance coverage of 45
million people based on a concept — come on — and take us back to when
insurance companies had the power to deny people with preexisting
conditions?  You know where I’m going. 

Well, we are not going back!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  No, we’re not. 
No, we’re not. 

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, we’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because we will move forward.  (Applause.)

Ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom, like the
fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make decisions about her
own body and not have her government telling her what to do. 
(Applause.)

Because we know Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United
States Supreme Court with the intention they would undo the protections
of Roe v. Wade, and they did as he intended. 

And now, more than one in three women in America lives in a state with
the Trump abortion ban, including right here in North Carolina. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Many of these bans have no exceptions even for rape
and incest, which is immoral.  To tell a survivor of a violation to
their body that they have no right to make a decision about what happens
to their body next?  That’s immoral.

And let us agree — let us agree: One does not have to abandon their
faith or deeply held beliefs to agree it shouldn’t be the government
telling her what to do — (applause) — not the government.  If she
chooses, she will talk with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam,
but not the government telling her what to do. 

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom, as
president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law —
(applause) — proudly.

And North Carolina, across our nation — I’m telling you, I’m traveling —
we are witnessing a full-on assault on other hard-fought, hard-won
fundamental freedoms and rights, like the freedom to vote — (applause);
the freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause); the freedom to
love who you love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)

So much is on the line in this election.  And this is not 2016 or 2020. 
The stakes are even higher, because a few months ago, the United States
Supreme Court basically told the former president that he would
effectively be immune from whatever he does in office.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But let’s think about that.  You know, you all have
heard me say: I do believe Donald Trump is an unserious man, but the
effects of him being back in the White House would be brutally serious. 

Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.  He who has vowed, if
reelected, he would be a dictator on day one; that he would weaponize
the Department of Justice against his political enemies.  He has called
for the, quote, “termination” —

AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, wait.  Hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on. 
Hold on.

AUDIENCE:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hold on, because here’s the thing — here’s the
thing.  Let’s let the courts handle that, and let’s handle November. 
(Applause.)  We’ll handle November.  How about that?  (Laughs.)

Because, listen, here’s why — this is what we know.  Anybody who wants
to be president of the United States who has called for the, quote,
“termination” of the Constitution of the United States should never
again have the ability to stand behind the seal of the president of the
United States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again. 

And the people who know him best know it.  His former national security
adviser, two of his former Defense secretaries, his former chief of
staff in the White House, his own vice president have all warned
America: Donald Trump is unfit to serve.  (Applause.)

Or just listen most recently to what we heard General Milley said. 
General Milley, chairm- — former chairman of the Joint Chiefs under
Donald Trump.  It was just reported he said, quote, “No one has ever
been as dangerous to this country,” in referring to Donald Trump.  Think
about that.  Think about that.

And we can already see the harm he’s up to as a candidate.  Most
recently, spreading disinformation in the wake of natural disasters,
blocking real solutions that would stop drug cartels from crossing the
border when he tried to kill — and did — that border security deal.

Because, you see, Donald Trump cares more about scaring people, creating
fear, running on a problem, instead of what real leaders do, which is to
participate in fixing problems.  (Applause.) 

Well, I care about fixing problems, and as president of the United
States, I will be focused each and every day on solving problems that
affect you and your family.  (Applause.)

So, North Carolina, it all comes down to this.  We — we are here
together this Sunday afternoon because we know what is at stake.  We are
here together this Sunday afternoon because we love our country. 
(Applause.)  We love our country. 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, that’s right.

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  That’s right.

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We love our country.  And I do believe it is one of
the highest forms of patriotism to then fight for the ideals of our
country and to fight to realize the promise of America — the promise of
America. 

So, Election Day is in 23 days.  And in just four days, early voting
will begin statewide.  (Applause.)  Starting Thursday, you can go to the
polls and cast your ballot.  (Applause.) If you haven’t already
registered to vote, you could do it right then and there: register to
vote and vote. 

And so, now is the time to make your plan to vote.  And if you’ve not
received your ballot in the mail, look for it, because if you have, I
would like you to fill it out right away.  (Laughter.)  Please don’t
wait, because, to my friends, I say, look, the election is here.  The
election is here. 

And remember always that your vote is your voice, and your voice is your
power — (applause) — is your power. 

And so, North Carolina, today I then ask you: Are you ready to make your
voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?   (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

God bless you all.  God bless you.  (Applause.)

END                 5:03 P.M. EDT
