---
date: '2024-10-01'
published_time: 2024-10-01 00:02:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/01/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-administrations-continued-response-efforts-to-hurricane-helene/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on his Administration\u2019s Continued Response\
  \ Efforts to Hurricane\_Helene"
---
 
11:12 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.   
  
Good morning.

To state the obvious, over the weekend, we had devastating storms in the
South.  I spoke with — for a couple hours with leaders yesterday
affected by the hurricane and — Governor Kemp of Georgia, Governor
Cooper of North Carolina, county officials in the Big Bend region of
Florida, and other leaders in South Carolina and Tennessee about the
broad and devastating impacts of Hurricane Helene.   
  
It’s not just a catastrophic storm; it’s a historic history-making storm
— the entire Southeast and Appalachia.  Damage from the hurricane
stretches across at least 10 states.  Winds over 120 miles an hour in
some places.  Storm surges up to 15 feet and record flooding. 

Communities are devastated.  Loved ones waiting, not sure if their loved
ones are okay because they can’t contact them because there’s no cell
phone connections.  Many more folks displaced with no idea when they’ll
be able to be — return to their home, if ever — if there’s a home to
return to.  
  
So, we’re keeping our — we’re keeping them all in our prayers and all
the lives lost — those particularly that are unaccounted for — there’s
nothing like wondering, “Is my husband, wife, son, daughter, mother,
father alive?” — and many more who remain without electricity, water,
food, and communications and whose homes and businesses have washed away
in an instant. 

I want them to know we are not leaving until the job is done.   
  
I also want you to know I’m committed to traveling to the impacted areas
as soon as possible.  But I’ve been told that it’d be disruptive if I
did it right now.  We will not do that at the risk of diverting or
delaying any — any of the response assets needed to deal with this
crisis.

My first responsibility is to get all the help needed to those impacted
areas.  And I expect to be there — (coughs) — excuse me, I have a cold —
I expect to be there later this week.

I and my team are in constant contact with the governors, mayors, and
local leaders.  The head of FEMA, Deanne <s>Griswell</s> \[Criswell\],
is on the ground now in Northern — in North Carolina.  She’s going to
stay in Asheville and the Appalachia region for the foreseeable future.

There’s been reports of over 100 dead and — as a consequence of this
storm, and there are reports of up 600 mil- — 600 people unaccounted for
because they can’t be contacted.  God willing, they’re alive, but there
is no way to contact them, again, because of the lack of cell phone
coverage.

I’ve directed my team to provide every — every available resource as
fast as possible to your communities to rescue, recover, and to begin
rebuilding.

In addition to FEMA — it includes the Federal Communications Commission
to help establish communications capability, the National Guard, the
Army Corps of Engineers, and the Department of Defense are going to
provide all the resources at its disposal to rescue and assist in
clearing debris and delivering lifesaving supplies.

So far, that’s over 3,600 personnel deployed.  That number is growing by
the day.

I quickly approved requests from governors of Florida, North Carolina,
South Carolina, Tennessee, Georgia, Virginia, and Alabama for an
emergency declaration.  And I approved additional requests for the
governors of North Carolina, Florida, South Carolina and — for a
disaster declaration to pay for — to pay for debris removal, provide
financial assistance directly — directly to survivors.  
  
FEMA and the Small Business Administration are there to help the
residents whose homes and businesses were literally destroyed — washed
away or blown away.   
  
And the federal search and rescue teams have been working side by side
with state and local officials and partners in very treacherous
conditions to find those who are missing, and they will not rest until
everyone is accounted for.   
  
And I want to thank all the — all the first responders and everyone who
has been working around the clock.   
  
One of the brave teams that’s volunteered to be there is from San Diego
County Fire Department, set to travel all the way from California to
North Carolina to help.  But on their way, they were in a — in a
terrible car accident in Louisiana.  We pray for their full recovery,
but it was a bad accident.   
  
We know there is more to do, and we will continue to surge resources,
including food, water, communications, and lifesaving equipment. We’ll
be there, as I said before, and I mean it, as long as it takes to finish
this job.  
  
Let me close with this.  As president, I’ve seen firsthand the
devastating toll that disasters like this take on families and
communities.  I’ve been on the ground at many divat- — disasters areas
since I’ve been president — (coughs) — excuse me — and I’ve heard dozens
of stories from survivors about how it feels to be left with nothing,
not even knowing where or when to get back on track.   
  
I am here to tell every single survivor in these impacted areas that we
will be there with you as long as it takes.   
  
For the sake of yourselves — excuse me — (coughs) — and your families, I
urge everyone — everyone returning to their communities and homes to
listen to the local officials and follow all safety instructions.  Take
this seriously.  Please be safe.   
  
Your nation has your back, and the Biden-Harris administration will be
there until the job is done.  
  
God bless you all.  And I’m thinking of those that are still wondering
where your loved ones are.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Will you need to pass a supplemental to help the people in the
Southeast, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Say again.  
  
Q    Will you need to ask Congress for a supplemental to help the people
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s my estim- — my expectation, yes.  
  
Q    Do you know roughly how much you — you’re thinking at this point?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Not yet.  It’s been — this is a historic storm.  It’s
devastating.  They’ve not seen anything like this before.  And some of
them were back-to-back; there were three storms in a row.  So, it’s
really, really devastating.  
  
Q    Would you consider asking Congress to come back for a special
session to pass the supplemental?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That is something I may have to request, but no decision
has been made yet.  
  
Q    Do you have a sense of where you’ll go when you are able to go,
sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  I told the governor of — of North Carolina I’d go
down.  And I — and I expect to be down there by Wednesday or Thursday if
it would be clear for me to go.   
  
You guys who travel with me know there’s an entourage that’s — that is —
can be disruptive.  
  
Q    Is it a mistake for — for President Trump to be down there today in
Georgia?  Is that disruptive?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I — I don’t have any idea.  
  
Q    On another issue on the other side of the world, in the Middle
East.  It’s our understanding —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to stick with this.  
  
Q    What’s that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to stick with this subject.  But go ahead.  I
— I have — a thousand Olympians —  
  
Q    Well, it’s just the fact that Israel may be now launching a limited
operation into Lebanon.  Are you aware of that?  Are you comfortable
with their plans, as best you know them?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m more aware than you might know, and I’m comfortable
with them stopping.  We should have a ceasefire now.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    And Mr. President — Mr. President —  
  
Q    Do you expect Iran to retaliate?  
  
Q    On the hurricane, Mr. President.  Why weren’t you and Vice
President Harris here in Washington commanding this this weekend?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I was commanding.  I was on the phone for at least two
hours yesterday and the day before as well.  I commanded.  It’s called a
telephone.   
  
Q    Is it —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I had all of my security people.

11:19 A.M. EDT
