---
date: '2024-10-26'
modified_time: 2024-10-28 17:59:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-26 17:52:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-kalamazoo-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Kalamazoo,\_MI"
---
 
Wings Event Center  
Kalamazoo, Michigan

5:33 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for Michelle Obama?  (Applause.) 

Good afternoon, Michigan!  (Applause.)  Good afternoon.  Hi.  Hi, guys. 
(Applause.)  We’re doing this!  We’re doing this!  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)

All right.  Okay.  Oh, it’s great to be in Kalamazoo.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  Thank you, guys.  Thank — okay.  Okay.  All right.  Thank
you.  Okay.  We got some work to do.  We got some work to do.  We got
some work to do. 

Can we please — can we please applaud my dear and incredible friend, the
former first lady, Michelle Obama?  (Applause.) 

And I just have to say, you — I’ve known Michelle for years, and she is
an inspiration.  I know everybody here knows this.  She is a truth — she
is a truth-teller, and she motivates us to get to work, especially when
the stakes are high because, as she reminds us, as my mother taught me,
“Don’t just sit around and complain about injustice.”

     AUDIENCE:  “Do something!”

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Do something.” 

And there are so many incredible leaders here tonight, but I want to
first just thank everybody because there is so much you could be doing
with your time right now, and you are here and we are here as community,
as coalition builders, because we love our country.  And I thank you for
being here, and I thank you for all your work.  (Applause.)  I thank
you.  I thank you.  I thank you.

And I want to give a shout-out to Lieutenant Governor Gilchrist —
(applause) — he’s over there somewhere; Senator Gary Peters. 
(Applause.) 

And all the union, elected, and community leaders here today, I thank
you.  (Applause.) 

I want to give a special thank you to former Republican Congressman Fred
Upton — (applause) — who represented Kalamazoo for decades and has
endorsed our campaign because, as he put it, ours is the team that will
“bring people together, strengthen our economy, and get things done for
the American people.”  (Applause.)  

So, Kalamazoo, listen, bef- — you all know, before I was vice president,
I was a United States senator —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Kamala-zoo! 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and before that, I was a —

I know you want to say “Kamala-zoo.”  I heard you.  (Laughter and
applause.) 

Okay.  All right.  Okay.  We got that out of the way.  Okay.  (Laughs.)

So, listen, before I was vice president and — before that, I was a
two-term attorney general of California.  I was a senator, the two-term
attorney general of California, and before that, a district attorney,
and before that, a courtroom prosecutor.  (Applause.) 

And — and in those roles, I took on perpetrators of all kinds:
predators, fraudsters, and repeat offenders.  I took them on, and I
won.  (Applause.)  Well, Michigan, in 10 days, it’s Donald Trump’s
turn.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Yep.  Yep.

So, listen, we’ve got just 10 days left. 

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, I hear your chant.  But, listen,
the courts are going to handle that; we’re going to handle November. 
Okay?  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)

So, look, we’ve got just 10 days left in one of the most consequential
elections of our lifetime.  As you all know, voting has already
started.  (Applause.)  And everybody here knows this is going to be a
tight race until the very end, so we have a lot of work to do. 

But we like hard work.  (Applause.)  Hard work is good work.  Hard work
is joyful work.  And make no mistake, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will
win.  We will win.  We will win.  We will.  Yes, we will.

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I got something for —

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Or — or, as a certain former president would say,
“Yes, we can.”  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

So, yes, we can, and, yes, we will.  And we will win because, together —
and this is about all of us — we are fighting for America’s future.

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No more Gaza war!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we understand —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No more Gaza war!  No more Gaza war!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the opportunity we have before us —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Have you no decency? 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to turn the page —

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No more Gaza war!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — on the fear —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

     Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Thank you all.  Thank you all.  Thank you
all. 

And, listen, on the topic of Gaza, we must end that war.  (Applause.) 
And we must end the war and bring the hostages home.  But now I am
speaking about 2024.  All right.

So, listen, we have to understand the opportunity we have before us to
turn the page on the fear and the divisiveness that have characterized
our politics for a decade because of Donald Trump.  We have an
opportunity to turn the page and chart a new and joyful way — dare I
say, joyful way forward — (applause) — where we tap into the ambition
and the aspirations and the dreams of the American people.   
  
And I’m going to tell you, as I travel around our country, there is an
overwhelming call for a fresh start — (applause) — for a new generation
of leadership that is optimistic and excited about what we can do
together.  (Applause.)   
  
There is a yearning in our country for a president who sees the people,
not just looking in the mirror all the time — (laughter) — but sees the
people, who gets you, and who will fight for you.  (Applause.)  That is
what this election is about. 

And my whole career, I have put the people above partisanship.  I never
asked somebody, “Are you a Democrat or a Republican” before I offered
help.  Instead, the first and only thing I asked is, “How can I help
you?”  (Applause.)  
  
And that is a major difference between Donald Trump and me and between
the two extremely different visions that he and I have for our
nation.   
  
One, his, focused on the past and himself; the other, ours, focused on
the future and you and your family.  (Applause.)

And together, we will build a future where we bring down the cost of
living, and that will be my focus every single day as president.   
  
Because, look, while inflation is down and wages are up, prices are
still too high.  You know it, and I know it.  And unlike Donald Trump,
who had $400 million handed to him on a silver platter and then filed
for bankruptcy six times —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — I grew up in a middle-class neighborhood with a
working mother who kept a strict budget and did everything she could to
make sure my sister and I had all that we needed.   
  
I come from the middle class, and I will never forget where I come
from.  (Applause.)  I will never forget where I come from.  
  
And so, my commonsense plan is about lowering the prices you pay on
everything from prescription medication to groceries to housing.   
  
On the other hand, Donald Trump will raise costs on the families of
America.  In fact, independent economists — independent economists have
analyzed our plans and found that mine will cut your costs and
strengthen our economy, while his will increase inflation and lead to a
recession by the middle of next year.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And his agenda is all laid out in Project 2025
—  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which, I still must say, I cannot believe they
put that in writing.  (Laughter and applause.)  I mean, they put it in
writing, they bound it, they handed it out.  (Laughter.)  And if you get
your hands on it — google it — it’s a detailed and dangerous blueprint
for what he will do if he is elected president.   
  
Donald Trump will impose a 20 percent Trump national sales tax on
everyday basic necessities, which will cost — the economists have
measured it — will cost the average family nearly $4,000 a year.   
  
On the other hand, I will take on an issue like corporate price
gouging.  (Applause.)  I’ve done it before, and I will do it again. 

Donald Trump will give massive tax cuts to billionaires and the biggest
corporations, exactly like he did the last time he was president.   
  
I will give middle-class tax cuts to 100 million Americans, including
$6,000 during the first year of a child’s life that will also lift
America’s children out of poverty.  (Applause.)  
  
Donald Trump — again, read his plan — will get rid of the $35 cap on
insulin for seniors.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
      
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He will cut Medicare and Social Security.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  In fact, recently, it was published, independent
economists say he will bankrupt Social Security in the next six
years.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And what everybody here knows: We have so many
seniors whose only source of income is their Social Security check. 
(Applause.)  And we believe that our seniors should be able to retire
with dignity, not worried about whether they’re going to have a roof
over their head.  (Applause.)  
  
And we believe that their families also should not be overwhelmed by the
cost of home health care, which is why my plan includes ensuring that
instead of you, who are taking care of your elder relative — you know, I
took care of my mother when she was sick, and I know what that is like. 
It’s about trying to cook something that they feel like eating.  It’s
about trying to help them put on a sweater.  It’s about trying to say
something that maybe will bring a smile to their face and maybe make
them laugh from time to time.  It’s about their dignity.   
  
But we have a lot of people right now living in what we call the
“sandwich generation,” who are taking care of your kids while you’re
taking care of your parents.  (Applause.)  And that’s a lot.  It’s a
lot. 

And too many people either — well, either, if you are fortunate enough,
you may have some extra money that you can hire somebody, but most
people can’t.  So, what that means is so many people have to think about
leaving work, quitting their job, which means cutting a source of
income, or spending down all of your savings to be able to qualify for
Medicaid.   
  
It’s just not right.  So, part of my plan says that we’re going to make
sure that Medicare covers the cost of home health care for our seniors. 
(Applause.)   
  
 It’s about dignity.  It’s about dignity.  It’s about seeing people
where they are and understanding the burdens people face and lifting
folks up instead of trying to beat people down, which is exactly what we
see on the other side.  (Applause.)  
  
On top of that, my plan will bring down the cost of housing, because we
know housing is too expensive.  And for so many people — you know,
generations ago, folks could kind of count on the American dream, but
it’s out of reach for far too many people.  And so, we’re going to bring
down the cost of housing, including creating incentives for more home
building, and we are going to create a $25,000 down payment assistance
for first-time homebuyers — (applause) — just to get your foot in the
door.  Because the way I see, it’s not enough that you’re just able to
get by.  I want you to be able to get ahead.  (Applause.)

We’re going to cut taxes for small businesses, because small businesses
are the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.) 

Do we have any small-business owners here?   (Applause.)  Right.  I love
our small businesses. 

We’re going to lower health care costs, because, look, I believe health
care should be a right and not just a privilege of those who have the
money to afford it.  (Applause.)

On the other hand, we’ve got Donald Trump —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — who intends to end the Affordable Care Act — or,
as we like to call it, Obamacare — (applause) — and he would take us
back to when insurance companies had the power to deny people with
preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was like? 

Well, we are —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back, because
we are about moving forward — (applause) — and it is time to turn the
page.

So, ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for freedom, like
the fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make decisions about
her own body and not have her government tell her what to do. 
(Applause.)

And remember how we got here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three members
of the United States Supreme Court with the intention that they would
undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.  They did as he intended.  And now,
one in three women in America lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban
—

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — many with no exceptions for rape and incest. 

And the idea that somebody who survives a crime of a violation to their
body would not have the right to make a decision about what happens to
their body next, that is immoral.

And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree that the government shouldn’t be telling her what
to do.  (Applause.)  Not the government.  Not the government.  If she
chooses, she will talk with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam,
but not the government.  Come on.  Some folks up in a state capitol
telling you what’s in your best interest, like you don’t know?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Not in Michigan!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Not in Michigan, but, look, if there’s a national —
if — if — look, if there’s a national abortion ban, nobody is safe.  And
that’s why I so thank everybody for being here, knowing this is at stake
for everybody and fighting for everybody’s rights.  (Applause.)

And I’ll tell you, so, I was in — I — I actually just got in from
Texas.  And I did an event in Texas last night, in Houston.  And —
(applause) — and if you saw it, you probably saw some of the stories
about what has been happening in our country — the suffering — the
suffering. 

And, you know, Donald Trump still refuses to even acknowledge the pain
and suffering he has caused.  He insists that, and I’m going to quote,
“everybody” wanted Roe v. Wade to be overturned.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Come on.  Everybody wanted this?  Women are being
denied care during miscarriages, some only being treated once they
developed sepsis.  They didn’t want this. 

Couples just trying to grow their family who have been cut off from IVF
treatments.  They didn’t want this. 

The men of America seeing their daughters, wives, sisters, and mothers
put at risk because their rights have been stripped away.  The men of
America don’t want this. 

AUDIENCE:  Noo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Women have died because of these bans.  How could
anybody say that they wanted this? 

And you have heard me say, I do believe Donald Trump to be an unserious
man, but the consequences of him ever being president again are brutally
serious — brutally serious.  (Applause.)  And what I mentioned are just
some of the consequences of what he has done. 

And I will tell you, I pledge to you, when Congress passes a bill to
restore reproductive freedom nationwide, as president of the United
States, I will proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)  Proudly. 
Proudly, with your help. 

And so, look, we are — and I’m traveling our country.  And I’m going to
tell you, across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on
other hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights, like the freedom to
vote. 

You know, in Georgia, they got a law that makes it illegal to give
people food and water for standing in line to vote.  The hypocrisy
abounds.  What happened to love thy neighbor? 

Attacks on the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to
breathe clean air and drink clean water, the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride.  (Applause.) 

All of these things are at stake.  And generations of Americans before
us led the fight for freedom, and now the baton is in our hands. 
(Applause.)  Now the baton is in our hands. 

And on that point, I want to speak, in particular, to all of the young
leaders who are here today.  Can I see Gen Z?  (Applause.)  I love you
guys.  I love you.  Let me tell you — (laughs) — see?  And of the many
things that I just think are so great about you, you are rightly
impatient for change.  (Applause.)  I love that.  I love that. 

You, who have only known the climate crisis, are leading the charge to
protect our planet and our future.  You, who grew up with active shooter
drills, are fighting to keep our schools safe.  (Applause.)  You, who
now know fewer rights than your mothers and grandmothers, are standing
up for reproductive freedom.   

And for you all, these issues are not theoretical, they’re not
political; they’re your lived experience.  And I want to tell you, I see
you, and I see your power.  (Applause.) 

And I know many of you are voting for the first time.  Who’s voting for
the first time?  (Applause.)  Can we hear it for our young leaders and
first-time voters?  (Applause.)

Yeah.  There we go.  That’s what this is about, right?  That’s why we’re
all here together.  It’s about our future. 

So, listen, so much is on the line in this election.  You all know
that. 

And this is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher because, over
the last eight years, Donald Trump has become more confused, more
unstable, and more angry.  And it is clear he has become increasingly
unhinged, but the last time at least there were people who could control
him.  But notice they’re not with him this time. 

And then a few months ago, the Supreme Court told the former president
he is effectively immune no matter what he does in the White House.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s not 2016 or 2020 when you think about that,
because just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.  He who will claim
unchecked and extreme power if he is reelected.  He who has vowed he
will be a dictator on day one.  He who has said he wished he had
generals like Hitler’s.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Who calls — who calls Americans who disagree with
him, “the enemy from within.”  You know what that harkens back to?  And
he says he would use the American military to go after them. 

Donald Trump has even called for the, quote, “termination” of the
Constitution of the United States of America. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let us be very clear, someone who suggests we
should terminate the Constitution of the United States should never
again stand behind the seal of the President of the United States. 
(Applause.)  Never again.  Never again.  Never again.  No.

So, there is a huge contrast in this election, and I’m going to ask
everyone to just imagine the Oval Office in three months.  So, you can
picture it.  So — but here’s what I say to the folks who are watching:
It’s either Donald Trump in there stewing over his enemies list, or me,
working for you, checking off my to-do list.  (Applause.)  And you have
the power to make that decision.  You have the power to make that
decision. 

And this is the beauty of our democracy, as long as we can hold on to
it: The power is with the people.  The power is with the people to make
that decision. 

And so, Michigan, it all comes down to this: We are all here together
because we know what is at stake, and we are here together, most
importantly, because we love our country.  We love our country. 
(Applause.)  We love our country. 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And to love our country — to love our country is to
know that one of the highest forms of patriotism, I believe, is to then
fight for the ideals of our country.  And that’s what we are all here
together to say, “We love our country, and we are prepared to fight for
our country and to fight to realize the promise of America.” 
(Applause.)   The promise of America, that’s what this is about. 

So, Election Day is in 10 days.  (Applause.)  And early voting has
already started.  (Applause.)  And you can vote early, starting today,
through Sunday, November 3rd.  (Applause.)  So, we need you to vote
early, Michigan.  (Applause.)

And now, then is the time to make your plan to vote.  And you can go to
IWillVote.com to get all the information you need.

And if you have received your ballot in the mail, please do not wait,
fill it out and return it today — (applause) — because, folks, the
election is here.  It is here, and the choice is truly in your hands. 
And your vote is your voice, and your voice is your power.  (Applause.) 
It’s your power. 

So, Michigan, today, I ask you, are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.) 

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God Bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.) 

                        END                6:05 P.M. EDT
