---
date: '2024-10-26'
modified_time: 2024-10-28 17:17:23-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-26 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-battle-creek-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Battle Creek,\_MI"
---
 
Duncan Aviation  
Battle Creek, Michigan

1:48 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  I know you all have been asking about the
status of our conversations around Iran and Israel.  And a couple of
hours ago, I got off of a — a lengthy and important conversation with
the president and our national security team.  And, of course, we
maintain the importance of supporting Israel’s right to defend itself,
and we are also very adamant that we must see de-escalation in the
region going forward, and that will be our focus. 

In terms of Texas, it was a very good trip.  As I said, the reason for
being there — there were many — most importantly, that there are a lot
of people in Texas who have been suffering under what I call draconian
laws as it relates to how they’ve been treating women and their right to
reproductive freedom. 

It was also and is ground zero in terms of one of the most draconian
laws in the whole country that have come about because of Donald Trump
and what he did to select three members of the United States Supreme
Court with the intention that they would undo the protections of Roe v.
Wade. 

And I’m here now in Kalamazoo and in Michigan to talk with the folks
here about their priority around ensuring that this election produces a
president of the United States who honors and protects a woman’s right
to make decisions about her own body. 

I’m about to go and meet with some of the physicians who are on the
front lines of this issue, who are addressing the harm that has resulted
from these Trump abortion bans but also doing the work in terms of
advocacy, with a great deal of courage, to highlight to the American
people what, I think, for some are really unintended consequences as a
result of the undoing of Roe v. Wade.

I’m happy to take your questions.

Q    When it comes to abortion rights and talking with the providers
today, what can we expect from those conversations?  And will we hear
more of that in your speech tonight with

former First Lady Michelle Obama?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, like I said even last night, what —
and I’ve been meeting with health care providers for the last few years,
since the Dodd decision came down.  They are a combination of doing
their work in fear of being jailed —

We are saying that, for example, medical students are now more reluctant
than ever to go into reproductive health care fields for fear that they
could be criminalized. 

We are seeing the impact of these laws causing clinics — health care
clinics to shut down.  Those clinics that, yes, provide abortion care
but also paps, breast cancer screenings, HIV testing. 

And so, the physicians that I’ve been talking with are concerned about
this myriad of issues that have highlighted the fact that because of
Trump and what he did with the Supreme Court, we are looking at a health
care crisis in America, which is affecting people of every background
and gender.

Q    Ma’am, on Iran, on the Middle East.  There are

reports from the U.N. that about one in five Lebanese people are now
displaced because of the ongoing war.  You said esc- — de-escalation is
the goal.  Why are — why is the U.S. and Israel not aligned in that goal
in terms of the conflict in the region?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ve been very clear with everyone in
the region — and, in fact, that’s why Tony Blinken was there for several
days this week — that we want to work toward ending this war.  This war
must end.  We must get the hostages out and work toward a two-state
solution. 

And we do believe strongly that, as it relates to Lebanon and — and the
region, that part of the strength of our work is the diplomatic work we
will do to reach that end. 

Q    What are we hearing —

Q    Ma’am, can I follow up on the — on the —

AIDE:  Go ahead, Darlene.

Q    What is the administration hearing from Arab allies about the
Israeli strikes?  And can you say whether the strikes made it less
likely that Iran will be able to attack Israel again in the future?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What I can say is that it is a consensus among
leaders in the region and certainly it is the strong perspective of the
United States that there must be de-escalation and not an escalation of
activities in that region.

Q    Ma’am — ma’am, to expand on that, what — what is your message to
Iran specifically, as they consider a potential retaliation?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Listen, we feel very — I feel very strongly — we as
the United States feel very strongly that Iran must stop what it is
doing in terms of the threat that it presents to the region.  And we
will always defend Israel against any attacks by Iran in that way.

                             END                1:53 P.M. EDT
