---
date: '2024-10-21'
modified_time: 2024-10-22 12:47:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-10-21 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/10/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-royal-oak-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Royal Oak,\_MI"
---
 
Royal Oak Music Theatre  
Royal Oak, Michigan

3:59 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Well, we are here in
Michigan, just left Pennsylvania.  And then after Michigan, we’ll be on
our way to Wisconsin. 

And I will mention a couple of things that have just recently come up —
for example, that my opponent, Donald Trump, does not believe we should
raise minimum wage.  And I think everyone knows that the current federal
minimum wage is $7.25 an hour, which means that the person who is
working a full day and working full weeks will make $15,000 a year,
which is essentially poverty wages. 

So, there is a big difference between Donald Trump and me on a number of
issues, including this, where I absolutely believe we must raise minimum
wage and that hardworking Americans, whether they’re working at
McDonald’s or anywhere else, should have at least the ability to be able
to take care of their family and take care of themselves in a way that
allows them to actually be able to sustain their needs.

The other issue that has come up recently has been the issue of what we
are seeing, again, about Donald Trump just being, frankly, hostile to
the whole notion and importance of Social Security.  There are many
seniors in our country that Social Security is their only form of
income.  And now an independent agency has reviewed Donald Trump’s
theory about Social Security and his policies and has indicated that his
policy would actually render the Social Security fund empty,
essentially, in six years.

Again, if you look at it from minim- — minimum wage to Social Security,
Donald Trump clearly does not understand the needs of working people. 
With Social Security be- — being rendered insolvent in six years, what
that would mean for the seniors of America is catastrophic. 

And then, lastly, on the issue of contraception, I’m very pleased that
our administration today announced a rule that would essentially allow
folks to get contraception over the counter.  And as we know, my policy
is about making sure that Americans have what they need in terms of
their reproductive health.  And Donald Trump, you just look at his plan
20- — his Project 2025 would actually restrict access to contraception,
which would just contribute to the public health crisis he’s already
created.

I’ll take any questions.

AIDE:  We’re going to start with Erica Green at the New York Times.

     Q    Madam President — Vice President, sorry.  Keeps happening. 
Could you please speak to your — your messaging today —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sure.

     Q    — particularly as you go through the suburbs?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     Q    You’re trying to reach swing voters.  Among them are women —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

     Q    — white women who voted for Donald Trump in the last two
elections.  Can you talk about your messaging to them and what you’re
hoping will break through to them?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, today, I am spending the day with former
Congresswoman Liz Cheney.  We are traveling to three states to talk with
all Americans about what is at stake in this election, but doing it
through the lens of a very important point, that what is at stake in
this election is so fundamental that it really does cross partisan
lines.

We are talking about whether you will have a president of the United
States who takes seriously their duty and their oath to uphold the
Constitution of the United States.  And there is a clear distinction
here, which is that I will and he will not, as evidenced by many
statements he has made, including his intention to be a dictator on day
one, his intention to weaponize the Department of Justice against his
political enemies. 

And then you just look at what the people who know him best and worked
with him in the Oval Office and the White House have said about him,
which is he is unfit to serve and would be dangerous if he were
president again.  And he, even by the former chairman of the Joints
Chiefs of Staff, has been called a “fascist to his core.”  I am quoting.

So, what we are talking with folks about today is what I’ve been talking
with folks about since I’ve been on the campaign trail these last 70-odd
days, which is this is a choice for the American people, and it is a
choice between whether we’re going to chart a new way forward that turns
the page on the division, the hate, the chaos of Donald Trump. 

But also, and maybe even more fundamentally, do we have a president of
the United States who stands behind the seal of the president of the
United States taking seriously their oath and their duty to uphold the
Constitution of the United States and abide by the rule of law?

And so, I’m out here talking with folks to remind them of what’s at
stake.  And I’m very pleased and honored that so many people are showing
up to these events to have this conversation, because I think they know,
regardless of who they voted for in the last election and the party with
which they’re registered to vote, on some issues, we just have to all be
Americans and put party aside.

AIDE:  We’re going to go to Colleen at the AP.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi. 

Q    Hi, Madam Vice President.  Do you think that Republican voters — in
specific, women voters — will be more likely to vote for you because of
the fall of Roe?  And are the Republican votes key to winning the
(inaudible) states?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I look at what happened in the midterms and in
special elections to guide my thinking about this issue.  And what we
saw is, in so-called “red” states and so-called “blue” states, when the
issue of the freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body is
on the ballot, the American people vote for freedom regardless of the
party with which they’re registered to vote.

And I do believe it is such a fundamental issue, which is understanding
you don’t have to abandon your faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling women what to do with their body.  So,
I do believe it is a compelling issue, especially when we consider the
fact that, for so many of us, our daughter is going to have fewer rights
than their grandmother. 

And America’s strength — one of the attributes of our progress has been
the expansion of rights, not the restriction of rights.  And that’s what
we’re seeing happen, and it has happened because Donald Trump created
this situation when he hand-selected three members of the United States
Supreme Court with the intention they would undo the protections of Roe
v. Wade, and they did as he intended.

AIDE:  We have time for one more.  Andrea at Reuters, are you here?

     Q    Yeah.  Hi.  So, Elon Musk is giving away a million dollars a
day to voters who sign a petition.  Do you have concerns about that in
ter- — in the context of law, you know, the sort of legal framework
around elections? 

And secondly, a Reuters investigation has shown something like 300 cases
of political violence already in the run-up to the election.  Can you
just address what can be done and what the federal government can do to
push back against that?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, on the first point, I think people are
looking into that.

On the second point —

     Q    When you say “people,” do you mean the U.S. government?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I mean I hear that folks are looking into it, just
based on the stuff you all are reporting.  (Laughs.)

On the second point, there should be no place in America where we are
seeing political violence.  And, sadly, we have seen, if we just look
back to January 6th, when that occurred in a way that was most shocking
and brought on because, of course, of Donald Trump, who incited a mob —
a violent mob that attacked the United States Capitol, wherein over 140
uniformed law enforcement officers were injured and some were killed and
where Donald Trump has still yet to acknowledge the travesty of that day
and the political violence that occurred that day.

So, I will say and repeat what I think most people understand: In
America, in a democracy, we should have no room for nor should we ever
condone any form of political violence.  In a democracy, people will
debate, people will disagree, but not resort to violence.  And everyone
should speak out about that, including and especially anybody who’s
running for president of the United States.

AIDE:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.

     Q    Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Thank you all.

                        END                     4:07 P.M. EDT
