---
date: '2024-01-30'
modified_time: 2024-01-30 16:22:51-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-30 02:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception-los-gatos-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Reception | Los Gatos,\_CA"
---
 
*Private Residence  
Los Gatos, California*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.   
  
Let me first thank my husband for being such an incredible partner. 
And, also, really, he’s been doing an extraordinary job of —  
  
(Referring to a handheld microphone.)  I’m — this is — what’s happening
here?  There.  
  
— of spending time traveling the country, talking about many of the
issues.  He has been particularly powerful on the issue of speaking out
against hate and antisemitism.  And I’d like to just acknowledge, in
front of all of the friends, the work that you are doing as an
incredible — (applause) — first Second Gentleman.  
  
So, it’s good to see everyone.  Listen, Doug said it well.  I do believe
everything is at stake in this election.  I do believe — you know, many
of us have talked — I’m going to just walk around.  I hate being behind
a podium.  (Laughter.)  
  
Many of us have been active for every election cycle.  And  
pretty much as far back as I can remember, we have, at one moment or
another, referred to those election cycles as being existential,
everything being at stake.  This absolutely is existential.  
  
When I think about what we are up against and full-on frontal attacks on
hard-fought, hard-won freedoms and rights, a full-on agenda that is
about taking us backward in such an unapologetic and clear way, I know
that this is existential.  
  
Doug mentioned traveling.  I have now, as Vice President, met with over
150 world leaders — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and kings
— many of whom I’ve actually hosted at our temporary public housing in
D.C.  (Laughter.)  But many of whom I’ve now met and talked with a
number of times so that we’ve established relationships and
friendships.   
  
And the most recent international trips I took as Vice President, then,
were at the end of last year.  I went to the UK to talk about what we
are doing in terms of AI and the — our host is a — is a leading
authority on that issue.  And so, I was there talking about how we are
thinking, as America, about the safety issue as it relates to AI.  And
then, later — two weeks later — I went to Dubai to represent our country
at COP28, the global convening on climate.  
  
To a one, the world leaders that I saw, who are now friends and we have
relationships — to a one, when they came up to me, the first point they
made, “Hope you guys are going to be okay.”  
And be clear, that was out of self-interest.  Because what they know is
what we know, which is why we are here.  
  
And, Shannon, I cannot thank you for all that you have always done and
continue to do — both of you and Kevin and Chloe and Coco.  (Applause.) 
Right?  
  
What we know is that when we are talking about this fight for our
democracy, the nature of democracy is there’s a duality to it.   
  
On the one hand, it’s very strong.  When a democracy is intact, it is so
strong in terms of what it does to empower its people through the
protection and the respect of individual rights and liberties, what it
does to give its people dignity.  There is such strength in a democracy
when it is intact.  
  
And it is very fragile.  It is only as strong as our willingness to
fight for it.   
  
So, when I see these world leaders or travel our country — right? — I
started a college tour in the fall.  And then now I’m on a — just
started — second stop today on our “Fight for Reproductive Freedoms” in
a tour.  What I know and I see around the world and in our own country
is that there are so many of us who do understand that concept and
understand that the trajectory of America en- — depends entirely on her
people.  
  
This election, yes, it is about the Biden-Harris ticket and it is about
winning an election.  But I would propose that what will happen in
November will be a reflection of a question, which is: For us, as
Americans, what kind of country do we want to live in?  What kind of
country do we want to live in?  
  
And when I think about what is at stake, then, I would offer that, in
November, there’s a split screen.  Among the many big issues challenging
our world and our country that are complex and not binary, November of
’24: binary.  
  
So, just pull up the — the split screen.  On the one hand, you have a
former President who openly celebrates dictators and has professed and
promised he will be a dictator on “day one”; openly and unapologetically
expresses his intention to weaponize the United States Department of
Justice; openly, brazenly talks about what he will do to exact revenge
on his political enemies.  
  
Recently, many — recently said, when asked about the Dobbs decision,
which undid Roe v. Wade, said he was “proud”  
of what he did, which, of course, was to handpick three justices with
the full intention that it is they who would undo the protection of an
individual’s right to make decisions about their own body.  “Proud.”  
  
Proud that right now in states like Texas — where is my friend from
Texas? — right? — in states like Texas, they are providing for prison
time for life for healthcare providers; punishing women; making no
exception, in many cases around our country, for rape or incest.  
  
And, you know, most of us, I think, can handle this conversation.  Look,
you guys know my background.  Most of my career, I was a prosecutor. 
Started out, DA of San Francisco, first woman.  I was Attorney General,
reelected, first woman.   
  
Well, what you may not know about my background is, when I was in high
school, my best friend, I learned, was being molested by her
stepfather.  And when I found out, I said to her, “You have to come and
stay with us.”  Called my mother, my mother said, “Absolutely, she
does.”  And she did.  
  
And I decided I wanted to do the work that was about protecting women
and children from violence.  The idea that these so-called leaders would
be proposing that after someone has survived a crime of violence to
their body, a violation to their body, that they would have no authority
or right to make a decision about what happens to their body next —
that’s immoral.  And he’s proud of the suffering we’re seeing every day
in our country?  
  
Pull up the split screen.  
  
On the other side of that screen, you see, in our President, Joe Biden,
and the work we have done as an administration on some of the biggest
challenges facing our world.  Be it the first time there’s a war in
Europe in over 70 years and bringing NATO together and strengthening
NATO so now we have two additional members.  
  
What we have accomplished in terms of — forever, administrations of both
parties saying, “Hey, let’s deal with the…” — I’m looking at
(inaudible).  “Let’s deal with the fact that America’s infrastructure is
over 150 years old, and it’s time we dealt with it.”  And they’d talk
about “Infrastructure Week” in that last administration.  And we got it
done, and now, by my estimate, looking at over a trillion dollars that’s
going to American jobs to build back up our roads and bridges and
sidewalks and airports.  
  
This group of friends understands — and I say this as a proud
Californian — the importance of investing in research and development
and science.  And we got the CHIPS and Science Act done, which is going
to mean billions of dollars in investment, in technology, in our ability
to see what’s possible and then go for it and allow our country to be a
leader — a global leader.  That happened under our administration.  
  
Doing the work of understanding that, for generations, seniors have been
struggling, if they have diabetes, to figure out how to either afford to
fill their prescription or fill their refrigerator.  And we have now
capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month.   
  
We now — and Joe Biden — I just — it makes me sick when people criticize
our President about questioning him, when he has been so bold in terms
of understanding what is an investment in the future of our country and
taking on, as we have, for example, the pharmaceutical companies saying:
We’re going to, for the first time, allow Medicare to negotiate drug
prices for seniors and cap the annual cost of medication for seniors at
$2,000.  That’s a big deal.  
  
And I could go on and on.  Like Doug says — it’s so funny when you say
that — it’s the CVS — (laughter) — it’s a CVS receipt.  I could go on
and on.  
  
But the contrast.  On the one hand, we’re looking at, at the very least,
chaos — but actually, chaos leading to destruction around foundational,
fundamental institutions and values.  And on the other hand, competence
and calm and clarity.  
  
And I’ll — I’ll end my comments so I can come and walk around, but with
a — with a basic point that I think also is something we have to
acknowledge about what’s happening in our country right now.   
  
There’s a — there’s a kind of perverse, I think, ideology that is being
pushed around that suggests that the measure of a leader’s strength is
based on who you beat down, instead of what we all know: The true
measure of that strength is based on who you lift up.  You know, this
perverse notion that, somehow, it’s a sign of weakness to have
compassion, care, when the real character trait of a real leader is
someone who has some level of curiosity and concern and care for the
suffering of other people and then does something about it to alleviate
that suffering.  
  
So, we got a fight in front of us.  And I’ll tell you — I was saying to
a couple of the friends — over the Christmas break, Doug and I left D.C.
and came home to California.  And, first of all, we slept.  (Laughter.) 
We didn’t realize how tired we were.  We just slept.  And then Doug
looked at me and was like, “Honey, I think we’re defrosting.” 
(Laughter.)  
  
And I was in my happy place.  I was cooking.  I — let me tell you, I
love your kitchen, by the way.  I have — (laughter) — you have, like, an
eight-burner stove.  I love your kitchen.   
  
MS. HUNT-SCOTT:  You can come anytime.  You should see the downstairs
kitchen.  It’s even better.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  I want to see it.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, I was in my happy place and I was cooking.  The kids were home. 
They — just it was all good.  But because we knew, starting in January,
this is no joke.  And already in the last two and half weeks, I’ve been
North Carolina, South Carolina twice, Georgia, Wisconsin, Nevada twice,
New York, California, just in the first, like, two and a half weeks of
this year.  
  
And I know we’re all prepared to do something similar, in terms of each
day, starting now, understanding what is at stake and understanding it’s
going to take all of us.   
  
We love our country.  We love our country.  We believe in our
foundational principles.  And it is incumbent on each one of us to do
everything we can.  And I know I’m preaching to the choir, because
that’s why you guys are here.   
  
And I thank you very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
﻿  
     END
