---
date: '2024-01-27'
modified_time: 2024-01-28 13:30:28-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-27 22:27:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-uplifting-small-businesses-and-supporting-entrepreneurship-las-vegas-nv/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Uplifting Small Businesses and Supporting\
  \ Entrepreneurship | Las Vegas,\_NV"
---
 
*The Chef Jeff Project  
Las Vegas, Nevada *

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let me start by saying it is wonderful to be
back in Nevada.  And, Chef Jeff, I want to thank you for so warmly
welcoming us and sharing with us the success of your dream of investing
in the community and the capacity of everyone.  I’ve been reading about
and hearing about the work that you are doing here for quite some time,
so it’s been my joy to be here in person.

I do believe in a very fundamental principle — and it transcends
religions, but it is an age-old concept — and it is the concept of
redemption, which is the notion and the understanding that all people
will make a mistake.  And, yes, there must be accountability, especially
when it involves the commission of a crime, when it involves anything
that might hurt another person; of course, there must be
accountability.  But is it not the sign of a civil society to allow
people the ability to come back and earn their way back?

And so, when I look at the spirit, I believe, behind the work that is
happening here and the work that should be happening everywhere, it is
about understanding that all people have some skill or gift or capacity
to do good things.  And often, it is a function of whether we as a
society put the resources into that possibility.

Do we and are we committed to access — meaningful access to opportunity
for all people?

And that is the beauty of the work that is happening here and in many
other places, and especially because of the Administrator and who — we
have, in Administrator Guzman, the ability to understand, through the
SBA, how we can make these opportunities real, in terms of giving
businesses like this one access to capital to then create access to
opportunity for all the young leaders who are here. 

And so, I applaud the work that is happening here.  I — I recognize it. 
Many, many years ago — in fact, now almost two decades ago, when I was
District Attorney of San Francisco, I created one of the first reentry
initiatives of any place in the country focused on just this notion and
idea, which is to give folks an opportunity to come back with the skills
and the skill development that are necessary for the people to reach
their capacity and achieve their dreams.

And I do believe this is work that we need to reinforce through the
structures of our systems, including recognizing where the structures of
some of our systems have been an obstacle to these possibilities.

So, on that point, I am pleased to announce today that what we are doing
is ensuring that the millions of Americans who have served time or have
a criminal record will soon be able to receive small business loans in a
way that, before now — (applause) — they were not able to.

And when we look at this, right now, before this announcement, we are
looking at millions of Americans who could not access loans for the
Small Business Administration — loans that, on average, are about $40
billion a year — because they served time.   
  
And, again, they paid their — they — they have paid for the
accountability that — that they needed to pay.  They have done their
time.  They have served their time.  And the point is, if we are to be a
society that understands their capacity to earn their way back, we have
to remove the obstacles that will prevent them from doing that.

And so, I want to acknowledge and thank the Administrator for your
leadership.  The President and I are so proud of the work you have done
to make these ideals real.

I especially want to thank the Congressman, Steven Horsford.  He and I
have had these conversations for years.  Everyone here in — in Las Vegas
and in Nevada knows his background.  But this is a lifelong commitment
he has had.  And a lot of the work that we have done as an
administration in this regard has been with him as a partner and often
as someone who is championing it in the United States Congress in a way
that we can facilitate it and see it through.

So, I’ll close where I started: by saying that every person in America
should have access to opportunity.  And we have to be very thoughtful
and intentional about — and clear-eyed about where there are obstacles
to just that end.  And let’s remove those obstacles so that we can have
success stories like we have with the young men and women who are here.

And with that, I’m going to turn it over to the Administrator.  Please. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

                               END         
