---
date: '2024-01-31'
modified_time: 2024-01-31 00:04:33-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-31 00:04:32-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/31/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-miami-fl/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Miami,\_FL"
---
 
Private Residence  
Miami, Florida

6:27 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Well, Chris, thank you. And I have to tell you, I’m not
going home. (Laughter.)

Folks — I want to thank you for chairing the — the Biden Victory Fund.
You’re a great friend, traveling all across the country to bring so many
folks into the process. And I mean that. We’re lucky to have you on the
campaign trail with us.

And thanks to all of you for the support you’ve given us.

I’ll start with the simplest message: From the bottom of my heart, thank
you, thank you, thank you. You’re the reason I’m President of the United
States. Not hyperbole. You’re the reason. (Applause.)

Kamala Harris is a — you’re the reason Kamala Harris is the first —
historic Vice President, first woman to be in that position. (Applause.)
You’re the reason Donald Trump is a defeated former President.
(Applause.) And you’re the reason we’re going to continue to make him a
loser again. (Laughs.) (Applause.)

Folks, in 2020, I ran because I thought this country stood at a — for —
everything I believed in was at stake. I really mean it. I thought it
was at risk.

I made a couple speeches I got criticized for, saying I thought our
democracy was at stake. I think people thought I was being hyperbolic at
the time. “Joe, what do you mean democracy is at risk? What do you mean
we’re in a battle for the soul of America?” Well, people don’t say that
anymore.

You know, I don’t think anyone today doubts democracy was at risk in
2020. And thank God, because of you and supporters like you, we won.

Just think back to the mess that Donald Trump left this country in: a
pandemic that was raging, an economy that was reeling.

Look how far we’ve come. We vaccinated America to get through that
pandemic. Less than 2 million people were vaccinated when we came into
office. Today, 270 million Americans have gotten that COVID vaccine.
(Applause.)

We created 14 million new jobs — new jobs — more than any president has
in the first term — to get this economy going strong.

We passed the American Rescue Plan to put $1,400 in people’s pockets at
the time, who were in real trouble, and $300 checks per child for
families — of hardworking families — with thousands of dollars in
people’s pockets through the re- — what was then a real crisis. And that
money helped cut child poverty in half.

And we have to do more. Everyone is feeling the consequences of these
investments and progress — not everybody is feeling it yet. And yet,
inflation is now lower in America than in any other country \[major
economy\] in the world.

In recent weeks, we’re starting to see real evidence that American
consumers are beginning to feel confidence — renewed confidence in the
economy we’re building. Just this morning, we learned that consumer
confidence surged to its highest level in two years.

The Washington Post headline from this weekend is: Falling inflation ri-
— rai- — rising growth in U.S. gives world the best — gives U.S. the
best recovery in the world.

Look, let me tell you who else is noticing: Donald Trump. He recently
said, “When the crash occurs, I hope it’s in the next 12 months.” “When
the crash occurs, I hope it’s in the next 12 months.” It’s unbelievable.
It’s un-American.

How can a former President or anyone say that an economic crash that
would devastate millions of people is a good thing?

Here’s what he really means: Donald Trump knows the economy we’ve built
is strong and getting stronger. And he knows that, while it’s good for
America, it’s bad for him politically.

Trump also said one of the — one president does not — he said, “I’m the
one guy that doesn’t want to be a Her- — Herbert Hoover.” Well, I’ve got
news for him — bad news. He’s already Herbert Hoover. (Laughter.) The
only president other than Donald Trump that lost jobs during an
administration was Herbert Hoover. So, Donald “Herbert Hoover” Trump is
— (laughter) — is moving right along.

Folks, I promised we’d beat Big Pharma. You know, they charge more for
prescription drugs in America than they do anywhere else in the world.
You have a prescription — the same exact prescription taken to a drug
store here, I take you to one in Toronto, Berlin, anywhere around the
world, and it’s somewhere between 60 and 40 percent less.

We said we’d beat them, and we did. Thirty-five-dollar-a-month insulin
for seniors with diabetes instead of $400 a month. We tried to make it
35 bucks a month for everyone because it only costs 10 bucks to make and
— and the total packaging cost 13 bucks. And they’re still making a
significant progress \[profit\]. But our Republican colleagues pushed
back on everybody having it. But with your vote in 2024, we’re going to
make it available to everyone.

Out-of-pocket costs for seniors for prescription drugs, beginning in
2024 \[2025\], are capped at $2,000 a year, no matter how big they are.
You all know somebody who is taking a cancer drug. It could be $12-,
$15-, $16,000. Well, it’s going to be capped at $2,000 maximum. And it
matters.

I promised we’d help ease the accumulated student debt in America that
Americans carried during this economic crisis and pandemic. The Supreme
Court blocked me, but it didn’t stop me. I found another way, a legal
way, to do it. That is three m- — 3.7 million people, $130 billion
relief and counting.

Here’s what we did. We went back and fixed what’s called the Public
Service Loan Forgiveness program, which was designed to help public
servants — like teachers, nurses, firefighters, social workers — get
their student loans forgiven. If they make 10 years of payments without
miss and they’re involved in public service, they get their debt
forgiven.

By the time I took office, the program had been in place nearly 15
years. Behind red — because of red tape, only 7,000 borrowers had been
helped.

Thanks to — today, we have 700,000 borrowers helped. And guess what?
It’s growing the economy. (Applause.) They’re out buying homes. They’re
out paying their debts. They’re out doing things that make a difference.

And all of you here in Florida knew how lucky America would be when I
kept my promise to appoint the first Black woman to the Supreme Court.
(Applause.) Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson of Miami, Florida — she’s
making us proud.

And, by the way, I’ve appointed more Black women to the federal appeals
courts than every other president in American history combined — every
single one combined. (Applause.) All told, we’ve gotten 171 federal
judges confirmed, and two thirds of them are women. (Laughs.)
(Applause.) Well, it’s real simple. I got it right. All the women in my
family are smarter than all the men, so I figure. (Laughter.)

Look, the fact is that we have a lot more work to do, but I’ve never
been more optimistic about our future. I mean it.

An example: Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that I signed,
there are 40,000 infrastructure projects all across America.

How in God’s name can we be the most important country in the world, the
most economically prosperous, and be ranked number 14 in infrastructure?
It’s not possible.

We’re rebuilding our roads, our bridges, our ports, our airports. And
we’re bringing affordable high-speed Internet everywhere in America;
ripping out every poisonous lead pipe that exists so every child in
America can turn on a faucet and drink it without having any brain
damage. (Applause.)

We passed the most significant gun safety law in decades. And I will not
stop until I once again ban assault weapons in this country. (Applause.)

We’re saving the planet with the most significant investment in climate
change ever, anywhere in the history of the world. We’ve tripled sales
of electric vehicles, built a national network of 50,000 \[500,000\] EV
charging stations, put on a path to carbon emissions — to reduce by 50
percent by 2030. I could go on, but you’re standing. (Laughter.)

Now imagine the nightmare if Trump returned to office.

At a recent — at a recent deadly school shooting in Perry, Iowa, three
people died, including one sixth grader and the school principal. You
know what Trump said? It’s hard to believe he said it, but he said it.
You just got to “get over it.” You just got to “get over it.”

I’m not going to get over it. I’m going to stop it. I’m going to stop
it. (Applause.)

Trump and his MAGA friends want to repeal the historic climate
legislation. Maybe they don’t think climate is a real problem, but the
rest of us know it is.

I’ve spent more time traveling the world — traveling the United States
in the three years, looking at the forest that had been burned to the
ground and is equivalent to the entire state of Maryland, burned to the
ground. Now after — and you see what the rising tides are doing. You see
what’s happening here in Florida. And we’re trying. And we’re trying.

Failing more than 60 times —

You know, look, how can I — I want to be — I don’t want to lose my
temper here and say something I shouldn’t.

After trying and failing more than 60 times, Trump and his MAGA friends
are promising to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, the only law that
exists for people of modest means to be able to get insurance and not be
denied because of preexisting condition. And they want to take that
away.

Seniors here in Florida and all across America should know this: Trump
and the MAGA Republicans are determined to take away the $35-a-month
insulin payment and make it no longer the law, as well as the $2,000 cap
on all prescription drugs.

Instead of saving Social Security and Medicare, Trump and his MAGA
friends want to give another massive multibillion-dollar tax cut and not
pay for it at all.

Look, you know, Trump and his MAGA friends are determined to take away
your freedom as well. Today, they’re attacking voting rights — voting
rights all across the country.

And now Trump is bragging about having overturned Roe v. Wade, taking
away a woman’s right to choose. And now they’re planning a national ban
on the right to choose. You know it here in Florida from your governor.

I made it clear: If MAGA Republicans try to pass a national ban on the
right to choose, I will veto it. It will never go into effect.
(Applause.)

And if you reelect me and Kamala and a Democratic House and a bigger
Senate majority, we will restore Roe v. Wade as the law of the land
everywhere — everywhere. (Applause.)

Look, you’re all standing for a long time, running out of po- — let me
close with this.

Trump and his MAGA friends are dividing us, not uniting us; dragging us
back into the past, not leading us to the future; refusing to accept the
results of a legitimate election; seeking, as Trump did — says, to
“terminate” elements of the Constitution; embracing political violence —
embracing it.

I sit, next to my office, in the Oval Office — two — two doors —
literally, doors to my office down is that dining room where he sat and
watched on the 6th of — of January, watched that riot go on, watched
those people being killed — watched the cops being killed, watched
what’s happening.

You know, I was — shortly after that, I was — as President, I was in
London — outside of London at a G7 meeting. And I sat down, and I said,
“America is back.” And the French President looked at me, and he said,
“For how long? For how long is it back?”

And then, Olaf of Germany looked at me — the Chancellor — and he said,
“What would you say, Mr. President” — true story — “What would you say,
Mr. President, if we woke up tomorrow morning and here in the London
Times said, ‘A thousand people stormed the gates of Parliament, broke
down the doors to the House of Commons, and stopped the election of a
Speaker — of a Speaker — stopped the election of a Prime Minister’?”

And I started thinking about it. What would we think? What would we
think had happened? The rest of the world — everywhere I — I know I’ve —
because I’ve been around a while — I know I don’t look it, but I’m a
little older. (Laughter.) But I’ve been around. I know every one of
these former and present presidents of nations. I mean it sincerely.
I’ve been in over 140 countries. I know them personally.

Every meeting I go to, from the G20 on, as I’m leaving, one of them
pulls me aside and says, “Joe — Joe, you’ve got to win. You can’t let
him back. My country is at stake.”

No, I — no, and a lot of you travel internationally. Find me some other
leader in the — in the free world that is rooting for Trump to come
back.

Folks, there’s a truth and there’s lies. We have to make clear we stand
with the truth and we’re going to defeat the lies. We must make clear
that America still — we believe in honesty, decency, dignity, respect.
We believe that we’re all created equal. We’ve never fully lived up to
it, but we’ve never walked away from it before. We’ve never walked away
from it before.

You know, we leave nobody behind. We believe everybody deserves a fair
shot. We don’t give hate a safe harbor. We believe in America.

I mean, it sounds corny, but think about it. We believe in the idea of
America.

I know what’s at stake. We must keep the White House, keep the Senate,
and win back the House. And then to win up — (applause) — up and down
the ticket at state and local offices.

Here in Florida, we have to organize, mobilize, and vote. And if we do,
we will win Florida. (Applause.)

When we do that, we’ll be able to look back and say something few
generations can say: America’s democracy was at risk, like it was in
2020, but we saved it.

We just have to remember who we are. We’re the United States of America.
(Applause.) And there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we
do it together. And that’s what we have to do.

So, God bless you all. Sorry to make you stand for so long. Thank you,
thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

May God bless you all. And may he protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

All the way back there, thank you. Thank you, thank you.

AUDIENCE: Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. I don’t want to go home. Thank you. Thank you,
all. Bye-bye.

6:42 P.M. EST
