---
date: '2024-01-03'
modified_time: 2024-01-05 10:20:54-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-03 22:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-culinary-workers-union-local-226-las-vegas-nv/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at Culinary Workers Union Local 226 | Las\
  \ Vegas,\_NV"
---
 
*Culinary Workers Union Local 226  
Las Vegas, Nevada *

12:42 P.M. PST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everybody.  (Applause.)  Have a
seat.  Have a seat.  Please have a seat.

Elena, I’m telling you, you just — you are just nothing but power.  You
are just full-on power.  I mean, just so powerful.  And thank you. 

Well, it’s good to be in the house of labor.  (Applause.)  It’s good to
be in the house of labor.  And it’s good to be back with the Culinary
Workers.

Good afternoon, everyone.  Thank you for your leadership.  (Applause.) 
Thank you for your fight.  Thank you for your strength.  Thank you for
all you do on behalf of the working people not only of Nevada but, by
modeling what you do, working people all over our country.

It is my great honor to be back here with the Culinary Workers to — to
rejoice with you in the accomplishments that you have achieved most
recently but standing in a long line of accomplishments that have always
taken place coming out of this very building on behalf of the working
people of America.

I want to recognize my husband, who is here, the Second Gentleman of the
United States.  (Applause.)  Also known as Doug.  (Laughs.)  We were
here together on October 12th when we were last here. 

We also have Acting Secretary Julie Su.  Thank you for your leadership. 
(Applause.)  She is always fighting.  Always fighting.  And I know her
work from back when — when you were doing that work in California. 

Senator Catherine Cortez Masto — (applause) — a longstanding friend. 
The senator and I served together as attorneys general of Nevada and
California back in the day and then in the Senate together.  And you are
always, always — Catherine — fighting for working people.  So, it’s good
to be with you today.

Senator Jacky Rosen — (applause) — who I was honored to serve with in
the United States Senate.  I will tell you, I see her when the cameras
are on, when the cameras are off, and she is the same person — always
talking about how we should care about and thinking about the working
people of America and follow through. 

You know, Jacky is somebody who comes off as being very nice — and she
is — but she is cutthroat too.  (Laughter.)  She is — she will not
tolerate anything less than a fight when it is for the right reasons and
for the right folks who are doing good work.  So, Jacky, it’s good to be
with you today.  (Applause.)

Chairman Horsford, Congressman Hor- — Congressman Horsford;
Representative Titus; and Representative Lee, I thank you all for what
you do.  (Applause.) 

And then, of course, General Ford, thank you for always what you do on
behalf of working people.  (Applause.)  Because the power of law can be
very persuasive when necessary to talk about what is right and what is
consistent with the values that we hold dear, as enshrined in the
Constitution of the United States.  Thank you for your work.

And — and today, I think we should also acknowledge it was 41 years ago
today that Senator Harry Reid was sworn in for his first term in the
United States Congress.  (Applause.)  And knowing Harry, as we all did,
personally, I think he’d be really proud — and he’s looking down in this
room at this moment — to know that the fight continues. 

We always talk about that — right? — the fight will continue.  And the
fight must continue.  *Sí se puede.*

So — so, there we are. 

So, let me start by saying this, and I say this as Vice President of the
United States: I do strongly believe that the strength of our nation
depends on the strength of working people.  The strength of working
people is the backbone of the strength of our nation. 

Working people and, in particular, union members are the reason that
anyone, whether you are a member of a union or not, get a weekend, get
paid leave, get family leave, if you get it. 

It is union members and the working people who are members of organized
labor who have always fought and continue to fight for the rights, for
the dignity of working people and the dignity of work itself.

You know, my mother would always say to me, “I don’t” — she would say,
“What is this business about unskilled, low-skill labor?  All labor, all
work requires a skill.”  And with that and understanding that, then, one
should understand the dignity that rightly comes with working hard and
being productive and the need to then value that by way of wages and
benefits, pensions, workplace safety — all of the things that this union
has fought for traditionally and most recently has had a historic win
on.

It is the work of understanding that, especially in these moments in
time where, you know, a lot of people are feeling really alone, and when
you feel alone, you feel powerless.

Well, that’s part of the essence of the strength of unions is to remind
workers that you are not alone, that you come with people, that people
have your back.

When we talk about collective bargaining, you know, for those who are
trying to break unions around the country, understand this: If you just
approach policy and your thoughts from the perspective of what is fair —
okay? — so, we’re talking about all negotiations, then — don’t we all
agree? — should have a fair outcome. 

All negotiations should have a fair outcome.  Let’s just use that as a
baseline standard.  Who could disagree with that if they’re a reasonable
person?  (Laughter.)  Okay?  Fair outcome.

So, is it going to be a fair outcome if one worker has to negotiate with
a corporation for fair wages, for benefits, for safe working
conditions?  Is that outcome of that negotiation going to be fair? 
Probably not.  But organized labor, collective bargaining is about
saying, “We’re not going to leave that one worker out there by
himself/herself.  We’re going to organize around the collective to use
the power of the collective to have an equal voice in a negotiation. 
Because we know, then, yes, there will be a negotiation — some
give-and-take on both sides — but the outcome will be fair.     
  
That’s the point of organized labor.  That’s the point of collective
bargaining.  It’s about fairness.  It’s a fundamental value that we as a
nation say we hold sacred.  (Applause.)   
  
With foundational principles: fairness, equality, giving people the
freedom to live their best lives.  That’s what this is all about.  It’s
basic, fundamental, foundational to who we say and believe we are as a
country.   
  
So, when I look at the hard work and the sacrifices — the day of action,
when I was last here, October 12th, and the members here were prepared
to do some really hard work, in addition to the work you do every day,
but to strike, which meant to be concerned in a very deep way about how
you’re going to be able to pay rent; put food on the table; how long it
might take, at what personal sacrifice, at what sacrifice for your
children and your family and those who you take care of in your personal
life.  And you were prepared to do it on behalf of all working people.  
  
When I look at the accomplishments that came out of that day of action
and the weeks that followed it — and we look — and the Acting Secretary
talked about it: a 32 percent pay raise over five years.  That’s
historic.  That’s historic.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, so many of you were on the frontlines forever and
during the pandemic.  It is long overdue you got a pay raise — long
overdue.  (Applause.)  
  
I think about it in terms of the historic accomplishment through those
negotiations, through your — your preparedness to strike that happened
in terms of workplace safety.   
  
We’ve talked about this.  I’ve met over the years with members, here in
this very hall, and had the conversations — most recently on October
12th — how you work long hours.  You work — often so many work by
yourself at night.  You’re going into those rooms — what that means in
terms of an exposure to harassment and abuse or just somebody just
acting like a — (laughter).  You know how to fill in that blank. 
(Laughter.)  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  That’s right.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know.  
  
And having to put up with that, because you’re working hard and you take
your job seriously.  
  
And so, what you have accomplished in these negotiations — to have the
safety buttons now in place.  And I was saying to — to some of the
leaders who are here: I think that it’s not only going to be about what
you’ve done for your own members.  You guys are setting a new standard
for workers across the board.  You’re setting a new standard. 
(Applause.)  
  
Because, you know, too often in these negotiations, if you are — as an
individual, on an individual basis — trying to get what is just right
and fair, somebody might be looking at you to say, “That’s not
possible.  That’s not reasonable.  You don’t need that.”   
  
But by accomplishing what you have accomplished here, at Culinary 226,
you are setting a new standard for workers everywhere of what they now
know, because they know the story of what happened here — what they now
know is possible, is reasonable, is right, and is achievable.   
  
So, I came back to say thank you — to say thank you, because the work
that you have done is, yes, about the members of this storied union, but
you in the larger movement for workers in America are setting new
standards.  You are setting new standards.  (Applause.)   
  
And it is making a difference.  And it is making a difference in the
lives of people who you may never meet, people who may never know your
name.  But because of what you have done, they will benefit.  
  
And I’ll close with another point.  You know, what has really kept me up
at night, frankly, for the last few years is this weird kind of approach
that some people are pushing about what is the measure of the strength
of a leader.  And they’re pushing this stuff that suggests that the
measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat down
instead of what we know, which is that the stu- — true measure of the
strength of a leader is based on who you lift up.  (Applause.)  Who you
lift up.  That is the measure of the strength of a leader.  Who do you
lift up?  
  
There are people that would suggest that the character of leadership is
to have no interest in the lives of other people, when we know the true
character — character of a leader is to have some level of curiosity,
concern, and care about the suffering of other people and then to do
something about it.  (Applause.)  
  
That’s who you are.  That’s who you are.  And so, I say thank you,
Culinary 226.  Thank you and congratulations.  
  
When we fight, we win!  (Applause.)  
  
                        END                12:56 P.M. PST          
