---
date: '2024-01-28'
published_time: 2024-01-28 13:16:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/28/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-political-event-columbia-sc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Political Event | Columbia,\_SC"
---
 
11:13 A.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Please, si- — thank
you.  (Applause.)  
  
Thanks for bringing me home.  (Laughter.)  You all think I’m kidding.  
  
For the longest time, when I was a young public defender and a United
States Senator, I went to — if you’ll excuse me — an AME church — I
apologize — (laughter) — with Reverend Beaman.   
  
You brought it all back, Rev.  
  
REVEREND GRAHAM:  Amen.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll tell you what, the man can preach, can’t he? 
(Applause.)  
  
To the whole congregation, I’m genuinely honored to be here.  I
sincerely mean that.  
  
And I’m especially honored to have one of your own working with me, your
former mayor running things for me in Washington, D.C.  (Applause.)  And
he was baptized here and married here.   
  
And A’ja <s>Williams</s> \[Wilson\] is from here.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  Can that woman play basketball.  Whoa.  That’s the only
reason I was coming.  I thought she was here.  (Laughter.)  
  
I’m only joking.  I know she’s not.  I’m going to get in trouble with my
wife if I keep fooling around.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I want to thank Steve for his friendship and his leadership.   
  
You know, it’s a covenant we have with each other that comes from a —
from the commands of scripture: “Love the Lord thy God with all thy
heart and all thy mind and all thy soul.  Love thy neighbor as
thyself.”  Easy to say but really hard to do.  Easy to say but hard to
do.  
  
But in those commands is the essence of the gospel, is the essence of
what I believe to be the American promise.  And I mean that sincerely.  
  
You know, we’re unique in all the world — America.  We’re the only
country that is formed not based on ethnicity, based on geography —
based on an idea — an idea — and I mean this sincerely — the only
country in the world.  An idea we’ve never lived up to, but we’ve never
walked away from.  That “We hold these truths to be self-evident, that
all men are created equal, endowed by their creator with certain
unalienable rights” — life, liberty, et cetera.  
  
It’s an idea that we can’t abandon.  And some want to see it
abandoned.  
  
In my life, I’ve tried to walk my faith.  Like I said — I was kidding
with Jim — I — I’d always go to 7:30 mass at St. Joe’s, which is a — a
church built — a Catholic church built by indentured serv- — Irish
servants working for the DuPont family.  It’s kind of — kind of — it
always kind of made me angry.  The head- — the cornerstone of the
church, 1848, says, “Built for our Catholics.”  I never figured we were
their Catholics.  But any rate —  
  
But all kidding aside, then I’d go to 10:30 mass — 10:30 service at —
with Reverend Beamon and — during the Civil Rights era, when I was
working hard as a young man as a public defender.   
  
And, you know, you said it, Rev.  My — my mother would say, “You got to
be who you say you are.  You got to do what you say you’re going to do. 
Just get up.  Just get up.”  And that’s what I tried to do: tried to
walk the — my walk of faith.  
  
But here’s what I learned, as many of you might have learned as well:
We’re all imperfect beings — all of us.  And we don’t know where fate is
going to take us or when it’s going to take us.  It can, like many of
you, sn- — and me, snatch an entire family from your grip with an
accident.  
  
But we can do our best to seek the light and the hope and love.  You
know, from where I come from, that’s the power of faith.  That’s the
power of faith.  That’s the power, as I was saying to the Rev outside
when we — when — before he invited me in, that’s what the Black Church
has done for American — Black Americans for their — I mean, imagine what
would have happened would there been no Black Church all those periods
of darkness.  
  
Well, you give us a mountaintop.  You give us a promised land.  You give
us a dream and a faith that we shall overcome, we can overcome.  You
know, and you push us toward a more perfect union — you really do — to
bend the arch of the moral universe toward justice together.  And what a
gift to the nation and the world you’ve been.  
  
Your prayers mean everything.  And they’re — we’ve — in my church, we’ve
taken the 22nd Psalm and turned it into a — a hymn, basically.  It says,
“May he raise you up on eagle’s wings and bear you on the breath of
dawn, make the light to shine on — upon you.  And until we meet again,
may God hold you in the palm of his hand.”  
  
That’s my wish for all of you.   
  
Thank you for being so good to me.  (Applause.)  I appreciate it very
much.  
  
1:19 A.M. EST  
  
  
