---
date: '2024-01-29'
modified_time: 2024-01-31 11:08:54-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-29 23:11:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-sophia-bush-on-the-national-fight-for-reproductive-freedoms-tour-san-jose-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with Sophia Bush\
  \ on the National \u201CFight for Reproductive Freedoms\u201D Tour | San Jose,\_\
  CA"
---
 
*Mexican Heritage Plaza  
San Jose, California*

12:20 P.M. PST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.)  Hi, San
Jose!  
  
MS. BUSH:  I mean, how cool is this?  (Laughter.)  
  
Before we get into serious business, I just personally want to extend a
thank you.  We did this for the first time — having a conversation like
this one — two years ago —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — on a college campus across the country.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  And day in and day out, while you are in the position to hold
the issues of the world, you keep our rights a top issue in the
administration and in the White House.  And on behalf of all women and
potentially pregnant people everywhere, I just want to thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you so much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. BUSH:  Okay.  So, we are in a moment as a nation, and I’m curious,
from your vantage point, how you see it and — and why you have decided
to lead this “Fight for Reproductive Freedoms” tour.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Well, first of all, it’s great to be with
you, Sophia.  And thank you for sharing the stage and — and for using
your voice in such an important way.   
  
And I want to thank the senators who are here.  I know that we had
Senator Padilla, Butler — who are here.  They are doing extraordinary
work along with the Secretary, Xavier Becerra, and so many others.  And
so, I want to just acknowledge them in front of all of the friends. 
(Applause.)  
  
As well as my husband, the first Second Gentleman of the United States. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
So, here we are, January of 2024, where, just over a year ago, the
highest court in our land, the Court of Thurgood and RBG, took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of
America, from the women of America.  And thereafter, in state after
state, we have seen extremist so-called leaders propose and pass laws
that would criminalize healthcare providers, some of them literally
legislating prison for life; punishing women; making no exception even
for rape or incest.  
  
You know, I will tell you —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Madam Vice President, we demand a ceasefire now! 
Ceasefire now!  Ceasefire now!  There is no reproductive justice without
a ceasefire now!  (Inaudible.)    
  
AUDIENCE:  MVP!  MVP!  MVP!   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, let — let me say, in a — in a — in a real
democracy, everyone has a right to have their voice heard.  (Applause.) 
Everyone has a right to have their voice heard.  
  
And I will say, we all want this conflict to end as soon as possible. 
(Applause.)  And the President and I are working on that every single
day.  So — (applause).  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, back to what we were discussing — back to what
we’re discussing.  We are looking at a situation —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Ceasefire now!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re looking at a situation in our country —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Ceasefire now (inaudible).  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — where there are people who are literally
suffering, many — most, silently suffering because of what has been
proposed and/or passed in states across our country.   
  
Part of why I’m doing this tour is because I think that more people —
not the people here, but more people who may not be here and are not as
attuned to what’s happening in real time — must understand — you know,
for years, so many of us, we were in marches; we’ve talked; we have
fought — let’s keep Roe alive.  We have to protect Roe, and we all did. 
Most of us, for our entire adult lives, it was intact.  We knew it was
prescion \[sic\], and we need to defend it — we knew it was precious. 
But we kind of thought it would always be there.  
  
And now we have seen that it has been taken.  And all over our country —
Dr. Gupta started to talk about that — the number of people who are
suffering — we’re all grown in here, so I’m going to just speak fact
because fact must be told: Women are having miscarriages in toilets in
our country.  I’ve met women who were in the midst of a miscarriage —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — who were — went to an emergency room —  
  
AUDIENCE:  MVP!  MVP!  MVP!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — went to an emergency room to seek healthcare and
were rejected by the healthcare professionals there who were afraid they
would be jailed for providing women in distress healthcare.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Ceasefire now!  Ceasefire now!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I met a woman —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I met a woman who literally developed sepsis.  And
it was not until she developed sepsis that she received the healthcare
that she needed.   
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You are complacent (inaudible).  Ceasefire now!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We have a lot of very important issues that we all
must discuss, but the topic for this discussion is what we need to do to
fight back against laws that are criminalizing healthcare providers and
making women suffer in our country.  (Applause.)  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, we are going to win this election. 
(Applause.)  Yes, we will.  
  
So, there are a lot of big issues impacting our world right now which
evoke, rightly, very, very strong emotions and fears and anger and tears
and concerns.   
  
The topic for today here is the topic of what has happened in our
country after the Dobbs decision, which took away the right of people to
make decisions about their own body and has resulted in extreme harm. 
And so, I’m going to get back to the issue, because it’s an important
one, and we should not be distracted from any important issue.   
  
So, what we’re talking about — (applause) — what we’re looking at in
these — in these states, for example, that have made no exception even
for rape or incest — now, many of you, this is my — I grew up in
California, in the Bay Area.  Many of you know my career, so you know
that I started my career as a prosecutor.  What you may not know is one
of the biggest reasons why.   
  
When I was in high school, one of my closest friends, one of my best
friends, I learned, was being molested by her stepfather.  And when I
learned, I said to her, “You have to come and stay with us.”  I called
my mother, and my mother said, “Of course she does.”  And she came to
stay with us.  
  
And I decided at a very early age I wanted to do everything I could to
protect women and children from harm.  And I specialized, for a long
time in my career as a prosecutor, including when I was working as AG,
on crimes affecting women and children.  
  
“No exception even for rape or incest.”  Let’s understand what that
means.  It means that these so-called leaders are saying to a survivor
of a crime of violence to their body, a violation to their body, that
they don’t have the right to make a decision about what happens to their
body next.  That’s immoral.  
  
This is what’s happening around our country.   
  
So, when we talk about the layers of harm — be it harm to our democracy,
harm to our Constitution, harm to our freedoms and our rights — and we
then understand the real harm that also exists every day for individuals
who are being denied the healthcare they need, it’s extraordinary.   
  
And for that reason, I know we all are approaching this with a sense,
yes, of — of empathy and understanding but also profound commitment,
with a sense of urgency, to do something about it to end the pain and
the suffering that is happening right now in real time in our
country.   
  
And so, that’s the issue as much as anything.  And the way that we are
going to ultimately deal with this is to, one, have some consensus —
which I do believe exists — which is that one does not have to abandon
their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  
  
If she chooses — if she chooses, she will consult with her pastor, her
priest, her rabbi, her imam, but not the government telling her what to
do.   
  
And so, we need, this November, to elect a majority of people in the
United States Congress who simply agree it’s not the government’s right
to tell a woman what’s in her own best interest when she knows what’s in
her own best interest and doesn’t need some person walking around with a
flag pin to tell her what to do.  (Applause.)  
  
And Joe Biden has been very clear: When Congress puts back in place the
rights that the Court took away, he will sign it into law.  He will sign
into law the protections of Roe v. Wade.  (Applause.)  
  
So, that’s part of the task in front of us right now.  
  
MS. BUSH:  I don’t think it’s lost on any of us in this moment — here or
in the world — given the conversation we’re all having, that, as you
said earlier, when extremism comes home to roost —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — whether it’s here in America or around the world, it’s
women and girls who suffer worst.  And it can feel overwhelming to try
to hold all of these issues.   
  
I know for me, as a citizen, I look to you.  And I — I can’t imagine the
pressure you feel with all of us looking to you, going, “Tell us what to
do.”   
  
But one of the things that you often encourage us to do when we feel
helpless in the face of global suffering and of the suffering of women
and girls and at-risk people is to get involved locally.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MS. BUSH:  That’s why you’re here on —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MS. BUSH: — a local tour with us —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — talking about this issue, while you, daily, hold all the
rest of them.   
  
And I’m curious, for those of us who, you know, don’t get the binders
and the briefings: What should we be doing in our states?  And what can
we encourage our states to do?  And what can states do across the nation
to fight back and protect our reproductive freedoms?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s great.  So, I’ll start with this.  
  
Part of the environment in which this issue exists is an environment
that is heavily laden with judgment, suggesting to these individuals,
suggesting to these women that they’ve done something wrong and
something they should be embarrassed about.  And — and understand, then,
the layers that come along with that that include making her feel as
though she’s alone.   
  
And, as we know, one of the things that can be most disempowering is
when people feel they’re alone; when they feel they don’t have
community, much less support; when they feel they’re being judged and
outcast, as opposed to embraced.   
  
And so, this is the power of each of us as individuals in a community,
in a society, on every level, including this one, which is to think
about how you use the way that you talk with people, be it — you know,
Mom, Peg, I see you here.  My mother-in-law is here.  (Laughter.) 
That’s going to be by the telephone — (laughs) — or text or social
media.  
  
But the ways that we can talk with people — friends and strangers —
about the issue to remind them about what’s at stake and — and the harm
that is happening every day.   
  
I have seen — as I am traveling the country on this issue, I’ve seen the
power of that communication.  I have met with people who started —
especially before the Dobbs decision came down — and were vehement that
they were opposed to abortion and who have not abandoned their faith and
their — whatever reason it is for why they feel that way and strongly
about themselves and their family, but also didn’t know and weren’t
aware of the suffering that would happen as a result and, now knowing
the suffering that is happening, are reconsidering their position in
terms of the policy of it all — the policy being to deny other people a
decision to make that very important decision for themselves and not the
government telling them.   
  
So, the power of communication on this is very important.   
  
I think there’s also another thing that is at play on so many issues in
our country, which is, if you will, I think a certain thing that is
quite perverse that is being pushed by some so-called leaders, which is
to suggest that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who
you beat down instead of who you lift up.  Right?  (Applause.)  
  
You know, there’s a — there’s a thing happening that suggests that to
care about people somehow is a sign of weakness, when we all know that
one of the great characteristics and character of — of real leadership
is the character that has some level of concern, curiosity, and
compassion about the suffering of other people and then wants to do
something about alleviating that suffering.   
  
And so, I work with the belief that the mass ma- —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the vast majority of people in our country have
that feeling.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, the work that needs to be done over these next
10 months includes using our voices to really help people understand how
this is affecting people in real time, because there’s nothing abstract
about this issue.  There is nothing hypothetical about it.  It is — it
does not require and it absolutely deserves more than some kind of
intellectual political debate.  It requires action to stop the harm that
is happening right now.  And that’s about organizing.   
  
Californians, thankfully, we have a state that has done beautiful and
important work to protect rights, to put it in the Constitution. 
(Applause.)  This is very important.  But we have neighboring states,
not so much.  And so, think about, you know, how you travel and when you
travel to do that.   
  
But the other point that I’d make on being a Californian right now:
Let’s not — don’t get too comfortable with that, because if these folks
have their way — and they’ve already articulated it’s part of their
agenda — they’ll get a national ban.  So, let’s understand, none of us
can afford to sit back and say, “Thank God we’re in California.”  
  
MS. BUSH:  Right.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because, as we know, they go for — they go for —
they — and then they come for you.  Right?  And so, let’s keep that in
mind as well.   
  
And we just got to hustle over these next 10 — 10 months.  You know,
Doug and I have been very clear.  We came home for the holiday, and it
was very funny.  I — a lot of friends here, so I’ll just share with you
a little personal story.  We slept.  (Laughs.)  I mean, we were just
tired.  We slept.  (Laughter.)  Doug looked at me, and he was like,
“Honey, I think we’re defrosting.”  Right?  (Laughter.)    
  
And I cooked, which is my happy place — and family.  But all knowing
that, starting in January, got to hit the road.  This year, already in
the last two and a half weeks — I’m looking at Xavier — I’ve been North
Carolina, South Carolina twice, Nevada twice, Georgia, Wisconsin, New
York, California — in the first two and a half weeks.  (Applause.)  So —
and Alex Padilla has been there, Laphonza Butler.   
  
So, we got a lot of ground to cover — all of us.  And — and we can make
a difference on this issue for people that, by the way, for the most
part, we may never meet; for people who, for the most part, will never
know any of our names but whose lives will forever be impacted because
of the work that we do in organizing and using our voices at this
moment.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. BUSH:  When — when we hold these two things to be true at the same
time, the fact that we — in California, we’re lucky enough to enshrine
our rights via Proposition 1 into our state laws, but we’re looking at
the risk of a national ban.  We — we see the extremists on the GOP side
going after mifepristone and medication abortion, which over 50 percent
of pregnant people use in —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — when they are in need.  We’re — we’re talking about the
potential denial of care, even here, if — if the mail stops.  And when
we talk about the strain that comes into our state from our surrounding
states, where our friends don’t have the rights that we do here —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — at this time, we’re — we’re really doing the math locally,
but potentially nationally for a true healthcare crisis.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  This is a crisis.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You’re absolutely right.   
  
MS. BUSH:  And —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You’re absolutely right.   
  
MS. BUSH:  — I’m just curious: Can you walk us through who’s responsible
for this?  Because this was an intentional crisis.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Indeed.   
  
MS. BUSH:  And you’ve mentioned that the Supreme Court overturned Roe,
but can we — can we just cover how we got to that point?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think we should.  
  
MS. BUSH:  I think we should too.  (Laughter.)  It feels appropriate to
tell some truth.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, the former President of the United States
hand-picked — hand-picked three members of the United States Supreme
Court with the intention that they would undo Roe.  Let’s be very clear
about it.   
  
And he has been very clear that that is exactly what he intended.  Just
take him at his word.  Take him at his word when he said recently he’s
“proud” of what he did.   
  
And I asked, “Proud?”  I’m looking at Christine Pelosi.  I — I asked,
“Proud?”  Proud that doctors might go to jail for giving healthcare? 
Proud that women are having miscarriages without any healthcare that
they need?  Proud that — that fundamental freedoms have been taken from
the American people?  
  
To understand the arrogance that is associated with the taking and then
what we are up against — and so, this is why we know what is before us
and the fight that is before us.  This is a fight that is fundamental. 
And it is fundamentally about freedom — freedom — the freedom to make
decisions about your own body. 

And understand, as we step back, there is — and I travel our country —
there is afoot a full-on intent to attack hard-fought, hard-won freedoms
in our country.  Just look at what is happening.  Look at what is
happening with a “Don’t Say Gay” bill.  Okay?  
  
So, now, let me — I will remind my fellow Californians: In 2004 —
actually, Valentine’s weekend 2004 — so, it’ll be 20 years — I was proud
to be one of the first elected officials in the country to perform
same-sex marriages — (applause) — almost 20 years ago. 

A “Don’t Say Gay” bill — so, imagine this.  So, 20 years ago — so, this
means that some young teacher in Florida is afraid to put up a
photograph of themselves and their partner for fear they may be fired. 
For doing what?  For doing the God’s gift to all of us to avow
themselves to teach other people’s children?  As it is, they don’t get
paid enough.   
  
In 2024, we’re looking at attacks on the LGBTQ community.   
  
In 2024, we’re looking at attacks on the freedom to vote and access to
the ballot.  I was just in Georgia.  You know, they passed a law in
Georgia to make it illegal to give people food and water while they
stand in line to vote.  What happened to “love thy neighbor”?  I mean,
the hypocrisy abounds.  
  
The kinds of freedoms that are under attack in America right now, and —
and I would offer — you know, I asked my team to create a Venn diagram
for me.  I love Venn diagrams.  (Laughter.)  And, you know, whenever
you’re kind of looking at something complex, a Venn diagram can usually
help you out.   
  
And the overlap, then — right? — between where we’re seeing the attacks
against voting rights, where we’re seeing the attacks against LGBTQ,
where they’re seeing the attacks against reproductive freedom, and you
would not be shocked to see the profound intersection between them.  
  
So, this also — then, I say, as we organize and think about these next
many months — is an opportunity to rededicate ourselves not only to
community building but as an extension of that coalition building. 
Let’s bring together all the folks who’ve been fighting for voting
rights; all the folks who have been fighting for LGBTQ rights; all the
folks who have been fighting for reproductive health rights, including
maternal health rights and maternal mortality — (applause) — fighting
against that.  Right?  
  
By the way, on that issue, Sophia, so I’ve also been doing a lot of work
over many years on the issue of combating maternal mortality.  It is —
we have, as a so-called developed nation, one of the highest rates of
maternal mortality of any nation in the world.  It’s a — it’s a crying
shame.   
  
And so, again, the hypocrisy ob- — abounds.  In the states with the top
10 worst numbers on maternal mortality, all have bans.  I say to these
so-called extremist leaders, “Okay.  So, you say that your work to — to
ban abortion — ban access to reproductive healthcare is because you are
so concerned about mothers and children.  Well, why you been silent on
maternal mortality?”  (Applause.)  “Where you been?”  
  
When I became Vice President, I issued a challenge to states: Extend
Medicaid coverage for postpartum care from what is the standard 2 months
to 12 months.  (Applause.)  When I started, 3 states were doing it; now
43 have done it.  Right?  (Applause.)  Right?  
  
All these issues are connected.  All these issues are connected.  
  
MS. BUSH:  That gives me hope, the coalition building —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. BUSH:  — the — the work that you all are succeeding on.  And we need
hope in a world that feels so heavy.   
  
I want to know what gives you hope for the year ahead, because you’re
gearing up for a big fight.  We know what we’re up against.  It can’t be
easy.  What keeps you positive and ready for this?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  A number of things.  One, this audience.  I mean,
and I know who’s here.  I know who’s here.  And — and each of you have
so many other things you could be doing with your time, so many other
obligations, and — and the individuals here have come together as a
community to stand together and with each other on a very important
issue that’s going to require a certain level of selflessness on behalf
of us all and certainly sacrifice to speak up.  
  
What gives me hope is an understanding that if you — we all know
history.  There has never been any progress that has come about in our
country, as far as I’m concerned, that came about without a fight. 
(Applause.)  It requires a fight.  
  
You know, here’s how I think about democracy, as an extension of all the
points we’re making about fighting for freedoms.  The nature of
democracy — there’s a duality to it.  On the one hand, it’s very
strong.  When a democracy is intact, what it does to protect and
preserve individual rights and freedoms and the dignity of people, the
equality of people — it’s very strong, what it does for its people.  
  
It is also very fragile.  It is only as strong as our willingness to
fight for it.  And so, fight we will.   
  
You know, we just, not long ago, celebrated Mar- — the birthday of
Martin Luther King.  And when I do — and I always do — I will always
also refer to the great Coretta Scott King.  (Applause.)  And — because
she, too, was a great freedom fighter.  And Coretta Scott King — I’ll
paraphrase — but she famously said, and I quote it all the time, “The —
the fight for civil rights” — which is the fight for freedom — right? —
the fight for equality — she said, “must be fought and won with each
generation.”   
  
And by that, I think she had two points.  One, it is the nature of our
fight for freedoms that whatever gains we make, the nature is they will
not be permanent.  It’s just the nature of it.  Therefore, understanding
that, we must always be vigilant.  We must understand how precarious and
precious this all is and commit ourselves every day to stand for and
fight for these rights and these freedoms.  
  
And so, you know, understanding it’s the nature of it, I think that
there’s — there’s — we know what the job is ahead of us.  We know —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  Ceasefire now!  Ceasefire now! 
Ceasefire now!  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let us remember, there’s a lot to fight for. 
And, look, as I like to say and we all say many times: When we fight, we
win.  When we fight, we win.  (Applause.)  
  
And there are a lot of folks who need to know that the people who can be
in a room like this are thinking of them, because there are a lot of
folks who will never be in this room, can’t be in this room.  And I
think we all know it is our duty — not just our responsibility but that
we have a duty — to stand for these most essential freedoms.  
  
And this is an era right now where we are looking at these attacks, and
we’re clear-eyed about where it’s coming from.  And I think that when we
show that we are going to stand in solidarity, at some point, folks are
going to realize they can’t win with this stuff.  
  
And — and that means all of us being in it together, holding each other
up, taking care of each other.  In this moment, when there are people
trying to divide our country and distract us from what’s important,
let’s just hold on to each other.  Look at the person next to you, if
you don’t know them, and just let them know we’re all in this together. 
Okay?  We’re all in this together.  
  
Thank you, all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

MS. BUSH:  Thank you so much.  
  
END                  12:52 P.M. PST
