---
date: '2024-01-11'
modified_time: 2024-01-12 12:58:32-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-11 20:48:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-roundtable-discussion-on-gun-violence-prevention-charlotte-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Roundtable Discussion on Gun Violence\
  \ Prevention | Charlotte,\_NC"
---
 
*Eastway Middle School  
Charlotte, North Carolina *

1:59 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you to — very much, Secretary Cardona, and
for all the work you’ve been doing.  You’ve been traveling our country
these last three years, not only lifting up the voices and the needs of
our students but lifting up our teachers, our administrators, and all of
the folks who are here at this table as leaders today.  So, thank
you.   
  
And to all the leaders who are here, Mayor Lyles, I thank you for
welcoming us and for the work that you are doing here in Charlotte.   
  
I have traveled here from Washington, D.C., this morning because the
work that you all are doing as a community of leaders is so critically
important and a real example of what we can do as a country when we do
truly see our children and listen to them and understand, yes, their
God-given potential and understand what we can do, then, to assist in
them actually realizing that potential, including the duty that we each
have to ensure that they are safe in every way.  Yes, physically safe. 
That they are safe to dream.  That they are safe to learn.  That they
are just safe to be.   
  
And so, that’s why we have convened today.  
  
Principal Denien, I thank you for welcoming us to this beautiful
school.   
  
I had the opportunity to — to meet with some of the students before I
came in.  We met with no cameras or press in the room because the
students have — each of them who I met with had very tragic experiences
with gun violence.  And I wanted to talk with them in a way I could
listen without them feeling the pressure of having to perform.  And
their words were the words of very wise people who are much older than
these young leaders are; who have thoughts and ideas and a perspective
about their rights and our responsibilities as the adults in their
life.  
  
And I think about what they shared with us, with the backdrop being that
in the United States of America today the number one killer of our
children in America is gun violence — not car accidents, not some form
of cancer.  Gun violence is the number one killer of the children of
America.   
  
I think about this convening and — and the leadership of everyone at
this table in the context of the fact that one in five Americans has a
family member that was killed because of gun violence.   
  
And so, those numbers on their face are extraordinarily tragic and
shocking.   
  
And when we take the time to consider what those numbers mean, let’s
understand how many people in our country, including the children, are
experiencing profound trauma.  Trauma that manifests itself in so many
ways, that are both in terms of the emotional impact and then the
symptoms that manifest themselves based on behaviors.  Not to mention
how trauma affects individuals physiologically, which is well documented
— I’ve been working on this issue for years, back since I was district
attorney of San Francisco — and how that impacts, then, the ability of
our children to — to reach their God-given potential in terms of having
the ability to learn and open up their minds and the big brains they
have to all that their beautiful teachers are trying to share with
them.   
  
It’s a serious issue that we are discussing right now.  And we can do
something about it.   
  
As an administration, President Biden and I and the leaders of the
President’s Cabinet and so many others have been advocating for what we
must do to have reasonable gun safety laws in America.  We proudly
passed some of the first reasonable gun safety laws in 30 years, but
there’s more we need to do.

When I was speaking with these young leaders, before I walked in here,
they were talking about, “Hey, shouldn’t we be looking at people’s
backgrounds before they can buy a gun?” “Yes, young leaders,” I said to
them, “you are absolutely right.”  
  
Oh, that they were members of Congress.  (Laughter.)  Because that’s
reasonable that you might want to know before someone could buy a lethal
weapon if they have been proven by a court to be a danger to themselves
or others.  You just might want to know.   
  
We talked about the need to — to create safe places for our children so
that they can have the room to talk about their feelings.  Some of the
work that’s happening, Madam Principal, here and in this school district
and with the leaders here — the young people were talking to me about
having — having the space to — and I wrote some notes — to talk about
“social and emotional lessons.”   
  
So, the young leaders told me about how, with their teachers, they will
— they find solace and support when they come to the classroom in the
morning and the teacher asks them, “On a scale of 1 to 5, 1 to 10, how
are you feeling today?”   
  
Sometimes the teacher, they shared with me, will put up different emojis
and ask the children to point to the emoji that best describes how
they’re feeling that day so that they, in the school, in the classroom,
with their teacher, can have a safe place to talk about how they’re
feeling, which we know has everything to do with how they are
experiencing life, how they will interact with others, much less how
they will be able to learn.   
  
And so, today, we are convening to talk about all of these issues and to
talk about the trauma that is undeniable, how it manifests itself in
children and young people who you may find want to sleep all day because
they just don’t want to get out of bed or deal with the realities — of
the hard realities — of the violence and the pain they feel if they have
personally witnessed or have a family member who has been killed or
harmed by gun violence.   
  
We’ve talked about trauma and how it results in young people.  We talked
about it with — with the people who go to war — PTSD, how they relive
what is happening in a way that may cause them to act out.  But
undiagnosed and therefore untreated, what that might mean in terms of
marginalizing these children because they just have not had the mental
health counseling and attention that they need to heal and to more
productively express their feelings.   
  
So, we’re here today to talk about many things — including the need for
smart gun safety laws, reasonable gun safety laws — but the trauma and
what we must do then to assist in the diagnosis and treatment of that
trauma.   
  
And for all of those reasons, I am proud to be here at this very school
to make an announcement, which is that we are announcing $285 million as
part of our administration’s initiative to hire and train mental health
counselors in schools.   
  
In North Carolina, $12 million of those dollars will be received, Mayor,
which will include the ability and resources to hire 332 new counselors;
and nationally will help to hire over 14,000 mental health counselors
for our schools, who can do the kind of work which is to lead in group
counseling sessions, one-on-one therapy, and student mediation, social
and emotional lessons every day, and just provide a place where those
who are trained to do this work can allow the students and the children
to check in and to heal.   
  
So, with all of that, again, and our announcement previously of over $6
million for students at — at schools in — in communities with high rates
of gun violence, we are putting the resources where they are needed. 
More resources are needed, no doubt.   
  
But let’s pay attention to this issue, because we can actually do
something about it.  And we have the opportunity, then, to address what
we know will otherwise be generational and intergenerational trauma. 
Trauma is something that is not genetically inherited, but it is
inherited in terms of if untreated, if there is no intervention, what
continues to be trauma building up in communities.   
  
And so, again, I thank everyone here for your courage, for your
leadership.   
  
And with that, I’m going to turn it back to Secretary Cardona to mediate
and moderate our discussion.   
  
                          END                       2:09 P.M. EST
