---
date: '2024-01-16'
modified_time: 2024-01-17 09:46:50-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-16 10:00:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/16/remarks-and-qa-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-at-the-2024-world-economic-forum-davos-switzerland/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks and Q&A by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at the 2024 World\
  \ Economic Forum | Davos,\_Switzerland"
---
 
Davos, Switzerland

5:07 P.M. CET  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you so much, Børge.  And I’m grateful for the
opportunity to say a few words today at this incredibly complex
moment.  
  
I think everyone who serves in positions of responsibility in foreign
policy and national security likes to say that their time in the seat is
the most complex and difficult of any time in recent history.  But in
our case, it’s actually true.  So, we’ll just chalk that one up.  
  
You know, the first two decades of this forum, after its founding in
1971, were shaped by the Cold War.  
  
Then, after the fall of the Berlin Wall, for about a quarter century,
the world’s major powers seemed to be converging around a single concept
of international order.  We integrated former competitors into our
international economic institutions, and we bet that this would speed
and cement that convergence.   
  
Today, we’re in the early years of a new era.  Major powers are vastly
more interdependent than at any time during the Cold War.  But we’re
also in stiff competition about the type of world we want to build.   
  
This age is one of disruptive change.  Some of this has been positive,
as countries find new ways of harnessing technology, promoting
development, and deepening ties with one another.  But some of this has
been negative, as dangerous actors test the limits of our ever-evolving
international system.   
  
I’ve even heard the occasional comparison to the 1930s.   But I proceed
from the deep conviction that we are never doomed to repeat the past,
and the passage from one era to another comes with the obligation and
the opportunity to choose more wisely.   
  
And so, in the face of naked aggression, we are not turning inward. 
Under President Biden’s leadership, we’re rallying a global response to
push back.   
  
We’re pursuing intensive and proactive diplomacy to manage our most
consequential relationships.   
  
We’re investing in the sources of our own national strength and those of
our allies and partners.  
  
We’re not turning away from the international economic system but
adapting it to the challenges of today and tomorrow.   
  
And we’re competing vigorously to shape the future of the international
system.  
  
That’s the broad backdrop.  And I want to talk with you briefly about
these efforts and why I remain optimistic about the future and our
ability to meet the main challenge of our time: strategic competition in
an age of interdependence.   
  
Let me take you back two years ago, to this day, when Putin had amassed
180,000 soldiers on Ukraine’s border, surrounding the country on three
sides.   
  
He expected a quick victory, that he could send a column of tanks to
Kyiv and topple the democratically elected government of Ukraine; that
he could weaken NATO and restore Russia’s sphere of influence.  But he
underestimated the people of Ukraine.   
  
For two years, with support from a coalition of more than 50 partners
led by the United States, the people of Ukraine have remained
unflinching against an adversary with an economy ten times larger, a
population three times bigger, and a military once ranked as the second
best in the world.   
  
Two years later, Putin has not only failed in his imperialist quest to
subjugate Ukraine; his invasion has strengthened Ukrainian sovereignty —
the very sovereignty he sought to erase — and bolstered the very NATO
resolve he sought to weaken.  In fact, while he sought to diminish NATO,
his action grew our ranks instead.   
  
Brave Ukrainian soldiers have retaken more than half of the territory
that Russia occupied from the start of this conflict.  
  
They’ve repulsed Russia’s attempts at an offensive last winter, and
they’re repulsing one this winter.  
  
They’ve severely degraded Russia’s Black Sea Fleet, dramatically
increasing Ukraine’s exports through the Black Sea.  
  
They’ve imposed severe costs on the Russian military, destroying major
capabilities built up over decades.  
  
And amid all of this, Ukraine has made economic reforms, strengthened
its own defense industrial base, and accelerated its integration with
the West.  
  
Of course, the fight is not over.  
  
Russia has laid dense minefields across the frontlines, making it harder
for Ukraine to make major territorial gains.  
  
With China’s help, Putin is mobilizing Russia’s defense industrial base,
putting the country’s economy on a wartime footing.  
  
And Russia is seeking more weapons from both North Korea and Iran, which
violates multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions that Moscow itself
voted to put in place.   
  
But as President Zelenskyy has discussed with President Biden, and as
Secretary Blinken and I discussed with him earlier today, the people of
Ukraine are steeled for the struggle ahead.  And the United States and
our partners will continue to stand with them.  
  
We’re expanding training for Ukrainian troops.   
  
We’re working to secure bipartisan support for the necessary resources
to supply Ukraine with the weapons it needs.     
  
We’re ramping up our own defense industrial base, while denying Russia
access to critical inputs it needs to do the same.  
  
And we’re also innovating — and this is a critical point — working with
our partners, and especially with the private sector, to help Ukraine
solve the key technological challenges of an evolving battlefield, like
electronic warfare, drones, and de-mining.   
  
Together, we will build on our sanctions to ensure that even as
unsustainable war spending masks underlying weakness, the economic costs
for Russia continue to mount.  
  
And we will keep supporting Ukraine’s diplomatic efforts to secure a
just and lasting peace that protects Ukraine’s sovereignty and
territorial integrity in line with the principles of the U.N. Charter. 
Because we’ve seen time and time again what happens when aggressors are
allowed to take a neighbor’s territory by force and don’t pay a price:
They keep going.  
  
We’ve also worked to rally an international response to new aggression
in the Middle East.   
  
In the Red Sea, reckless attacks by the Iranian-backed Houthi rebels,
including the use of anti-ship ballistic missiles, have threatened
freedom of navigation in one of the world’s most vital waterways.  More
than 50 nations have been affected in nearly 30 attacks.  
  
Last week, the United States and the United Kingdom, with support from
Australia, Bahrain, Canada, and the Netherlands, struck a number of
targets in Yemen used by the Houthis to stage and launch these
attacks.   
  
This defensive action followed extensive multinational coordination led
by the United States among 44 nations to condemn Houthi attacks, and
also led to a U.N. Security Council resolution condemning those
attacks.   
  
We are not looking for regional conflict.  Far from it.  
  
Through a combination of steady deterrence and steadfast diplomacy, we
seek to stop the spread of conflict and to create the conditions for
de-escalation.   
  
Our approach is and remains focused on moving towards greater
integration and stability in the region.  
  
Long before October 7th, the United States was deeply engaged in an
effort to secure a political horizon for the Palestinian people, with
Israel’s security guaranteed as part of that.   
  
We judged that direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians,
which had fallen short so many times before, was unlikely to succeed. 
We determined the best approach was to work towards a package deal that
involved normalization between Israel and key Arab states, together with
meaningful progress and a political horizon for the Palestinian
people.  
  
That was our goal before October 7th.  And it was our progress toward
that goal that Hamas sought to destroy on October 7th, when they came
across the border into Israel, viciously massacred 1,200 people, took
more than 200 hostages, and then turned and fled, hiding behind an
innocent civilian population and vowing to commit October 7th again and
again.  
  
That is the reality Israel is contending with — a determined terrorist
threat that chose as its battlefield the communities of innocent
civilians and still to this day holds more than 100 hostages in
circumstances that are dire and deteriorating.   
  
Now, this does not lessen at all Israel’s responsibility to conduct its
campaign in a way that upholds international humanitarian law and abides
by the moral and strategic necessity to distinguish between terrorists
and innocent civilians.  Every innocent life — Palestinian, Israeli —
every one is sacred and deserves to be protected.   
  
And the United States will continue to work with the rest of the world
to secure the release of the hostages and to ensure the Palestinian
people have access to the food, water, medicine, and safety that they
urgently need and deserve as human beings.  
  
As we respond to this crisis, we are actively pursuing a pathway to
normalization and integration with our regional partners.  
  
There’s a lot to do, but we are working together day in and day out to
think about what a future can and should look like after the conflict. 
A future where Gaza is never again used as a platform for terror.  A
future where Israelis and Arabs can live in peace, Palestinians have a
state of their own, and Israel’s security is assured.  
  
I know that in this moment, when there is so much anger and pain and so
much uncertainty, it’s hard to imagine.  But it really is the only path
that provides peace and security for all.  And what is more — it is not
impractical.  It can be done.  The pieces are there to be put together
to achieve this outcome — and not years down the road, but in the near
term, if all of us pull together and make the wise and bold decisions to
choose this course.  
  
Now, as we’re dealing with unfolding crises in the Ukraine — in Ukraine
and the Middle East, we’re also managing critical relationships around
the world, none more critical than the relationship between the United
States and China.  
  
The United States is competing with China across multiple dimensions,
and we make no bones about that.  But we are not looking for
confrontation or conflict.  And we are seeking to manage that
competition responsibly, intensifying diplomacy to reduce the risk of
miscalculation.   
  
We saw this just last November, when President Biden and President Xi
met in Woodside, California.  
  
They agreed to restart counternarcotics cooperation.  And since then,
Beijing has actually taken affirmative steps to halt the flow of
precursor chemicals used to make fentanyl, progress that we hope and
need to see continue.  
  
We also agreed to resume military-to-military communications and have
already taken steps to do so.  The Chairman of our Joint Chiefs of Staff
just spoke with his counterpart for the first time in his job and the
first time in quite a long time.  And this is to the good for our
relationship but also for regional and global stability.  It will help
reduce the risk of unintended conflict.     
  
And together, the U.S. and China will launch a new dialogue aimed at
minimizing and managing the risks of artificial intelligence.  
  
Now, we are doing all this while at the same time making the investments
in ourselves and our partners so that we can continue to compete
effectively.  
  
We’ve revitalized our own industrial and innovation base with historic
legislation, while seeking to address Beijing’s unfair economic
practices.   
  
We’ve energized our alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific and
Europe in ways that were, frankly, unimaginable a few years ago: the
launch of AUKUS; elevating the Quad; new agreements with Vietnam, the
Philippines, and India; a trilateral — a historic trilateral with Japan
and South Korea; and two summits with Pacific Island states.  
  
We’ve come together with our G7 partners and agreed on collective steps
to de-risk our economies and diversify away from strategic dependencies
rather than decoupling.  
  
And together with allies and partners, we’ve stressed the importance of
maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.   
  
All the while, we’ve been transparent and straightforward about the
targeted and narrowly tailored steps we’ve taken to protect critical
technologies.   
  
And I want to spend a minute on this — because technology competition is
global.  In an interdependent world, there’s a risk that it could
contribute to a broader trend of disintegration.   
  
That’s why we are working to bring together countries and companies to
set high standards for emerging technologies and secure the trusted free
flow of data.  
  
We’ve also taken steps in partnership with others to protect
foundational technologies with what we’ve called a “small yard and a
high fence.”   
  
Today, military advantage hinges on access to critical technologies,
some of which are commercial and dual-use, like advanced
semiconductors.     
  
Simply put: Our strategic competitors should not be able to exploit
American technologies to undermine our national security or that of our
allies and partners.   
  
To deal with this, we’ve taken steps to regulate specific outbound
investments of concern in technology.  And we’ve implemented carefully
tailored restrictions on exports, focused on advanced semiconductor
manufacturing tools, supercomputing capabilities, and the most advanced
chips, which are critical to a range of military platforms including
weapons of mass destruction, hypersonic missiles, and autonomous weapons
systems.   
  
Key allies and partners have followed suit, acting on their own
concerns.   
  
Now, I want to be clear: These tailored measures are not a technology
blockade.  They do not seek to, nor, in fact, do they restrict broader
trade and investment.   
  
And, in fact, in our semiconductor rule that we put out just a few
months ago, last October, there is a broad carveout for commercial
chips, the kind of chips that can help power economic progress and
growth.  
  
Our goal is to ensure that the next generation of technologies works
for, not against, our security and our democracy.  
  
Now, last spring, at the Brookings Institution, I talked about the work
that President Biden was doing to respond to the economic challenges
that he faced when he took office:  
  
That in recent decades, America had enjoyed solid topline GDP growth,
but the benefits of that growth were not being broadly shared broadly
across America’s middle class.   
  
That our economic policy was not taking sufficient account of a massive
non-market economy like China.   
  
That our approach was not delivering fast enough or ambitiously enough
on a clean energy transition.   
  
And that these problems were not unique to the United States.      
  
President Biden entered office with a simple and powerful affirmative
answer.  It was not an answer to abandon what had built America into the
strongest, most innovative economy in the world, but rather to
rediscover it.   
  
It starts with investing, with returning to an American tradition that
runs through Lincoln’s \[trans\]continental railroad, Eisenhower’s
highways, and Kennedy’s moonshot.   
  
And because of that choice, today the United States has the strongest
recovery and lowest inflation of any leading economy.  
  
We’ve created nearly 14 million jobs, including 750,000 manufacturing
jobs across all 50 states.  Real wages are rising.   We’ve had 23
straight months of unemployment under 4 percent for the first time in
half a century.     
  
And what’s even more compelling in a forum like this: Our partners have
joined us in this journey.   
  
This time last year, there were murmurs that the United States’ historic
domestic investments would fracture the global economic order and weaken
our alliances.   
  
The reality is that countries around the world want to follow the
formula that we’ve developed, and we want to help them do that: making
bold investments, building high-quality infrastructure, empowering
workers, tackling climate change.     
  
And we’ve also been focused on ensuring our approach works for everyone,
including emerging market and developing countries.   
  
With our partners, we’re mobilizing greater private investment to
address development needs, to get from the billions being invested today
to the trillions that are needed.  
  
That’s the main goal of the G7’s Partnership for Global Infrastructure
and Investment, or “PGI”, that we launched with our G7 partners last
year — its signature approach of spurring growth along economic
corridors.   
  
We’re also leading the way on reforming multilateral development banks
to provide a viable option for countries to invest in their futures,
including middle-income countries who haven’t had access to the low-cost
financing they need and deserve.   
  
We’re building innovative new international economic partnerships,
including the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework and the Americas
Partnership for Economic Prosperity, because our fundamental view is
that international economic policy needs to be about solving the
problems of today, not the problems of 50 years ago.     
  
Building resilience in our supply chains.  Mobilizing investment —
massive investment — for an effective clean-energy transition.  Ensuring
trust and transparency in digital innovation.  Stopping a race to the
bottom in corporate taxation.  Tackling corruption.  And advancing a
trade policy that puts the rights and wellbeing of workers and working
families at its core.  
  
Now, as the National Security Advisor of the United States, my job is to
worry.  Worry about the things I’ve talked about today — and there’s
plenty to say grace over there — but also worry about other threats too,
like North Korea.  
  
But let me close with a couple of thoughts on why I remain
optimistic.   
  
First, the more others seek to undermine the international system
through violence and coercion, the more it brings our allies and
partners closer together.   
  
This is the paradox that leaders like Putin cannot seem to solve.   
  
Second, when it comes to world politics, people around this planet are
much more interested in whether or not their lives are improving than in
anyone’s imperial ambition or imperial project.   
  
So, as long as we continue to be focused on offering a global value
proposition that delivers for people — that is serious about shared
economic growth, tackling climate change, managing new technologies, and
promoting good governance — our model will remain much more attractive
globally than that of aggression or coercion or intimidation or
confrontation.   
  
So we’re going to stay the course and look to our partners, including
all of you, to continue with us, to make clear that violent disruption
of the international system will fail; to remain committed to diplomacy,
which is even more vital as geopolitical tensions rise; and to take
steps needed to lead in the sources of technological and economic growth
that will be the foundation of success and strength in free
societies.   
  
Nothing in world politics is inevitable.  We are in command of our own
choices.  So it’s up to us to summon the vision, commitment, and sense
of shared purpose to make the right choices, to shape the future for the
benefit of our fellow citizens and future generations to come.  
  
So, thank you for giving me the opportunity today.  And I’m happy to
have a conversation with Børge.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. BRENDE:  Thank you so much to Jake Sullivan.  That was an impressive
*tour d’horizon*.  
  
And you’re right that a year ago, many people, even here in Davos, was
expecting the U.S. to be in the recession by now.  And what we’re seeing
is a soft landing.  But the geopolitical backdrop is more complex than a
year ago.  And I think many participants — some people here are really
worried that this will spill into the economic recovery also in a
negative way.   
  
And one of the things that people are very worried about now is, of
course, the situation in the Red Sea.  Maybe you could say a few words
about that.  Do you think this will get better in the coming weeks?  Or
do we have to fasten the seatbelt and this will be complex in the year
to come in the Red Sea?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, you know, as I said in my speech, this goes
way beyond being a regional challenge.  This is a global challenge. 
We’re talking about a vital armer- — artery of global commerce, a
critical maritime chokepoint that’s being held hostage.  And countries
and companies that have nothing to do with the Middle East whatsoever
are being affected.  More than 50 nations in nearly 30 attacks.   
  
And so, it’s a crisis that the whole world needs to respond to.  And
frankly, the U.N. Security Council did come through with a very strong
resolution condemning these attacks and calling for the Houthis to
stop.  
  
Now, we mobilized a coalition of countries to take strikes to degrade
the Houthis’ capabilities so their ability to mount sustained and
complex attacks becomes more difficult over time.  But we did not say,
when we launched our attacks, they’re going to end once and for all, the
Houthis will be fully deterred.  We anticipated the Houthis would
continue to try to hold this critical artery at risk.  And we continue
to reserve the right to take further action.  But this needs to be an
all-hands-on-deck effort.   
  
And frankly, the answer to your question about how long this goes on and
how bad it gets comes down not just to the decisions of the countries in
the coalition that took strikes last week, but the broad set of
countries, including those with influence in Tehran and influence in
other capitals in the Middle East, making this a priority to indicate
that the entire world rejects wholesale the idea that a group like the
Houthis can basically hijack the world as they are doing.   
  
And so we want to work with countries across the board — countries who
are allies and partners, countries who are not — in the common interest
to get this to stop.   
  
MR. BRENDE:  So, after 7th of October and the war in Gaza, there’s been
increasing, then, worries about escalation of the war.  But then it did
not take place.  Lebanon was not a part of the war; we did not see a
major reaction from Hezbollah.  Do you think it still will be
contained?  Of course, this Houthi situation is complicating it.  But
there’s not a full-scale escalation that will have major impact on the
world economy.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, the risk was real, from October 7th, then the risk
remains real today.  And that’s why in the immediate aftermath of
October 7th, President Biden mobilized at lightning speed to move U.S.
military assets, to increase deterrence in the region, to send a clear
message to actors who might want to exploit the situation.  And we
continue to be focused on that.   
  
But we do see a pathway to a shift in the military campaign in Gaza, a
reduction in tensions and the exchange of fire along Israel’s northern
border, a reduction in the risk of escalation in other parts of the
region.  And we’ll have to continue to deal with the Houthi threat.   
  
We see a pathway.  We are eagerly working with partners throughout the
region to try to pursue that pathway.  But in the meantime, we have to
guard against and be vigilant against the possibility that, in fact,
rather than heading towards de-escalation, we are on a path of
escalation that we have to manage.   
  
And we are doing this not just by ourselves, but with a large collection
of countries both in the region and beyond.  And it remains a central
locus of our strategy: try to ensure that we manage escalation across
the Middle East to the maximum extent possible, taking every possible
measure that we can in that regard, and ultimately get on a path of
diplomacy and de-escalation.  
  
MR. BRENDE:  Coming back to Gaza.  The last years, there has not been
that much focus on a two-state solution, definitely not from the Israeli
government.  But the pressure on the international community hasn’t been
that much either.  There are other topics that have been at the top of
the agenda.   
  
I think now there is more focus on finding a reliable future solution
for a two-state, Israelis and Palestinians living peacefully next to
each other.   
  
But when you have been to Jerusalem and President Biden also has his
discussions with Netanyahu, do you feel there is any genuine interest on
the Israeli side to pursue also part process, the two-state solution? 
Or is it a very lonely thing to do — you feel that you have to push and
there is no real response?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, you know, at the start of your question,
your premise was that nobody was really focused on a two-state solution
or the Palestinian question before October 7th.  And I — I do take some
exception to that, particularly given the fact that a central diplomatic
initiative of the Biden administration was to try to generate
normalization and, as a critical element of a normalization package,
generate both tangible benefits for the Palestinian people and a
political horizon towards two states.   
  
And it was our judgment that that was going to be the most viable
pathway to make progress on what had been an intractable problem; that
going for another round of direct negotiations wasn’t going to do it, so
coming in this more indirect way was most likely to generate this
result.   
  
And in fact, earlier last year, in 2023, I actually went to Ramallah,
sat with President Abbas, and talked through this play, long before
October 7th took place.   
  
Now, the strategy post-October 7th does not deviate very much from
that.  We still want to see normalization tied to a political horizon
for the Palestinian people.  The current Israeli government has
expressed quite strong views publicly about the Palestinian question. 
And there are elements and voices in that government that, actually, the
U.S. government has come out quite strongly and criticized for certain
statements and stances that they’ve taken.   
  
But ultimately, you know, the Israeli government will have to make its
choice about how best to guarantee and ensure the security of the State
of Israel, and it is President Biden’s firm conviction that the best way
to do that is two states with Israel’s security guaranteed.  
  
MR. BRENDE:  So what you’re saying is that the follow-up of the Abraham
Accords was to bring in — if we were to bring in Saudi Arabia in that,
it would have been also — the basis for that would have to be a
political solution also, where Israel would have to move on a two-state
solution?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes.  In fact, when President Biden and Prime Minister
Netanyahu spoke in the weeks and months leading up to October 7th, this
was a key topic of discussion: how –where did the Palestinians fit into
a broader vision for Israel’s integration into the region and
normalization with Arab states.  
  
MR. BRENDE:  That would also mean, as according to the Arab peace plan,
that the Arabs would also then together guarantee peace and safety for
Israel if there is a two-state solution.   
  
And that was — were serious discussions around this you felt, but that
has not continued after 7th of October?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  No.  In fact, what I’m saying is that the basic recipe,
which is peace between Israel and its Arab neighbors, a two-state
solution with Israel’s security guaranteed, these pieces are not, you
know, in a way, operating in completely separate spheres; they are
linked and connected.  They were before October 7.  They remain linked
today.  And they are something that we’re going to have to continue to
work on.  
  
MR. BRENDE:  We had President Zelenskyy sitting in that chair just a
couple of hours ago.  And he, of course, urges all to continue to
support financially, but also militarily.  EU is currently not in a
situation where they can continue, but Ursula von der Leyen has
underlined that she’s working on it, and it’s question of weeks; I think
is the same in the U.S. currently.  I think the White House announced in
the weekend that the support had to stop for the moment, but I think
you’re working on a political solution.  So maybe comment on that.   
  
And the second thing is that he’s also asking for more advanced weapons
and missiles.  And following the recent attacks from Russia, hitting
more and more civilians, we’re seeing really, really all this
suffering.  Is that something that you’re contemplating, even bringing
more advanced weapons in there with allies?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Secretary Blinken and I had the opportunity to meet with
President Zelenskyy this morning and talk about the battlefield and talk
about various capabilities.  We had a very good discussion.  I will
leave it at that.  It’s best left behind closed doors at the moment. 
But it was a robust and detailed discussion.  
  
MR. BRENDE:  If it was a good discussion, I guess you were discussing
this thing through though.  Huh?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  (Laughs.)  Again, as I said, I will leave that behind
closed doors.  
  
What I will say is that we’ve got to be able to deliver the necessary
resources to Ukraine for the weapons that it needs to be able to achieve
the results that it needs.  And that requires mobilizing the bipartisan
support we have in both the House and Senate, converting that into
actual votes for the money.  President Biden is absolutely laser-focused
on that.  We are seeking to get that done in the coming weeks.   
  
And, in fact, I continue to believe and express confidence that we will,
you know, after a lot of twists and turns, ultimately get there.  I have
held that confidence from the beginning.  I continue to hold that
confidence today.   
  
MR. BRENDE:  Last question.  We had an order after the Cold War, the
Cold War — post-Cold War order that was based on rule of law, acceptance
of the U.N. Charter.  And that order seems to no — not be the order
anymore.  We are on the way to a new order.  So we are between orders. 
Do you agree with that?  Or are there ways of — what are we able to keep
on the positive side from the old order to bring into a new world
order?  And how can we avoid that that new world order becomes like a
jungle growing back and we rather have order based on international law
and principles that have brought us prosperity and freedom for
decades?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I guess — and maybe this is the old, kind of, teacher in
me coming out — I think of this a little bit more about a transition of
eras rather than a transition to orders, but the two are kind of cousins
of one another.  The reason I draw the distinction is because I don’t
think the international order built after 1945 is getting replaced
wholesale with some new order; it will obviously evolve as it has
evolved multiple times over the decades since 1945.   
  
But I do think, in a more sharp and distinctive way, we are moving into
a new era, and that’s what I talked about in my remarks, that we are —
you know, the post-Cold War era has come to a close; we’re at the start
of something new.  We have the capacity to shape what that looks
like.   
  
And at the heart of it will be many of the core principles and core
institutions of the existing order adapted for the challenges that we
face today.  And that’s a lot of what I tried to lay out in my remarks. 
Some of that goes to geopolitics and showing that crime doesn’t pay —
that is, you will pay a serious price for the kind of aggression we’ve
seen from the likes of Russia.  And part of it’s about geoeconomics and
how we build or update the international economic order in ways that
address the needs of working people, address the climate crisis, address
the reality of this major non-market economy, the PRC.   
  
And then part of that also is about giving greater voice to countries
that did not have that voice back after 1945 but deserve it today. 
Adding the African Union just this year to the G20 is a good example of
that, but there are many others as well.   
  
But, yes, I believe we’ve entered a new era.  I think that era is marked
by a simple thing to say but a very complex reality, which is strategic
competition in an age of interdependence.  The major powers are deeply
interdependent; they are also competitive.  And that creates the world
we’re operating in.  
  
For the United States, what does that mean?  At essence, it means invest
in ourselves and invest in our allies so we can compete effectively, but
also so we can rally solutions to the world’s problems that affect all
of us, friends as well as competitors.   
  
MR. BRENDE:  Thank you.  A more multipolar world, but a multipolar world
without multilateralism and law — international law — is a very
dangerous situation.  We tried that in Europe, you know, before the
First World War.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I think there’s no reason why we cannot generate
global problem-solving at scale on the big challenges that we face
today.  We didn’t do so with the COVID pandemic, but that could teach us
a lot of lessons for how we do so going forward on both longer-term
crises that have become increasingly urgent with every passing year,
like climate change, and urgent crises like what is happening in the
Middle East right now.   
  
And I started and finished my speech with optimism because I think we,
ourselves, have the capacity to decide whether we step up to do this. 
We have the tools to do it.  The question is, are we prepared to put
those to work?  That is a question of political will within our
countries and then across our countries.  And those who are working to
summon that political will need to band together to try to produce a
common, coherent response to the great challenges that we face in
2024.   
  
MR. BRENDE:  Thank you very much to Jake Sullivan.  Excellent.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  
  
5:44 P.M. CET
