---
date: '2024-01-18'
modified_time: 2024-01-18 19:29:49-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-18 19:29:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/18/remarks-by-president-biden-on-high-speed-internet-investments-raleigh-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on High-Speed Internet Investments | Raleigh,\_\
  NC"
---
 
Abbott’s Creek Community Center  
Raleigh, North Carolina

2:02 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Hey, everybody. How are you? (Applause.) Hello, Raleigh.
What a great crowd.

Please have a — take a seat, if you have one. I once said that an event,
and people didn’t have chairs. (Laughter.) And the press looked at me
and said, “What the hell is the matter with that guy?”

Anyway, Edward, thank you. Sergeant First Class.

I was telling him — my son, Beau, who I lost because of what happened in
Iraq — anyway, my — my son, Beau, when he made Major in Iraq, I was — I
was there — I wasn’t with him when he made that — when he got promoted.
But I was with him later at an event — at an event at his — anyway — in
Iraq. I didn’t want to say where I was, but — (laughter) — and I said,
“Beau, congratulations. You’re now a field grade officer.” He looked at
me and said, “Dad, I know who runs the United States Army. Sergeants
First Class run it.” (Laughter.) And that’s a fact.

So, Sarge, thank you very, very much.  
  
Folks — Governor Cooper and all the state officials here today — and, by
the way, you got the best governor in the country. Where are — where —
(applause) — where is he? Roy, stand up. No, I mean it. (Applause.)

You know what I love about him most? I mean this from the bottom of my
heart: He has absolute, total integrity — integrity. (Applause.) Thanks
for the welcome back to North Carolina, Gov. I appreciate it very much.

I also want to mention your Congresswoman Deborah Ross. Where’s Deborah?
Did she — I just had my picture taken with her. That’s probably why she
left. (Laughter.) No, all kidding aside — but, anyway — you — oh, she
couldn’t be here, actually. That’s not true. I got it mixed up. And she
has — you know, she fights very hard for the people of this district,
and she is up in Washington right now.

And, folks, I’m here today to talk about something that doesn’t get
enough attention, and that’s the progress we’re making in investing in
America — all of America.

You know, there was a — there was a law written back in the ‘30s that
says when the Congress passes a bill that has money in it to be spent to
build something in America — whether it’s an aircraft carrier or — or
it’s a highway or whatever it happens to be — that the president should
use American workers and American products.

For the longest, longest time, Democrats and Republican presidents
didn’t abide by that very much. But I do, because I want to make sure
that we make it in America, build it in America with American products.
And that’s why we’ve created 14 million new jobs. (Applause.) Folks —
bringing opportunity and hope to people and communities across this
country.

Let me give you one example of bringing high-speed Internet to every
person in America.

Nearly a century ago, Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the Rural
Electrification Act, bringing electricity to every home and farm in
America, because it was in cities but it wasn’t in a lot of rural areas.
Because electricity had become an essential part of modern life, so he
wanted — (inaudible) everyone had access to it. He was determined that
no American should be left behind, no matter where they lived, whether
in a big city or a rural area. (Applause.)

Well, I tell you what, I’ve made the same determination about our time:
affordable high-speed Internet. It really is critical. It’s just as
essential today as electricity was a century ago.

Who remembers, you know, during the pandemic when schools were shut down
and the mas- — the Sergeant First Class mentioned it — kids weren’t able
to attend schools. They had to go online. How many of you spent time in
McDonald parking lots tapping into their Internet so you could do the
homework with your kid?

Look, think of all the workers who need Internet to do their jobs when
they’re working from home. So many are working from home — have to work.
Small businesses need Internet to reach more customers here at home and
literally around the world. And our seniors who need it in connection
with their doctors through telemedicine because they can’t make it to
the doctors in person.

High-speed Internet isn’t a luxury anymore, it’s an absolute necessity.
It’s an absolute — (applause) — no, it really is. And yet, when I became
president, around 24 million Americans didn’t have access to affordable
high-speed Internet. And for millions more, their Internet connection
was limited or unreliable.

That’s why, as soon as I came into office, I took action with what we
call the American Rescue Plan. And it included — (applause) — it
included more than $25 billion to invest in affordable Internet,
high-speed Internet all across America.

A few months later, I signed a piece of legislation, which many people
didn’t think we could get done: the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
(Applause.) A once-in-a-generation investment to rebuild America’s
infrastructure — our roads, our bridges, our railroads, our high-speed
Internet — all of it paid for.

And, look, our goal is to connect everyone in America to affordable,
reliable high-speed Internet by the year 2030 — everyone in America —
just like Franklin Roosevelt did a generation ago with electricity.

I promised to be a president for all America, whether you voted for me
or not. These investments help all Americans in red states and blue
states as well. And we’re not leaving anybody behind. (Applause.)

Look — look around North Carolina — and with the leadership of Governor
Cooper — with the partnership of your Governor, we’ve invested more than
$3 billion to expand high-speed Internet in every county across this
state — $3 billion. (Applause.) Fiber-optic cable is being laid in the
ground as we speak.

Over the next three years, over 300,000 homes and businesses all across
North Carolina will be connected with affordable high-speed Internet.

And today, I’m announcing another major step. We’re investing another
$82 million to connect 16,000 additional homes and businesses, bringing
high-speed Internet all across the state of North Carolina, from top to
bottom. (Applause.)

And by the end of the decade, we’re going to finish the job, reaching
all the remaining homes, schools, libraries, small businesses,
healthcare facilities in North Carolina that don’t have access to
high-speed Internet today.

Let me say that again: universal high-speed Internet in all of North
Carolina by the end of this decade — by the — (applause).

Folks, you just heard from Sergeant Smith a few minutes ago why it
matters. He’s retired Army — 22 years of service, which we owe him. He
and his wife, Emma, live in Tar Heel, as he mentioned, North Carolina —
population — staggering population of 100 people. (Laughter.)

They’ve been using dial-up Internet for years, just like everyone else
in town. It took Edward far too long to download medical paperwork, as
he mentioned — the VA. It was hard for his grandkids, who live nearby,
to use the Internet to do their homework.

And then, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, which I signed into law,
fiber-optic cable was laid and the town got high-speed Internet.

And now, Edward and Emma and the kids and their grandkids can use the
Internet quickly and easily, from getting care from the VA to doing
their homework. Look, their neighbors include folks who can’t attend
local church service, as he mentioned. They can stream these services at
home every single Sunday.

High-speed Internet has been a game changer for their town and so many
counties all across America. Look — and we’re just getting started.

But it’s not enough to just have Internet access. It needs to be
affordable — affordable. (Applause.)

So, here’s what my administration did. We work with Internet service
providers to bring down prices for people struggling with their
payments. It’s called Affordable Connectivity Program. It’s already
helped 880,000 households in North Carolina save a total of $440 million
on their Internet bills collectively. (Applause.)

That’s about one in five families across the state are saving $30 a
month for their Internet bills, and some save a lot more. That savings
in — matters in homes like the one I grew up in. Another 30, 40 bucks a
month was the difference between how many groceries, you pay the gas
bill, all other necessities. It matters. It matters.

Plus, the investment we’re making in high-speed Internet means something
else as well: good-paying jobs. (Applause.)

And, folks, just ask the folks at the International Brotherhood of
Electric Workers, the IBEW, or the Communication Workers union or the
Laborers Union. (Applause.) We’re putting thousands of people to work
laying fiber-optic cable all across America.

And that cable will be made in America, put in by Americans. (Applause.)
Even better, a lot of that cable will be made in North Carolina.
(Applause.)

Two American companies — two American companies, CommScope and Corning,
are investing more than $550 million to manufacture fiber-optic cable,
creating around 650 good-paying jobs in Hickory, North Carolina, the
single sta- — (applause). And there are going to be more.

Already, 40 percent of all the fiber cable — -optic cable in America is
being manufactured in Hickory. And, though, that number is going to
continue to grow and jobs are going to grow. And when jobs grow,
everything grows. Everything grows. Everything in the community grows.

All told, during my presidency, we’ve invested — and I know it’s going
to sound like not much to you all — but $11 billion in North Carolina —
(applause) — $11 billion — in infrastructure, clean energy, everything
from high-speed Internet to clean water, new roads and bridges.

For example, we’re investing $1 billion — $1 billion — in a new rail
line connecting Raleigh and Richmond, Virginia. (Applause.) Not only
creating a whole hell of a lot of jobs, but it’s going to take a lot of
vehicles off the road, it’s going to help with pollution. And guess
what? It’s going to cut the time — well, let me give you an idea. Right
now, the trip takes about three hours by train. With the new rail line,
it’s going to take you two hours. (Applause.)

Think of what that will mean for people traveling to work and visiting
families. Think what it means in the reduction of highway bills.

We’re also investing $110 million to replace the Alligator River Bridge.
Look, that bridge is a major hurricane evacuation route for the Outer
Banks, so it’s high time it get replaced, because it’s in trouble. The
bridge now is far too low for boat traffic, which means cars have to
stop and wait, sometimes several times a day, for the bridge to swing
open so boats can pass underneath. And because the bridge mechanism is
60 years old, sometimes when it swings open it can’t close, which stops
cars in traffic for hours and sometimes days.

Now, we’re building a new higher bridge that boats can easily pass
under. It will be wider and more accessible to more cars to travel
across every single day, saving time and saving money.

Folks, what we’re doing here in North Carolina is just one piece of a
much bigger story. To date, 400- — excuse me, 40,000 infrastructure
projects have been announced across this nation. Since I’ve been to
office, we’ve created 14 million new jobs — 440 \[thousand\] new jobs in
North Carolina alone, just since I came to office. (Applause.) And
that’s because of this guy right here. Nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs
nationwide.

And unemployment has been below 4 percent for the longest stretch in
American history in the last 50 years. And here in North Carolina,
unemployment is even lower. It’s 3.5 percent. (Applause.) And the stats
coming out today show that seeking unemployment insurance has even gone
down. Fewer people are needing help.

That’s lower than it was in every single month under the last president.

Wages are up. Household wealth is up — not only for middle-class
Americans — for Latinos, for Black Americans, for minorities.

Costs are still too high, but inflation continues to fall. And mortgage
rates are falling, and they’re going to fall more.

Last week, we learned that America filed 16 million — 16 million in
America — 16 million new applications for businesses — for a new
business since I became President. Folks, that’s a record. Every single
one of those new small businesses is an act of hope — an act of hope. It
generates progress.

People are beginning to have — and if you look at the consumer
confidence, it’s way up. Sixty-four percent — I think it may be 62
percent of Americans think their personal circumstance is good and it’s
getting better.

Meanwhile, thanks to the Investing in America agenda, private companies
have invested over $640 billion — let me say it again — $640 billion in
advanced manufacturing here in America. (Applause.)

By the way, you know, we invented that little computer chip, which
everything from your cell phone to your automobile needs. Guess what? We
used to control it. We got down to the point where we were hardly
manufacturing any of it.

And so, what happened when things went bad? We didn’t have access to all
those computer chips that were being made in Asia and other parts of the
world, so I got on a plane and went to South Korea. And I said, “Why
don’t you come invest in America?” And one thing led to another, and
over $50 billion, people coming to America, investing and building these
computer chip factories. (Applause.)

And guess what? It’s just getting started. But guess what? The fact is
that these computer factories — they build what they call “fabs.”
They’re about as big as a football field. And they manufacture these
chips. You don’t need a college degree to work in it. And you know what
the average starting salary is? $116,000. $116,000. (Applause.)

And, look, put it all together, America has — this is a fact — the
strongest growth rate of any — and the lowest inflation rate of any
major economy in the world — in the world.

We have a lot more work to do, but there’s no question our plan of
investing in America and the American people is working. It’s all part
of my economic vision: building an economy from the middle out — from
the middle class out and the bottom up. That way the poor have a shot,
the middle class does well, and the wealthy still do well. Well, they
got to start paying their taxes. (Applause.)

You know, I’m serious. I — I don’t mean paying 60 percent. I mean just
paying the top rate of 38 percent.

Look, folks, you know how many billionaires we have in America today?
One thousand. You know what their average rate — the tax rate — the
federal tax rate is — (the President walks away from the podium) — oh, I
shouldn’t walk away from this — (laughter) — the federal tax rate is?
Eight and a half percent.

Raise your hand if you’d trade your tax rate for 8 and a half percent.
(Laughter.) I’m serious. Think about this. There’d be $40 billion raised
if they just paid 38 percent — if they even paid 25 percent. (Applause.)

Folks, look, we all do well when the middle class does well and we grow.
Everybody does well.

You know, I’m so tired I — of trickle-down economics. I grew up in a
family where not a lot trickled down to my dad’s kitchen table. My dad
was a hard-working guy. We weren’t poor. But we lived in a three-bedroom
split-level home with four kids and a grandpop. And, you know, we were
fine. It was okay. But there wasn’t anything leftover. There was nothing
leftover.

But now, a lot of middle-class folks are having enough leftovers they
can do things.

Our approach is a fundamental break from trickle-down economics
super-charged by my predecessor. My predecessor, everything was
trickle-down, but not a lot trickled. (Laughter.) No, I’m serious. Which
tax cuts for the wealthy and big corporations, shipping goods
\[good-paying jobs\] overseas.

How many people do you know in this state and other states — there was a
factory in town that employed 300, 400 people, and all of a sudden you
found that factory shipped overseas? Why was it shipped overseas?
Cheaper labor costs. So, we were shipping factories overseas and
importing the product they made here.

Well, guess what? We’re doing the opposite. (Applause.) We’re making it
here and shipping the product overseas. I’m serious. (Applause.)

And also, that trickle-down shrank public investment in education —
infrastructure and education. It hollowed out communities, closing
factories, leaving too many behind.

And now, my predecessor likes to say America is a failing nation. In my
faith — (the President makes the sign of the cross) — bless me, Father,
for he has sinned. I mean, come on. (Laughter.) A failing nation?

And, by the way, did you hear he wants to see the stock market crash,
because he does not want — now. We’re doing well. He’s acknowledging —
by that — we’re doing pretty damn well economically and we’re getting
better. He wants to see the stock market crash. You know why? He doesn’t
want to be the next Herbert Hoover.

As I told him, he’s already Hoover. (Laughter.) He’s the only president
to be president for four years and lose jobs, not gain any jobs. Come
on, man. (Laughter.)

You know, some of the things he sa- — well, I don’t want to get started.
(Laughter and applause.) But, look, frankly, to put it very politely, he
doesn’t know what he’s talking about.

Meanwhile, the vast majority of Republicans in Congress voted against
our infrastructure law. We got enough to make it work, with
30-something. But the vast majority voted against it. They all voted
against all the other bills that I had. I mean, 100 percent voted
against.

And guess what? Whether it’s Marjorie Taylor Greene or whoever
(inaudible) out, when these new projects come, they’re there. They’re
welcoming it to their state. They voted against it all. So, I told them
I’ll be there for the groundbreaking with them. (Laughter.)

You know, look, what was mentioned as well — look at what — I’ve fought
my whole career — I’ve been arou- — I know I don’t look it, but I’ve
been around for a little while. (Laughter.) But all kidding aside, look,
you know, I’ve spent the bulk of my career as a senator trying to bring
down the cost of prescription drugs.

If you have a prescription from your doc and you take it to a pharmacy
here in North Carolina or in Wilmington, Delaware, where I’m from, or
wherever, guess what? I can take that same prescription from here and go
to Toronto, Canada; London, England; Rome, in Italy — anywhere around
the world — and it will be somewhere between 50 percent less and 70
percent less. How does that work? Why?

Why is it, in America, you’re paying — were paying $400 a month for
insulin if you have diabetes, and — and in other places, they’re paying
35 bucks?

Well, guess what? You’re paying 35 bucks now, and it’s going to go down
even further. (Applause.)

And, by the way, at $35, they’re making 350 percent gain. It costs 15 —
it costs 10 bucks to make it, 12 bucks to package it. So, come on, man.
It’s about time we start to be a little fair to ordinary people.
(Applause.)

When it comes to voting against the infrastructure law, it doesn’t stop
many of our Republicans from calling up and saying, “We need a project
in my district.” Now, what I haven’t done is I haven’t blocked projects
in their districts, because they’re all Americans. The fact they have a
g- — a senator or a g- — a congressman that doesn’t know what they’re
doing, it doesn’t mean they should be denied. (Laughter.)

But it’s okay. (Applause.) It’s okay, because I promised to be a
president for all Americans. And I mean that sincerely. It’s not
hyperbole. I promised to be a president for all Americans. And, like I
said before, I told them all I’ll see them at the groundbreaking.

Let me close with this. When you see shovels in the ground, cranes in
the sky, and people hard at work on these projects, I hope you feel
pride in America — pride in America, pride knowing we can get big things
done when we work together.

You’re all the real heroes. That’s not hyperbole. You’re the real heroes
of this story: American workers, the American people, neighbors and
community leaders doing the work to bring our cities into the future.  
  
That’s what America does. That’s why I’ve never been — and I mean this —
and I’ve been saying this for a while. And the press has to — the press
has to cover me everywhere. I’ve been saying I’m optimistic. I’m optimi-
— I’ve been — I’ve been around for a while. I’ve never been optimistic
about America’s prospects than I am in the last three years. I really
mean it.

Because there’s nothing — nothing, nothing, nothing — we have to
remember who we are. We’re the United States of America, and nothing is
beyond our capacity when we work together. Nothing, nothing, nothing.
(Applause.)

And I’ll say one last thing. We’re the only major company \[country\] in
the world that has come out of every crisis stronger than we went in.
And that’s what we’re doing again today because of you.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.

May God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.

Thank you very much. (Applause.)

Let’s go get them. Thank you. (Applause.)

2:24 P.M. EST
