---
date: '2024-01-22'
modified_time: 2024-01-22 12:55:01-05:00
published_time: 2024-01-22 13:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/01/22/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-place-based-growth-helping-communities-making-a-comeback/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Place-Based Growth:\
  \ Helping Communities Making a\_Comeback"
---
 
*At The Brookings Institution  
As Prepared for Delivery*

Today I want to focus on an area this institution has been emphasizing
for many years: place-based growth. When communities across the country
thrive economically, so too does our overall economy. Economic growth
takes root at the local level. From that basic reality comes an
important insight: we are more effective at growing the economy when we
lift communities up rather than leaving them behind.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Trickle-Down  
</span>  
Take the alternative that we can broadly shorthand as trickle-down
economics. Trickle-down is what it says: it holds that getting the
government out of the way by cutting public investment and cutting taxes
for those at the top will generate wealth and income that trickles
down.  
  
That economic approach has been tried and tested – most recently in the
previous administration – and the reality has not matched the rhetoric.
Trickle-down has generated wealth and opportunity for some, but at the
expense of widening inequality, deteriorating infrastructure, and
fragile supply chains.  
  
The economic evidence makes clear this led to growing regional
inequality, with some areas seeing declining economic opportunity and
lower labor force participation, especially for workers without college
degrees<sup>1</sup>. Trickle-down meant too many communities across our
country were left behind and left out.  
  
Towns lost anchor employers. Businesses chased low taxes, low wages, and
non-union labor, resulting in an exodus of unionized manufacturers from
regions like the Midwest. Tax revenue dropped, resulting in an erosion
of local public investment. And distressed communities often fell into a
downward spiral of disinvestment.  
  
These trends were exacerbated by the China Shock. According to some
research, the wave of cheap, subsidized imports from China wiped out
nearly one million manufacturing jobs concentrated in industrial
communities in the Midwest and the South<sup>2</sup>.  
  
Take Milwaukee’s 30<sup>th</sup> Street Industrial Street Corridor.
During the Great Migration, Milwaukee’s Black population
multiplied<sup>3</sup>. By 1970, more than 40% of these Black residents
worked in blue-collar jobs – a rate higher than Detroit. Many jobs were
accessible by transit or in walk-to-work neighborhoods, and many
families joined America’s growing middle class.  
  
But then manufacturers moved – to other regions or other countries – and
Milwaukee lost nearly half of its manufacturing jobs. Redlining
exacerbated the effects on Black workers and families<sup>4</sup>. And
the 30<sup>th</sup> Street Corridor fell behind the rest of Milwaukee in
employment and income.  
  
These forces didn’t just hollow out communities, they hollowed out the
middle class.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Bottom-Up Middle Out  
</span>  
This President came to office with a different approach to growing the
economy – from the bottom-up rather than the top-down. Bottom-up,
middle-out economics means investing in the communities that were left
behind by trickle-down economics. It means investing in the workforce
and infrastructure. It means providing incentives to encourage
businesses to invest in areas that have been disinvested. It means
supporting small businesses on Main Street that bring communities
together.  
  
Many economists now agree that place-based policies punch above their
weight in distressed communities. They can build more resilient,
productive, and innovative communities – and revitalize cities like
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, or Allentown, Pennsylvania.  
  
The President’s economic agenda combines targeted investments in
industries such as infrastructure, clean energy, and semiconductors with
well-supported economic and community development principles. This
ensures that supply-side policies and public investment are reaching
communities that were previously left behind and that economic growth is
more broadly shared. This strategy is guided by 6 general principles.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Investing in Local
Infrastructure  
</span>  
First, well-designed public investment in local communities is a force
multiplier for private investment and growth. Communities often need a
helping hand to turn around a downward spiral of disinvestment and
declining local revenues. That is why the [Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/build/guidebook/) (BIL) is designed to
create strong economic foundations — connecting every home, school, and
small business to high-speed internet, building resilience, and fixing
the roads, bridges, airports, ports, and rail that are the connective
tissue of commerce all across the country.  
  
Earlier this month, the President visited small business owners in
[Allentown,
Pennsylvania](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-highlights-allentown-lehigh-valley-and-pennsylvanias-economic-comeback/),
once home to major iron and steel manufacturing. The Administration has
invested hundreds of millions of dollars in rebuilding roads and
renovating airports in the area, alongside strategic, federal economic
development dollars and new private investments in manufacturing. For
example, $22 million is going toward fixing the 90-year-old Cementon
Bridge over the Lehigh River that has been in poor condition since 1999.
Today, the Allentown area is experiencing an investment, employment, and
small business boom.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Unlocking Private Investment  
</span>  
Second, there are special incentives to encourage private investment in
communities that suffered from disinvestment. The President’s strategy
is unlocking private capital and the economic potential of previously
left-behind communities.  
  
[Inflation Reduction
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-guidebook/)
(IRA) tax credits set aside $4 billion in additional tax benefits for
clean energy manufacturing investments in [energy
communities](https://energycommunities.gov/energy-community-tax-credit-bonus/)
– places at risk of job displacement due to the energy transition – and
low-income communities.  
  
This approach is producing results: A [Treasury
analysis](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1931) found
that clean energy investments are growing fastest in energy communities.
For instance, the Administration has helped drive more than [$20
billion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-historic-20-billion-competition-to-catalyze-investment-in-clean-energy-projects-and-tackle-the-climate-crisis/)
in federal support to the communities most affected by the energy
transition, from Appalachia to the Four Corners.  
  
Providing special incentives to encourage investments in hard hit
communities is an intentional policy choice. Research suggests that
public investments yield a greater return in the hardest hit communities
for each dollar spent<sup>5</sup>, and this is especially true for
improving employment outcomes<sup>6</sup>.  
  
The IRA provides bonus tax credits to small-scale solar and wind
projects in low-income communities, bringing clean energy and lowering
costs to places where the private sector is less likely to invest on its
own. [Treasury](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1931)
found that close to 80 percent of IRA investments have gone to counties
with median household incomes below the national average.  
  
And, for the first time, local, state, and Tribal governments, as well
as non-profits, can access clean energy tax credits as [direct
payments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cleanenergy/directpay/), unlocking
new opportunities for local communities to invest in themselves.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Connecting Neighborhoods to
Opportunity  
</span>  
Third, special programs are designed to connect left-behind communities
to nearby areas of economic opportunity. In too many cases, communities
have been cut off from job opportunities, public transit, and
educational and training opportunities by the placement of major
highways or other physical barriers.  
  
The Department of Transportation’s [Reconnecting Communities Pilot
Program](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/rcnprogram) is a
first-of-its-kind $1 billion program to reconnect communities that had
been cut off from opportunity and burdened by past transportation
infrastructure decisions. In [Buffalo, New
York](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-announces-5559-million-grant-kensington-expressway),
this program is allocating over $55 million to build a new cap and
tunnel to cover the Kensington Expressway – something the community has
sought since the 1980s. The expressway cut off east and west sides of
roads that previously connected residents to community services, food
options, and cultural facilities.  
  
The Department of Commerce’s Recompete is a new grant program that will
invest $200 million in connecting workers to good jobs targeting
economically disadvantaged neighborhoods that are often disconnected
from opportunities only miles away.  
  
We recognize that distressed communities suffering from a downward
spiral of disinvestment may not have the capacity to access these
historic opportunities. That is why the Administration is finding ways
to reach out to communities and help them reach back.  
  
For instance, the [Rural Partners Network](https://www.rural.gov/) is a
whole-of-government initiative that sends federal staff to 25 rural
communities across the country. Rural communities such as [the
Tri-County North
Delta](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks/ms/tri-county-north-delta),
bordering the Mississippi River, are getting help accessing federal
resources through local federal offices or federal partnerships with the
local chamber of commerce, higher-education institutions,
philanthropies, and workforce development organizations.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Multiplying Innovation
Clusters  
</span>  
Fourth, our programs help support science and innovation clusters all
across the country, not just in a handful of major metro areas. Just
five metro areas represented more than 90% of the nation’s
innovation-sector growth from 2005 to 2017<sup>7</sup>. Economists,
including at Brookings, have outlined the need for innovation programs
in other regions.  
  
The CHIPS and Science Act [Regional Technology and Innovation Hub
Program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs)
allocates resources on a competitive basis to help innovation clusters
around the country reach the next level. Just recently, the Department
of Commerce [designated 31 Tech
Hubs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-31-regional-tech-hubs-to-spur-american-innovation-strengthen-manufacturing-and-create-good-paying-jobs-in-every-region-of-the-country/)
– coalitions of universities, labor, companies and non-profits – across
the country, focused on building globally competitive manufacturing and
innovation ecosystems in industries like clean energy, semiconductors,
and artificial intelligence.  
  
The CHIPS and Science Act also established the [NSF Regional Engines
Program](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/initiatives/regional-innovation-engines)
that will award up to 10 years of grant funding on a competitive basis.
It will help advance American research and development, while supporting
training opportunities for jobs coming to these innovation clusters
across the country. This effort includes regions that have not fully
participated in the technology boom of the past few decades**.**  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Communities in the Lead  
</span>  
Fifth, many of these programs are designed to lift up the priorities of
local communities as opposed to being a one-size-fits all, top-down
approach. This Administration knows, based on decades of experience,
that policies are only as good as the degree of [community
engagement](https://www.energy.gov/articles/creating-equity-energy-people-color)
and ownership on the ground.  
  
From Recompete to Tech Hubs to NSF Engines, these efforts are
competitive grant-based programs where local communities are encouraged
to form coalitions of educational institutions, businesses, labor,
Tribal organizations, and non-profits to develop proposals designed
around the communities’ local economic vision, challenges, and special
assets.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Stacking Federal Resources  
</span>  
Finally, we have learned that it is most effective to take a whole of
government approach to working with localities by stacking investments.
When these programs work well, they pull together federal support for
workers, small businesses, and new industries so that the whole is
greater than the sum of the parts in supporting an economic comeback.  
  
[Milwaukee](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-highlight-how-his-investing-in-america-agenda-has-led-to-a-black-small-business-boom/)
is a good example of how different federal programs can work together to
benefit the whole community. BIL funding is not only removing lead pipes
and providing clean drinking water for Milwaukee’s child care centers
and homes – it is also supporting local small businesses like Rashawn
Spivey’s plumbing business. Milwaukee’s 30<sup>th</sup> Street
Industrial Corridor also recently received a [Recompete
Program](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/recompete-pilot-program)
designation. This is on top of efforts to increase access to affordable
housing and healthcare.  
  
In a recent visit to Milwaukee, the President
[said](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/12/20/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-wisconsin-black-chamber-of-commerce/)
that the goal is to make “sure Milwaukee is coming back – and all of
Milwaukee \[is\] coming back.” Indeed, since the President took office,
small business applications are up 70 percent, the share of Black people
employed in Milwaukee in 2022 has reached the highest in more than a
decade, and billions are being invested in manufacturing, environmental
cleanup, infrastructure, and small businesses.  
  
The Baltimore area is similarly benefitting from stacking federal
initiatives. BIL is
[investing](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/30/fact-sheet-president-biden-kicks-off-major-baltimore-rail-tunnel-project-funded-by-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/)
$4.7 billion in Amtrak’s Frederick Douglass Tunnel, which is expected to
create 30,000 jobs. A new [workforce
hub](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-baltimore-announces-commitments-to-train-and-hire-local-residents-to-support-major-infrastructure-projects/)
has already generated commitments to train and place hundreds of
Baltimore residents in apprenticeships. It will improve pathways to the
middle class for non-college educated residents and create a skilled
workforce to meet the growing demand from new and growing employers. The
city has also been
[designated](https://www.bing.com/search?q=baltimore+tech+hub&PC=U531&cvid=6c1ba93ff5eb480f83771d2bf2bfd84b&FORM=ANAB01)
a Tech Hub, growing its AI and biotechnology sectors to lead in
predictive healthcare.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Coming Back  
</span>  
Good economic policy starts with the basic insight that communities are
where economic development happens – where people connect with jobs,
develop their skills, start businesses, make their homes, and raise
families.  
  
President Biden came to office determined to invest in all of America,
to leave no community behind. It is working. Communities that had been
left behind are making a comeback. In recent visits, the President has
talked with workers, small business owners, and residents in communities
like
[Allentown](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-highlights-allentown-lehigh-valley-and-pennsylvanias-economic-comeback/)
and
[Milwaukee](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-highlight-how-his-investing-in-america-agenda-has-led-to-a-black-small-business-boom/)
where new jobs and new small businesses are creating hope.

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[1\] Autor, Dorn, and Hanson (2016)  
\[2\] Ibid.  
\[3\] Bonds, Farmer-Hinton, and Epps (2009)  
\[4\] Ibid.  
\[5\] Austin, Glaeser, and Summers (2018)  
\[6\] Bartik (2020)  
\[7\] Atkinson, Muro, and Whiton (2019)
