---
date: '2022-10-17'
modified_time: 2022-10-17 19:11:46-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-17 17:04:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/legislation/2022/10/17/bills-signed-s-169-s-442-s-516-s-958-s-1198-s-2490-s-2551-s-2771-s-2794-s-3157-s-3470-s-4205-s-4791/
tags: legislation
title: "Bills Signed: S. 169, S. 442, S. 516, S. 958, S. 1198, S. 2490, S. 2551, S.\
  \ 2771, S. 2794, S. 3157, S. 3470, S. 4205, S.\_4791"
---
 
On Monday, October 17, 2022, the President signed into law:  
    
S. 169, the “Artistic Recognition for Talented Students Act,” which
requires the Register of Copyrights to waive application fees for the
registration of a copyright claim for winners of certain student
competitions;

Thank you to Senators Tillis and Leahy, Representatives Jeffries and
Mace, and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 442, the “Bulb Replacement Improving Government with  
High-efficiency Technology Act,” which requires GSA to procure the most
life-cycle cost effective and energy efficient lighting products;  
   
Thank you to Senators Peters and Johnson, Representative Titus, and many
others for their leadership.  
   
S. 516, the “Advanced Air Mobility Coordination and Leadership Act,”
which requires the Secretary of Transportation to establish an advanced
air mobility (AAM) interagency working group to: review and examine
factors that will allow the maturation of the AAM ecosystem within the
U.S. and develop an AAM National Strategy;

Thank you to Senators Moran and Sinema, and Representatives Davids and
Garret Graves, and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 958, the “Maximizing Outcomes through Better Investments in
Lifesaving Equipment for (MOBILE) Health Care Act,” which allows
community health centers to use New Access Point grants to  
establish mobile health clinics;  
   
Thank you to Senators Rosen and Collins, Representatives Susie Lee,
Hudson, Ruiz, and Herrera Beutler, and many other for their
leadership.  
   
S. 1198, the “Solid Start Act,” which codifies VA’s Solid Start Program
and expand certain program initiatives;  
   
Thank you to Senators Hassan, Cramer and Cassidy, Representatives
Slotkin and Joyce, and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 2490, the “Blackwell School National Historic Site Act,” which
establishes the Blackwell School National Historic Site in the State of
Texas, as a unit of the National Park System;  
   
Thank you to Senators Cornyn and Padilla, Representative Tony Gonzales,
and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 2551, the ” Artificial Intelligence Training for the  
Acquisition Workforce Act,” which establishes an artificial intelligence
training program for federal procurement officials;  
   
Thank you to Senators Peters and Portman, Representatives Maloney and
Comer, and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 2771, which designates the facility of the United States Postal
Service located at 39 West Main Street, in Honeoye Falls, New York, as
the CW4 Christian J. Koch Memorial Post Office;  
   
Thank you to Senators Cornyn and Cruz, Representative Pfluger, and many
others for their leadership.  
   
S. 2794, the “Supporting Families of the Fallen Act,” which amends the
maximum values of certain insurance programs;  
   
Thank you to Senators Tuberville, Cramer, Braun, Barrasso, and Lummis,
Representatives Roy, Miller-Meeks, Mike Levin, and Slotkin, and many
others for their leadership.  
   
S. 3157, the “Bridging the Gap for New Americans Act,” which  
requires a study on the factors affecting employment opportunities in
the U.S. for immigrants and refugees with professional credentials
obtained in another country;  
   
Thank you to Senators Klobuchar, Cornyn, Coons, Murkowski, Hickenlooper,
and Collins, and Representatives Katko, Fitzpatrick, Crow, and
Gottheimer, and many others for their leadership.  
   
S. 3470, the “End Human Trafficking in Government Contracts Act of
2022,” which requires Federal agencies to refer contractors engaged in
human trafficking to the agency’s suspension and debarment official;  
   
Thank you to Senators Lankford and Ernst, and many others for their
leadership.  
   
S. 4205, the “Planning for Animal Wellness Act” or the “PAW Act,” which
requires the Federal Emergency Management Agency to establish a working
group relating to best practices and Federal guidance for animals in
emergencies and disasters; and  
   
Thank you to Senators Peters and Portman, and Representatives Titus,
DeFazio, Fitzpatrick, Schiff, and Garret Graves, and many others for
their leadership.  
   
S. 4791, which establishes a ten-year term for the appointment of the
Director of the Government Publishing Office.  
   
Thank you to Senator Blunt and many others for their leadership.
