---
date: '2023-11-04'
published_time: 2023-11-04 13:14:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/11/04/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-to-preview-the-americas-partnership-leaders-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials to Preview the Americas\
  \ Partnership Leaders\u2019\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(November 3, 2023)

8:07 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Thanks, everyone, for joining today’s call to preview today’s
Americas Partnership Leaders’ Summit here at the White House. Thanks for
your patience as we worked out some of the scheduling issues.

As a reminder, today’s call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and it’s embargoed until the conclusion of
the call.

For your awareness and not for your reporting, today on the call we have
a great group of folks. We’ve got \[senior administration official\],
\[senior administration official\], and \[senior administration
official\].

With that, I’ll turn it over to our speakers for brief remarks on the
top, and then we’ll take your questions.

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great. Thanks, \[moderator\]. And good
morning, everybody. And apologies for all the last-minute scheduling
changes yesterday, but we had two bilats that were very productive.

I want to start by making just a point about the President’s engagement
in the Western Hemisphere. In what has been a very busy year for the
administration overall — not just in terms of domestic policy, but also
foreign policy, a number of, I think, challenging global issues — the
President has still engaged in, so far, 11 bilateral meetings this year
with — with leaders, not — not including in that the many calls that
he’s had.

There’s been a visit to Mexico for the North American Leaders’ Summit.
The President also traveled to — to Canada for meetings with — with
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau.

At the U.N. General Assembly, the President, with President Lula,
launched the Partnership for Workers’ Rights, a global initiative.

And obviously, today, he is following through on a commitment that he
made at the Summit of the Americas to, you know, launch the Americas
Partnership for Economic Prosperity. And this will be the first
inaugural meeting.

This is also something that follows on, I think, the efforts by the — by
the administration to work to institutionalize what has been a very
successful and ambitious and innovative initiative under the Los Angeles
Declaration for Migration and Protection that has really taken a
holistic approach to our efforts to address historic migration flows.

And the Americas Partnership complements the work of the L.A.
Declaration because, fundamentally, the way the President looks at
migration, as I mentioned, is holistically. It means not just working
with Congress to pass legislation, investing in a functioning border,
but also, very importantly, is really investing in the prosperity and
the security of our neighbors so that would-be migrants have a — have a
right to remain.

On the economic side, I think it’s important to, I think, underscore
here that there have been a number of factors that have impacted the
ability or, I think, the less benefits that Latin America has received
from nearshoring efforts. It has been — I think they include political
and regulatory risk factors, I think, a lack of human capital, poor
infrastructure. I think, fundamentally, we want to actually use the
Americas Partnership to really promote a shared economic agenda to
address some of these challenges.

So, the Leaders’ Summit, from our perspective, advances President
Biden’s commitment to a strong regional partnership in the Western
Hemisphere, as he announced in last year’s summit. During the Leaders’
Summit today, the President and the 11 regional partners are going to
establish this as the only economic platform or architecture in the
hemisphere that is work — that is focused on building tomorrow’s economy
in our hemisphere.

As the President has said, there is no reason the Americas should not be
the most prosperous, democratic, and secure region in the world. And
truth is, we have unlimited potential. The Americans can feed and power
most of the world with our fertile lands, the abundant natural
resources.

Yet, as I mentioned, we’re also facing a series of shared challenges —
not just climate change, income inequality — as I mentioned, people
leaving their homes in the millions in a way that is impacting all the
countries of the Americas Partnership. And together, we can confront
these challenges together.

In that spirit, the meetings today provided a platform to work with
partners to tackle some of these challenges head on. Our focuses really
are going to be to channel investments to modernize and transform our
infrastructure, develop the next generation of entrepreneurs, create
good jobs, and skill up our workers for the digital future, and preserve
to the environment.

Now, very briefly, I’ll just switch to the summit itself. You saw the
events yesterday at the Inter-American Development Bank’s Responsible
Investment Forum. The — the leaders are also going to be meeting with
Secretary Yellen today. And then the President is going to host the
leaders for a plenary meeting later this morning where they’re going to
discuss the priorities for delivering that greater economic benefit,
stability, and prosperity to the region, as well as deepening regional
economic competitiveness and more inclusive economies through our
collaborative efforts.

The President committed to delivering on this partnership, and we have
prepared a suite of initial deliverables that will demonstrate that down
payment on this important regional initiative. They are designed to be
catalytic. So, we expect our partner countries, financial institutions,
and private investors to crowd in additional resources and build that
regional network effect.

And, you know, for example, the partners have agreed to establish a
regional program to provide investments and training to cohorts of
entrepreneurs, especially those from marginalized communities across the
Americas. With the IDB working to create a new investment platform that
mobilizes private capital to modernize digital and physical
infrastructure across the Americas Partnership countries.

Also, with the IDB, we’re going to provide technical assistance to
develop innovative nature-based finance solutions to put more private
capital into preserving the Americas’ remarkable biodiversity. I’m
talking about green bonds as a clear example of a mechanism that has
been championed in the past.

This is really just a preview of a number of things that the President
will announce this morning. So, I’m not going to get into any details,
but happy to have the discussion in questions. And I’ll turn it over to
my colleagues.

Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. So, as \[senior administration official\] said, we are
establishing the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity as a
leader-led regional forum made up of these 12 initial countries.

“Leader-led” really is an emphasis here, of course, because of the
summit today, but there’s also going to be three ministerial tracks that
are set up in the trade, foreign affairs, and finance areas. And the
purpose of setting up these tracks is to make sure that we’re working
toward focused and prioritized workstreams that are going to deliver
tangible results.

We’ve set up this structure in the partnership after having extensive
conversations with our partners about how we can actually identify our
priorities and make progress on those. The feedback from our
stakeholders and from our partners has helped us arrive at this
institution, which we think can quickly take root and deliver quickly on
our shared goals.

The Americas Partnership also provides us a platform for our hemisphere
to come together on supply chain competitiveness. That’s going to be one
of the most important policy areas that the partnership works on. And
supply chain competitiveness will be cross-cutting on those three
tracks.

We’re focused initially on developing competitiveness within the
hemisphere among the partners in clean energy, semiconductors, and
medical supplies.

And one of the reasons why we think the partnership is right to focus on
regional supply chain competitiveness is just when you look at all the
dynamics in the region, we’ve got a lot of things that give us a leg up.
We’ve got natural resources, like \[senior administration official\]
said. We’ve got dynamic people. We’ve got technology, capital. We’ve got
unparalleled cultural and familial bonds.

These — this connectivity in our economies is going to be what we
leverage in the partnership to build these crucial industries of our
future.

We will, in addition to having leaders summits every two years, each
year our ministers are going to meet to advance the work of the tracks
to identify the next set of near-term priorities and to just continually
reassess and make sure that the partnership is really achieving that
deeper economic integration in a more equitable, inclusive, and
sustainable way.

One other feature of the partnership that I think is unique and really
crucial to its success is that we plan on having spaces that are just
foundational for the partnership where stakeholders, including civil
society, experts, academics, workers, and others — businesses, of course
— can provide their ideas and feedback on our priorities and how we’re
advancing them and how we can deliver those tangible results that I
mentioned.

And it’s also an opportunity for us to communicate back to them what the
partnership is doing, how it is succeeding, how it is benefiting them.

And then, last but not least, on the structure, the ministers will be
tasked by the leaders to prioritize the establishment of a mechanism and
the criteria for further expansion of the partnership to additional
countries.

As the President announced last June, this is always intended to be an
open and inclusive forum. And we want to deliver on that promise.

We want to make sure that when we expand the partnership, we’re
maintaining the high ambition and high standard and the shared vision
that we’re — the leaders will be laying out today. But we want to make
sure that that openness and that inclusivity is something that the
ministers undertake right away.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great. Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. And good morning, everyone.

To build on what \[senior administration official\] mentioned at the top
on the link between APEP and the President’s approach to migration, we
think it’s important to acknowledge that the APEP countries are
collectively hosting the majority of refugees and migrants in the
Western Hemisphere.

These are the top host countries and each has been significantly
impacted by the historic flows in recent years.

How our partners have responded is impressive and something that
President Biden deeply appreciates.

Our partners did not shut their doors. Instead, they have taken steps to
welcome their neighbors, give them legal status, and give them jobs.

In fact, in fulfillment of their commitments in Los Angeles last summer,
six APEP countries have actually announced and implemented new
regularization or temporary protected status policies in the last year
to offer legal status to millions of people who have been displaced in
the Western Hemisphere — countries like Costa Rica, Ecuador, Colombia,
Peru, Chile, Panama.

They have stepped up in big ways, and we are stepping up for them. APEP
is a big part of that.

The new economic tools that President Biden will announce today —
alongside the IDB, private sector, and other donors — seek to reinforce
this welcoming spirit. They seek to reward and further support the
countries in our hemisphere that have not only been impacted by
migration but are actively welcoming and integrating them. And
hopefully, this will incentivize other countries to do the same.

The bottom line is that President Biden believes that targeted economic
investment in top refugee and migrant host countries is critical to
stabilizing migration flows.

This is at the heart of both APEP and the other regional framework that
President Biden advanced in Los Angeles with 21 leaders, the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration and Protection.

Thanks so much. And we’ll open it up for questions.

MODERATOR: Thanks so much. If our moderator could instruct folks on how
to get on the queue, we’ll take a few questions.

Q Hi, this is (inaudible). Can you hear me?

OPERATOR: Yes, ma’am.

Q Okay, I wanted to ask, to \[senior administration official\], if you
could give a little bit more detail about the green bonds and how these
mechanisms will play a role in the alliance and any details you could
provide about the deliverables today. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, of course. Look, I’ll be very
brief because, again, I think it’s to the President to be making these
announcements.

But you also, I’m sure, are familiar with countries like Colombia that
have pioneered the concept of green bonds. If you have not seen in the
news: In May, DFC structured the largest debt-for-climate swap that’s
ever been done in Ecuador as a part of the protection of the Galapagos
region.

And — but it is very expensive and time intensive to develop these
mechanisms in a way that really will attract investment. And so, I think
there are tools that we can provide to help really facilitate the
ability of countries to do that.

What I’ll say on the deliverables is that the President — whenever he
thinks about Latin America and the Caribbean, he — you may have heard
him say this, because he says it often — he doesn’t think about what we
should be doing for the Americas, but rather with the Americas. And the
tools and the deliverable really reflect that in that they are tools
that the leaders are going to use together.

So, I’d mentioned there’s one that is going to support entrepreneurs.
Often, businesses will fall apart at the beginning or it’s — you know,
it’s very difficult to start up a business. And so, finding mechanisms
to really support that throughout the countries of the Americas
partnership.

Also, the importance of, as I mentioned, not just of our efforts under
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure, but really bringing a lot of
those efforts to the Americas by finding ways to work with the
Inter-American Development Bank to mobilize — to crowd in private
capital and mobilize up potentially billions of dollars to renewable
infrastructure.

These are tools. But you should expect today, as well, to see that other
Americas Partnership countries are going to actually put initiatives on
the table as well on — you know, for example, regional platforms for
addressing gaps in human capital, particularly in semiconductor
workforces, which often is something that I think disincentivizes
investments. There are others.

And I think what that will exemplify is that the Americas Partnership is
stronger together when the countries are working together on common
economic agendas, we’re developing tools together to really advance
those goals.

It really has the potential to significantly, I think, shift the
economic dynamics in a region that has been moving slower than its peers
on the adoption of technology, on taking advantage of the nearshoring
trends and other economic upgrades that fundamentally will address a
number of national interests, not just on migration but, fundamentally,
across the region that is economically stable and secure and democratic
is in the national security interests of the United States.

Q Thank you.

Q Hi, this is (inaudible).

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: (Inaudible.)

Q Sorry. Thanks for the call. I’m curious — yesterday, the Chilean
President mentioned that he had raised, in addition to all of these
initiatives, the Israel-Hamas war. And I’m curious if you could speak to
what the President is also trying to convey to the Western leaders as
they, too, monitor the situation abroad and how it plays into the
initiatives here.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah. Well, look, I’m not going to get
into the details of the discussion between the two leaders. We did send
a press readout after the meeting. And so, I think I would maybe just
point to those.

Q Good morning. My name is Pedro Rojas with Univision, and I got a
couple of questions. Number one, how many head of states are attending
this summit this morning? And the second one: if there is any
enforcement — border enforcement talks among the participants of the
summit? Meaning, anything to control the migration flows and the Darien
Gap and other places (inaudible) where we know that there are thousands
of migrants is still coming to the southern border of the U.S.?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks. So, 9 of the 11 leaders will be
in attendance. President López Obrador is — or Mexico is going to be
represented by the Mexican Foreign Minister — as is Panama, by the
Foreign Minister. I think given that today is Panamanian National Day
and, obviously, President Cortizo is, I think, incredibly busy in
Panama. The President looks forward to meeting him in the near future.

I’ll let my colleagues speak to migration. But the focus, I think, today
is, as I mentioned, our holistic approach to migration, where it is an
all-of-the-above strategy, including investing in the economic
prosperity and security of the Americas.

I would note that of the — you know, approximately 7 million Venezuelans
— for example, on migration — have left Venezuela as a result of the
economic crisis and the closure of the economic space. A majority of
those migrants have settled in the countries of the Americas
Partnership.

And so, from the very beginning, under the Los Angeles Declaration on
Migration and Protection, we really worked to really stabilize those
populations. But today, where these — where the L.A. Declaration and the
Americas Partnership really meet and dovetail is that this also is about
making sure that economies like Colombia, Peru, Ecuador, Mexico, and
others are prospering economically to be able to absorb these
populations.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I think that was well said. Nothing more
from me. Thanks.

MODERATOR: I think that’s all the time we have for today. As a reminder,
the contents of this call were on background, attributable to senior
administration officials. And as we’ve reached the conclusion of the
call, the embargo is now lifted.

Thanks, everyone, for joining.

8:27 P.M. EDT
