---
date: '2023-11-09'
modified_time: 2023-11-13 12:53:28-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-09 12:18:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/11/09/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-presidents-upcoming-bilateral-engagement/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the President\u2019\
  s Upcoming Bilateral\_Engagement"
---
 
6:22 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Hi, everybody.  Thanks for joining us this evening.  Happy
to be hosting this one on a Thursday night, not a Friday night, for the
first time in a while.  Just a quick reminder of our ground rules here. 
This call is embargoed until 8:00 a.m. Eastern time tomorrow, November
10th.   
  
The whole call is attributable to a sen- — or to “senior administration
officials,” plural.  For awareness but not for reporting, NSC — we have
on the call with us tonight \[senior administration official\] and
\[senior administration official\].  And I won’t waste any time.  I’ll
hand it over to \[senior administration official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Moderator\], thank you very much. 
And thanks, all, for joining the call.  And I apologize for some of the
movement around of the timing of this.  That is not \[moderator\] or our
excellent press team.  That is squarely on me, and I’m grateful that all
of you were able to join.   
  
So, look, I’m just going to do a little bit of backgrounding, and then
\[senior administration official\] will go through some of the
particulars and specifics that you should be looking for next week.   
  
So, we’re grateful that you’ve all joined.  Just want to underscore that
President Biden will, indeed, meet with President Xi Jinping of the
People’s Republic of China in the San Francisco Bay area of California
on November 15th.  I think some of you remember, but their last meeting
was a year ago in person in Bali, Indonesia, on the sidelines of the
G20.  
  
During their session next week, we anticipate the leader –leaders will
discuss issues in the U.S.-PRC bilateral relationship, the continued
importance of strengthening open lines of communication and managing
competition responsibly, and a range of regional, global, and
transnational issues.   
  
Now, I’m going to just take a moment just for all of you because I think
it’s important to set the context and our overall strategic approach
because that is essential for understanding and interpreting what
happens next week.  I’ll get into more details on the meeting shortly,
but first I’d like to take a step back and discuss how we got here.  
  
At the start of this administration, the PRC was convinced that the
United States was in terminal decline.  Around the world, there were
doubts about our staying power, our economic vitality, our commitment to
our allies, and the health of our democracy.  Much of that has changed
under President Biden’s leadership.   
  
Over the last nearly three years, the administration has surveyed the
strategic landscapes, (inaudible), and took a series of purposeful,
strategic steps both at home and abroad in a diplomatic context that we
think is sustaining.   
  
From the beginning, our approach has been consistent.  We are in
competition with China, but we do not seek conflict, confrontation, or a
new Cold War.  We are mana- — we are for managing the competition
responsibly.  
  
We’re going into the meeting confident in our overall approach and our
position.  First, we are going into this meeting with game-changing
investments in American strength at home through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act.  
  
The United States has had the strongest recovery and lowest (inaudible)
inflation of any leading economy.  We’ve created 14 million jobs — more
in two years than any president in a four-year term.  We’ve had 21
straight months of unemployment under 4 percent for the first time in
half a century, and the U.S. economy grew by 4.9 percent in the third
quarter.   
  
Large-scale investments in semiconductors and clean energy production
are up 20-fold since 2019.  We’re estimating 3.5 trillion in public and
private investment over the next six decades.  Construction spending on
manufacturing has doubled.  
  
Second, we’re going into this meeting having deepened our alliances and
partnerships abroad in ways that would’ve been unimaginable just a few
years ago.  In the year since Bali, President Biden hosted leaders from
Japan, the ROK, the Philippines, India, and Australia for bilateral
meetings.   
  
He formally launched AUKUS.  He held a historic trilateral summit with
the ROK and Japan at Camp David.  He traveled to Japan for the G — G7
and the Quad Summit and later traveled to Vietnam to upgrade the
relationship between our two countries to a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership.  He hosted the leaders of the Pacific Island countries here
in Washington for a second summit.  
  
Even as we work hard every day on the conflict in Israel and Gaza and
the war in Ukraine, this week alone, the Secretary of State, the
Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, the Ambassador
to the U.N., and the Special Presiden- — Presidential Envoy for Climate
are all in the Indo-Pacific.  And on Monday, President Biden will meet
with President Jokowi of Indonesia for an official visit before heading
out to San Francisco.  
  
And that really brings me back to diplomacy with the PRC after that as a
background.  After investing at home and strengthening ties with allies
and partners abroad, now is precisely the time for high-level
diplomacy.  Our approach is steady and consistent.  We’re not stepping
back from our interests and values; we’re moving forward on them.  
  
In the last year, we’ve put in new rules on outbound and investment and
updated our export controls on semiconductors and semiconductor
manufacturing equipment.  We’ve taken actions against PRC entities
involved in human rights abuses, forced labor, non-proliferation, and
supporting Russia’s war in Ukraine.  And we’ve continued to uphold
freedom of navigation in the region by flying, sailing, and operating
wherever international law allows.  
  
But we also believe that intense competition requires and demands
intense diplomacy to manage tensions and to prevent competition from
verging into conflict or confrontation.  We’re clear-eyed about this. 
We know efforts to shape or reform China over several decades have
failed, but we expect China to be around and to be a major player on the
world stage for the rest of our lifetimes.  
  
And we think diplomacy is how we clear up misperceptions, (inaudible),
communicate, avoid surprises, and explain our competitive steps.  It is
also how we work together and where and when our interests align — where
our interests align and deliver on key priorities for the American
people.  And it’s how we set up crisis communication mechanisms to
reduce conflict, risk, or work together on climate, health, or
macroeconomic stability.   
  
This is not a change in our approach.  The United States has decades of
experience talking to and even working with competitors when our
interests call for it.  And this meeting with President Xi is in keeping
with that tradition in American statecraft.   
  
And at this meeting, I think you can expect us to draw on that
experience as we both stabilize the relationship and deliver in
material, tangible ways for the American people.  
  
I’ll turn it over now to \[senior administration official\] to go into a
little bit more detail on the specifics of our diplomacy next week in
San Francisco.   
  
\[Senior administration official\]?    
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, \[senior administration
official\].   
  
As you all know, this is President Biden’s first interaction with
President Xi in a year.  A lot has happened in that intervening period,
as \[senior administration official\] noted.   
  
Just to give a bit of context, this will be their seventh interaction
since the start of the Biden administration but just the second
in-person meeting.  Of course, both leaders have a longstanding
relationship that began when they were both vice presidents.  They’ve
known each other for roughly a dozen years.  
  
In the last eight months, we have worked to restore diplomatic
interaction.  The National Security Advisor met with Director Wang Yi
three times.  The Secretaries of State, Treasury, and Commerce went to
Beijing.  China, for its part, sent its vice president, its foreign
minister, its vice premier, and other senior officials here to the
United States in recent months for meetings.  
  
In addition, we have launched a number of working-level consultations
with the PRC in discrete, carefully chosen areas where deeper discussion
can benefit U.S. and global interests, such as arms control, maritime
issues, and macroeconomic and debt issues.   
  
We expect the leaders will discuss strategic direction of the bilateral
relationship, the importance of maintaining open lines of communication,
including (inaudible).  We expect they’ll cover a range of regional and
global issues too, such as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the
Israel-Hamas conflict.  And they’ll consider how we can work together
where our interests align, particularly on transnational challenges that
affect the international community, such as climate and
counter-narcotics.  
  
As is always the case, the two leaders will discuss issues where we have
differences, such as human rights, cross-trade issues, South China Sea,
and a fair and level playing field for U.S. companies and workers.

I’ll leave it there for now and welcome any questions you all have.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And with that, we’ll open it up to questions. 

Great.  And our first question will go to Tamara Keith with NPR. 

Q    Thank you so much.  This is just a really small technical question,
but you said that the meeting will take place in the San Francisco Bay
area.  Does that mean it may not be in actual San Francisco but some
other city?  I just want to make sure our stories have the right
location.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for that.  We’re using
“the Bay Area” because for operational security reasons, we’re not going
to get into specifics of the location.

Q    So, we should not say “San Francisco” in our stories?

MODERATOR:  I think — it’s \[moderator\], “Bay Area” is safe to use.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, “San Francisco Bay Area” is the
right approach.  That’s why we put it in there.  And thanks for the
question.

Q    Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Andrew Feinberg with The Independent.   
Andrew.  Your line should be unmuted.   
Q    Hi, thank you for doing this.  Next year is an election year.  Will
the President be offering any warning or caution or admonition to
President Xi about interfering in the election?  We know China has tried
influence operations in the past.  I believe there was some during the
last election.  Will the United States be offering any sort of
admonishment not to do it again?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question, Andrew. 
Without getting into specifics of the meeting, I think it’s fair to say
we’re going to cover a whole range of topics that are potentially
contentious.  Certainly, one area we have covered in the past in various
high-level meetings is our concerns about potential election-influence
operations.  I would anticipate that this elect- — this issue could come
up again.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Next, we’ll go to Trevor Hunnicutt with Reuters.

Q    Hey, thanks for taking the question.  Just wanted to see if a
couple of con- — topics are coming up in this conversation: one,
fentanyl; two, artificial intelligence; and three, U.S. detainees in
China.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I think, the way \[senior
administration official\] indicated, we — we expect a range of issues to
be discussed between the two leaders.  We’ve indicated to Chinese
interlocutors that, basically, every element in our bilateral issue, our
bilateral relationship will be on the table for discussion.  I think
it’s possible that all three issues will indeed be raised, yes.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Aamer Madhani with the AP.

Q    Thank you.  What goals or objectives need to be reached during
these talks for what President Biden would consider a successful
meeting?

And then, secondly, will the President have any specific message to
President Xi about action that he’d like to see the Chinese take to help
or at least not worsen the crisis in the Middle East?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think \[senior administration
official\] will take the first part.  I’ll take the second part.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for that question. 
Look, I think there are a whole range of issues we expect to come up on
the bilateral relationship.  These are tough conversations, not just on
bilat issues, of course, as we mentioned on global, on transnational
issues.  There’s a lot going on in the world and the U.S. and China, I
think, as — as two countries with interest around the globe have a —
have a responsibility to be — to talk about these issues, whether Middle
East, whether Russia, Ukraine.

In terms of specific goals, as \[senior administration official\] had
mentioned, this is not the relationship of 5 or 10 years ago.  We’re not
talking about a long list of outcomes or deliverables.  The goals here
really are about managing the competition, preventing the downside risk
of conflict and ensuring channels of communication are open.

So, you know, I think — I think we are going into the meetings with
realistic expectations about what we’re going to achieve but
understanding that this is the responsible thing to do, it’s what our
partners and allies need to see — this competition being managed
responsibly.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I would just say — and thank you
for the questions.  I think, you know, we’re looking to stabilize the
relationship in ways that support our partners and our alliances and
also support the American people.

So, I think the President will seek — will be seeking that around and
along a whole range of issues more directly.

And then your second question, can you just repeat it?  I’m — I
apologize, I just forgot it.

Q    No problem.  Will the President have any specific message for
President Xi regarding any action —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah —

Q    — that he’d like to see the Chinese take on the crisis in the
Middle East?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I do want to say I expect the
President to raise a number of issues of concern with President Xi in a
regional context.  There will be a conversation on North Korea about
some of our concerns, with respect to the relationship with Russia in
Ukraine. 

I think with respect to the Middle East, I believe that the President
will underscore our desire for China to make clear in its burgeoning
relationship in — with Iran that it is essential that Iran not seek to
escalate or spread violence in the Middle East, and to warn quite
clearly that if Iran undertakes provocative actions anywhere that the
United States is prepared to respond and respond promptly.   
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Kevin Liptak with CNN.

Q    Yes, thank you.  I know you just said that you feel like the
outcomes will be limited somewhat.  Do you expect any kind of joint
leaders’ statement to come out of the meeting?  And then, I wonder how
much time have you blocked off for the two men to speak to each other? 
Will they — will they — there be a one-on-one component?  What are sort
of the — what’s the — kind of the choreography of the meeting next week?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, can I just say just very quickly, I
understand the question about — about whether the outcomes are limited. 
I think some of the outcomes are substantial; they’re just different
from in the past.  And that’s, I think, what needs to be carefully
focused on.

Much of what we’re seeking to do is to create a framework for successful
management of a difficult and complicated and complex relationship.  And
I think you will see evidence of that next week.

\[Senior administration official\], do you want to touch base on —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  On what the meeting will look
like?  We’re expecting something along the lines of what you saw in —
saw in Bali.  We divided it up into a couple different sessions in
Bali.  We’d expect about the same this time around.

We’re anticipating a session focused on bilateral issues; anticipate, as
we mentioned before, we’ll discuss as well global issues and
transnational issues.   
  
So, look, I think this is more than just a bilat on the margins of a
multilateral meeting.  We’re setting some time aside for the two leaders
to sit down and have in-depth conversations on the full range of issues
that the U.S. and China face across the globe and bilaterally.

MODERATOR:  All right, next we’ll go to Andrea Mitchell with NBC.

Q    Thank you very much for doing this.  Do you expect that
military-to-military communications — that in maintaining a — or working
on a relationship, that it would be unusual if you did not at the
minimum restore what is considered a minimum, which is — between two
superpowers — military-to-military communications?  Would that be
disappointing to the President?

And do you feel that one of the conversations will be related to the
balloon to clean up whatever residual issues remain from that of
misunderstandings and of understandings going forward as to their
balloon program and their intelligence gathering?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Andrea, it’s \[senior administration
official\].  It’s nice to hear your voice, and thank you for calling in
tonight.

I’ll just start this.  I will say that the President has been determined
to take the necessary steps to restore what we believe are (inaudible)
communications between the United States and China on the military side.

And, we’ll likely have more to say about that next week. 

Let me ask \[senior administration official\] to jump in.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We’ve raised the importance of mil-mil
channels in nearly every conversation we’ve had with the Chinese.  This
is absolutely critical.  And when we’re talking about managing risks,
about avoiding conflict, this is exactly the sort of communication we
need to be having, both at senior levels of our two militaries but also
operator to operator.

So, I anticipate we will plan to have a discussion about this next week
as well.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I will say, Andrea, just further on
this, you know, although it is true that the President and Secretary
Blinken, National Security Advisor Sullivan, and particularly Secretary
Austin have raised these issues in every encounter, I think it is fair
to say that the Chinese have been reluctant.  And so, the President is
going to press assertively next week.  And then we hope to have more to
report on Wednesday. 

(Cross-talk.)

MODERATOR:  Sorry, Andrea.  Did you have a follow-up?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, it’s the balloon question.

Look, I will say this on the —

Q    Yeah, the second part of my question was on the balloon — their
balloon program and on their —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.

Q    — intelligence gathering to clear up misunderstanding. 

Sorry, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look — no, no, I understand, Andrea.

So, I will say this, I — the balloon comes up often in the context of
the need for communications between our two sides. And I think the
balloon episode underscored the difficulty we had at the time to be able
to establish high-level consequential communications with Beijing.  And
we’ve made that case persistently and consistently.

And as I said, I think you can expect the President to raise the broad
parameters of mil-to-mil engagement with President Xi next week.

Q    Thank you. 

MODERATOR:  All right.  Next, we’ll go to Sang-ho Song with Yonhap News.

Q    Thank you very much for doing — for doing this.  \[Senior
administration official\], you touched upon North Korea as part of the
agenda in the original context.  But specifically, I’m wondering if
President Biden and President Xi will discuss growing military
cooperation between North Korea and Russia and overall North Korean
nuclear and missile threats, and as well as the issues of China’s forced
repatriations of North Korean refugees.  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, I — as I indicated, I think an
effective dialogue between the two leaders must touch on regional
hotspots, particularly where U.S. and Chinese interests engage. 

We’ve watched with some concern of the burgeoning relationship of late
between North Korea and Russia, the provision of military equipment
directly there, continuing provocations of North Korea. 

I think we intend to underscore our continuing concerns around those
provocations to China, who continues to be a substantial patron of North
Korea.

We will also reiterate our readiness to conduct diplomacy with North
Korea and our determination to take steps to deter provocations and to
seek the full denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. 

Q    Is it fair to believe that all the issues would be part of the
official agenda?  Are you talking about that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t quite understand the question,
but I think we’ve tried to indicate, through all of these questions,
that these will be very (inaudible) discussions.  Nothing will be held
back.  Everything is on the table.  And I believe that that’s how we
intend to conduct these discussions. 

Q    And —  
  
MODERATOR:  Okay, we’re going to take our next question.  We’ll go —
Dimitri (inaudible).   
  
Q    Thanks very much. two questions. \[senior administration
official\], \[senior administration official\], people often say that to
prevent a Taiwan conflict, you need the right mix of deterrence and
reassurance.  You’ve done a lot on deterrence.  What can President Biden
do in private reassurance that he hasn’t done in public?  
  
And secondly, is President Biden going to warn Xi Jinping in person that
China should not take any military action against Filipino forces on the
Second Thomas Shoal?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much for that.  Look
— and I think in every conversation we’ve had, cross-strait issues
absolutely comes up.  If we look towards next year, they have both the
Taiwan election, the presidential transition, and, of course, our own
election makes this — could make this quite a bumpy year.   
  
I think our goal into the meetings will be to reaffirm, of course, the
U.S. One China Policy; our int- — our — you know, our focus on
maintaining the status quo; our focus on ensuring their peace and
stability; making clear to the Chinese that any actions or interference
in the election would raise extremely strong concerns from our side.   
  
And I think when you talk about reassurance — and I think part of this
is trying to, you know, again, ensure that we’re clear we are not
supportive of Taiwan independence.  That is our longstanding policy. 
And going into this election, I think that will be one issue, of course,
that we will try to reaffirm.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just say — just to build
on that, Dimitri.  I think — I think what we will — we will seek to do
is just amplify our existing messages and to present them with clarity. 
And we believe that those messages are indeed stabilizing and they are
consistent with long-held and longstanding American policy to maintain
peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.   
  
And then your second question.  I can’t believe what is happening to
(inaudible) — forgot your second question.  
  
Q    It happens to me too.   
  
Is President Biden directly going to tell Xi Jinping —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  
  
Q    — not to take military action on the Second Thomas Shoal?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Look, I — you were there as the
President — last month when the President was asked about the South
China Sea and the Philippines — that he made very clear our commitments
to the Philippines and to the security treaty as applied to the South
China Sea.   
  
I think you can expect the President to underscore our continuing
commitment to the Philippines, our determination to maintain peace and
stability and stand by the Philippines in the face of continued
provocations.    
  
MODERATOR:  All right, next we’ll go to Ellen Nakashima with the Post.  
  
Q    Yeah, bringing up the rear.  I think all the questions have been
asked.  I just wanted to —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Right in the (inaudible).  
  
Q    Oh, hello?  Can you hear me?  Hello.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We hear you, Ellen.  I said you’re
right in the heart of the pack.  You’re not bringing up the rear.  Go
ahead.    
  
Q    Do you think both sides come to this meeting with a common desire
to stabilize the relationship?  And do you have common understandings of
what that stability means and what exactly would that translate into in
practical terms — anything beyond reestablishing the mil-to-mil
communication channel?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, Ellen, I think we’ll have more to
say about that next week, but I think our goal will be to try to take
steps that indeed stabilize the relationship between the United States
and China, remove some areas of misunderstanding, and open up new lines
of communication.  That’s going to be our goal and objective.  
  
I think the larger question is really not so much the basis of — of that
stabilization but the duration of it.  And the question, really, on the
table: Is China seeking these set steps for tactical or short-term
measures, or are they seeking to truly improve relations with the United
States and other allies and partners?  And we’re going to interrogate
those assumptions closely and clearly.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:   Maybe just one thing to add, if I can,
Ellen.  I think as we talk about stabil- — stabilization, it’s important
to emphasize: Our China policy has not changed.  We’re talking about
stabilization.  We’re talking about channels of communication, lowering
the temps, an approach of no surprises.  But we are still committed to
the “invest, align, compete” mantra and intend to continue taking
actions to protect national security, continuing to focus on building up
partnerships and alliances, and, of course, investing at home.  
  
So, I want to make sure that comes clear through, too, because I think
sometimes as we talk about stabilization and the channels of
communication piece, that — that broader overlay of China policies
sometimes get left — gets left behind and, in fact, those two are
absolutely linked  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to — sorry, we’re going to take our next
question, Ellen.   
  
We’re going to go to Ari Hawkins with Politico.  Ari, your line is
unmuted.  Please go ahead.  
  
Q    Hello.  Thank you so much for doing all this.  I really appreciate
it.  Quick, sort of a more specific question here.  It sounds like a lot
of this is kind of high-level.  Will there be any chance for looking at
Section 301 tariffs, that ongoing process?  And the administration has
talked about wrapping that up in the fall, so it’s sort of like now I’m
curious if that’s going to come up.   
  
And if I could just sneak one more in there, has the — China’s leader
confirmed his attendance?  Because — at least I haven’t seen anything
from the Chinese foreign ministry or any of that.  So, I’m curious how
that’s playing into any of this.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.   
  
On that latter half of the question, I think, you know, one of the
reasons this call is embargoed until, I think, 8:00 a.m. tomorrow is
we’re anticipating, of course, that magic hour will be when you see
announcements on the meeting and one would anticipate, perhaps, Chinese
president’s attendance at APEC as well.   
  
On your question regarding 301, look, I think in general on the
leader-level engagements, we try to pull those up and keep them a bit
broader strategic issues.   
  
I certainly expect the — the question of economic and trade relationship
to be on the agenda.  The President at every meeting and engagement with
President Xi has brought up the importance of a level playing field for
American companies.  And, of course, that’s an integral part of the
301.  
  
But I don’t anticipate that we’ll get into the details of that.  We’ll
keep it a broader strategic view.  
  
MODERATOR:  We’re going to take just one more question.  We’ll go to
Nick Schifrin with PBS.   
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks very much.   
  
\[Senior administration official\], you mentioned something in passing
about Taiwan’s elections.  Can you just make a point of that?  Will the
President go out of his way to deliver a warning to Xi Jinping about how
Beijing should respond to the Taiwanese election given how they’re
talking about William Lai?  
  
And — and number two, Chinese diplomats are telling me that they have
been, you know, pushing you guys in terms of the style of what Xi
Jinping will see around him, the style of the meeting, but also the
substance.   
  
So, can you talk about, from your perspective, what you have to offer —
if that’s the right verb — the Chinese side to reassure them that this
meeting will go smoothly, that the APEC visit will go smoothly —
whether, again, stylistically what she will see out of the window of his
limo, for example, but also substantively, is there anything you’ve had
to offer him ahead of time in order to get him to agree to this
visit?   
  
Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  I don’t know — for
those of you who have worked on one of these visits before, have been
present, the — the run-up, the protocol, the press, the — the — all the
logistical arrangements are pretty intense, as you would imagine.  I
don’t think there’s anything particularly new or different in this
one.  
  
This is President Xi’s first trip to the United States, I think — is it
in six years?  So, I think, just — just — it’s been a while.  And
certainly, a visit to San Francisco, I think, will be the first since he
was a young, Communist Party secretary in the provinces.  So, just the
location and the venue offers some new pieces that you wouldn’t see in a
Capitol-level visit.   
  
But I think most of — most of the discussions have tracked pretty
closely with — with what I have seen in other leader level engagement.  
  
And I’m sorry, I forgot your first — oh, Taiwan.   
  
On Taiwan, look, I think the — it’s important that we’re having this
leader-level engagement now.  It’s November, right?  We’re in the middle
of the campaign season in Taiwan.  The election is early next year, the
transition after that.  
  
The next period is going to be complex.  And so, giving the two leaders
a chance to sit down and talk about that, clarify, as \[senior
administration official\] said, our policy, which, of course, we do
repeatedly, but having that time behind closed doors really to focus in
on clarifying misperceptions and focusing in on understanding where they
are as well, I think, are critical parts of the conversation.  
  
We’ve been clear publicly and privately that interference in the Taiwan
election is something we’re extremely concerned about.  And of course,
we’ll plan on delivering that message again.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I would just say one other thing, just
to build on \[senior administration official\]’s good points.  Not only
will we make the case that activities that interfere with Taiwan’s
electoral process — which, frankly, as you look at its growth over
decades, is quite impressive — that not only do we stand very firmly
against that, we’re also quite concerned by a ramping up of military
activities around Taiwan in ways that are unprecedented, that are
dangerous, that are provocative.   
  
And we also believe that those actions undermine peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait and raise concerns not just there but in the
Indo-Pacific at large.  And the President has made those points
consistently, and he will do so again next week in San Francisco.  
  
MODERATOR:  Right.  That concludes our call this evening.  Thank you all
for joining.   
  
Just as a reminder, the contents of the call are held under embargo
until 8:00 a.m. tomorrow morning, November 10th, Eastern time.  Thank
you all.  
  
6:58 P.M. EST
