---
date: '2023-11-03'
published_time: 2023-11-03 18:08:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/11/03/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-brunswick-me-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Brunswick,\_ME"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Brunswick, Maine

1:35 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Okay.  I have a — bear with me.  I
have a few things at the top.   
  
Okay.  So, good afternoon, everyone.  Today, in Lewis- — Lewiston,
Maine, the President and the First Lady will pay their respects to the
victims of the horrific shooting attack last week.  They will spend time
with families and community members grieving after this senseless act of
violence and express heartfelt gratitude to the courageous first
responders, devoted nurses, and everyone else on the frontlines of this
response.   
  
The President also — will also deliver remarks honoring this community
while calling on lawmakers to do more to prevent such tragedy from ever
happening again.   
  
Senator Co- — Senators Collins and King and Representative Pingree are
traveling with us into Lewiston.  The President and First Lady will be
greeted by Governor Mills, the Lewiston mayor, and Auburn mayor as
well.   
  
Last Sunday, at the — at the President’s direction, Greg Ja- — Greg
Jackson, Deputy Director of the White House Office of Gun Violence
Prevention, traveled to Maine.   
  
He has been on the ground all week to ensure the entire federal
government is coordinated in our response.  He has been working to
streamline federal resources and identify any unmet needs and closely
coordinating with the governor’s team throughout.   
  
The President has taken historic action over the last two and a half
years to end the gun violence epidemic tearing our nation apart.   
  
Congress has a responsibility too.  They must pass on assault — an
assault weapons ban.  They must enact universal background checks,
require safe storage, and end immunity from liability for
manufacturers.   
  
Congress has the power to ensure an event like this does not happen
again.  The time is now to act.   
  
And today, continuing our 10 days of 10 drug series, we’re highlighting
Novo- — NovoLog and Fiasp, an insulin product selected for Medicare
price negotiation as part of President Biden’s Inflation Reduction
Act.   
  
More than a quarter of Medicare beneficiaries have diabetes, and they
may — they — and they need insulin.  Last year, nearly 800,000 seniors
spent hundreds of dollars a month for li- — lifesaving drugs while Big
Pharma ra- — raked in record profits and spent $400 million on lobbyists
to keep prices high for Americans.   
  
One of those seniors is Dawn, from New York, who takes NovoLog to treat
her diabetes, who — and who has been forced to decide which bill to pay
late so that she can afford her lifesaving medicine.   
  
For years, politicians talked about taking on Big Pharma to lower drug
prices for seniors.  President Biden and congressional Democrats finally
got that done by passing the Inflation Reduction Act without a single
Republican vote.  
  
As — as a result, for the first time ever, instead of drug companies
charging Americans whatever they want to — for lifesaving drugs,
Medicare will be able to negotiate lower prices and the out-of-pocket
costs for insulin is capped at 35 bucks for seniors like Dawn.  
  
And finally, today, the Departments of State and Defense announced a new
package of weapons and equipment for Ukraine to meet their critical
battle- — battlefield needs.  The package is partially drawn from
existing U.S. military stocks using presidential drawdown authorities
that Congress has previously given — given us, including additional
munitions for Ukraine’s air defense, ammunition for U.S.-provided rocket
system, artillery rounds, javelins, and anti-tank systems to help
Ukraine as they defend their sovereignty and independence against Russia
— Russian brutality.   
  
We’re also sending Ukraine equipment to strengthen its air defenses
against Russia’s use of u- — Iranians’ UAVs using the Ukrainian Security
Assistance Initiative — USAI — through which DOD contracts out new
equipment to be built for Ukraine.   
  
Today’s announcements exhaust the remaining USAI funds currently
available to support Ukraine.  And <s>why</s> \[while\] we do have
remaining PDA authorities to continue to fulfill Ukraine’s immediate
battlefield needs, we’re beginning to provide Ukraine with smaller PDA
packages in order to stretch out our ability to support Ukraine for as
long as possible.   
  
The people of Ukraine are on the frontlines in the fight for freedom and
democracy as we head into what will likely be another brutal winter full
of Russian attacks.   
  
It is critical that Congress send the world an important message about
America’s resolve and take action to pass the President’s national
security supplemental request and show Vladimir Putin and the rest of
the world that the United States continues to stand strongly with
Ukraine.   
  
And with that, you want to kick us off?   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have three questions: two on the Middle East
and one on Lewiston.   
  
The first: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netana- –Netanyahu rejected
calls for a ceasefire unless hostage are — hostages are released.  And
Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah has said his group is prepared for
anything based on a continuation of Gaza bombardments.  Does the
administration believe that escalation in this conflict has already
occurred?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say — the first thing on the Prime —
Prime Minister of Israel and what — and the statement that he made.   
  
Look, this is something that we are going to continue to discuss with
Israel.  We’ve been clear about our position.  You’ve heard that from
Secretary Blinken today, even, and why it could be valuable to have a
pause to get aid in and — and hostages — hostages out.  And so, I’ll
leave it at that.  Not going to get into private diplomatic
conversations.   
  
But we’ve been very clear.  Again, as you saw, the Secretary of State —
Secretary Blinken is in Israel right now.  He’s in the Middle East.  And
he spoke — you know, he’s been very clear — very clear about this.  So,
I’ll leave it that.  I’m not going to get into diplomatic
conversation.  
  
As it relates to the Hezbollah leader, so, we obviously are aware of —
of Hezbollah’s leader’s speech today.  So, we will not engage in a war
of words.  That’s not what we’re going to do from here on Air Force One
or even at the podium.   
  
The United States does not seek escalation — we’ve been clear about that
— a widening of the conflict that Hamas brought on to Israel.  
  
And so, what I’ll say is this — is that we and our partners have been
clear: Hezbollah and other actors, state or non-state, should not take
advantage of the ongoing conflict.  This has the potential of becoming a
bloodier war between Israel and Lebanon than in 2006.   
  
So, the United States does not want to see this conflict expand onto —
into Lebanon.  The likely devas- — devastation for Lebanon and her
people would be unimaginable and — unimaginable and is avoidable.   
  
And so, again, we’ve been very, very clear about that part, as — as
well.  Like, you heard from the Secretary — Secretary of State on the —
on these two — on this — on these two things that I just laid out
yesterday and again today.   
  
Q    Karine, a follow up —  
  
Q    Karine, a quick question on — on Israel.  Just — the President’s
comments this morning, when asked about bringing American hostages home,
he said, “They are coming home.”  And we were just wondering if he was
really striking an optimistic tone or if there is some kind of mass
release being planned.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve been very clear that getting Americans
home who are being held hostage is a priority, and it has been a
priority since — since these horrific events — since Hamas attacked
Israel back on October 6th — pardon me, October 7.  And so that is a
priority.   
  
Obviously, this is a president who is optimistic.  Those important
diplomatic conversations are continuing to happen.   
  
As I mentioned, you see the Secretary himself — Secretary of State that
i- — who is — is in Israel today and is also going to be going to Jordan
this weekend.  So, they’ll — we’re going to continue to be optimistic. 
We’re going to make — continue to make this a priority.   
  
We want to get the Americans and — and others who are being held hostage
— we want to get them home to their families.   
  
Q    Any plans of a mass release being planned?  I mean, any — any —
anything that you can share about that?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into diplomatic conversations. 
As you know, we were able to get the two Americans home, and they’re now
with their family.  And so, that was — that was due to diplomatic
conversations.  Just not going to get into any — I’m not going to read
out or lay out any — any of these private conversations that are
ongoing.  But we’ve been very clear about this being a priority.   
  
Q    And I have one on — on the Hezbollah leader’s speech today.  I
mean, he — sure, he warned of, you know, a wider conflict.  But one way
to view his speech is also that Hezbollah is perhaps not planning an
immediate, full-scale conflict and full-scale battle.  Is — does the
White House view it that way?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, look, that is something to ask the — the
leader.  That’s not some- — I’m not going to get into the leader’s mind
here.   
  
We’ve been very clear on our end that we — we — that is not something we
want to see in the region.  We’ve been very, very clear.   
  
Again, I’ll just refer you back to what the Secretary said today and
yesterday about this.  And we’ve been very consistent on that.   
  
Q    Karine, what’s the White House’s view on a “laddered CR,” as the
Speaker Mike Johnson has described it, where, I guess, different areas
of the appropriations would be expiring at different dates.  Like, is
the White House willing to consider that or is that something that you
would reject out of hand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve been really very, very clear about —
so, obviously, as it relates to the national security bill that the
House — that — on Israel that the — the GOP House bill, obviously, the
President has been very clear.  We put out a SAP.  We said that the
President would veto it.  And so, we’ve been very clear about that.  
  
As it relates to the — the broader national security package and
domestic package — as we talk about Israel, Ukraine, and the other
domestic pieces of the supplemental — we believe, you know, there is
bipartisan support.  These are — these are — these are emergency
requests that have bipartisan support.  
  
And so, certainly, we want to see that moving forward.  As it relates to
anything else — I know you’re asking about the CR to avoid a shutdown; I
believe that’s —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what you’re asking about — that is for them to
decide, right?  That is — they have to do their job.  They have less
than two weeks to get this done, to keep the — keep the government
open.  That is what Congress is — like, one of their main duties is to
keep the government open. That is up to them to — to figure that out. 
We’re not going to get into what that’s going to look like.  
  
When the President said — when he — when we almost got close to shutdown
the last time — this is not — this could be avoided.  We should not be
seeing a, you know, GOP House leading us to this potential crisis.  
  
Q    Karine, Senator Dick Durbin became the first U.S. senator,
yesterday, to call for a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas.  Meanwhile,
a group of progressive senators sent the President a letter asking about
his humanitarian aid request. And among their questions were, “What
political authority would administer Gaza after an Israeli
operation?”   
  
What is the White House’s message to members of the Democratic Party who
perhaps do not share the President’s view on this war?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we’ve been very, very clear on this. 
And, again, Secretary Blinken actually spoke to this in his opening
remarks before he took questions with the press corps that’s traveling
with him, which is: Now is not the time for a permanent ceasefire.   
  
We’ve been very clear.  It would — it would benefit Hamas, given th- —
giving them time to regroup and plot a new attack or new attacks, and
support — we support humanitarian pauses — we’ve been clear about that —
in the fighting — temporary, localized stoppage.  And that would — that
is different.  That is very much different than a permanent ceasefire.  
  
A pause to get hostages out and — and — in and out to allow — to — so —
so humanitarian aid can be allowed in and out, obviously, and a pause to
save innocent lives.  That’s what we’ve been clear about.  That’s the
difference for us.  And that’s what we’ve been calling on.  And those
are the — you know, those diplomatic conversations that we’re having.  
  
Q    Karine, there’s —  
  
Q    Are you done, Francesca?  Sorry.  I didn’t —  
  
Q    Go ahead.  
  
Q    — mean to interrupt.  Sorry.  (Laughter.)  Didn’t mean to
interrupt.  
  
Karine, there’s been —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So nice.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    I’m trying my best.  We’re all one big happy family.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What a gentleman.  
  
Q    I wanted to ask about the reporting, I think, in Politico that
Democrats are kind of being told to be prepared to accept some
immigration and asylum proposals in the supplemental that maybe
unsavory, that they may not like.  Does the White House have a position
on how far you’re willing to go on some of these immigration
proposals?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, I have to be very clear here.  Those
reports are just not accurate.  As we’ve said repeatedly, Congress needs
to take action to support Ukraine and to provide sufficient resources to
the border.  I talked a little bit about this at the podium yesterday.  
  
Our immigration system is broken.  We’ve — we’ve said that.  It’s not —
we’re not the only president that has to — that has been dealing with a
broken system.  Republican presidents have too.  Demo- — and the other
Democratic presidents have too.   
  
And only Congress — and this is the reality — only Congress has the
power to comprehensively address it.   
  
And so, that is why, on the first day of his administration, the first
piece of legislation the President put out was a immigration —
immigration reform bill to Congress — a comprehensive immigration reform
bill.  
  
So, Republicans say they are serious about this, about — about dealing
with the border.  This is an opportunity for them to do that.  Now is
the time for them to get to pro- — to — them to prove it by getting
serious and providing resources the federal government needs to fully
support DHS southwest border operation and invest in our immigration
agency to expedite and improve processing capacity.  
  
What we have seen from them in the past, you know, is bills that
actually take away key law enforcement to be at the — at the — at the
border.   
  
While the President is adding and has added CBP and law enforcement at
the border, they put bills trying to take that away.   
  
And so, we can’t politicize this.  We got to take this very seriously. 
And now is the opportunity for them to show that they’re serious.  
  
Q    Karine, just one quick housekeeping note.  Yesterday, it was 74
Americans and their families.  Do you have an updated number on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.  I do.  Give me one second.  I do have some
numbers for you here.  
  
So, again, we talk about diplomatic efforts and diplomatic
conversation.  That’s something that the President believes in.  And
because of those efforts, ano- — another large group of Americans are
expected to depart Gaza today via the Rafah Crossing.  Providing rolling
numbers of Americans and family members is challenging.   
  
And — but I can confirm yesterday Embassy Cairo assisted more than 100
U.S. citizens and family members who had departed Gaza.  We know
additional U.S. citizens and family members departed Gaza yesterday who
did not seek assistance from our embassy team.  But we continue to be
focused on getting as many Americans out as quickly as possible, and we
expect more Americans to depart over the next several days.   
  
But, of course, this is a fluid situation.  Intense diplomacy — again,
intense diplomacy has been underway to open the Gaza side of the border
for foreign nationals and some wounded Palestinians as well.   
  
And, again, this is part of the diplomacy that we’ve been saying has
been so critical to getting this done.  
  
Q    We’ve also seen the President have lots of meet- –meetings with
Jewish leaders.  When he had the meeting with Muslim leaders, he did
that behind closed doors.  Why hasn’t he been more public with his
meetings with Muslim leaders?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have been — look, we have said — I think I may have
said this sometime this week that the President and his administration
has had direct outreach to — to the Muslim community, to the Arab and
Palestin- — and Palestinian Americans.  We’ve been doing that.  And
we’re going to continue to do that with that community and also the
Jewish community as well.   
  
We know a lot of — many — many people are hurting right now, and the
President understands that and wants to hear from — from these
communities.   
  
And so, as you — as you heard us this week, we announced another —
another strategy to deal with antisemitism, more specifically in — in
college — on college campuses.  We talked about that earlier this week. 
We talked about our — our strategy to combine — combat — pardon me —
Islamophobia.   
  
So, we’ve been — we’ve been very clear about that.  And that — and when
we think about hatred in these communities, that is something that the
President and this administration has been (inaudible) putting out
policy to combat that since last year, December.   
  
And so, this is important to the President.  And so, we’ll continue to
speak to that.   
  
Q    Could you be more specific?  You said a “large group” is expected
today.  Does that mean dozens?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I also said that it’s — it’s — it’s really
hard.  It’s challenging — right? — to give exact numbers.  And so, we
will do our best, obviously, to — to provide as — numbers as they come
in.  But this is also a very fluid — fluid situation.  The — the — you
know, the — what’s happening on the ground is very dynamic.   
  
But, again, these are intense diplomatic conversations that are
happening that has led to — by the President’s direction, to get — to
get the Rafah Crossing open so that American citizens and other foreign
nationals can — can leave Gaza if they choose.  
  
Q    Thank you.  First — two questions, one international and one
domestic.  When it comes to Gaza, your messaging has been very clear
about the ceasefire, about the human- — the need for a humanitarian
pause.  But even as you and the White House have been putting out this
message, we’ve seen increasing numbers of Democrats calling for a
ceasefire.   
  
So, is there a concern that your message is not getting through?  Just
today, we saw 50 members of the DNC write a letter to the President
calling for a ceasefire.  So, is there any concern that the messaging,
specifically to members of your own party, about the ceasefire is not
working?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we are going to continue to be clear,
right?  We’re going to continue to speak in — in — with complete clarity
here.   
  
And, you know, I — let me just take a step back a little bit.  You know,
Israel has a right to defend itself against Hamas, which has said — it
said that it will — it will repeat October 7th until Israel is
eliminated.  That’s what Hamas said.  We heard them — we heard from them
directly.   
  
Israel has an added burden because Hamas has taken civilians as human
shields for its terrorist in- — infrastructure but does not lessen the
responsibility for Israel to act consistent with the laws of war.   
  
It’s critical to distinguish between terrorists and civilians.  Every
civilian death is a tragedy — Palestinian, Israeli.  Every loss of life
— it’s heartbreaking.  And the President believes in the sanctity and
dignity of every innocent life.   
  
So, the people of Gaza didn’t ask for this.  Hamas doesn’t speak for
them and instead places them in greater danger.   
  
So, we know there — there has been enormous loss there and that too many
families are grieving, too many have been lost, and too many have been
hurt, and too many are missing.  And we will continue to do everything
that we can to get lifesaving assistance to those who need it.  And —
and we just been very — very clear about that.   
  
I know you said you had a domestic — you had a domest- —  
  
Q    One domestic.  So, we do have elections next week in Ohio,
Virginia, Mississippi, Kentucky.  We’ve heard the former president,
President Obama, doing robocalls in Virginia.  Is President Biden going
to be involved in any of those elections?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because it’s an upcoming election, don’t want to speak
to — don’t want to speak to — to the election on Tuesday.  I would refer
you to the — to the DNC to ask — you know, to refer your questions to
them and ask anything specific about what the President might be doing. 
So, refer that — I refer you to them.  
  
Q    Karine, I have one on the jobs report.  The Wall Street take on the
numbers today is that growth is slowing and that at some point the Fed
will take its foot off the brakes, potentially leading to more
inflation.  Why is the White House view on this out of consensus?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, not going to — I’m definitely not going to comment
on the Fed and whatever monetary policy or actions that they’re taking. 
They are independent.  And we are going to — I’m just going to leave it
there and — and just not going to comment on the Fed.  
  
Q    And any — any comment on the growth piece of it?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that I can comment on.  And so, look, Bidenomics —
what you’re seeing — what we believe you’re seeing from this data, the
jobs report today is that Bidenomics in action.  And, you know, 150
\[thousand\] jobs were created.  Throughout the President’s
administration, we’ve seen more than 14 million jobs created under this
President.  Unemployment continues to be at under 4 percent.  That’s for
24 months now — for the longest stretch for over 50 years.   
  
Remember, we always say you got to look at the trend.  You hear that
from Jared.  You hear that from Lael.  It’s important to look at the
trend.  Share of working-age Americans with jobs is higher than before
the pandemic and record share of working- — working-age women have
jobs.  And that’s important.   
  
And what we’re seeing on the other side is they want to continue to push
MAGAnomics, which is failing the middle class.  The President cares
about the middle class and wants to build out — build that up from the
middle up — the — the middle out, bottom up.   
  
And you’re continuing to see Republicans talking about cutting Social
Security, Medicare and Medicaid; raising costs for hardworking
families.   
  
There is a difference between us.  The President sees this very, very
differently.  And so, that’s going to be our focug- — a focus and make
sure that we have an economy that works for us.  
  
Q    Just quickly, the administration is confident that — that grow is
going to continue and that, you know, what Wall Street is talking about
in terms of there being a slowdown in what we’re seeing —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we have said — and — and you know this, Nandita,
you — we have said that we’re — we’re — we’re in a transition — right? —
to a slower and steady growth.  And that’s what we’re seeing.   
  
But it doesn’t — it doesn’t negate the trends that we’re seeing, right? 
Doesn’t negate the fact that unemployment is under 4 percent, which is —
which is something that we’ve seen, again, for 21 months.  Doesn’t take
away the fact that this president, under his presidency, has created 14
million jobs.   
  
And so, it’s slow and steady growth as we s- — as we’re going into this
transition.  
  
Q    Karine, do you have a week ahead?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry?  
  
Q    Do you have a week ahead?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a week ahead.  We’ll get that to you
all.  
  
Q    Okay.  Okay.  
  
Q    Two questions on Maine, Karine.  One, when you read off the — the
folks who were traveling with the President today, it sounded like the
entire Maine congressional delegation except for Jared Golden is on the
plane.  Does he plan to meet the President on the ground?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any — any update on his — on his
involvement for today.  We can certainly — I can double back to make
sure — maybe we left him off.  If not — if he’s not here today, I would
just refer you to his office.  
  
Q    Sure.  And does the President have any plans to push Congress to
pass a national red flag law following the Maine shooting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we’ve been very clear about the red flag
laws and how important that is.  I was talking about it in our topper. 
You know, he’s d- — he’s — he’s directed the administration to improve
public awareness of red flags in states that have them.    
  
There is more than $100 million in federal funding available right now
for the — for this purpose thanks to the Bipartisan Safer Communities
Act to support that implementation.   So, that was one of the, clearly,
important pieces of that — of that act.   
  
The — the Justice Department also issued model red flag legislation to
encourage more states to adopt these laws.  And since the model
legislation was released, Michigan, Minnesota have enacted red flag
laws.   
  
So, we recently convened a dozen states to encourage them to use federal
funding to implement their red flag law.  So, there’s federal funding
right now — right?  — so, for — for states to do this.  It’s, again,
more than $100 million.   
  
We’re going to continue to work with states to get this done, encourage
them to move forward with the red flags law.  Obviously, this is
something that the President thinks it’s really important.  He signed —
he signed the act that had that provision in it.  And so, we’re going to
continue to working (inaudible).  
  
Q    But that’s different than pushing Congress —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — no, I —  
  
Q    — to do so.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are — we’ve been very clear what we think
Congress should do, right?  We — an assault weapons ban, right?  You’ll
hear that from the President today as he addresses the community that’s
mourning, lost way too many lives.  One — one life is too many.   
  
And so, we’ve been clear on what we believe: common- — commonsense gun —
gun reform; obviously, the ban on assault — assault weap- — law on
assault weapons ban.   
  
And so, these things are incredibly important, so that’s going to — what
— that’s what we’re going to focus on.   
  
As it relates to red fla- — -flag laws, there — there is funding right
now for states to take that on.  We’re going to work with states to — to
make sure that they enact that and encourage them to enact that in their
— in their own states, obviously.   
  
And so, that’s going to be our focus for that.  
  
Q    Karine, this is the first mass shooting since the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention has been stood up.  What tangibly have you been able
to do differently this time that you couldn’t before?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, it’s just been recent — right? — as you
just stated, that we just — just announced that offi- — office very,
very recently.   
  
And what I would say is — I — I’ve mentioned how Greg is on the ground
and has been on the ground this whole entire week — I talked about this
a little bit yesterday — him being on the ground, having the office
there actually helps — helps — helps them coordinate with the FBI and,
certainly, DOJ to vic- — victim services.  That’s really important
because when something like this horrific, horrific event happens in a
community, there’s a lot of assistance that families and people need on
the ground.   
  
So, worked with HHS to deploy behavioral health and public health staff
support; coordinated the school reopening strategy with the Department
of Education — as you know, the schools had to be shut down when they
were searching — searching for the shooter; worked with local leaders to
support community-wide engagement and memorial events occurring in the
wake of this tragedy.   
  
So, look, there are things that we have been, I think, concretely able
to do on the ground because of this office.  The office has, obviously,
a broader kind of — a broader action, which is trying to make sure that
we are accelerating the — the more than two dozen executive actions that
the President has signed.  And also — also, the — the first in 30 years
vi- —  gun violence prevention law that the President signed last
year.   
  
So, there’s still a lot of work to be done.  But in order to — to save
lives, Congress needs to do a lot more.  And the President is going to
call that out, too, as well.  
  
Q    Do you think Congress has the appetite for an assault weapons ban,
given the Safer Communities Act’s passage?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, there are too many lives being lost — too many
lives being lost.  And we’re going to see that.  We’re going to see a
community that’s in mourning today.   
  
And, you know — and the President — obviously, the First Lady is going
to be with him as we’re there for this community, going to offer
whatever resources are needed.  And we’re going to be with them as long
as they need us.   
  
But we shouldn’t — this shouldn’t be a conversation.  The — the
conversation — “if they have an appetite” should not be a question. 
Really, it should not.  They should be — they should be taking action. 
“They” meaning Republicans in Congress.  They should have the appetite
to try and save a life.  
  
Q    What will the President’s message be to these families today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you’ll hear directly from them — from him, pardon
me.  So, certainly not going to get ahead of his message.  I talked a
little bit about it at the top.   
  
Certainly, he’s going to be there for them, sh- — let them know that the
federal government, that the Biden-Harris administration is there for
them as long as it takes, have — you know, be that Consoler- —
Consoler-in-Chief that he has been.  
  
And so, you know, I’ll let the President speak directly to what he’ll
say to the community.  You’ll hear from him.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  
  
2:03 P.M. EDT
