---
date: '2023-11-30'
modified_time: 2023-12-01 12:15:14-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-30 22:18:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/11/30/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-to-preview-the-bilateral-engagement-of-president-joao-lourenco-of-angola/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official to Preview the Bilateral\
  \ Engagement of President Jo\xE3o Louren\xE7o of\_Angola"
---
 
11:04 A.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone.  Thank you so much for joining us
today for a background or call to preview the President’s engagement
this afternoon with the president of Angola, President Lourenço.   
  
Just a friendly reminder to everyone who’s on the call: This call will
be on background, attributable to a “senior administration official.” 
It will be embargoed until 4:00 p.m., Eastern time, today.   
  
For information, not for reporting purposes, on the line, we have
\[senior administration official\].   
  
With that, I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\] for
opening remarks.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, \[Moderator\].  Thanks,
everyone for joining us this morning.   
  
President Biden is looking forward to welcoming President Lourenço of
Angola to the White House today.  This meeting caps off a truly historic
year of engagement and partnership with Angola that coincides with the
30-year anniversary of diplomatic ties with the United States.   
  
It is a profound transformation in our relationship.  And that owes in
part to President Lourenço’s leadership and vision from day one and in
part to the Biden-Harris administration’s considerable commitment to
invest in this partnership through high-level engagements, major
infrastructure and economic deals, and collaboration across a range of
global and regional priorities.   
  
Our relationship has gone from strength to strength.  And today, the
President looks forward to building on this impressive record.   
  
So, if I may, I’d like to share just a few highlights.  President
Biden’s meeting today with President Lourenço follows a historic,
first-ever visit by the Secretary of Defense to Angola in September.   
  
Other U.S. officials — including USAID Administrator Power, Secretary
Buttigieg, EXIM Chair Rita Joe Lewis, DFC CEO Scott Nathan, and Deputy
Assistant to the President Amos Hochstein — have engaged with Angolan
officials this year.  
  
For the President’s flagship Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment — PGI — we’ve committed over a billion dollars in U.S.
financing in the Lobito Corridor this year alone.  
  
The Lobito Corridor connects — or will connect Angola, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo, and Zambia to global markets for Angola’s Lobito
port.   
  
We’ve closely collaborated on regional security challenges, including
seeking to address the conflict in Eastern Congo.  The United States is
supportive and appreciative of Angola’s diplomatic efforts there, and
we’ve consulted with the Angolans on our engagements, including Director
of National Intelligence Avril Haines’s recent trip to DRC and
Rwanda.   
  
And finally, we value Angola’s principled leadership on global issues,
including Russia’s war in the Ukraine.  We have welcomed Angola’s
participation in the launch of the Partnership for the Atlantic
Cooperation in September and its decision today to sign the Artemis
Accords, which is a set of principles to guide civil space exploration
and use in the 21st century.  Angola is the third African country to
sign the accord.  
  
So, today’s meeting, President Biden and President Lourenço will review
the progress we’ve made today and set a course for how we continue to
deepen and expand this important partnership.   
  
And I’m available for questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\]. 
\[Operator\], would you please remind our participants today how to
unmute themselves?  And we can open up for questions.  
  
Q    Hey, good morning.  It’s Zeke Miller with AP.  I was hoping — and
thanks for doing this.  I was you could say whether the President would
provide an update on his — what had been his commitment to visit the
continent this year.   
  
You know, that was actually a big piece of the African Leaders Summit
earlier this year.  And we’re about to enter December, and there’s no
travel on the books yet.   
  
Will the President set an update on when he plans to visit Africa
(inaudible)?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  Thank you so much for that
question.  At the African Leaders Summit, the President said that he was
all in on Africa and committed to advancing U.S. partnerships with
African nations and people.   
  
And so, at his direction, there have been 16 Cabinet member and heads of
government departments and agencies trips to the continent.  And it’s
really showcased our administration’s renewed commitment to Africa and
pushing forward an unprecedented level of investments and
engagements.   
  
With respect to the President’s trip to Africa, I don’t have anything to
announce today.

OPERATOR:  Hi, please state your name and outlet.

Q    Hi.  Good morning.  This is Kemi Osukoya with the Africa Bazaar
magazine.

Hello?

OPERATOR:  Yes, and your question?

Q    Hello?

OPERATOR:  Yes, and your question?       
  
Q    Oh, okay.  I wasn’t sure if you could hear me. Thank you.  I wanted
to ask regarding — I know the Lobito Corridor project is (inaudible) to
connect regarding global supply chain and, as you mentioned, to bring
Africa into the global market. 

So, the presidents have been talking about supply chain within the U.S. 
How can American businesses — small businesses take advantage of the
projects and participate in the Lobito Corridor — if you can talk about
that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Thank you for that question. 
Maybe I’ll talk a little bit about this transformational investment that
we are making with our partners on the continent.  But it has also been
something that our European counterparts have been eager to get involved
with as well, particularly around greenfield rail investment in Zambia. 

But the partnership is really a support for over 180 rural bridges,
upgrading the 4G and 5G digital connectivity across Angola, introducing
the first-ever mobile money application, and bringing 500 megawatts of
solar power to the grid. 

And that’s — you know, those are things that are associated with and in
addition to the billion dollars that we’ve mobilized for this rail
investment in Africa.  It is the biggest rail investment in the U.S.
history in sub-Saharan Africa. 

And so, because of this investment, what we believe is happening and
will happen is that it will create a magnet for additional investment,
whether that’s Angolan, Southern African, other global partners, and the
United States to build around the corridor. 

And the United States has a series of tools through our economic
agencies, like the Development Finance Corporation and the U.S. ex- and
import bank, that are available to help companies — U.S. companies
looking to invest in this exciting corridor.  
  
Q    My name is Chase Winter, reporter with Energy Intelligence.  I was
— can you comment a little bit on how you kind of view this Lobito
Corridor and — as far as, you know, expanding U.S. access to critical
minerals, whether that be in Congo or Angola itself and Zambia — you
know, copper mines — and how that sort of — do you view this as sort of
the U.S. response to China’s BRI and some of China’s inroads in the
region?

In addition, I guess, if I can ask one more question, can you comment a
little bit — like, is Angola also putting some money forward on some of
these projects?  You know, it’s a big petro state.  I’m just kind of
wondering if they’re using those petro dollars to sort of push this
along as well.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you so much for that
question.  The Lobito Corridor investment is partly a recognition that
Africa has some of the lowest road and rail density in the world, and
there’s a real need for investment in infrastructure.  And so, this
project is one effort by the United States to answer that question in
partnership with a number of African countries. 

And the importance of connecting African markets to global — the global
marketplace is extraordinarily important.  And there’s a number of
commodities that the Lobito port corridor and the rail can help with the
export and importation of. 

That includes, of course, critical minerals.  But also, we believe that
there is lots of opportunity here, and we are looking at projects to do
this, to export agricultural goods and other products to market so that
it really is a total package of multiple sectors and multiple products
that can move in and out from the interior of the continent in Angola to
markets in, first, obviously, the Atlantic and more broadly.

So, it is a pretty important initiative that we think answers a real
need for the continent as well as an opportunity for U.S. investment and
U.S. access.  
  
And I’ll — I’ll have to get — I have to get back to you on Angolan
contributions, but, clearly, the Angolans have made at this opportunity
in this partnership with us feasible, possible in helping to realize
it.  
  
Q    Hi, my name is Mida \[ph\].  I’m from the Voice of America, the
Portuguese service to Africa.  
  
My question is regarding the defense cooperation.  Angola and the U.S.
are set to sign an agreement on defense cooperation in 2024.  What’s the
status on that?  And are there any plans to deploy American military
instructors in Angola?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hold on one second.  Sorry about
that.   
  
Yes, our relationship — our security relationship with Angola continues
to deepen.  You may know that President Lourenço was a former defense
minister and had visited the United States in that capacity and has
built strong ties with the U.S. military and the Pentagon.   
  
And that was — really came together quite powerfully with Secretary
Austin’s trip in September — again, the first-ever Secretary of Defense
trip to Angola.  And in those conversations, they talked about
opportunities where we can deepen our cooperation, in particular,
answering some of the Angolans’ interest in military modernization.  
  
So, we are going to have a high-level dialogue in 2024.  We’ll discuss
many agreements there.  We’ll also just continue to deepen our — our
mil-to-mil exchanges, looking for opportunities where we can focus on
education, English language capacity, maritime security, and
peacekeeping.   
  
So, there’s really a lot of excitement about the ways in which we can
work more closely with the Angolans on — on these security issues.  
  
Q    Hi, it’s Michael Phillips from the Wall Street Journal.   
  
You said that “we’ve…” — quoting you, “we’ve committed over a billion
dollars in financing to Lobito Corridor.”  Can you break that down for
us?  I know you — there’s a DFC, $250 million financing package, that’s
going through due diligence now.  Where does the other $750 million that
goes to Lobito Corridor specifically come from?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Two of the biggest projects is
the $250 million that you referenced, as well as a $900 million Sun
Africa investment in solar.   
  
So, you know, when we think about the Lobito Corridor, as I said
earlier, it’s about the rail, but also what we’re doing with solar ener-
— to bring solar energy to the grid, what we are doing on upgrading 4G
and 5G through the support we’re giving to Africell.   
  
And then there’s what this investment has induced or encouraged our
partners to do.  So, another billion dollars of investment have come
from the African Development Bank — $500 from the African Development
Bank and another — $500 million — and another $500 million from the
EU.   
  
So, this billion-dollar investment that we are making in the corridor
has corralled in additional investments from other partners.  
  
MODERATOR:  Hi, your line is open.  Please state your name and
outlet.   
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much.  This is Raquel (inaudible) Global from
Brazil.  Two questions.  One, if you could tell us about any potential
deliverables announcement today.  And also, if President Biden will talk
about the importance of democracy (inaudible)?  Thank you.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  The presidents will certainly
talk about the state of democracy globally as well as in Africa.  I know
both of our governments are concerned about the numbers of coup d’états
in the region.  And so, I suspect that that will be a topic of
conversation.  
  
In terms of deliverables, at least one that I’m — I’m willing to share
on this call is the — the signature of the Artemis Accords, which will —
which will be happening this morning, and then we will announce it with
the President’s meetings.   
  
Q    Yes, thank you very much.  (Inaudible) from AFP.  I just wanted to
follow up on Zeke’s question.  The Chinese president went to Africa this
year.  By not going, what kind of message would the President send to
the continent?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think the President’s message is
clear.  Since the African Leaders Summit, the amount of engagement that
the U.S. government has made with African — sorry, the amount of
engagement that the U.S. government has had with Africa has truly been
record-breaking.  Sixteen Cabinet-level or principal-level trips;
billions of dollars of investment; the launching of a new initiative
known as the Digital Transformation with Africa, which is an $800
million initiative; the support for Africans in — in global governance,
including the AU joining of the G20; a third seat for the Africans at
the IMF; the introduction of two African countries to the EBRD, the
European Reconstruction and Development Bank; and our call for a
permanent representation for Africans at the Security Council.   
  
In addition, the President — the Vice President launched just recently
the Presidential Advisory Council on African Diaspora Engagement, which
features 12 prominent members of the African diaspora.   
  
So, across the spectrum in terms of personal time, in terms of the way
we’re using our economic agencies to finance and support deals, the
commitments that we have made and realize on, including African voices
in the global architecture and the strengthening of our people-to-people
ties, I think that’s a record — it is a record that we are very proud of
following a year of action from the summit.   
  
Q    Hey.  It’s Trevor Hunnicutt here from Reuters.  Thanks for doing
the call.   
  
Just a couple things.  One on the Lobito corridor.  I’m curious if you
have an update on whether Trafigura has any commitments from local
mining companies to use the railway.   
  
And then also, just as far as topics today, is — are the ongoing OPEC+
talks going to be on the agenda with Biden?  And, you know, if you could
just summarize where — you know, what the President is going to ask from
Angola with regards to Congo and the upcoming elections there. 
Thanks.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I don’t have anything to — to
ride on your first question.   
  
But in terms of what the two presidents will discuss, it will be a
review of the economic investments that we are making together in Angola
and in the Lobito port corridor and seeking ways to deepen those ties. 
Consultation on — on regional issues, like the Democratic Republic of
the Congo and the fighting in eastern DRC making — continuing to align
the efforts that the Angolans are leading through the Luanda process and
the work that we have recently done through the leadership of DNI Avril
Haines to deescalate tensions in this period of time during the
Congolese elections.  
  
As President Biden does in all of his engagements, he will solicit
President Lourenço’s views on global issues, including, you know, their
shared and principled commitment and stance in defense of the U.N.
Charter.  And the — and the importance of territorial integrity and
sovereignty.   
  
So, those will be a number of the key issues that the two leaders will
discuss.  And as I said at the top, it really is a capstone to a year of
historic engagement and consultation in partnership.  I think it’s
something that is historic in our relationship of 30 years of diplomatic
ties.   
  
But if you look at the broader trajectory of U.S. engagement in Angola,
it really is a remarkable place where we are today with such a close
partnership on a host of key priorities.

Q    Yes, Hariana Veras from TPA, Public Television of Angola.  Can you
give us a little more details on the Artemis Accord?  I heard you
mention this is the third country in Africa signing — Angola will be the
third country.

And can you mention a little bit of if the President Biden know about
the — that Angola is one of the countries that has the deepest
connection with United States because the first African slaves arriving
to the United States came from Angola, and they helped build this nation
in what it is today?  Is he aware of that?  Does the President know
about this piece of history that also, because of this moment in the
relations, it came to the mind of the Angolan people.

And please give us more details on this Artemis (inaudible).

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Of course.  So, President Biden has a
lot of experience working on Angola, including when he was a junior
senator and he was the chair of the subcommittee for African Affairs. 
So, President Biden has been involved in U.S.-Angolan relationship,
really, from the late ‘70s onward.

And so, you know, he’s very well informed about Angolan history and
particularly where this relationship has evolved in during his
administration.

With respects to the Artemis Accords, it’s a set of non-binding
principles that are designed to guide civil space and exploration and
use in the 21st century.  So, it’s a number of norms about a common
vision for peaceful, sustainable, and transparent cooperation in space.

And Angola, which has a space program, is an important signatory — or an
important country to join this group of countries because how we think
about the use of space is critical to all of us.

They’re the third country, as I said.  Rwanda and Nigeria signed the
Accords at the U.S.-Africa Leaders’ Summit.

And maybe just to put a fine point on it, I think this meeting that
we’re having today is about our past, it’s about our present, but it’s
also about our future.  And one of the hallmarks of President Biden’s
administration’s policy towards Africa is incorporating our African
partners in the most important conversations that affect the future of
this very decisive decade in space — space norms.  And our approach
towards how we — how countries behave and operate in outer space is
incredibly important, and the Africans have and should be at the table
for that conversation.

So, that’s why we’re delighted that the Angolans have agreed to sign on
to this — to the Accords.

Q    Hi, this is Pearl Matibe, and I’m with defenceWeb from South
Africa.

\[Senior administration official\], I’m very excited that the Angolan
President will be in the Oval Office this afternoon and to see how
excited you — the Biden administration has in hosting him.  So, thank
you so much for doing this.

My question — actually, it’s a two-part question.  Earlier today, I saw
the announcement from the Department of Treasury about removal of
Zimbabwean sanctions.  I just wanted to find out: Did a request or
discussions take place preceding this afternoon’s bilateral in terms of
Zimbabwe, given Angola’s regional role in SADC?   
  
And then, my second part of the question is regarding DRC.  I’m glad
that you did bring up the very critical, complex issues in the eastern
DRC, where you and DNI have just visited.  I wonder: Will you plan to
have an outcomes briefing with us at some later stage?  I’m very
interested to hear more about Angola’s role in the DRC and the Luanda
Process.   
  
In terms of the Lobito Corridor, how do you anticipate security issues
or challenges given the terrorism out of the eastern DRC.  In terms of
protection of that corridor, are there any talks or planning going on
with maybe AFRICOM and other partners in the region in terms of securing
that corridor?  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Pearl.  Well, you asked three
questions, so maybe I’ll just do two of them because I think we’ve —
we’ve discussed the Lobito Corridor extensively on this — this call.   
  
But with respect to what’s happening in eastern DRC, DNI Haines traveled
to both Kinshasa and to Kigali to secure commitments to deescalate the
tensions between the two countries in this delicate time of the
Congolese election.   
  
It is — the commitments were drawn from previous agreements and previous
set of arrangements that were decided in the Luanda Process and in the
Nairobi Process.   
  
And so, we did the trip in close collaboration and consultation with our
Angolan partners, including providing a debrief just yesterday with
Foreign Minister Tete.  And we will continue to work with the Angolans,
the Kenyans, and other interested parties throughout this process to
ensure that there isn’t an escalation of fighting in the eastern DRC.   
  
On — on the issue around Angola’s leadership in the region, as you know,
Angola is the — the head of SADC and has been a very prominent leader
when it comes to dealing with regional security concerns, not just in
Congo but, of course — they have several advisors as part of the South
African — or Southern African Mission to Mozambique.  And under their
leadership, SADC issued one of their most critical critiques and
statements on the Zimbabwean elections.  And my expectation is that
President Lourenço and President Biden will discuss many of these
regional issues and concerns in their meeting.  
  
MODERATOR:  We have one more — time for one more question, I believe. 
Please go ahead and state your name and outlet.  
  
Q    Good morning.  This is Andrew with the Independent.  Can you all
hear me?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Wonderful.  I — I just wanted to try one more time on the President
not visiting Africa this year.  You — you were asked about the message
it sends that he hasn’t gone after he said he would go and you rattled
off a whole bunch of things about Cabinet-level visits and other
engagements.  But you didn’t actually answer the question.   
  
What does it say that the President said he would go to Africa this
year, but he hasn’t gone and it doesn’t appear that he will go?  What
should Africans, African leaders, African governments take away from
that that he’s found the time to go to Ukraine; he’s found the time to
go to Israel; he’s had other international engagements this year; but
even though he said he would go to Africa, he hasn’t gone to Africa?   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thank you for the question.  I
understand why that’s of interest.  As I — as I said earlier, I think if
you look at the record of what this administration has done with African
partners over the past year since the Africa Leaders Summit, I think
it’s very clear to our partners and to the people of Africa what we —
what we are committed to do and the effects that we are — we are having
on the ground in terms of investments, in terms of integrating African
voices in into global governance infrastructure, making reforms to the
IFIs in the MDBs as the multilateral — multi- — multilateral development
banks and international financial institutions and the U.N.   
  
So, the President continues to be very engaged with African leaders,
including this visit, including a recent call with President Ruto,
including standing next — with President Ramaphosa in support of — and
President — Prime Minister Modi and President Lula at the G20, talking
about the importance of the G20 and welcoming the joining of the African
Union to the G20 — something that President Biden called for at the
African Leaders Summit.   
  
And so, I think that the record of engagement and investment and
concrete outcomes is a pretty clear and powerful message of our
commitment to the continent.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you so much, \[senior administration official\]. 
Thank you very everyone for joining us for today’s call.  Just a
friendly reminder that all of this will be attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  The call was on background.  And a friendly
reminder that the embargo will be lifted at 4:00 p.m. Eastern time.   
  
Thank you, everyone, again, for joining.  And just for planning purposes
as well, I would flag that we will have a readout of the President’s
meeting after he meets with the President of Angola this afternoon.  And
we will also be anticipating a factsheet.   
  
I know that I’m getting queries, so I just wanted to make sure that
everyone knows that is coming also this afternoon.   
  
Thank you and have a great afternoon.  Thank you, \[senior
administration official\].   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everyone.   
  
11:35 A.M. EST
