---
date: '2023-11-27'
modified_time: 2023-11-28 10:21:21-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-27 22:11:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/11/27/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-humanitarian-aid/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Humanitarian\_\
  Aid"
---
 
Via Teleconference

4:03 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining this call to discuss U.S.
efforts to accelerate and expand humanitarian assistance going into
Gaza.  This call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and embargoed until tomorrow, November 28th,
at 5:00 a.m. 

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call today, we have
\[senior administration official\], \[senior administration official\],
and \[senior administration official\]. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\] for
remarks at the top.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, \[moderator\], and
appreciate everyone joining today.  We just wanted to share some of the
latest news in terms of the humanitarian — our efforts to get additional
humanitarian assistance into Gaza, as well as go through the President’s
leadership on this file to date.

And so, I think as everyone is tracking, since the start of the
conflict, President Biden has really spearheaded international efforts
to address the humanitarian crisis in Gaza and to facilitate the
sustained flow of lifesaving humanitarian assistance — in particular,
food, water, and medicine and other relief supplies. 

And as you all know and many of you were on the trip covering it,
President Biden traveled to the region 10 days into the conflict, both
to send a strong signal of support for the people of Israel and to
stress the importance of efforts to minimize civilian casualties and
increase access to humanitarian assistance for Palestinian civilians in
Gaza who are caught in the middle of this conflict that was launched by
Hamas.

As a result of the President’s trip and the President — at the
President’s request, Israel and Egypt committed to cooperate on the
provision of humanitarian assistance to civilians in Gaza.  And within
one week of the start of the conflict, President Biden appointed David
Satterfield — Ambassador David Satterfield as the Special Envoy for
Middle East humanitarian issues to work these issues at a high level on
a day-to-day basis between the key parties on the ground.

Now, while — while in Tel Aviv, the President also announced $100
million in humanitarian assistance for the Palestinian people in Gaza
and the West Bank.  This builds on the President’s strong commitment to
the Palestinian people in making sure that the U.S. is the largest
single donor, both to UNRWA, as well as to broader assistance to the pe-
— to the Palestinian people.

Over the past seven weeks, from the President to the Secretary of State
to our National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, to Ambassador
Satterfield in the field, our team has been working around the clock to
advance three key lines of effort with respect to the humanitarian
response: first, to expand humanitarian access; second, to push for the
restoration of essential services — in particular, water has been a key
service that we’ve sought to restore; and, three, to secure adequate
deconfliction mechanisms for civilian populations, sites, and movements
in Gaza.

The President has also consistently stressed the importance of ensuring
military operations are conducted in a manner consistent with
international humanitarian law, including with respect to the protection
of civilians. 

And I think we’ve really made significant progress in terms of
humanitarian access and the flow of humanitarian assistance since
October 21st, when the President visited, with more than 2,000 trucks
having been delivered so far, including goods from food, water, medical
assistance and shelter supplies, as well as critically needed fuel.  And
this is really thanks to the initial deal the President helped broker
and then foster with — by himself and his top senior officials. 

During the first four days of the current humanitarian pause, which
we’re delighted has been extended for an additional two days, we saw
approximately 800 trucks going into Southern Gaza, and also some
assistance has been able to reach Northern Gaza. 

One upcoming event that I wanted to highlight for you all is that,
tomorrow, we’re very glad to announce that we will have the first of
three relief flights that are facilitated by the unique capabilities of
the U.S. military that will be arriving into North Sinai in Egypt.  And
this will be to bring — to bring a series of items — medical items, food
aid, winter items, given that winter is coming in Gaza — for the
civilian population.  And these will be delivered by the United Nations
to civilians in need in Gaza.

Two further planeloads will be coming in the coming days, and we’ll be
sure to keep you all up to date on that.  This builds on previous five
flights that we supported on commercial flights that came into Arish in
Northern Egypt.

We are continuing, of course, to work with our regional allies and our
humanitarian partners to ensure that the assistance that we bring in
continues to flow, is sustained, and that we are able to continue to
increase it over time.

Just want to acknowledge, from the President on down, we understand that
what is getting in is nowhere near enough for normal life in Gaza, and
we will continue to push for additional steps, including the restoration
of the flow of commercial goods and additional basic services.

I also just wanted to say that we’re leading among donor countries in
trying to ensure that the U.N.’s Flash Appeal is fully funded.  Our
USAID administrator, Administrator Power, convened key donors just last
Friday to try to strengthen support for the U.N. Flash Appeal. 

And throughout this entire process, we have sought to also solicit
feedback from humanitarian and human rights organizations, both directly
here at the White House, including listening sessions with the National
Security Advisor and other NSC leadership, as well as engagement with
those organizations in the field to ensure that we’re receiving
real-time feedback from the broad range of implementing partners
assisting civilians in Gaza.

So, why don’t I stop there and turn it over to \[senior administration
official\] to share a bit of the latest from the ground with us.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. 

And before I start on where we are today, I just want to reiterate
\[senior administration official’s\] point.  On the 16th of October,
when Secretary Blinken came out to Israel two days before the
President’s visit, it was not one drop of water, not one ounce of fuel,
not one pencil would move across the border.

We very rapidly moved, with the President’s visit, to a quite different
position of the beginning of trucks coming through with humanitarian
assistance to the south but still very tight strictures on supply of
fuel. 

We’ve moved, over the just a little more than four weeks since then, to
a sustained 240 trucks a day, significant quantities of fuel moving
through, and not just goods being delivered — medicine, shelter, food —
but also the critical supplies to keep infrastructure — water
desalination plants, hospitals, pumping of water from wells, sewerage
pumping, solid waste removal — all essential to life in South and
Central Gaza, which has now 80 percent of the population of the Gaza
Strip.  All of those have been sustained because of our efforts.

And I’ll give a little bit of color to \[senior administration
official’s\] description.  There were periods when the President was on
the phone with the Prime Minister of Israel, Jake Sullivan with his
counterpart, I with mine, Secretary Blinken with all of the above every
single evening to work these kinds of issues through.  And our objective
was not to continue to have to make those calls every night, but to get
a sustaining mechanism in place.  And that’s where we are right now.

It needs to continue, and it needs to increase. 

And I’ll make one other comment before turning your questions.  The
assistance that is being moved in, the fuel that is being provided are
not linked to the hostage releases.  Obviously, we have taken maximum
advantage of the pause for the hostage releases to move as much as we
can, to increase volumes as much as we can.  But what we are doing
stands on its own.  And when this current phase of hostage releases is
over, we have made very clear that this level or increased levels,
ideally, need to be sustained.

So, there is no linkage here, one to the other, of releases with
provision of goods with provision of fuel.  We took advantage of this
moment, but it needs to be sustained.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to your questions as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, both.  <s>Moderator</s> \[Operator\], if you’d
please instruct our listeners on how to queue up for questions.

Q    Hi.  Just had two quick questions.  One was more of a clarification
on these three relief flights that are going to begin.  Are these — can
you just give a little bit more color on what the items are that are
being sent in?  I know you said winter-related items, but how, if at
all, are they different than what’s been already being sent in in these
2,000 truckloads? 

And then, secondly, Kirby earlier today expressed hope that additional
Americans were going to be released.  It doesn’t seem, in this last
group that was released, there were any Americans.  Can you give us any
update of what’s going on on that end and if there was any
disappointment in that Americans weren’t released in this latest group? 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, let me just take your questions
in reverse order.  So, on the American hostages, of course, we work
tirelessly every day.  The President has been on the phone with — with
key leaders in the region to push for the release of American hostages. 
We, of course, wish that all of our hostages had been released already. 

But I think that the good news from today is that the pause has been
extended for a further two days. So, we are very hopeful that we will be
able to get those American hostages out in that period. 

Just a little bit more clarity in terms of the question on the
assistance flights that will be coming into Arish via U.S. military
flights.  You know, some of these things have already gone in, but there
will be additional items: of course, you know, more food stocks, but
also winter clothing, which is something that the U.N. has prioritized
given that the rainy season has started in Gaza; specific food items for
— in particular, for children that is ready to use, as well as
additional medical supplies, which are — which are in urgent need in
Gaza, as everyone knows.

Q    Yes, yes.  Sorry.  Thank you.  \[Senior administration official\],
what can you tell us about your talks with the Israelis in recent days
about how to increase humanitarian aid, especially if you look ahead
towards the possible operation in Southern Gaza where now around 2
million Palestinians are staying?  How — can you describe us your talks
about that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  And I’ll start with the
humanitarian assistance piece.  We’re very pleased that a sustained
level of 100 — or rather 240 trucks has been reached.  But it’s not
enough to return some sense of basic civilian life for the 2 million
people now in South and Central Gaza.

Humanitarian assistance, robust as it is, isn’t enough.  What you need
is to get commercial goods in.  And we have been discussing for some
weeks now with the government of Israel how we move to phase two.  Phase
one is the sustained delivery of basic subsistence humanitarian goods
through U.N. and other channels.  We’re at that point now.

But next point is going to commercial goods.  That’s where you start
getting into the 300, 400 trucks a day.  To get that volume of
assistance in, inspection procedures will need to be increased and
enhanced, and you’re going to need to resort to commercial contracting
within Gaza to meet the trucks coming in from Egypt. 

We know how it should be done.  We hope that, after this pause
concludes, that can be phase two of the humanitarian program. 

But your question, Barak, brought up another critical issue for us. 
There are indeed 2 million people, or thereabouts, in South and Central
Gaza.  It is extremely important — and from the President down, we have
reinforced this in very clear language with the government of Israel —
very important that the conduct of the Israeli campaign, when it moves
to the south, must be done in a way that is to a maximum extent not
designed to produce significant further displacement of persons. 

You cannot have the sort of scale of displacement that took place in the
north replicated in the south.  It will be beyond disruptive.  It will
be beyond the capacity of any humanitarian support network, however
reinforced, however robust to be able to cope with. 

It can’t happen, which means that the manner of the campaign has to be
extremely carefully thought through to minimize this consequence of
further, significant displacement. 

It also has to be conducted in a way that is maximally deconflicted with
humanitarian facilities — power, water, humanitarian sites, hospitals,
other facilities — including the many U.N.-supported shelters located
throughout South and Central Gaza. 

Now we’ve had this discussion — we have these discussions on a constant
basis with Israel.  And if you ask me to characterize the response, it’s
a receptive one.  There is an understanding that a different type of
campaign has to be conducted in the south than was conducted in the
north. 

To reiterate what you’ve already heard from the President, from other
senior officials of the government: We want the objectives of this
campaign — the elimination of Hamas as a governing, as a threatening
force in Gaza and the threat to Israel.  And — but how the campaign is
conducted, particularly in the south is exceedingly important, because
of the fragile situation with this very significant internal
displacement already occurred on the ground.

Q    Hello, can you hear me?  Hello?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes. 

Q    Oh, sorry.  Just — just to follow up on the previous question. 
Whether you have — you have gotten assurances from Israel — I know that
the pamphlets have been dropped asking people in the south to go to safe
zones.  There aren’t — don’t appear to be any safe zones.  Or do you
believe that there are safe zones set up that are going to require the
actual movement of people?

And also, the United Nations has said that in order to increase
assistance, along the ways that you’ve outlined, that they really would
like another border entry place, specifically Kerem Shalom, to be opened
in Southern Gaza.  Have you discussed that with the Israelis?  And is
there any movement in that direction?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, (inaudible), to the first part of
your question, what we are discussing is not the safe zone, the
humanitarian zone that almost a month ago was proposed by the government
of Israel. 

What we are talking about are practical arrangements on the ground,
multiple arrangements.  What you might call “areas of deconfliction,”
which are approximate to, already contained U.N. facilities and
shelters, but where, based on the best judgment, they — people there or
people who may wish to come there would not be subject to kinetic
activity.  That’s very different than the original concept.  It’s
practical, pragmatic arrangements at multiple places on the ground. 

No one is going to be forced out of their homes by intent.  And these
areas are not designed as places preemptively for people to go to.  It
is inevitable though that in any kinetic campaign, however carefully
managed, there is going to be a certain inevitable movement of persons
who will judge their safety to the better off somewhere than where they
are.

This is an attempt to be able to locate, to delineate those multiple
areas where there will not be kinetic activity, and this is a very
different concept than the one initially announced — declared by
Israel. 

Now, on the second crossing issue: The Israeli government has made a
political decision, which I do not see any sign of changing so long as
hostages are held by Hamas, of closing Kerem Shalom to movement of goods
from Israeli territory directly into Gaza.  There are robust inspection
facilities at Kerem Shalom.  There’s every possibility that those
inspection facilities could be used, but not for direct movement of
assistance or goods from Israel into Gaza, across the Kerem Shalom
frontier.

Q    Hi, yes.  Danny Kemp from AFP.  I was just wondering: Is there a
sense that these flights — you know, by putting these, you know, these
three planes — these U.S. assets so near Gaza and kind of creating this
lifeline — is this kind of a subtle way of putting pressure on Israel to
keep up the truce for as long as possible, possibly beyond a two-day
extension?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I mean, I think you’ve heard many
senior officials from here at the White House and from other parts of
the government say that we would like to see the deal — the current
humanitarian pause deal extended as long as possible.  And the formula
there is, you know, every 10 hostages, you get an additional day of the
pause.  So, we would like to see that going as long as there are
additional hostages to get out. 

No, the — the intent here is simply to ensure that a significant flow of
humanitarian assistance, in particular the kind of humanitarian
assistance that is needed right now — some of the winterization items
that I mentioned — are arriving quickly into El Arish for onward transit
to Gaza. 

We’ve been able to see a surge in goods in recent days during the pause,
and we want to do our part, as the U.S., to make sure that that flow
continues in a robust manner.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’ll just build on what \[senior
administration official\] said.  The movement over the last four or five
days of assistance has been so significant in volume that a backfill
into El Arish is now needed, and these planes are part of that
backfill.  There’s quite a quantity of goods enroute to El Arish from
other destinations.  But this is a significant contribution at a moment
when that fill is very much needed.

Q    Hello?  Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.

Q    Okay.  Great.  This is Nadia Bilbassy with Al Arabiya.  Thank you
for doing this.  My question for \[senior administration official\]. 
You know, \[senior administration official\] before the war, there was
2,500 beds in hospitals in Gaza.  Now we have around 35,000 wounded up
till now.  What’s the feasibility of having field hospitals?  Is it
something that you can work with the international community to provide
field hospitals within this small period of — short period, rather, of
the humanitarian pause — especially that doctors were saying they were
operating on kids without anesthesia?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  Nadia, putting in field hospitals
has absolutely been part of our approach over the course of last month,
and we’re very pleased that a number of field hospitals are already, in
South Gaza, being established, and we see several more on the way, both
national provision — the governments of Jordan, Turkey, the UAE have all
been engaged in this — as well as NGOs Médecins Sans Frontières, ICRC,
and our own International Medical Corps, IMC.

So, yes, we do see the value cumulatively of the hundreds of beds,
surgical provisions that these multiple field hospitals will be able to
provide.  Some countries have also moved towards provision of hospital
ships.  That’s a little more complicated than the kind of care that can
be provided in a field hospital.  But I know the French have a hospital
ship bound for El Arish, which they hope can become operational in the
near future.

Q    Hi, thanks.  This is Ben Samuels from Haaretz.  A lot of human
rights organizations are worrying about the potential for epidemic
disease outbreak.  So, beyond what is going in over the next few days
with these flights, what contingency plans does the U.S. government have
in place to combat, you know, whether it’s cholera or any other epidemic
disease?  And then a second question: How much of a hindrance is it that
the U.S. can’t directly provide funds to the Palestinian Authority
because of the Taylor Force Act?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Among the medical goods that are coming
into Gaza now are vaccines.  But the real key to preventing the kind of
outbreaks — typhoid, cholera — which tend to occur in situations like
this is increasing the supply of potable water and sanitation.  And that
is why we have placed such emphasis since the beginning of this
engagement on moving as much fuel as possible in in order to power
everything from sewerage pumps, to the D cell system in the south, to
getting the Israelis to restore service as we did to two of the three
main national carriers piping water into Gaza. 

You’ve got to get potable water supplies in to try to avoid these
diseases.  We have been focused on this, as has the U.N., but fuel is
critical.  The fuel that is being provided now has made a big
difference.  More fuel needs to continue to come.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And just on the question about the
Taylor Force Act, you know, I think our focus here is really on the
humanitarian file.  And given that we don’t have a Palestinian Authority
representative in Gaza, we don’t have a Palestinian partner that we
could provide this assistance directly to, UNRWA has really performed an
incredible role here in being the facilitators for all of the U.N. and
other assistance that has gone into Gaza.  And we really couldn’t do
this without — without UNRWA.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  That’s all the time we have.  Thanks to
our speakers and you all for joining.

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and it’s embargoed until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow,
November 28.

Thanks so much.  
  
4:31 P.M. EST
