---
date: '2024-07-18'
modified_time: 2024-07-19 18:14:46-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-18 18:12:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-9/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Westover High School

Fayetteville, North Carolina

2:12 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we hear it for Kelly?  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, North Carolina.  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s good to be back. 
It’s good to be back.  And I want to thank Kelly for your work and for
your family and all that you have given to our country in service. 

And it is so good to be back with so many incredible leaders —
(applause) — including my dear friend, Roy Cooper.  (Applause.)  You
know, Roy and I served together when I was attorney general of
California and he was attorney general of North Carolina.  I’ve known
him for almost two decades.  And he is an extraordinary leader. 

And I want to also thank the extraordinary leaders who are service
members and their families who are here with us this afternoon.  Thank
you all.  (Applause.)

You know, one of my greatest honors as vice president is to meet with
our service members around the world.  I have met with our service
members from NATO’s eastern flank to the Korean DMZ, and from Arizona to
Florida.  And I will tell you what everybody here knows: All our service
members possess an extraordinary skill, discipline, dedication, and love
of country.  (Applause.)  And I know their families serve with equal
dedication, and I thank you also.  (Applause.)

And I say everywhere I go around the world: We are so proud that the
United States military is the greatest fighting force the world has ever
seen.  (Applause.)

Which is why President Biden and I are proud to have passed the PACT Act
— (applause) — the largest expansion of health care and benefits for
veterans and military families and survivors — the largest benefit in
decades.  So, thank you, again, everyone here and, in particular, our
military members and your families for the service and the dedication
that you have shown. 

So, today, we are 110 days out from the election.  (Applause.)  And
while many of us have been involved with these elections for every four
years, practically, nearly every time we will say, “This is the one.” 
Well, this here is the one — the most existential, consequential, and
important election of our lifetime.  And there is so much at stake. 

Last night was the latest example.  So, some of you may have heard
Donald Trump’s running mate deliver remarks at the Republican National
Convention. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He talked about his life story about growing up in
southwest Ohio, and it was compelling.  It’s a compelling story.  And it
was not the full story.  (Laughter.) 

Frankly, what is very telling is what he did not talk about on that
stage.  He did not talk about Project 2025 — 

AUDIENCE:  No.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — their 900-page blueprint for a second Trump
term.  He did not talk about it because their plans are extreme and they
are divisive. 

In recent days, they’ve been trying to portray themselves as the party
of unity.  But here’s the thing — here’s the thing.  If you claim to
stand for unity, you need to do more than just use the word. 
(Applause.)  You cannot claim you stand for unity if you are pushing an
agenda that deprives whole groups of Americans of basic freedoms,
opportunity, and dignity.  (Applause.)

You cannot claim you stand for unity if you are intent on taking
reproductive freedoms from the people of America and the women of
America — (applause) — trying to ban abortion nationwide, as they do,
and restrict access to IVF and contraception, as their plan calls for. 

You cannot claim to be for unity if you try to overturn a free and fair
election — (applause) — and threaten — and threaten to terminate the
United States Constitution.  (Applause.) 

And you cannot claim to be for unity when your entire economic agenda is
designed to prioritize billionaires and big corporations over the middle
class.  (Applause.)

We’re too busy watching what you’re doing to hear what you’re saying. 

And let us unpack that last point about the economy.  This race can be
boiled down to a single question: Who fights for you?  Now we know whose
side our president, Joe Biden, is on.  (Applause.) 

He grew up in a middle-class family in Scranton, Pennsylvania, and he
has never forgotten where he came from.  With — and I have been a
firsthand witness.  With every decision he makes in the Oval Office, he
thinks about how it will impact working Americans.  He understands. 
(Applause.)  He understands everyday struggles because he has actually
lived them. 

So, friends, I say the contrast between Joe Biden and Donald Trump is
like night and day.  But with the selection of his running mate this
week, Donald Trump is also trying to distract people.  He wants to
direct attention away from his record and his Project 2025 plan to
suggest that he and his running mate are going to prioritize the middle
class.  But we are not buying it.  (Applause.)  We are not falling for
the okeydoke. 

As many of you know, I am a former prosecutor.  So, I say let’s look at
the facts, shall we?  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)

So, Donald Trump tries to claim he brought back American manufacturing. 
The fact is, under Donald Trump, America lost tens of thousands of
manufacturing jobs, and more than 1,000 factories closed under his
watch.  The facts.

Meanwhile, President Joe Biden and I have created nearly 800,000 new
manufacturing jobs — (applause) — so much so, it’s been described as a
“manufacturing boom.” 

Last night, we heard claims that Donald Trump is for fighting for our
seniors.  Well, how the heck can you claim you fight for seniors when
you intend to cut Social Security and Medicare — (applause) — which we
all know is a lifeline for so many of our seniors? 

Let me be very clear: President Joe Biden and I will always protect
Social Security and we will always protect Medicare — (applause) — all
while we continue to fight to lower the cost of s- — prescription drugs
for our seniors.  (Applause.)  It is President Biden and I that took on
Big Pharma and finally capped the cost of insulin for our seniors at $35
a month.  (Applause.)

Who here has a family member with diabetes to know what that means? 
(Applause.)  Right. 

But Donald Trump and his running mate intend to get rid of our $35 cap
on insulin.  They will side with Big Pharma and let them make
prescription drugs more expensive. 

Not only that, on the issue of health care, they intend to get rid of
the Affordable Care Act. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Donald Trump and his allies tried more than 60
times to end the Affordable Care Act — 60 times — to give insurance
companies back the power to deny people with preexisting conditions. 
You all remember what that was like?

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Children with asthma, women who had survived breast
cancer, grandparents with diabetes. 

President Biden and I, on the other hand, have made the Affordable Care
Act more strong — (applause) — because, you see, we believe health care
should be a right and not just a privilege of those who can afford it. 
(Applause.)

Pull up the split screen.  Whereas the last administration gave tax cuts
to billionaires —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we gave tax cuts to families through the Child
Tax Credit, which cut child poverty in America by half.  (Applause.)

And please do note: Their Project 2025 agenda would even end Head Start
—

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to take away preschool from hundreds of thousands
of our children. 

On the issue of the cost of living, Donald Trump says he will implement
a 10 percent tariff on all imported goods.  Well, understand:
Independent economists agree his tariffs would increase the cost of
everyday expenses for families — the cost of gas, groceries, and
clothing. 

We, on the other hand, have taken on Big Pharma, the big banks, and big
corporations to bring down costs.  (Applause.)

It is we who have canceled debt, including student loan debt.  In fact —
(applause).  Testify if you have received it.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 
Indeed.

In fact, so far, we have forgiven student loan debt for nearly 5 million
Americans — (applause) — and twice as much for our public servants,
including our teachers, our nurses, and our firefighters.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You’re welcome.  (Laughter.)

We are also fighting to lower energy costs.  (Applause.)  We made
historic investments in clean energy.  Today, America has record energy
production and we are energy independent.  (Applause.)  But Trump wants
to roll back our progress. 

Check this out: In fundraisers with Big Oil lobbyists, he wanted to
trade clean energy investments that we made for you for a $1 billion
campaign contribution he could get for himself.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Understand motivation. 

So, North Carolina, I think it is clear: If Donald Tremp — Donald Trump
were to win in November, he will continue to sell out working families,
he will continue to attack reproductive freedom, and he will continue to
undermine our democracy.

Ultimately, in this election, we each face a question.  And this herein
lies our power.  The question we face is: What kind of country do we
want to live in? 

Do we want to live in a country of freedom —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — compassion —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and rule of law?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Or a country of chaos —

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — fear —

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and hate?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We each have the power to answer this question. 

So, today, then, I ask, North Carolina: Are you ready to make your
voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in opportunity?  

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  DO we believe in the promise of America? 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And are we ready to fight for it?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

God bless you.  (Applause.)

END                 2:27 P.M. EDT
