---
date: '2024-07-25'
modified_time: 2024-07-26 13:22:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-25 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/25/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-at-the-african-growth-and-opportunity-act-agoa-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan at the African Growth and Opportunity Act (AGOA)\_\
  Forum"
---
 
U.S. State Department  
Washington, D.C.

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, thank you, Joy. I will not tell you that story
tonight. I need, like, two or three drinks before I tell it. So —
(laughter) —

And now I’m the one standing between you and the refreshments, so I will
not try to speak for too long.

But I really did want to come over from the White House, on behalf of
the President, to say: Thank you all for being here. It’s really great
to be surrounded by so many longtime supporters of the U.S.-Africa
partnership, from ministers to ambassadors, to colleagues from Congress
who have come through over the course of the day, the private sector,
and of course, civil society.

And, you know, I just want to start by taking us back to almost exactly
25 years ago. At that time, President Clinton was urging our nation to
adopt AGOA, the African Growth and Opportunity Act. And his argument was
powerful. It was persuasive. It was, really, pretty simple. He said,
“Congress has a chance to pass a bill that can transform our
relationship… for the better…based on mutual respect and mutual
responsibility.”

And there was a senator at the time named Joe Biden, who seized on that
chance. And as Vice President, he continued to transform and grow our
partnership for the betterment of all of our people. And as President,
he’s tried to ensure that that partnership is grounded not only in
mutual respect and responsibility, but also in mutual values and a
common vision for the world. And the impact has been considerable.

At the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, the Biden-Harris administration
committed to invest over $55 billion in Africa over three years, helping
to elevate our partnership beyond development and security, to address
global challenges together.

And I’m proud to say, oftentimes you put out these big numbers and you
kind of walk away from the summit. We are 80 percent of the way there,
well ahead of schedule, and Joe Biden intends to do what he has said he
was going to do — and not just hit that 80 billion \[sic\] — $55 billion
mark over three years, but go far beyond it.

We’ve also helped close more than 500 new private sector deals, which
have led to over $14 billion in two-way trade investment between the
U.S. and African countries.

And with the President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience,
or PREPARE, we’ve provided over $3 billion annually to help countries
strengthen their resilience, especially to climate shocks. And this has
had a profound impact because the lion’s share of this money is going to
African countries who are suffering the worst effects of these climate
shocks.

And, of course, these resources matter. But representation also matters.
So we pushed, before many others did, for the African Union to become a
permanent member of the G20. Got that done. We’re now pushing for
African representation on the U.N. Security Council, and we intend to
get that done too.

We’ve launched the first-ever President’s Advisory Council on Diaspora
Engagement to ensure that we’re shaping our policies in a way that both
reflects, reinforces, and leverages the deep ties that we have with the
African continent.

And the President has sent an unprecedented number of leaders from his
Cabinet and administration, including Vice President Harris, to visit
more than 20 countries across Africa.

Earlier this summer, President Biden stood side by side with President
Ruto at the White House to launch a vision document about debt relief
that will be a game changer for African countries. And we will carry
forward at the G20 Summit this fall — working with Brazil, South Africa,
the current and next chairs of the G20 — to try to take that vision to
the next level so that we have a framework for debt relief that really
works and delivers for countries that have been suffering under debt for
too long, compounded by the post-COVID overhang.

So when you take what we are trying to lay out, especially in this debt
relief space, we know that there is so much more unfinished business
that we have to do. And President Biden has told us: Run through the
tape, get it done over the course of the next six months, and then
continue to support Vice President Harris in her future efforts to
continue delivering for the African continent.

So the opportunity that we see sitting before us to really think about
the relationship between the public sector and the private sector and
civil society may be best exemplified in the concept of corridors that
lies at the heart of the President’s initiative, the PGI, the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. And we’re
especially proud of the Lobito Corridor.

Already, we’ve mobilized more than a billion dollars for railway lines
that will extend from Angola to Zambia to the DRC and, ultimately, to
the Indian Ocean, connecting the continent from east to west. It’s the
biggest American rail investment in Africa ever.

And it’s not just about physical infrastructure.

On digital infrastructure, we’re building fiber optic cables across the
region to connect communities and businesses.

On energy infrastructure, we’ve mobilized almost $3 billion in clean
energy projects, from solar energy plants to battery energy storage —
battery energy storage systems.

Now, I want to be clear: There’s more that we have to do, more
partnerships to form, more challenges to overcome, more potential to
seize. But over the past three and a half years, that’s just some of the
progress that we’ve made together.

And that’s in no small part because of AGOA — and not the direct impact
of AGOA, though it has been profound, but because AGOA has really been
the platform, the foundation upon which we have built so much of our
other economic partnership work.

And I want to pause here for a moment. I know you’ve heard this a few
times over the last couple of days, maybe not just over the last couple
of days, but the last couple of months, even the last couple of years.
But it bears repeating and we mean it: The President, myself, the entire
Biden-Harris administration is committed to working with our Congress to
reauthorize the law.

And in line with the theme of this forum, we’re also committed to
reimagining it, modernizing it, and ensuring the legislation promotes
resilient supply chains, high-standard investments; ensuring that it
supports our efforts to confront a range of emerging challenges and
opportunities, whether it’s artificial intelligence or the clean energy
transition; ensuring that it incorporates voices across industry,
including small businesses and entrepreneurs; and ensuring that it
reflects the dynamism of our economies and the diversity of our peoples.

Because at its core, that is what the U.S.-Africa Partnership is all
about, what this forum is all about. It’s our people. The ones who stand
up decade after decade, generation after generation, for the things that
we hold dear: our country’s shared values of liberty, democracy,
freedom, prosperity, innovation. The ones who brought our nations
together in fields like technology, medicine, education, and trade. And
the ones who have transformed what is a geopolitical partnership into an
unbreakable friendship between peoples, because that really is what
should and can define the future of the relationship between the United
States and the nations of Africa.

And we’re going to keep that friendship strong by coming together in
communities all across Africa and America to exchange ideas and
innovations.

So I said I would be brief. I was a little longer than brief, but let me
close with this.

Twenty-five years ago, when President Clinton urged Congress to enact
AGOA, he ended his statement with a call to action: “Seize this
opportunity.” That’s what he said. “Seize this opportunity.”

The United States will continue to answer that call to action. We will
seize this opportunity now to reauthorize, modernize AGOA, and reinforce
the foundation it provides to all of the other work that we do together.

We’ll continue to work with nations across Africa to build a world
worthy of our people, one that is more free, more secure, and more
prosperous for all.

And we will continue to stand with you, everyone in this room, in
partnership and friendship, to seize all of these opportunities in the
years ahead. Because as President Biden often says, there is nothing
beyond our capacity if we do it together.

So, thank you for giving me the opportunity to be here tonight. I hope
you have a wonderful evening. I’m  
so grateful to you for all that you’ve done and contributed here so far.
And let’s get to work.

Thank you very much. (Applause.)
