---
date: '2024-07-24'
modified_time: 2024-07-24 16:17:22-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-24 16:14:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/24/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-bolstering-placed-based-economic-development/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Bolstering Placed-Based\
  \ Economic\_Development"
---
 
*The Roosevelt Institute*  
*As Prepared for Delivery*

Thank you to the Roosevelt Institute and particularly Felicia Wong for
hosting this important discussion on how we can work together to lift up
communities across the country.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s placed-based investment strategy,
alongside our efforts to invest in workforce development, are catalyzing
economic opportunity in communities across the country that had been
left behind.

Our placed-based approach is intentional, and it marks a sharp break
from the trickle-down policies that cut taxes for those at the top and
pulled back on public investment. Towns lost anchor employers while
businesses chased low taxes, low wages, and non-union labor, pushing out
good manufacturing jobs and lowering tax revenue that was needed for
local investment. These trends were exacerbated by artificially cheap
imports from China that wiped out thousands of manufacturing jobs in
manufacturing communities. Too many of these communities saw a downward
spiral of disinvestment.  And the previous Administration doubled down
on the same failed approach by cutting taxes and public investment and
promising a resurgence of manufacturing and infrastructure that never
materialized.  Instead, these factory towns and other communities around
the country fell further behind.

Investing in Communities

The Biden-Harris Administration took a different approach by
prioritizing place-based economic development to bring back investments
in communities that had been left behind and give them the tools and
support to move from setback to comeback.

This approach starts with correcting for decades of disinvestment in
infrastructure. By investing in high-speed internet and transportation
networks, the Administration is reconnecting neighborhoods to
opportunity, revitalizing small businesses, and rebuilding communities’
foundations to unlock new private investment.

This place based strategy is also focused on increasing the capacity of
distressed communities. For example, the Administration has launched the
[Rural Partners Network](https://www.rural.gov/) sending federal staff
across the country to help rural communities access a variety of federal
resources, and special tax incentives are supporting the [Energy
Communities](https://energycommunities.gov/) that have powered our
nation for centuries.

Placed-based economic development means investing in innovation engines
that will sustain economic development for years to come in every region
of the country.  In previous decades, the majority of innovation
investment was
[concentrated](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/tech-is-still-concentrating/)
in just a few major metros.  The [Department of Commerce’s Tech
Hubs](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs)
and the [National Science Foundation’s Regional Innovation
Engines](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/initiatives/regional-innovation-engines)
are seeding innovation across the country in a range of sectors where
economic opportunity is immense – from clean energy to semiconductors
and biotechnology.

Because of this Administration’s approach, communities are shaping
development strategies from the bottom-up; effectively putting
communities back in the driver seat after being left out for too long.

And when faced with unfair practices from abroad, this Administration is
taking necessary actions on behalf of American workers, businesses, and
factory towns. China is flooding the market with artificially
underpriced exports in areas like vehicles and solar cells, and they’re
breaking the rules when it comes to technology transfer, intellectual
property, and innovation. That’s why the President has increased tariffs
on imports from China in a targeted set of strategic sectors. A 100%
tariff on Chinese electrified vehicles, for instance, is enabling auto
communities to continue powering our car industry.

Investments in the Workforce

Investing in communities also means investing in people and strong
workforce programs. The [Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/build/guidebook/) is putting hundreds of
thousands of Americans to work rebuilding our highways and bridges. And
more jobs are on the way with nearly [$900 billion in announced private
sector
investments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
in clean energy and advanced manufacturing across. Factory construction
is at its highest level on record– more than double the previous
Administration.  We’ve heard from unions that they have never seen so
much demand for their training programs.

We are working to ensure that communities are prepared for the
manufacturing renaissance that is underway. And that these new
investments create high-quality, good-paying jobs and pathways to
careers in these communities.

  
That’s why the Administration has established [nine Workforce
Hubs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-workforce-hubs-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-good-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)
in areas where clean energy, infrastructure, and semiconductor
investments are creating new job opportunities. These Workforce Hubs are
bringing state, local, and regional partners together to coordinate and
amplify workforce training efforts.

For example, in Michigan, a coalition of government, unions, automakers,
nonprofits, and community colleges are preparing workers and businesses
who have led the iconic auto industry to lead the way on electric
vehicles. This includes aligning on skill needs across the EV supply
chain and expanding access to a new curriculum for battery
manufacturing.

In the state of New York, companies have announced billions of
investments in chip manufacturing catalyzed by the [CHIPS and Science
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/09/fact-sheet-chips-and-science-act-will-lower-costs-create-jobs-strengthen-supply-chains-and-counter-china/).
The Administration’s Workforce Hub in Syracuse is now focused on meeting
the training needs of this emerging industry, starting with an
innovative partnership between Micron, AFT, and local high schools.

Supporting Communities

When we meet with the Americans that are opening small businesses in
record numbers on Main Streets around the country, we often hear that it
is not only the large investments that are helping unlock opportunity
but also the child supports and the health insurance tax credits that
enable parents to rejoin the workforce and entrepreneurs to take the
leap of faith to start businesses.

These place-based investments are more effective when the [tax system
rewards work and promotes economic
opportunity](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-taxes-for-working-families-and-makes-big-corporations-and-the-wealthy-pay-their-fair-share/).
That means enabling many more Americans to participate in the workforce
by restoring the expanded Earned Income Tax Credit and the expanded
Child Tax Credit and supporting access to childcare. It also means
extending the Affordable Care Act Premium Tax Credit expansions that are
lifting health insurance coverage rates to record highs and narrowing
geographic disparities.

Republicans in Congress and the previous administration instead
[prioritize](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/05/10/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-the-tax-debate-ahead/)
tax cuts at the top and deep cuts to crucial programs that advance
opportunity in communities that had been left behind.

Place-Based Growth is Working

According to a [recent
report](https://eig.org/left-behind-places/#:~:text=Left%2Dbehind%20communities%20have%20enjoyed,than%20they%20have%20in%20years.)
by the Economic Innovation Group which looked at 1,000 counties that
were hit hard by economic shocks over the past two decades, “left-behind
counties…experienced their strongest three-year period of job creation
and business growth since the turn of the 21st century.” Since President
Biden took office, jobs in those previously “left-behind” counties grew
more than four times faster per year than under the previous
Administration.

This Administration is proud to be working with communities all over the
country who are turning setbacks into comebacks. I am dialing in today
from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania – home to a once-booming steel industry
that began to decline in the 1980s, exacerbated by Chinese dumping of
steel into the global market. Plants shuttered and job opportunities
declined.

But the President and Vice President see opportunity in a city like
Pittsburgh investing millions of dollars to support businesses and jobs
in grid and electric vehicle manufacturing and advanced robotics. This
spring, Pittsburgh’s unemployment rate hit a record low of 3.2%, and
Pittsburgh has added more than 80,000 local jobs under the Biden-Harris
Administration, recovering all those lost during the prior
administration.

This [comeback
story](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Brainard-Comeback-Communities-Memo-2024.07.09.pdf)
is not just happening here in Pittsburgh – it is happening in cities and
towns across the country from Milwaukee to Scranton to Dayton.

Conclusion

Last fall, I spent time in western Kentucky, part of the Illinois
Basin—a region where Illinois, Indiana, and Kentucky meet. Across state
borders, what unites this region is a shared history of powering the
industrial revolution and economic growth, a shared reality of declining
demand for coal, and a shared opportunity to create a stronger and more
resilient future.

At the start of this Administration, President Biden launched an
all-of-government effort dedicated to energy communities like this
one—an effort that put federal staff on the ground to understand the
communities’ needs and strengths first, and then to identify the
resources across the federal government and private sector to make the
region’s vision—from infrastructure to entrepreneurship—become a
reality.

During my trip to the Illinois Basin, I spoke to local leaders and
workers who were coming together to re-envision the region’s economic
future. The community is in the driver’s seat, and this Administration
is proud to be helping the community get to where they want to go.

Since my visit, Webster and Union counties received $800,000 in [federal
support to develop a Regional Training
Center](https://www.kaco.org/articles/nearly-1-million-in-grant-funds-heading-to-webster-union-counties/).
In collaboration with Madisonville Community College, the center will
train students as utility linemen and diesel mechanics and help them
obtain a Commercial Driver’s License. The administrative offices at the
former Dotiki Mine will house the training center. And former mine land
will be used to train new skills for new jobs.

It’s a small investment with outsized outcomes across a region. It’s a
community turning setback into comeback—one of many now underway across
the country.
