---
date: '2024-07-09'
modified_time: 2024-07-09 23:23:07-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-09 23:23:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/09/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-75th-anniversary-of-the-north-atlantic-treaty-organization-alliance/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the 75th Anniversary of the North Atlantic\
  \ Treaty Organization\_Alliance"
---
 
5:46 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Good evening. Welcome.

In 1949, when leaders of 12 countries, including President Truman, came
together in this very room, history was watching.

It had been four years since the surrender of the Axis powers and the
end of the most devastating world war the world had ever, ever known.

Here, these 12 leaders gathered to make a sacred pledge to defend each
other against aggression, provide their collective security, and to
answer threats as one, because they knew to prevent future wars, to
protect democracies, to lay the groundwork for a lasting peace and
prosperity, they needed a new approach. They needed to combine their
strengths. They needed an alliance.

And here, they signed the Washington Treaty and created the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization, the single greatest, most effective
defensive alliance in the history of the world.

Mr. Secretary-General, leaders of NATO countries, foreign and defense
ministers, representatives from partner nations and the European Union,
and members of Congress, distinguished guests, welcome — welcome to the
2024 NATO Summit. It’s a pleasure. (Applause.)

It’s a pleasure to host you in this milestone year to look back with
pride at all we’ve achieved and look ahead to our shared future with
strength and with resolve.

Together, we rebuilt Europe from the ruins of war, held high the torch
of liberty during long decades of the Cold War.

When former adversaries became fellow democracies, we welcomed them into
the Alliance.

When war broke out in the Balkans, we intervened to restore peace and
stop ethnic cleansing.

And when the United States was attacked on September 11th, our NATO
Allies — all of you — stood with us, invoking Article 5 for the first
time in NATO history, treating an attack on us as an attack on all of us
— a breathtaking display of friendship that the American people will
never ever, ever forget.

Through all this history, when great changes occurred, people would ask,
“Can NATO adapt?” And every time, we proved we could adapt. And we did:
evolving our strategies to stay ahead of threats, reaching out to new
partners to increase our effectiveness.

And here with us — and here with us today are countries from the
Indo-Pacific region. They’re here because they have a stake in our
success and we have a stake in theirs.

Today, NATO is more powerful than ever: 32 nations strong. For years,
Finland and Sweden were among our closest partners. Now they have chosen
to officially join NATO. And because of the power and meaning of Article
5 guarantee — that’s the reason. It was the most important aspect of the
Alliance in 1949, and it is still the most important aspect.

I’d also note Finland and Sweden joined the Alliance not just because
their leaders sought it, because their citizens called for it in
overwhelming numbers.

And remember: NATO’s character is fundamentally democratic. Always has
been and always must continue to be.

And today, NATO is better resourced than it ever has been.

I want to pause on this because it’s significant.

In the year 2020, the year I was — the year I was elected president,
only nine NATO Allies were spending 2 percent of their defense — GDP on
defense.

This year, 23 will spend at least 2 percent. (Applause.) And some will
spend more than that.

And the remaining countries that have not yet reached that milestone
will get there soon.

It’s remarkable progress — proof that our commitment is broad and deep,
that we’re ready, that we’re willing, and we’re able to deter aggression
and defend every inch of NATO territory across every domain: land, air,
sea, cyber, and space.

My friends, it’s good that we’re stronger than ever, because this moment
in history calls for our collective strength.

Autocrats want to overturn global order, which has by and large kept for
nearly 80 years and counting.

Terrorist groups continue to plot evil schemes to cause mayhem and chaos
and suffering.

In Europe, Putin’s war of aggression against Ukraine continues. And
Putin wants nothing less — nothing less than Ukraine’s total
subjugation; to end Ukraine’s democracy; to destroy Uraine’s cul- —
Uraine — Ukraine’s culture; and to wipe Ukraine off the map.

And we know Putin won’t stop at Ukraine. But make no mistake, Ukraine
can and will stop Putin — (applause) — especially with our full,
collective support. And they have our full support.

Even before Russian bombs were falling on Ukraine, the Alliance acted.
Or- — I ordered the U.S. reinforcements at NATO’s eastern flank — more
troops, more aircraft, more capabilities. And now the United States has
more than 100,000 troops on the continent of Europe.

NATO moved swiftly as well, not only reinforcing the four existing
battle groups of the east but also adding four more in Bulgaria,
Hungary, Romania, and Slovakia, essentially doubling NATO’s strength on
the eastern flank.

Together, we’ve built a global coalition to stand with Ukraine.
Together, we’ve provided significant economic and humanitarian
assistance. And together, we’ve supplied Ukraine with weapons it needs
to defend itself: tanks, armored fighting vehicles, air defense systems,
long-range missiles, and millions of munitions.

The United States and nearly two dozen Allied partners have signed the
bilateral security agreements with Ukraine and more countries will
follow.

Today, I’m announcing the historic donation of air defense equipment for
Ukraine. The United States, Germany, the Netherlands, Romania, and Italy
will provide Ukraine with the equipment for five additional strategic
air defense systems.

And in the coming months, the United States and our partners intend to
provide Ukraine with dozens of additional tactical air defense systems.

The United States will make sure that when we export critical air
defense interceptors, Ukraine goes to the front of the line. (Applause.)
They will get this assistance before anyone else gets it.

All told, Ukraine will receive hundreds of additional interceptors over
the next year, helping protect Ukrainian cities against Russian missiles
and Ukrainian troops facing air attacks on the front lines.

Make no mistake, Russia is failing in this war. More than two years into
Putin’s war of choice, his losses are staggering: more than 350,000
Russian troops dead or wounded; nearly 1 million Russians, many of them
young people, have left Russia because they no longer see a future in
Russia.

And Kyiv — remember, fellows and ladies — was supposed to fall in five
days. Remember? Well, it’s still standing two and a half years later and
will continue to stand. (Applause.)

All the Allies knew that before this war, Putin thought NATO would
break. Today, NATO is stronger than it’s ever been in its history.

When this senseless war began, Ukraine was a free country. Today, it is
still a free country, and the war will end with Ukraine remaining a free
and independent country. (Applause.)

Russia will not prevail. Ukraine will prevail. (Applause.)

Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pivotal moment for Europe, for the
transatlantic community, and, I might add, for the world.

Let’s remember: The fact that NATO remains the bulwark of global
security did not happen by accident. It wasn’t inevitable. Again and
again, at critical moments, we chose unity over disunion, progress over
retreat, freedom over tyranny, and hope over fear.

Again and again, we stood behind our shared vision of a peaceful and
prosperous transatlantic community.

Here at this summit, we gather to proclaim NATO is ready and able to
secure that vision today and well into the future. (Applause.)

Let me say this. An overwhelming bipartisan majority of Americans
understand that NATO makes us all safer. The fact that both Democratic
and Republican parties are represented here today is a testament to that
fact.

The American people know that all the progress we’ve made in the past 75
years has happened behind the shield of NATO.

And the American people understand what would happen if there was no
NATO: another war in Europe, American troops fighting and dying,
dictators spreading chaos, economic collapse, catastrophe.

Americans, they know we’re stronger with our friends. And we understand
this is a sacred obligation.

As President Reagan put it, and I quote, “If our fellow democracies are
not secure, we cannot be secure. If you are threatened, we are
threatened. And if you are not at peace, we cannot be at peace.”

Reagan knew it then, and we know it now. Our nations will continue to
keep faith with what we’ve pledged in the years to come.

Now, if you’ll indulge me, I’d like to end my remarks a slightly unusual
way.

NATO is an alliance of nations but also made up of leaders. And one
person in particular has done an extraordinary job leading NATO for the
last decade: Secretary-General Stoltenberg.

Will you come forward? (Applause.)

So much of the progress we’ve made in the Alliance is thanks to the
secretary. He’s a man of integrity and intellectual rigor, a calm
temperament in a moment of crisis, a consummate diplomat who works with
leaders across the political spectrum and always finds a way to keep us
moving forward.

Mr. Secretary, you’ve guided this alliance through one of the most
consequential periods in its history. I realize I — as I was talking to
your wife — I personally asked you to extend your service. (Laughs.)
Forgive me. (Laughter.) And you put your own plans on hold.

When the Russian war on Ukraine began, you didn’t hesitate. Today, NATO
is stronger, smarter, and more energized than when you began. And a
billion people across Europe and North America and, indeed, the whole
world will reap the rewards of your labor for years to come in the form
of security, opportunity, and greater freedoms.

For these reasons, I am pleased to award you the highest civilian honor
that the United States can bestow: the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

Ask the mili- — (applause) — military aide to come forward — (applause)
— and ask him to read the citation. (Applause.)

MILITARY AIDE: The president of the Unites States of America awards this
Presidential Medal of Freedom to Jens Stoltenberg. A visionary statesman
and ceaseless defender of democracy, Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg
has guided the NATO Alliance through the most consequential decade for
European security since World War II.

When Vladimir Putin launched his brutal assault on the people of
Ukraine, betting that NATO would break, Secretary-General Stoltenberg
proved him wrong. Under his stewardship, NATO has become stronger and
more united than ever, and Americans for generations to come will
benefit from the safer world he helped create.

He demonstrates that the core truth of the Alliance is as powerful now
as it was 75 years ago: Together, we are stronger. (Applause.)

(The Presidential Medal of Freedom is presented.) (Applause.)

6:00 P.M. EDT
