---
date: '2024-07-01'
modified_time: 2024-07-02 10:00:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-01 21:56:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/01/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-supreme-courts-immunity-ruling/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Supreme Court\u2019s Immunity\_Ruling"
---
 
Cross Hall

7:45 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening. 

The presidency is the most powerful office in the world.  It’s an office
that not only tests your judgment, perhaps even more importantly it’s an
office that can test your character because you not only face moments
where you need the courage to exercise the full power of the presidency,
you also face moments where you need the wisdom to respect the limits of
the power of the office of the presidency.

This nation was founded on the principle that there are no kings in
America.  Each — each of us is equal before the law.  No one — no one is
above the law, not even the president of the United States. 

With today’s Supreme Court decision on presidential immunity, that
fundamentally changed.  For all — for all practical purposes, today’s
decision almost certainly means that there are virtually no limits on
what a president can do. 

This is a fundamentally new principle, and it’s a dangerous precedent
because the power of the office will no longer be constrained by the
law, even including the Supreme Court of the United States.  The only
limits will be self-imposed by the president alone.

This decision today has continued the Court’s attack in recent years on
a wide range of long-established legal principles in our nation, from
gutting voting rights and civil rights to taking away a woman’s right to
choose to today’s decision that undermines the rule of law of this
nation.

Nearly four years ago, my predecessor sent a violent mob to the U.S.
Capitol to stop the peaceful transfer of power.  We all saw it with our
own eyes.  We sat there and watched it happen that day.  Attack on the
police.  The ransacking of the Capitol.  A mob literally hunting down
the House Speaker, Nancy Pelosi.  Gallows erected to hang the vice
president, Mike Pence.  I think it’s fair to say it was one of the
darkest days in the history of America.

Now the man who sent that mob to the U.S. Capitol is facing potential
criminal conviction for what happened that day.  And the American people
deserve to have an answer in the courts before the upcoming election. 
The public has a right to know the answer about what happened on January
6th before they ask to vote again this year.

Now, because of today’s decision, that is highly, highly unlikely.  It’s
a terrible disservice to the people of this nation.

So, now — now the American people have to do what the Court should have
been willing to do but would not.  The America people have to render a
judgment about Donald Trump’s behavior.  The American people must decide
whether Donald Trump’s assault on our democracy on January 6th makes him
unfit for public office in the highest office in the land.  The American
people must decide if Trump’s embrace of violence to preserve his power
is acceptable. 

Perhaps most importantly, the American people must decide if they want
to entrust the president — once again, the presidency to Donald Trump,
now knowing he’ll be even more emboldened to do whatever he pleases
whenever he wants to do it.

You know, at the outset of our nation, it was the character of George
Washington, our first president, that defined the presidency.  He
believed power was limited, not absolute, and that power would always
reside with the people — always.

Now, over 200 years later, with today’s Supreme Court decision, once
again it will depend on the character of the men and women who hold that
presidency that are going to define the limits of the power of the
presidency, because the law will no longer do it.

I know I will respect the limits of the presidential power, as I have
for three and a half years.  But any president, including Donald Trump,
will now be free to ignore the law. 

I concur with Justice Sotomayor’s dissent today.  She — here’s what she
said.  She said, “In every use of official power, the president is now a
king above the law.  With fear for our democracy, I dissent,” end of
quote.

So should the American people dissent.  I dissent. 

May God bless you all.  And may God help preserve our democracy.  Thank
you.  And may God protect our troops.

7:49 P.M. EDT
