---
date: '2024-07-30'
modified_time: 2024-07-31 13:19:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-30 22:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-atlanta-ga/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event Atlanta,\_GA"
---
 
Georgia State Convocation Center

Atlanta, Georgia

7:07 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.  (Applause.)  Good evening, Georgia. 
(Applause.)  
  
Good evening.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Laughs.)  Thank you. 
Thank you.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

My goodness.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  (Laughs.)  Thank you, everyone.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)

My goodness.  Thank you all.  Thank you very much.  Thank you,
everybody.

Oh, it’s good to be back in Georgia.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Thank
you. 

Everyone, can we please hear it for Tyler?  (Applause.)   
  
I want to thank Tyler for that incredible introduction.  I invited him
and several other young entrepreneurs to come and visit with me at the
White House, and we had a, really, very long and important conversation
about the future of America.  And, Tyler, you represent the best of our
future.  Thank you for that.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

And please give it up for Quavo — (applause) — and Megan.  (Applause.) 

So, it is so good to see everyone.  And let me — let me also thank our
incredible members of Congress who are with us this evening: Senator Jon
Ossoff — (applause); Senator Raphael Warnock — (applause); and
Representative Nikema Williams — (applause).   
  
To Mayor Andre Dickens, thank you for welcoming me back — (applause) —
to Atlanta.   
  
And thank you to the great Stacey Abrams — (applause) — for your
extraordinary leadership.

So, Georgia, it is so good to be back.  And I am very clear, the path to
the White House runs right through this state.  (Applause.)  And you all
helped us win in 2020, and we going to do it again in 2024. 
(Applause.)  Yes, we will.  Yes, we will.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, let’s get right down — (laughs) — so —
(applause) — so, I’m going to get i- — I’m — I’m going to get into some
business now.  Okay?  (Laughter.)  I’m going to get into some business
now.  All right.

So, Georgia, as many of you know, before — and have a seat, if you have
a chair.  (Laughter.) 

As many of you know, before I was elected vice president and before I
was elected a United States senator, I was an elected attorney general
and an elected district attorney.  (Applause.)  And before that, I was a
courtroom prosecutor.  (Applause.) 

So, in those roles, I took on perpetrators of all kinds — (applause):
predators who abused women — (applause); fraudsters who ripped off
consumers — (applause); cheaters who broke the rules for their own gain
— (applause).   So, hear me when I say I know Donald Trump’s type. 
(Applause.)  I know the type.  And I have been dealing with people like
him my entire career. 

For example, as attorney general of California, I took on one of our
country’s largest for-profit colleges that was scamming students.  Well,
Donald Trump ran a for-profit college that scammed students.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As a prosecutor, I specialized in child sexual
abuse cases and sexual abuse cases.  Well, Trump was found liable for
committing sexual abuse.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And as an attorney general, I held the big Wall
Street banks accountable for fraud.  Donald Trump was just found guilty
of fraud — (applause) — 34 counts. 

So, in this —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, in this campaign —

AUDIENCE:  Lock him up!  Lock him up!  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  (Inaudible.)   
  
So, in this campaign, I will proudly put my record against his any day
of the week — (applause) — any day of the week, including, for example,
on the issue of immigration. 

So, I was the attorney general of a border state.  In that job, I walked
underground tunnels between the United States and Mexico on that border
with law enforcement officers.  I went after transnational gangs, drug
cartels, and human traffickers that came into our country illegally.  I
prosecuted them in case after case, and I won. 

Donald Trump — (applause) — Donald Trump, on the other hand, has been
talking a big game about securing our border, but he does not walk the
walk — (applause) — or as my friend Quavo would say, he does not walk it
like he talks it.  (Applause.)

Where’s Quavo?  (Laughs.) 

So, look, our administration worked on the most significant border
security bill in decades.  Some of the most conservative Republicans in
Washington, D.C., supported the bill.  Even the Border Patrol endorsed
it.  It was all set to pass.  But at the last minute, Trump directed his
allies in the Senate to vote it down.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.   
  
 He tanked — tanked the bipartisan deal because he thought it would help
him win an election —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
      
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which goes to show Donald Trump does not care
about border security; he only cares about himself.  (Applause.)

And when I am president, I will work to actually solve the problem. 
(Applause.)

So, here is my pledge to you.  As president, I will bring back the
border security bill that Donald Trump killed, and I will sign it into
law — (applause) — and show Donald Trump what real leadership looks
like.  (Applause.)

But make no mistake, this campaign is not just about us versus Donald
Trump.  Truly, this campaign is about two very different visions for our
nation — (applause): one focused on the future, the other focused on the
past.  (Applause.)

We believe in a future where every person has the opportunity to build a
business — (applause) — to own a home, to build intergenerational wealth
— (applause); a future with affordable health care — (applause) —
affordable childcare, paid leave.  (Applause.)

And all of this is to say: Building up the middle class will be a
defining goal of my presidency.  (Applause.)  Because we here all know,
when our middle class is strong, America is strong.  (Applause.)

And to keep our middle class strong, families need relief from the high
cost of living so that they have a chance not just to get by but to get
ahead.  (Applause.)

And, yes, it is true that by many indicators, our economy is the
strongest in the world — (applause) — but while inflation is down and
wages are up, prices are still too high. (Applause.)  You know it, and I
know it.  (Applause.)

And when we win this election, here’s what we’re going to do about
it.   
  
On day one, I will take on price gouging and bring down costs. 
(Applause.) 

We will ban more of those hidden fees and surprise late charges that
banks and other companies use to pad their profits.  (Applause.) 

We will take on corporate landlords and cap unfair rent increases. 
(Applause.) 

And we will take on Big Pharma to cap prescription drug costs for all
Americans.  (Applause.)

Our plan will lower costs and save many middle-class families thousands
of dollars a year.  But Donald Trump has a different plan in mind, one
that would raise prices on middle-class families.  Just look at his
Project 2025 agenda.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I take it you’ve seen it.  (Laughter.)

Project 2025 is a plan to weaken the middle class, be clear.  And Donald
Trump intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to give tax breaks to billionaires and
big corporations. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to gut our investments in clean energy
jobs.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to end the Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to take us back to a time when insurance
companies had the power to deny people with preexisting conditions.  Do
you guys remember what that was?  Children with asthma.  Breast cancer
survivors.  Grandparents with diabetes.

Georgia, America has tried these failed policies before, and we are not
—

AUDIENCE:  Going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — going back.  (Applause.)  We’re not going back. 
We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because ours is a fight
for the future and it is a fight for freedom.  (Applause.) 

Across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on hard-fought,
hard-won freedoms and rights: the freedom to vote — (applause); the
freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause); the freedom to live
without fear of bigotry and hate — (applause); the freedom to love who
you love openly and with pride — (applause); the freedom to learn and
acknowledge our true and full history — (applause); and the freedom of a
woman to make decisions about her own body — (applause) — and not have
her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

Ours is a fight for the future and for freedom.  And I don’t have to
tell folks in Atlanta that generations of Americans before us led the
fight for freedom.  And now the baton is in our hands — (applause) —
each and every one of us.

And we love our country.  We love our country.  And I believe it is the
highest form of patriotism to fight for the ideals of our country. 
(Applause.)

And so, we, who believe in the sacred freedom to vote, will finally pass
the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement
Act.  (Applause.)

We, who believe in the freedom to live safe from gun violence, will
finally pass universal background checks — (applause), red flag laws —
(applause), and an assault weapons ban — (applause).

We, who believe in reproductive freedom — (applause) — will stop Donald
Trump’s extreme abortion bans.  And when Congress passes a law to
restore reproductive freedoms — (applause) — as president of the United
States, I will sign it into law.  (Applause.)

So, November 5th — November 5th is in 98 days.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  An- — (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

So, in 98 days — and let’s level set.  Friends, let’s level set.  We
have a fight in front of us.  (Applause.)  We have a fight in front of
us, and we are the underdogs in this race.  We are. 

But you see, this is a people-powered campaign.  (Applause.)  Ours is a
people-powered campaign. 

In fact, after I announced my candidacy, we saw the best week of
grassroots fundraising in presidential campaign history.  (Applause.) 
And if you go to KamalaHarris.com, you can help us build on that
success.  (Applause.)

So, the momentum in this race is shifting.  And there are signs that
Donald Trump is feeling it.  (Laughter and applause.)  You may have
noticed.

So, last week, you may have seen, he pulled out of the debate in
September he had previously agreed to.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So — so, here’s the thing.  Here- — here’s the
funny thing about that.  Here’s the funny thing about that.  So, he
won’t debate, but he and his running mate sure seem to have a lot to say
about me.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, don’t you find some of their stuff to just be plain
weird?  (Applause.)

Well, Donald — (applause) — I do hope you’ll reconsider to meet me on
the debate stage — (applause) — because, as the saying goes, if you’ve
got something to say, say it to my face.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 

So, Georgia, in the next 98 days, we have our work cut out for us.  And
this is not going to be easy.  This is hard work, but we like hard
work.  Hard work is good work.  (Applause.)

So, Georgia, today I ask you: Are you ready to get to work? 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in freedom?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in opportunity?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in the promise of America?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And are we ready to fight for it?

AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win!

God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

END                 7:27 P.M. EDT
