---
date: '2024-07-17'
modified_time: 2024-07-18 12:06:54-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-17 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-amanda-stratton-and-olivia-troye-at-a-political-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with Amanda Stratton\
  \ and Olivia Troye at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Air Zoo Aerospace and Science Museum

Portage, Michigan

2:27 P.M. EDT

MS. TROYE:  All right.  I get to kick this off.  It’s an honor. 

I’m here as a conservative, pro-choice woman.  And I don’t think 10, 5,
or even maybe 2 years ago, we would have been talking about reproductive
rights in elections, because it was seen as too controversial, not a
winning issue, and, frankly, it seems like settled law. 

Clearly, the landscape has shifted 180 degrees.  How do you see this
moment and how we got here?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first, I want to thank the two of you for your
extraordinary courage and leadership on this issue, the voice that you
each have carried and continue to carry is the voice of so many people
who may not have the ability to do what the two of you have done so
courageously, and I thank you for that.  (Applause.)

And we should applaud that courage.  It takes a lot of courage to do
what you two are doing.  Extraordinary courage. 

So, just over two years ago, the highest court in our land — you know, I
think about it — the court of Thurgood Marshall and RBG — took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of
America, from the women of America. 

And thereafter, in state after state, extremists proposed and passed
laws that would punish health care providers.  I mean, in a state like
Texas, you know they — their law provides for life in prison for a
doctor who administers care.  Laws that would punish women — criminalize
doctors, punish women.  Laws that make no exception even for rape and
incest. 

You know, many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor.  You
may not know one of the reasons why.  When I was in high school, I
learned that my best friend was being molested by her stepfather. 

And I said to her, “You have to come stay with us.  You have to come
live with us.”  I called my mother.  My mother said, “Of course, she
does.”  And she did. 

So, I decided I wanted to take on a career that was about protecting, in
particular, women and children from violence. 

And the notion that these extremists would say to a survivor of such a
crime of violence and a violation of someone’s body — and to say to that
survivor, “And you have no right or authority to decide what happens to
your body next”?  That’s immoral. 

What has been happening in our state is that — you know, I’ve talked
with so many women who have a similar story to what you have shared —
women who want to have children and have gone through the horrible
experience of a miscarriage and need care — need medical care, and
denied — denied access to an emergency room because the — the health
care providers there believed they would be exposed to a criminal case
if they helped.

The number of stories that I’ve heard about women sil- — and their —
their partners, their spouses, their families silently suffering. 

Think about what’s happening in our country when you know that the
majority of women who receive abortion care are mothers.  Okay?  Well,
God help her if she’s in a state with a ban.  God help her if she has
paid family leave or affordable childcare.

Think about — you know, I say to my — my staff and my team for years, I
say, “You know, in public policy, always ask how does this impact a real
human being.”  (Applause.)  Right?

So, think about — think about what we’re saying to her, that she’s going
to — God help her if she’s got extra money to buy a plane ticket and for
a hotel room.  And then what does that mean?  She has to go to the
airport, stand in line at TSA, get on a plane, sit next to a perfect
stranger, go to a city where she’s never been to receive this care to
only get back as soon as she can because she got to take care of those
kids.  Her best friend is not with her because her best friend taking
care of the kids.  Think about what we’re putting people through.

The other thing, though, the — that I have experienced in these two
years as I travel around our country — and I’ve — I’ve taken almost 100
trips in connection with this issue.  It’s six- — it’s my sixth time
since the Dobbs decision coming to Michigan. 

And one of the things I’ve found also are the stories of people who tell
me about themselves.  “You know, I — I once felt very strongly about
this — didn’t believe in abortion, didn’t believe in it.  But I –“

MS. TROYE:  That was me.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  And — and they are saying, “But I didn’t
expect this would happen.”

MS. TROYE:  That was — that was the household I grew up in.  That was me
—

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MS. TROYE:  — and my mom.  We’re conservatives.  We grew up in a
conservative Catholic household in Texas, very Republican family.  That
was me.  But we’ve evolved.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, because I think that, first of all, on this
issue, most people believe that one does not have to abandon their faith
or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her
what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  Right? 

If she chooses, she will talk with her priest or her pastor or her rabbi
or her imam, but it shouldn’t be the government telling her what to do. 

And I do believe the majority of us, as Americans, have empathy and
don’t will upon another suffering.  I — I do believe that.  And — and I
— and that’s what I’m finding, to your point, about people who felt
strongly before the decision came down and now they’re seeing how it’s
playing out, and — and they don’t intend that people would have that
experience.  So —

MS. STRATTON:  All right.  As I mentioned earlier, I have personally
navigated the challenges of miscarriage and secondary infertility, which
has deepened my understanding of the importance of having the right to
make informed decisions about your own reproductive health.

Miscarriage is extremely common, with one in four pregnancies ending and
loss, yet it remains a topic that’s rarely discussed openly.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. STRATTON:  My experience highlights the critical need for women to
have access to safe and — safe medical care.

Like this conversation today, you’ve been intentional about speaking to
folks across the political spectrum about what is at stake on this
issue.  You have traveled all across the country, including to tradit- —
traditionally conservative areas —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. STRATTON:  — to speak about the importance of reproductive freedom
and have shown up at the places where freedom is under attack.  And now
this is your seventh visit to Michigan as vice president and the second
trip this year to — to Michigan to talk about reproductive rights.

Why is it important for you to show up and bring this message?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Again, I thank you and — both of you for being
here. 

I think we — I’ll repeat the point that I made earlier.  I think that
most of us agree that we shouldn’t allow supposed leaders to do things
that hurt people.

You know, there is something very basic about this.  I think that there
is something that is very basic about this in terms of who we are as
Americans and our founding principles, which include a founding
principle that we believe in freedom.  We believe in freedom — freedom
from the government telling us what to do about matters of heart and
home.  We believe in the right of — of people to make basic decisions
like when and if they will start a family and how.

I — you know, in — in traveling the country, part of what I — I point
out, which is what we all know, regardless of your gender — think about
this: If we, in this year of our Lord, 2024, have a state of being where
the government can tell you what to do with your body — I mean, the most
basic of things you should have control over — everybody better watch
out about what other freedoms you’re taking for granted.  (Applause.) 
Right?

And you are right that this is something that, in my experience
traveling the country, going to so-called red and so-called blue and
so-called purple states, is that — you know, you look at when this issue
was on the ballot from, you know, Montana to — to, I don’t know,
Virginia — I mean, look at so-called red and blue states: Whenever it
was on the ballot, the American people voted for freedom.  The American
people voted for freedom.  (Applause.)

So, I think it’s — it’s basic — it’s — it’s something that should also
in this moment in our country, where for the last few years we’ve seen
such division and attempts to divide us —  this is a very, very serious,
pivotal, foundational issue.  But what we have seen is when the American
people are presented with this issue, regardless of what party they’re
registered to vote with, they stand for freedom.  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  In that vein — and thank you, by the way, for traveling —
for all the travel that you’ve done to reach —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. TROYE:  — the more conservative areas.  I think this is an
incredibly important conversation and moment to have. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  The extremists — the extremists are not — not done.  For me
— and I think Amanda would probably say the same — this isn’t — this
isn’t the Republican Party I grew up with.  This isn’t the party that I
supported (inaudible) about the things that I’m seeing that Donald Trump
has implemented along the way, and I have greater concerns about what’s
to come.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  What do you think is next? 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We have 111 days to determine that.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.) 

Because therein, also, in the — in the midst of those who are trying to
take individual freedoms, including the power to make basic decisions
about your own life, we should remember the power of the people to make
a decision about who sits in these offices.  (Applause.)  And that power
rests with us, each one of us. 

And in these moments, we should not become dispirited.  This is not a
time to throw up our hands.  This is a time to roll up our sleeves. 
(Applause.)

But you’re right.  I mean, so, the former president, first of all,
listen, he hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme
Court with the intention that they would do exactly what they did.  And
he’s told us over and over again who he is on this subject.  And then
now — well, you know, there’s a bit of a gaslight going — gaslighting
going on where, “Oh, well, no, I just believe it should go to the
states.” 

Okay, so, first of all, any of the historians here will know what that
means when we start pushing states’ rights, but let’s put that aside. 
(Laughter.) 

Okay, so you believe it should go to the states?  Well, the way I look
at it is then let’s look at all the — I think it’s now 21 or 22 Trump
abortion bans in those 21, 22 states, which again make no exception,
some, for rape or incest; which have contributed to — to IVF clinics and
care being stifled; which have contributed to women having, I mean,
awful experiences around miscarriage; which have contributed to people
who are doctors and nurses and health care providers being afraid they
might go to jail for administering care.

And, you know — and then, recently, the former president selected his
running mate, the senator, Vance — J.D. Vance.  Understand, this is a
fellow who in the United States Senate participated in blocking
protections for IVF.  This is an individual who has said he is for a
national — and has made every indication that he has for national
abortion ban. 

And so, again, this is where the power is with the people.  We have an
election coming up. 

Don- — you — listen and in contrast to the former president, Joe Biden
has been very clear — has been very clear: If there were any attempt at
a national abortion ban, he would veto it.  And if we have the right
people in Congress, people like Debbie Stabenow and others, and they put
back in law the protections of Roe v. Wade, our President Joe Biden will
sign it into law.  (Applause.)

MS. TROYE:  So, pivoting a little bit.  This is an issue that I
personally very much care about.  I’ve worked on a lot, especially
having a family member that experienced gun violence.

As you mentioned in your opening remarks, gun violence in America is top
of mind for so many people right now.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  And there is no place for political violence or gun violence
in our nation. 

Last year, I was proud to advocate for new laws that were passed here in
Michigan.  I advocated as a gun owner — a responsible gun owner —
(applause) — including red flag law, universal background checks and
expanding them, and a safe storage law.  But we know that we still need
additional reasonable gun safety laws at the federal level. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  How are you and President Biden working to address gun
violence in America?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Olivia, you’ve been a great leader on this. 
And I’m sorry for the personal tragedies that you’ve experienced. 

Gun violence in America today is the number-one cause of the death of
children in America.  Think about that.  The number-one cause of the
death of children in America is gun violence — not car accidents, not
some form of cancer, gun violence. 

Today in our country, one in five Americans has a relative, a family
member who was killed by gun violence.  And it doesn’t have to be this
way. 

And it’s a false choice for people to say, “Well, you’re either in favor
of the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone’s guns away.”  I’m
in favor of the Second Amendment.  I’m also in favor of the assault
weapons ban, of universal background checks, red flag laws. (Applause.) 
Right? 

And to your point, the leadership here in Michigan has been
extraordinary on this.  And we need people in Washington, D.C., to watch
what you all have done and how you’ve done it because you’ve also pulled
together coalitions of people, Democrats and Republicans and
independents.  That bullet doesn’t care who you are registered to vote
with.  Think about this, and then think about it in terms of the trauma.

So, last fall, I started a college tour.  I — by the way, I love Gen Z. 
I — I d- — you know, I — (laughter) — if you have Gen Z in your life,
maybe it’s complicated for you, but they’re really great.  (Laughs.) 
They’re really great.  (Applause.)

And among the many things that I would ask, you know, these auditoriums
full of these young leaders — I would ask them: Raise your hand if at
any time between kindergarten and 12th grade you had to endure an active
shooter drill.  It was bone-chilling.  Almost every hand went up. 

Think about that.  You know, when — when I was growing up — I’ll speak
for some of us here, I think — we had fire drills.  (Laughter.)  But
this is a whole other thing. 

And our young people — think: they should be in the classroom
experiencing the wonders of the world, and some part of their brain is
concerned that someone will bust through that classroom door.  And think
about the trauma that gun violence has exacted not only on our young
people who are afraid of what might happen in the context of a mass
shooting, think of the trauma in terms of everyday gun violence that
happens in places around our country — that trauma being undiagnosed and
untreated.  There are so many permeations and ramifications of this gun
violence. 

In fact, we just announced a couple days ago — under the president and
our administration, we created 988.  In fact, I’d — I’d encourage
everyone here to know about it and pass it on.  And it’s basically a
crisis line where people who are in crisis — it’s not — it’s not only a
talk line, but there are mental health professionals who answer it 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, anonymously.  So, people can text or call
when they’re experiencing crisis to bring it down and also to know where
to get help.

But these are all the ramifications of this.  And the solutions don’t
really require that much creativity. 

What they do require is people in the United States Congress to have
courage to act and do what we know is the right thing to do and not
cower based on special interest and powerful lobbyists who are
encouraging them to do something and actually is contrary to what is the
health and well-being of our nation on such a specific issue.  Yeah.

MS. STRATTON:  I’ve been sharing my personal story with the hope of
encouraging women across the country to vote for candidates who support
the right to choose because I firmly believe that politicians have no
place in family planning, especially when it doesn’t go as planned. 

Here in Michigan, we worked hard two years ago to pass Prop 3 to protect
reproductive freedoms, refe- — reflecting the belief of 57 percent of
Michiganders that every person has the fundamental right to reproductive
freedom.  However, with the upcoming presidential election, there’s
still so much at stake if Republicans gain control and are allowed to
implement a nationwide abortion ban. 

With the election just four months away and the potential implications
for reproductive rights, how are you planning to engage and mobilize
voters?  And what strategies do you think will be most effective in
reaching and inspiring people to take action?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Amanda, for that.

One piece of this is to really remind people that they’re not alone.  I
think there is something that has happened — I mentioned it earlier —
that is making people feel like, you know, “Are people there for me?” 
And we have to remind people we’re all in this together. 

I think this is a moment that we have to be very intentional about
building community, about reaching out to the folks we know — relatives,
neighbors, coworkers — and reminding them that we’re all in this
together and that we can make sense of it if we try. 

And part of making sense of it is reminding everyone, in an election
year, their power to determine very important issues through their
vote.  And so, that means, you know, reminding people to register to
vote, reminding people to go online — there’s IWillVote.org — and — and
to make sure you know where you’re registered, because, sadly, in so
many states in our country right now, they’re intentionally passing laws
to make it more difficult for people to vote.  They’re passing laws that
allow, you know, for political reasons, that they’ll reduce the number
of polling sites so that people won’t know where to go vote or, because
there are reduced polling sites, the lines will be longer, which will
deter people from standing in line, especially if they’re working two
and three jobs; they don’t have the time. 

So, let’s remind people about the connection between their lives and
their vote, between their power and the outcome of this election. 

Let’s organize people building coalitions.  You know, again, we’re —
there are forces trying to divide us.  We got to remember in our hearts
and — and help people remember: The vast majority of us have so much
more in common than what separates us.  We’ve got to remember that,
right?  (Applause.)  I think that’s critically important. 

You know, sometimes these kinds of moments have a tendency, if not an
intention, to make people feel small and make them feel alone and
disempower people. 

I was saying to — to — we had a brief conversation earlier.  You know, I
think it’s — there’s this perversity that has taken place over the last
several years to suggest the measure of the strength of a leader is
based on who you beat down, when, in fact, the true measure of the
strength of a leader, I think we all agree, is based on who you lift up
—  right? — (applause) — that — that the — the character — the character
and the strength, therefore, of a real leader this — I’m looking at a
room full of leaders; you wouldn’t be here if you weren’t — the
character is — is such that that individual has some level of concern
and care about the well-being of other people and then does something
about it to lift them up.

So, let’s remind people of all of that.  And — and let’s organize and
let’s energize and let’s mobilize.  Let’s, I mean, literally, call up
and text and email the folks you know and just bug them.  Just bug
them.  It’s okay.  It’s election time.  They’ll expect it coming from
you.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  They’ll still invite you over for
Thanksgiving and Christmas; it’s okay.  (Laughter.)

But let’s just stay on people and — and in that way let, them know that
— that they matter and that we’re all in it together.  So —

MS. TROYE:  Well, speaking of elevating people, as we come to the close
of the program, though, I — I think what you’re doing is incredible.  I
think this is exactly the way forward.  I think extending the grace that
you have to have Amanda and I on stage, as two Republicans — or
recovering Republicans, as I said earlier — I think this is an example
of how we come together —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE — and how we build this coalition.  Like you said, I think
it’s about empowering each other, and I also think it’s a sign of — that
women are going to support women.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s exactly right. 

MS. TROYE:   We’re going to stand by other women.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s exactly right.  That’s right.  Well said.

MS. TROYE:  So, I hope that that’s the message that carries forward. 
And thank you for providing that avenue —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. TROYE:  — for us to come together.  I — I do think that this is a
big moment in time for our political system and what’s at stake.  And
so, I think that thi- — I hope that this serves as an example for others
to have these types of conversations with each other —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. TROYE:  — and to extend that grace and understand that —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. TROYE:  — we’re going to stand by each other. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. TROYE:  They don’t get to win when we’re together.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s exactly right.  (Applause.)

MS. TROYE:  Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And with that, thank you all.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.) 

MS. STRATTON:  Thank you.

END                     2:53 P.M. CDT
