---
date: '2024-07-11'
modified_time: 2024-07-11 21:36:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-11 21:36:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/11/remarks-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-at-the-nato-public-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by APNSA Jake Sullivan at the NATO Public\_Forum"
---
 
Marriott Marquis  
Washington, D.C.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, good morning, everyone.  It’s great to be here with
all of you.  And I really want to thank Fred for that unduly generous
introduction.

But I especially want to thank the entire team who have made this forum
possible, because this forum is a critical pillar of the summit.  Every
think tank, every sponsor, every NATO leader, every partner, every
participant, and, frankly, every citizen who has participated in this
forum, either live or virtually over the course of this summit.

I’m honored to have the chance to be here to just say a few words to
such an impressive group.

I know that one thing that has been on all of our minds throughout this
summit, and in the lead-up to it, is Russia’s brutal war of conquest
against Ukraine.

Where are we?  And where are we headed?

Just a few months ago, the situation looked extremely grim.  Security
funding for Ukraine was held up in our Congress here in Washington.  And
we all saw the consequences: Ukrainian soldiers on the frontlines
running out of artillery shells, literally rationing ammo.  Ukrainian
families worried that Russian forces would take town after town.  And we
did indeed see the Russians try to press their advantage, seizing that
window of opportunity to take additional territory.

And back in April, just a few months ago, there were voices predicting
that by the time of this summit here in Washington, today, Ukraine’s
lines would crack, Russia would be making a major breakthrough, and the
backdrop of this summit would be Russia surging forward across the
front. 

And to be frank, I imagine that many of the people actually in this room
today thought that might be the case as well.

But Ukrainian forces stood strong.  And President Biden, with bipartisan
support in Congress, moved heaven and earth to get the national security
funding for Ukraine passed.

And since then, the picture has changed considerably.

Russia’s Kharkiv offensive stalled out.  Russia is continuing to throw
wave after wave of men into the fight, taking little increments of
territory but at astonishing cost.

By and large, the frontlines have stabilized.  Ukrainian mobilization
efforts have improved.  Ukrainian units are building stronger
fortifications and defensive lines.  And day by day, they’re pushing
back.

This is due to the people of Ukraine — to their sheer courage and
commitment to their country and its freedom.  But it’s also due to the
support of the United States and nations around the world, including
NATO Allies here, gathered at this summit.

So this morning, I want to speak a little bit about the picture as we
see it in Ukraine and the steps that we are taking to ensure that this
war is a failure for Russia and a success for Ukraine.

I’ll start on the military side of things.

The fundamentals of this conflict are artillery and air defense.  And
over the last few months, we’ve surged both to Ukraine with the new
resources authorized by the Congress.  Hundreds of thousands of rounds
of 155 ammunition to the frontlines to help Ukraine repel Russian
attacks.

And we’ve now provided Ukraine with long-range capabilities, ATACMS
missiles, which the Ukrainians are employing with good effect in
Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine, including in Crimea.

And at this summit, we’ve continued to make major moves.

First, Allies have committed to collectively provide Ukraine with at
least 40 billion euros worth of security assistance over the next year.
 And that’s not just a dollar sign.  That is equipment, tanks, armored
fighting vehicles, artillery, missiles — the whole range of capabilities
that Ukraine needs to be able to effectively fight and win.

Next, in partnership with our Allies, we will provide Ukraine with five
strategic air defense systems and dozens of tactical systems that are
especially relevant to help protect Ukrainian forces on the frontlines.

The strategic air systems will help Ukraine as it endures a continued
pounding by Russia of its energy grid with Russian missiles and drones,
and a continued assault on its frontlines by Russian planes.  And we saw
the horrific reality of Russia’s brutality with the attack on the
children’s hospital in Kyiv just a few days ago.  And we are working
with the Ukrainians to deal with that attack and to respond with force
and vigor.

From our own production, we’ll deliver hundreds of critical air defense
missiles to Ukraine over the next year as well.

There was a point earlier this year when it looked like Ukraine might
run out of interceptors.  But thanks to decisions President Biden has
taken, working with allies and partners, we will ensure that Ukraine
remains supplied with the air defense missiles it needs for all of the
batteries that we and our allies are now providing.

And together, the United States, Denmark, and the Netherlands have begun
the transfer of F-16s to Ukrainian forces.  And Ukrainian pilots will be
operating in theater with those F-16s this summer.

Like I said, major moves.

And we’re also steeled for the struggle ahead.  President Putin thinks
he can outlast Ukraine and its supporters.  And he’s taken steps to put
Russia’s industry, its defense industry — in fact, its entire economy —
on a wartime footing.  And with help from Iran, from North Korea, and
from the People’s Republic of China, he’s attempting to undertake
Russia’s most significant defense expansion since the height of the Cold
War.

But make no mistake: This unsustainable war spending masks underlying
weakness and fragility.  And the economic costs for Russia are mounting
and will compound over time.

Meanwhile, NATO Allies have been making historic investments in our own
defense industrial bases without distorting our national economies the
way Russia has.

Yesterday, for the first time ever, every Ally pledged to develop plans
to strengthen their defense industrial capacities at home.  And like our
defense spending commitment, these individual pledges are critical to
our collective security.  They’re going to help enable the Alliance to
prioritize production of the most vital defense equipment we need in the
event of conflict and to produce the capabilities Ukraine needs, as we
speak, to fight Russia on the battlefield.

These pledges will also help forge new industry partnerships across the
Alliance, create jobs, and strengthen our economic competitiveness.  And
they will spur greater investment in NATO’s most significant advantage:
our technology and innovation.

As the folks in this room know very well, Russia’s brutal war of
conquest in Ukraine is evolving rapidly.  The very shape of warfare is
transforming before our eyes because of innovations, often deadly
innovations, in technology and techniques and tactics.

Ukraine’s continued success in this fight and our success in any future
fight will depend on innovation, on creativity, on entrepreneurship, on
adaptability.  Ukraine and the Ukrainian people have that in spades, and
they’ve demonstrated that since the war began.

But Ukraine will also have help from the collective innovation and
entrepreneurship of its Western partners.  And no one should bet against
our collective advantage in this area.  Already, we’re working with
Ukraine to solve some of the key technological challenges of an evolving
battlefield: electronic warfare, drones, de-mining.  And more where that
came from as the weeks and months unfold. 

Now, taken all together, the steps that I’ve laid out have put Ukraine
in a stronger position on the battlefield.  But the military side of
this equation is only one part of the progress that we have seen over
the course of 2024.

Ukraine, with the support of the United States and other allies and
partners, has made really remarkable diplomatic progress as well.

Just look at the last month alone.

At the G7 Summit in Italy, the United States and our partners reached a
historic decision to make Russia pay for the damage they’ve caused by
unlocking $50 billion from the Russian sovereign assets that we froze
together.

In Switzerland, just a couple days after that G7 Summit, Vice President
Harris and I had the honor to attend Ukraine’s peace conference to
support President Zelenskyy’s vision for a just and lasting peace in
line with the U.N. Charter.

That peace summit, attended by more than 100 countries and international
organizations, was a remarkable sign of Ukraine’s diplomatic strength
and staying power, both because of the broad range of countries
represented and because those countries spoke with a single voice to say
that any peace must be based on the principles of sovereignty,
territorial integrity, and the basic maxim that we cannot allow one
nation to take another nation’s territory by force.

In the same timeframe, around the G7 Summit, President Biden and
President Zelenskyy signed a bilateral security agreement, reflecting a
long-term commitment from the United States of America to provide
Ukraine the means to ensure its future security.  It was genuinely
historic.

And in a few hours, we’re going to make history again.  President Biden
will convene more than 20 world leaders, who’ve also signed their own
bilateral security agreements with Ukraine, to launch the Ukraine
Compact.

This compact knits all of these countries together.  And it makes clear
that we will continue to support Ukraine in this fight, and we will also
help build its force so it can credibly deter and defend against future
aggression as well.

And after this war is over, all of the countries in the compact will
continue to have Ukraine’s back, just like we have it now.

Over the last couple of days, NATO has also come together to announce
new measures of long-term support for Ukraine.  And the session this
afternoon of the NATO-Ukraine Council will put these on full display. 
This includes a new NATO military command in Germany, led by a
three-star general, who will launch a training, equipping, and force
development program for Ukrainian troops.

Secretary General Stoltenberg will appoint a new NATO Senior
Representative in Kyiv to deepen Ukraine’s institutional relationship
with the Alliance and engage with senior Ukrainian officials.

The Alliance reaffirmed in its communiqué yesterday that Ukraine’s
future is in NATO.  This summit, the Washington Summit, is about
building a bridge to NATO for Ukraine as they continue to implement
important reforms. 

And the steps I’ve just laid out are the building blocks of that
bridge.  Together, they make clear: Putin cannot divide us.  He cannot
outlast us.  He cannot weaken us.  And Ukraine, not Russia, will prevail
in this war.

The landscape of this conflict today is far different than it was in
April, when Ukraine was running out of supplies and equipment and Russia
was on the move. 

Today, on the battlefield, Russia is grinding away but not breaking
through.  And Ukraine is exacting massive costs and attriting Russian
strategic capabilities.

Diplomatically, Ukraine has concluded a successful peace summit and
signed new bilateral security agreements with more than 20 countries, as
I mentioned before. 

And at this summit, Ukraine has secured a historic set of deliverables —
air defense, F-16s, additional security assistance, a compact of nations
committed to supporting Ukraine for the long term, and the concrete
elements of a bridge to NATO. 

It doesn’t mean the days ahead, the weeks ahead, the months ahead are
not going to be difficult.  They will be difficult.  And no one knows
that better than the people fighting on the frontlines.

None of the progress that we’ve seen so far was inevitable.  None of it
happened by accident.  It took the Ukrainians stepping up, first and
foremost.  It also took NATO Allies coming together to choose again and
again to stand with them, to defend the values that have always united
us as democracies: freedom, security, sovereignty, territorial
integrity. 

This is what our predecessors did for 75 years.  And this is what we all
must do in the years ahead, even when it’s tough. In fact, especially
when it’s tough.

So, yes, the road ahead will be challenging.  President Putin is
determined to keep trying to take over Ukraine.  And countries like
Iran, North Korea, and China are cheerleading him.

We’re clear-eyed about all of that.  But we also are clear- eyed about
Ukraine’s strengths and resilience and courage and commitment and
effectiveness and capabilities.  And we’re clear-eyed about our own
too. 

And we have confidence in Ukraine and confidence in ourselves.  And with
that, and with the actual work — the spade work that has gone into the
results produced at this summit these last two days — we are
demonstrating our commitment to stand with Ukraine in their current
fight and into the future.

And what I would ask in closing is that as we look at the picture before
us and as we think about what we need to do to succeed and to help
Ukraine succeed, that we recognize this war has been unpredictable from
the start.  People thought Kyiv would fall in less than a week.  Kyiv
still stands today.  People thought, earlier this year, we’d be looking
at a much different picture than we’re looking at today.

The future, the history of Europe, of Ukraine, of the world order is not
yet written.  As Fred said in his opening comments: Nothing is
inevitable.  It comes down to the choices that we make and the choices
that we make together.

I believe we’ve taken some bold steps in the last few days and weeks. 
We will take more bold steps in the days and weeks to come.

President Biden will have the chance to sit down with President
Zelenskyy in a couple of hours to review all of this, and not to rest on
our laurels by any stretch but to say: Now that we’ve come this far,
what more do we have to do to get the job done?  And we will, together,
get the job done.

So, thank you for giving me the opportunity to be here today.  And thank
you for everything you do every day in service of our common vision for
the transatlantic community and a better world for all.

Thank you very much.  (Applause.) 

END 
