---
date: '2024-07-03'
modified_time: 2024-07-03 12:25:01-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-03 12:25:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/03/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-summer-nutrition-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Summer Nutrition\_\
  Event"
---
 
Middleville, Michigan

Thank you, Diandra, I know these things can be hard to talk about, but
you are shining a light on an issue that too often stays in the dark.
Riley, I hope you know how lucky you are to have such a great mom. 

Debbie, thank you for all your work to make this moment possible. You
and Joe agree that no one in America should go hungry. And that’s why
you’ve worked together to get this done.

I’m grateful to be joined by President Cramer and so many local and
tribal leaders today. And Luke, thank you for your leadership at this
wonderful camp.

I love these beautiful summer months. For teachers like me, it means no
more papers left to grade.

For our students, it’s staying up way too late with no homework in
sight. It’s getting your first job. Or making new camp friends.

Summer should be a time of joy and freedom, of growing and learning
outside the classroom—but for too many children, their summers are
stolen by hunger.

During the school year, many kids count on getting a meal from their
school. But parents’ paychecks don’t get bigger just because it’s summer
break. And that means hard choices and missed meals for their
families.  

I’m here today because my husband, President Biden, is helping to ease
the stress of higher costs for parents in Michigan and across the
country.

Joe believes that parents shouldn’t have to worry about how they’ll feed
their children—and we know that while grocery chains are making record
profits, they’re still raising prices. That’s why the Biden-Harris
Administration is fighting to lower grocery bills for families.

This summer, Joe’s Administration is giving parents whose children
receive free and reduced-price lunch a little extra help to buy
groceries: $120 for each of their kids.

Here in Michigan, this new SUN Bucks program will give more food to
almost one million children this summer. And it will give their parents
a little breathing room at the checkout counter. And I’m grateful to
Governor Whitmer for choosing to make this program available to Michigan
families.  

Joe’s Administration is also providing kids with meals and snacks at no
cost at summer meal sites like schools and camps, including right here
at Camp Manitou-Lin. 

For families living in rural communities, it may be difficult to get to
those areas. So, our Administration started a Meals To-Go program that
allows families in rural areas to pick up a meal or have it delivered to
their home during the summer.

Kids deserve the chance to be kids. To play and learn and grow and
discover their dreams at school and beyond. And every parent should be
able to provide for their kids and give them the best start to the rest
of their lives.

That’s why Joe works every day to make sure all children can grow and
learn without wondering where their next meal will come from, so they
and their families can keep reaching for the bright tomorrows ahead. 

Because Joe believes that, in America, no child should go hungry.

Together, we will make that real.

Thank
you.                                                                                   

\###
