---
date: '2024-07-02'
modified_time: 2024-07-03 09:55:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-02 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-extreme-weather/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Extreme\_Weather"
---
 
D.C. Emergency Operations Center  
Washington, D.C.

1:16 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  
  
Now, if my father were here — he’s looking down — he’d ha- — turn and
say, “I apologize for my back.”  (Laughter and applause.)  It’s very
impolite to talk with my back to you.  But thank you very much.  You’re
doing a hell of a job, all of you.

Look, Mayor, thanks for that introduction and joining me today at the
D.C. Emergency Operations Center. 

I also want to thank the first responders that risk their lives every
single day running into danger to save others while everyone is running
away from danger.

I’m here to talk about how we’re preparing and responding to the
dangerous impacts of extreme weather and the climate crisis that’s
affecting people all around America — all around the country.  We’ve got
— matter of fact, beyond around America.  
  
You know, summer has just started.  Already — already, tens of millions
of Americans are under heat warnings from record-shattering
temperatures.  
  
Last month here in D.C., temperature hit 100 degrees.  In Phoenix,
Arizona, 112 degrees.  In Las Vegas, 111 degrees.  Above-normal
temperatures also are expected for much of the country in July,
especially in central and eastern United States.  
  
Extreme heat — this is a — I think going to surprise a lot of people —
not you all — but extreme heat is the number one weather-related killer
in the United States.  More people die from extreme heat than floods,
hurricanes, and tornadoes combined.  Say that again: combined.  More
people die from heat than those three other major issues.  
  
And, look, right now, we’re also tracking Hurricane Beryl, which is
passing the Caribbean.  
  
It’s the earliest time ever a dangerous Category 5 hurricane has re- —
been recorded in American history.  The people, impacted islands, and
communities are in our prayers, and we stand by to provide assistance to
them.   
  
Look, extreme weather events drive home a point that I’ve been saying
for so long.  Ignoring climate change is deadly and dangerous and
irresponsible.  
  
These climate-fueled extreme weather events don’t just affect people’s
lives, they also cost money, they hurt the economy, and they have a
significant negative psychological effect on people.  
  
Last year, the largest weather-related disasters cost over — get this —
$90 billion in damages in America — $90 billion in damages.  That’s the
cost so far — last — last year.  They drove nearly 2.5 million people
out of their homes, from Hawaii to Vermont.  
  
These events also pose serious threats to our nation’s transportation
system, to our power grid, farms, fisheries, and forests — in each case
costing lives and costing money.  
  
And the impacts we’re seeing are only going to get worse, get more
frequent and more ferocious, hitting our most vulnerable people in the
most hardest-hit communities in the world.

Look, you know, we can change all that.  It’s within our power.  
  
That’s why today I’m announcing five new actions my administration is
taking to address extreme weather, including heat and other hazards.  
  
The first: The Department of Labor is proposing a new rule that, when
finalized, will establish the nation’s first-ever federal safety
standard for excessive heat in the workplace.  
  
This includes things like developing response plans to heat illness;
training employees and supervisors; implementing r- — rest breaks;
access to shade and water — you think we’d have to tell people “access
to shade and water,” but it — I mean; gradually easing new employees
into heat environments.  
  
Across the country, workers suffer heatstroke or even die just doing
their jobs.   
  
This new rule will substantially reduce heat injuries, illnesses, and
deaths for over 36 million workers to whom it will apply — from
farmworkers to construction workers, postal workers, manufacturing
workers, and so much more.  
  
You know, I want to thank Vice President Harris for the work she has
done since she was in the United States Senate that led to this rule.  
  
Second, in the coming days, my Federal Emergency Management will also
finalize a rule to improve our nation’s resilience against flooding —
resilience.  
  
FEMA will now factor in the effects of future flooding for any federally
funded construction project — that is, they’re going to look at what
caused the damage, what broke down, and what the best way to repair it
is, not just bri- — bring it back to what it was but prioritize making
it better, prioritize nature-based solutions to re- — to reduce the risk
of floods.  
  
Look, third, FEMA is announcing — (clears throat) — excuse me — nearly
$1 billion in grants for over 650 projects across the country that help
communities protect against natural disasters, including extreme heat,
storms, and flooding.  
  
These grants will also help advance my Justice40 Initiative to deliver
at least 40 percent of overall benefits of clean transit, clean energy,
and climate investment to devastated communities — to the poor
communities.  They’re always left behind.  
  
Fourth, the Environmental Protection Agency is releasing a new report
showing the continued impacts of climate change on the health of the
American people and on our environment.  This report will help us
prepare better, respond faster, and save more lives.  
  
And, fifth, later this summer, my administration will convene the
first-ever White House <s>Summir</s> \[Summit\] on Extreme Heat,
bringing together state, local, Tribal, and territorial leaders and
international partners who are protecting communities and workers from
extreme weather every single, solitary day.  
  
You know, along with these actions, another reason why we’re here today
is to get the word out so folks know these resources are available to
them and anyone who needs them.  You got — I was tel- — telling the
group who briefed me earlier, my brother has an expression: “You got to
know how to know.”  We think everybody understands the government.  It’s
complicated.  We want the American people to know help is here, how to
get that help.  
  
Follow the guidance from local leaders and public safety officials. 
Stay indoors somewhere cool if you’re vulnerable.  Be careful on hot
pavement.  Know the signs of heatstroke, like headache, nausea, and
dizziness.  And always have water with you whenever you’re outside this
summer.  
  
Today’s announcements build on historic action my administration has
already taken to address extreme heat events.  We launched a new
website: Heat.gov — let me say it again: Heat.gov — that shares
lifesaving information, and it links a new HeatRisk tool to help
communities forecast extreme heat.   
  
Just enter your zip code and see the heat forecast not only generically
— generally but in your community, where you’re living, and we’ll get
back to you exactly what the heat forecast for your neighborhood is.  
  
My Department of Labor also created the first-ever national program to
protect workers from heat stress.  We’ve invested billions to enhance
our power grid, expand energy <s>shortages</s> \[storages\] so that
lights, air conditioning, refrigeration, Internet stay on during heat
waves, storms, and other climate changes.  It’s building back a
different way.  
  
All told, we’ve invested a record of more than $50 billion for climate
resilience, including against extreme heat and wildfires.  
  
But that’s not all.  The American — my American Rescue Plan is helping
states and cities promote energy efficiency, reduce the impacts from
flooding, and open cooling centers.  People have to know where to go —
where they can go in their neighborhood.  They don’t — just not
automatic.  
  
Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re delivering over $20
billion to lower your energy costs, upgrading the electric grid to
withstand stronger heat waves and storms.  
  
And my Inflation Reduction Act, the most significant climate investment
ever in the history of the world anywhere in the world, has already
created 300,000 new jobs, building clean energy we need to cut our
emissions and to lead the world.  
  
Unfortunately, my predecessor and the MAGA Republicans in Congress are
trying to undo all this progress.  They still deny climate change even
exists.  They deny climate change even exists — they must be living in a
hole somewhere — at the expense of health and safety of their own cos- —
constituents.  They deny it exists.  
  
Every single congressional Republican voted against the investments
which created these jobs and combat climate change.  Many of them are
trying to repeal those climate provisions and kill those jobs.  I, quite
frankly, think it’s not only outrageous, it’s really stupid.  
  
Everyone who willfully denies the impacts of climate change is
condemning the American people to a dangerous future and either is
really, really dumb or has some other motive (inaudible).  How can you
deny there’s climate change, for God’s sake?  
  
Let me close with this.  
  
When disaster strikes, there are no red states or blue states.  I’ve
demonstrated that.  I said, “No matter whether you vote for me or not,
everyone is going to get treated fairly.”  They’re just communities —
not red communities, blue communities.  They’re just communities,
families looking for help.  And my administration is going to be there
for you every step of the way.  
  
We just have to remember who we are, for God’s sake.  We’re the United
States of America — the United States of America.  There is nothing —
nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.  
  
So, God bless you all.  We’re just getting started here, man.  I’m
confident we’re going to get this done.  
  
Now I want to turn it over to Clint Osborn, Director of the — Ac- —
Acting Director of D.C. Homeland Security and Emergency Management
Agency, to tell you what his team’s incredible work is doing on the
front lines for extreme weather events.  
  
Where are you, pal?  
  
MR. OSBORN:  Right here.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Right behind me.  (Applause.)  
  
MR. OSBORN:  Well done.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, this guy does everything.  (Laughter.)  I
get in the elevator, he’s operating the elevator.  (Laughter.)  I tell
you, that’s what they call full service, man.  
  
MR. OSBORN:  Full-service, white-glove emergency management.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, man.  
  
MR. OSBORN:  Yes, sir.  (Applause.)  
  
    1:26 P.M. EDT
