---
date: '2024-07-02'
modified_time: 2024-07-05 10:03:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-02 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Private Residence

San Francisco, California

1:49 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  First of all, let me just thank Joyce and Susan and
(inaudible).  And I know Anita is where — are you here?  Stefanie and
co-chairs.

It is a homecoming.  You — I miss San Francisco.  I was joking with
(inaudible) that you — (inaudible) moved to the Bay Area, and, of
course, after I met and fell in love with my husband, Doug Emhoff, I
moved to Los Angeles, and I now call myself a “Sangelino.”  (Laughter.)

But it all started here.  It all started here.  You called out Mark
Buell.  Mark Buell and I had lunch, as we were wont to do frequently at
Balboa, having cheeseburgers, and I told Mark I was going to run for DA
of San Francisco.  And he said, “Well, I’m there, and I will do anything
to help you and support you.”

That was — I filed those papers November of 2002. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Yes, 2002.  I was inaugurated DA of San
Francisco January 8th, 2004.  Because remember, Mark, we said I’m not —
there was a certain elected at the time who said, “Well, show me you can
raise some money, and maybe people will take you seriously.”  (Laughs.) 
I’m not going to say who, but it was a big personality who we all know. 
(Laughter.)

And — and so, (inaudible) and, you know, okay.  And so, Mark and Susie
and — and almost everybody in this room, in the first days between that
Thanksgiving and December 31st of 2002, we raised a whopping $250,000. 
That was a big deal.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible) $250. 

And — and that’s a long way of saying that the people in this room have
been on this journey with me from the very beginning.  I don’t count it
in decades, which we can, but I really do measure it based on the
journey.  And it’s been extraordinary.  It’s been extraordinary.

And I always, always reflect on what it meant to be here with this
family and friends and the kind of way that the people in this room have
always thought about these offices and what they mean to our country. 
I’ve always told the new friends and the new people who come into my
life professionally: You have to understand, my OGs, my original
gangsters — that’s what “OG” stands for — (laughter) — have always been
in equal measure invested in the issues, in the policies, in the
vision. 

It’s not just betting on a winner.  That’s not who the people in this
room are.  It’s people who actually believe in the promise of America. 

There is so much about this election that is that.  This election — and
what is it now? — I’m looking for — 126 days — that, as much as
anything, is about a test of our fundamental belief in the promise of
America.  And that’s who we’ve always been together.

So, it’s really great to be home today to know that we are a huge
community of people who believe, based on our love of our country and
what we know is possible.

And, yeah, I’m traveling all over the country, Susan.  I have been — my
team counts everything I do.  It’s funny how, in D.C., they just count
everything.  So, they’ve counted how many countries I’ve been to.  I
think it’s 20-something.  They have counted how many days we have until
the election; again, that’s 126.  And they’ve counted that I’ve been to
at least 60 — I’ve taken at least 60 domestic trips since the beginning
of this year.

In fact, it’s funny, I just recently saw Roy Cooper, the — the governor
of North Carolina, who with — greets me on the tarmac every time I land
with, “You’ve been here 14 times.”  Every time I land, he tells me what
— how many times I’ve been there.  (Laughter.) 

And I say all that to say that there is a big community of people that
feel just like we do and believe in the promise of America.  You know, I
often in those instances will say, look, I so deeply believe in the
promise of America; I am empirical evidence of the promise of America. 
And that’s what we’re fighting for.

And let’s just deal with the elephant in the room.  There are actually
two: One is the debate, and the other is Trump.  (Laughter.) 

So, the debate, as the president said, was not his finest hour.  We all
know that.  Here’s the thing that we do know: This — and the outcome of
this election cannot be determined by one day in June.  Here’s the thing
that we know that was true before the debate and remains true: It is
still the fact that the stakes are so high in this election.  It is
still a fact that the race is close. 

It is still a fact that there is a profound contrast on the two sides of
the split screen in terms of who stands for what and what each has
accomplished.  And it is still true that Trump is a liar.  These things
remain true.

So, I will share with you, then, notes from the field, because I am out
here in these streets.  (Laughter.) 

So, let me tell you, when I — whether it be hundreds or thousands of
people — and I travel and meet with groups that are any re- — anywhere
from, you know, 20 to 30 to thousands.  They will thank us when we talk
about the fact that we have, for example, capped the cost of insulin at
$35 a month for our seniors.  (Applause.)  They will talk about
(inaudible).  They will talk about the fact that they have been, for
generations, dealing with the fact that seniors have had to make a
choice between whether they could afford their prescription for insulin
or fill their refrigerator.

I was in Nevada on my way here Thursday or Friday of last week.  And a
woman came up to me, and she had these two pieces of paper.  I said,
“What are these?”  She said, “I’d like you to look at it.”  They were
the — she had her mother with her — receipts for her insulin bills,
which in one was four digit — thousands — and the other triple digit. 
And now it’s going to be capped at $35 a month.

Understand what’s happening in the streets of America when we have
accomplished something like that — when we have finally allowed Medicare
to negotiate drug prices against Big Pharma, and we are capping the cost
of prescription medication on an annual basis at $2,000 — $2,000 a year
— for our seniors.  It’s a big deal.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)

When I go into these rooms and I talk about — for example, I — I’ve been
doing an Economic Opportunity Tour throughout the country focused, in
particular, on African American young men — entrepreneurs,
small-business owners.  And I talk about, then, the importance of
contributing not only to just the well-being but the ability of people
to grow wealth.  Right?

Sometimes we get a bu- — bum rap as Democrats.  We just talk about
“jobs, jobs.”  Yes, we have created 15 million new jobs under our
administration.  Yes, we have created over 800,000 new manufacturing
jobs under our administration.  Yes, wages have outpaced inflation. 
Yes, I can go on and offer you an Econ 101 lecture, which I will not. 
(Laughter.) 

But we have also addressed long-standing issues that are obstacles to
the creation of wealth, like student loan debt — erasing student loan
debt.  We have erased over $160 billion in student loan debt.  I have
met teachers across our country — (applause) — who come up to me because
the way we structure it, public servants — nurses, teachers,
firefighters — are receiving double the forgiveness. 

I have met teachers around our country who come up to me with tears in
their eyes because they’ve been sitting on tens to hundreds of thousands
of student loan debt for 20-something years and always felt they should
leave the profession in order to be able to pay it off but stayed in the
profession because, of course, that is God’s work — the work of trying
to teach other people’s children. 

These are the kinds of things throughout the country, when we are
traveling, when I am talking with people, they stand and applaud.  They
stand and applaud the fact that we have finally addressed the issue of
medical debt.  That’s a big issue for the American people — working
people — a medical emergency, unplanned, that results in tens to
hundreds of thousands of debt.  And what we have done to say, from now
on, medical debt cannot be included in your credit score. 

You know what that means for everyday working people?  That means their
credit score, which will determine whether they’re eligible for an
apartment or lease, much less a car loan, a small-business loan, will no
longer get a measure of whether they are financially responsible
because, of course, it shouldn’t be.  It was a medical emergency that —
that caused it to happen. 

These are the things that I will tell you.  In addition to — and we have
climate just — activists and — and — and warriors in this room and in
this town.  By my estimate, we are dropping a trillion dollars on the
streets of America over the next 10 years on the climate crisis in
resilience, in adaptation, and being a world leader on an investment in
a clean energy economy.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)

And I’m going to look at (inaudible) over here — what we have done in an
investment in science and chips and what this means — and I say as, you
all know, the daughter of a scientist — the billions of dollars that we
are investing in research and development, in technology and science, to
be a world leader, as we should be.

So, when we talk about the split screen — and you all may have heard my
interviews on the night of the debate — if you look at performance and
you need and want that the measure of the performance of an
administration and a president is that they actually get things done,
history will show. 

This stuff is beating Eisenhower.  What we have done stands up against
some of the strongest — historically strongest administrations ever.  We
got a lot of new material coming.

Doug is so funny.  He says, “Honey, the problem that we’ve got is that
our list of accomplishments reads like a CVS receipt.”  (Laughter.)  “It
just goes on and on and on.  And you got to pick, like, three and repeat
them, right?”  (Laughter.)

The other thing that we have to realize: Momentum is on our side.  So,
in the midterms, you all will remember the smart pundits — they’re all
very smart — talked about the red wave.  “The red wave is coming.” 
Well, as we all know, it was maybe a red drip.  (Laughter.)  And when an
issue like reproductive freedom was on the ballot, in so-called red and
blue states, from Kansas to California, Ohio, Virginia, Montana, the
American people voted for freedom. 

When we look at the fact that in our country today — again, I’ve been
traveling our country for the last three and a half years as vice
president — there is an awareness among the American people that there
is a full-on attack — an intentional attack against hard-fought,
hard-won freedoms and liberties.

Freedom to have access to the ballot box.  In a state like Georgia,
where they passed a law that makes it illegal to give people food and
water for standing in line to exercise their civic responsibility to
vote.  The hypocrisy abounds.  What happened to “love thy neighbor”?  

Freedom — the freedom to be free from hate and bigotry.  In a state like
Florida, “Don’t Say Gay” law.  You all remember, in 2004, Gavin was
mayor; I was DA.  We performed some of the first same-sex marriages in
the history of our country Valentine’s weekend 2004.  (Applause.)

And I think about that — 20 years ago.  We just celebrated the 20th
anniversary of Valentine’s Day (inaudible).  And I think about, in
Florida, some young teacher, who is their 20s, afraid to put up a
photograph of themselves and their partner for fear they could lose
their job for doing God’s work.  And God knows we don’t pay them enough
as it is.

Attacks on hard-fought, hard-won freedoms.  Book bans — can you imagine,
in 2024, deciding that certain books will be banned and a teacher does
not have the ability or discretion or authority to teach America’s full
history?  Those who are attempting to deny or whitewash America’s
history. 

And then, of course, what the Court did with the Dobbs decision, which
was about two years ago, when the highest court in our land took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of America
— the Court of Thurgood and RBG.  And thereafter, in state after state,
laws have been proposed and passed to criminalize health care
providers.  In Texas, prison for life is the penalty for a doctor or a
nurse who performs their responsibility of care. 

Laws that make no exception even for rape or incest — the immorality of
telling a survivor of a crime of violence to their body, a violation to
their body, that they have no authority to make a decision about what
happens to their body next.  It’s immoral. 

These are the things that are happening in our country.  And so, when I
go back to the point that I mentioned earlier about the stakes are high,
everyone in this room knows, and we’re not alone.

And the stakes became even higher with the Supreme Court decision
yesterday.  Why is that?  Because the Court essentially said that there
is immunity, that a president could be immune from committing what
heretofore would have been assumed to be an offense with consequence. 

And let’s not forget, Donald Trump has openly said he admires dictators
and intends to be a dictator on day one. 

Let us remember Donald Trump has said he intends to weaponize the
Department of Justice against his political enemies. 

The thought that he could be back in the White House now, with this
precedent set — now with authority from the highest court — that
suggests that the president is immune from consequence, whereas before
at least there was the threat there may be consequence, the stakes
couldn’t be higher.  The stakes could not be higher.

And I say all of that to say what this group has always known: When you
know what you stand for, you know what to fight for.  And we got to
fight, and we know how to fight.  And we have always known how to
fight. 

And when we fight, it is not against anything; it is for something.  And
that’s the fight that we are in right now: a fight for the promise of
America, a fight for what is best and right and good. 

And I’ll close with this point.  As vice president, I have now met with
over 150 world leaders — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors, and
kings — many of them multiple times that we have developed friendships,
relationships, we’re on a first-name basis.  So, I’ll tell you a couple
things.

The last few international trips I took — so, the — the end of last year
and then this year.  Most recently, I was in Switzerland about two weeks
ago with Zelenskyy for a conference on hoping to have peace for
Ukraine. 

Before that, this year — earlier this year, I was in Munich presenting
our perspective, as the United States, in terms of our relationship with
our NATO Allies.  In fact, anybody interested in the speech, I’ll get it
too. 

But I wrote a speech specifically — even though it was in front of our
NATO European Allies — that was intended for the American people to
remind them of the 1930s and how when America takes a position that is
about isolation, it will not insulate us — empirical evidence being
Pearl Harbor — and therefore our responsibility and the power we have
when we participate and strengthen alliances; the impact we have on
world order and stability.  (Applause.)

At the end of last year, I was in Dubai presenting for the United States
on — at the — at COP28, the global climate conference.  And then before
that, I was in the UK, actually, to — to present on our perspective on
the future of AI in terms of safety. 

Anyway, this is a long way of saying these are just the last few trips
I’ve taken. 

To a one, world leaders came up to me, “Kamala” — sotto voice — “Kamala,
I hope you guys are going to be okay” — to a one. 

And understand, when they raise this point, it is purely out of
self-interest.  Because, you see, people around the world are acutely
aware of the significance and role that America’s democracy — imperfect
though it may be — the role and responsibility of America’s democracy to
stability around the world.

And in that way, the outcome of this election will directly impact the
American people and people around the world.  So, we know what’s at
stake.  And we know what to fight for.

And my last point is this.  When we fight — because I know this crew —
(laughter) — when we fight, we win. 

There you go.  Thank you all.  (Applause.)

END                       2:10 P.M. PDT
