---
date: '2024-07-27'
modified_time: 2024-07-27 06:16:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-27 06:16:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/27/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-an-event-celebrating-the-upcoming-los-angeles-2028-olympic-games/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at an Event Celebrating\
  \ the Upcoming Los Angeles 2028 Olympic\_Games"
---
 
Paris, France

Mayor Bass—Karen—thank you for that kind introduction. And to you,
Casey, and so many elected officials from across the United States, I’m
grateful for everything that you’ve done to champion the LA 2028 Games.
Because of you, the Olympic flame will shine brightly in our nation once
again.

Ambassador Bauer—Denise—every day you show the world the best of who we
are as Americans. Thank you for your leadership and your friendship.

And to Billie Jean King, it’s wonderful to see you. You’ve always
inspired us to chase down our dreams, on and off the court.

We have such phenomenal performers here. Ludovic, I know that your heart
for music comes from your family—and through your trumpet, you’ve
brought that spirit of family to the Olympics.

I’m also grateful to the Hip Hop 360 performers for electrifying us
through dance—reminding us that the human body can be so fluid and
precise at the same time.

Under the endless blue skies of Los Angeles, breakdancers glide on
concrete plazas, surfers coast on crashing waves, and rollerbladers spin
in skate parks by the beach.

It’s a city where new generations of dreamers shape our culture in music
studios and on movie sets.

A city where communities from around the world live side by side, their
cuisines merge, and though the lines of culture blur, their identity as
one city becomes brighter and more defined.

At the 2028 Games, Olympians and fans will see themselves reflected in
Los Angeles.

Add to that our enduring American warmth, hospitality, and leadership.
Not to mention experience—this will be LA’s third time hosting the
Olympic Games.

The last time Los Angeles hosted, in 1984, we saw the first Olympic
marathon for women, the first athlete using a wheelchair to compete in
the Olympics, the perfect 10s that earned gold medals in women’s
gymnastics—not to mention an up-and-coming athlete who’d just finished
his last college season: Michael Jordan.

We’ve come a long way in four decades. And I’m grateful that the US
Olympic and Paralympic Committee will push us even further in the next
four years. For women. For Paralympic athletes. And for all the kids who
will watch the Games, dart out to the backyard with a stopwatch, and see
if they can run as fast as Gabby Thomas.

Planning the Olympics and Paralympics is not a solo sport. It takes lots
of work to welcome 15 thousand athletes, prepare for millions more
spectators, and outfit venues for more than 50 sports.

But with our phenomenal team, the LA Games will allow the world to unite
and a generation of athletes to soar.

And six short years later, we’ll gather around the snowy mountains of
Utah for the 2034 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City! I’m so excited that
millions of people will get the chance to experience its majesty through
the Olympics. Congratulations to the SLC 34 Team for your hard work.

I’ve had the honor of leading the United States delegation to two
Olympic Games—Tokyo and now Paris. I’ve watched Team USA win gold and
experienced the unique ways that Japan and France opened their arms to
the world.

We can’t wait to extend that warm welcome in the United States.

For now, though, we’re in a stunning place, surrounded by generous
people. So let’s savor the singular beauty of Paris. And let’s celebrate
not only the split-second victories and breakout stars, but the years of
your effort and teamwork that made it all possible. Thank you, and God
bless you.

\###
