---
date: '2024-07-17'
modified_time: 2024-07-17 16:51:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-17 16:51:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-8/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Air Zoo Aerospace and Science Museum

Portage, Michigan

2:23 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello.  Hi, everyone.  (Applause.)  Oh, good
afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Please have a seat,
everyone. Please have a seat. 

It’s really good to be back in Michigan.  I want to thank you all for
the work you’re doing.  I want to thank Debbie Stabenow.  Where are
you?  She — that extraordinary senator of yours.  (Applause.)  She’s
over there somewhere.  There she is.  Thank you, Senator.  (Applause.) 
Every time, I think, I’ve come to the state, she’s met me on the tarmac,
including today.  Thank you for your leadership always.  Thank you. 

Before we begin our conversation today with these two extraordinary
leaders, I do want to discuss briefly what happened on Saturday.  I’ve
not had a chance yet to — to publicly talk about it, but I will say a
few words about the attempt on the life of former President Trump over
the weekend. 

As we all know, it was a heinous, horrible, and cowardly act.  My
husband, Doug, and I are thankful he was not seriously injured.  That
day, as soon as we saw what was happening, we said a prayer for his
well-being.  And our thoughts immediately turned to Melania, who we have
met, and their family. 

The bottom line is no one should have to fear for the safety of a loved
one because they serve in public office. 

Our heart goes out to the family of Corey Comperatore, a true hero who
died protecting his family.  And Doug and I, of course, are holding them
close to in our hearts. 

We are also wishing those who were critically injured that day a swift
and full recovery. 

And we are thankful to the United States Secret Service, the first
responders, and local authorities.  The United States of America, I
believe, is the greatest democracy the world has ever known. 
(Applause.)  Yes. 

But in the aftermath of this weekend’s shootings and — shooting, excuse
me — one of the questions we now confront the — one of the questions we
now confront is about the way we should engage with one another in this
campaign. 

On Sunday evening, our President, Joe Biden, issued a call for unity. 
And there must be unity around the idea that while our nation’s history
has been scarred by political violence, violence is never acceptable. 
There can be no equivocation about that.  (Applause.)

At the same time, the hallmark of American democracy, the hallmark of
any democracy is a strong competition of ideas, policies, and a vision
for the future.  And just as we must reject political violence, we must
also embrace a robust discussion about what is at stake in this
election. 

The surest way to reaffirm the strength of our democracy is by engaging
in a vigorous and civil exchange of ideas.  And one of the ideas and one
of the principles that is at stake in this election is the issue of
reproductive freedom.  And that is why I’m here today to discuss that
topic, and I look forward to our conversation.  (Applause.)

Thank you all very much.  (Applause.)

END                2:27 P.M. EDT
