---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-11 11:10:29-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/10/remarks-by-president-biden-and-nato-secretary-general-jens-stoltenberg-at-dinner-with-nato-allies-and-partners/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg at\
  \ Dinner with NATO Allies and\_Partners"
---
 
East Room

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good evening.  This is a big night at the White House,
celebrating 75 years of the greatest alliance the world has ever known. 
Jill and I are honored to have so many close Allies and close friends
all in the same room.

Seventy-five years ago, when our nations created NATO, former President
Truman said, and I quote, “We are about — what we’re about to do here is
a neighborly act.”  A neighborly act. 

The Allies in this room not only share a common language — don’t share a
common language, we do not share a common border, but we are neighbors. 
We’re neighbors because we all share common beliefs in dignity,
equality, democracy, and freedom.  And we’re all neighbors because we’re
there for one another. 

In the neighborhood I grew up in, that’s what you do.  When a neighbor
needed help, you pitched in.  When the bullies threatened the block, you
stepped up.  When a bad snowstorm hit, you shared supplies and made sure
everyone was safe.  When a new family moved into the neighborhood, you
welcomed them with open arms.

And why did we do this?  Because we knew we were in it together.  We
knew that our own house was safer when the entire neighborhood was as
well. 

This simple yet profound idea lies at the heart of our Alliance.  Over
the last 75 years, it has allowed our people to reach for new
possibilities.  It’s allowed our nations to meet any threat with
strength and resolve.  And above all, it allowed women and men of
generations to know the live of freedom, security, and democracy.

So, please join me in raising your glasses. 

You got one for the boss?  (The president gestures to Secretary-General
Stoltenberg.)

To NATO and to our neighborhood of nations.  May we continue to grow
stronger and closer in all the years ahead.

Now I’d like to invite my friend Secretary Stoltenberg.  But before, to
NATO.

(President Biden offers a toast.)

It’s all yours, boss.

SECRETARY-GENERAL STOLTENBERG:  Thank you. 

President Biden, dear Joe; Madam First Lady, dear Jill, thank you so
much for hosting all of us here tonight at the White House.  This is an
historic building.  This is a special place with a lot of history and
many decisions have been taken here that has shaped not only this nation
but also shaped the North Atlantic Alliance, NATO. 

So, it’s great for all of us to be here tonight. 

But this is more than an important political building.  This is also
your home, the place you live.  So, thank you for having us over for
dinner tonight.  (Laughter.)

And as you know, in all cultures, at all time, sharing a meal — being
together, having a dinner is — is one of the strongest expression of
trust, of friendship, and of family.  And tonight, we are a family — the
big transatlantic NATO family — with our closest friends, with our
friends from Ukraine, with our friends from the Asia-Pacific.  So,
therefore, this is really a big extended family dinner. 

And we are so happy also because we are here together with our spouses
and our partners.  And it’s not always easy to be married to a
politician.  But, therefore, we are extremely grateful that you have
joined us tonight and during the summit and that we can spend this
evening together.

We are not a normal family with totally normal friends and partners
because we are a military alliance with close partners that we work
together with every day. 

So, therefore, a toast for the most successful, the strongest, and the
longest-lasting alliance in history.

Yeah.  Okay.  A toast, then.  (Laughter.)  Thank you so much. 

Yeah.  Okay, okay, okay, okay.  Thank you.  Okay.

So, cheers for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO.

(Secretary-General Stoltenberg offers a toast.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  All right.  Hear!  Hear!
