---
date: '2024-07-12'
modified_time: 2024-07-15 12:58:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-12 18:27:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-garage-grill-and-fuel-bar-northville-mi-july-12-2024/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Garage Grill and Fuel Bar | Northville, MI\
  \ (July 12,\_2024)"
---
 
Garage Grill and Fuel Bar  
Northville, Michigan

5:00 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t want to ruin her reputation, but lately,
seriously, when she and I are together, she looks like my wife, Jill. 
And they go, “Are you married?”  (Laughter.)  And we bo- — I say,
“Yeah,” but I don’t tell them who.  (Laughter.)  Anyway.  

Anyway, thank you, thank you.  You all need this like you need another
hole in your head on a beautiful day like this — to come in to say hi,
and I can’t thank you enough. 

And you kids who got — had to get dressed up, I owe you big. 
(Laughter.)  We owe you big.  Everybody knows I like kids better than
people.  (Laughter.)

Look, folks, there’s a lot going on.  We’re here to have a rally a
little bit later on. 

But, you know, John and the congresswoman and I got involved for the
same reason.  I come from a family that — we weren’t poor, but we were
just a basic middle-class family, three-bedroom split-level home on a
development of 45 homes all the same, and four kids and a grandpop
living with us.  And we were fine. 

But my dad used to say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a
paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay’ and mean it.”  And that’s what — that’s what it’s all about. 

You may recall — and I’m not going to make this long, I promise you —
what — the reason I decided to run back — my — my son died in 2015.  He
was a Bronze Star, Conspicuous Service Medal, spent a year in Iraq,
volunteered to go with his unit when the — when he went he was the
attorney general of the state of Delaware.  And so, I decided I wasn’t
going to get engaged in — in public — I — I wasn’t going to run again. 
I had been vice president.  I was a professor — a full professor at the
University of Pennsylvania at the time. 

And what happened was that I — I was going to stay out of it.  But then
what happened was, remember down in Charlottesville, Virginia, when
those folks came out of the woods carrying torches and Nazi banners and
literally singing the same Nazi c- — anyway, the same songs sung in — in
Germany in the ‘30s?  And a young woman was killed who was a — a
bystander.  And that young woman, I met — I talked to the mother.

And the press contacted Trump and asked him — they said, “Well, what do
you think?”  He said, “There were very good people on both sides” —
“very good people.”  And honest to God, that’s when I decided to run. 
That’s when I decided to run. 

And because, folks, there’s a lot at stake.  And I’ll end with this. 
You know, there’s — probably every five or six generations, we reach an
inflection point in history where what happens in the near term is going
to determine what the next four or five decades look like. 

The post-war period is over.  If we — and look around the world. 

I just got finished having — you may have seen on television, the —
dealing with NATO and all the foreign heads of state — 32 of them here
for four days. 

And, you know, ev- — whether it’s climate change, whether it’s — anyway,
I won’t go th- — into it all, but — but there’s a lot — there’s a lot
changing, not because of Joe Biden being president but just a time of
significant movement we’re in.

And what happens in the next several years is going to determine what
the next several decades look like.  I mean, for real.  Not a joke. 

We’re either going to step up and do something about the environment. 
We’re going to need to make sure that middle-class folks have a fighting
chance to make it.  We’re going to either decide we’re going to provide
health care for people who need it.

We’re going to — we have to — and I think, when Debbie and I were —
these last three years, I think we’ve made a lot of progress.  We’ve
made a lot of progress. 

I remember everybody —

Hi, how are you?  How old are you? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Fourteen.  

THE PRESIDENT:  Remember, no serious guys until you’re 30.  Okay? 
(Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  All right. 

THE PRESIDENT:  I told that to my daughter and granddaughter.  It hadn’t
worked yet, but I’m working on it.  (Laughter.)

But, anyway, the — the whole notion here is that we — they told us when
I ran — and I’ll end this.  I ran in 2020 saying I ran for three
reasons.  And you may remember, I got roundly criticized.

One was that I thought it was time to restore some — some ethics to the
politics, to — you know, to restore the soul of the country.  We’re a
good, decent people.  The American people are good, decent, honorable
people.  But we were — but the way things were going, it just — the —
the way we talk to one another in politics anymore, the way things have
become so polarized. 

And I said the second reason I was running was to deal with the issue of
giving the middle class a fighting chance. 

Like I said earlier, I come from one of those families.  We weren’t
poor, but we weren’t — there was never anything left over at the end of
the month.  And, you know, the idea that the trickle-down economics —
and I — I — look, if you can make a — go make a million bucks, make a
million bucks.  If you can make a — $500 million, make it.  Just pay
your fair share as you go along.  Just pay your taxes.  Just pay a — a
fair share. 

And — (applause) — and so, I decided I was going to end the trickle-down
economics where, you know, if the — if the wealthy do well, everybody
else does well.  That — not a lot trickled down to my dad’s kitchen
table.  

And so, I decided we’re going to build the economy from the middle out
and the bottom up.  And that way, the wealthy still do very well. 

I made a commitment that offended a lot of Democrats.  I said, “No — I
will not raise taxes on anybody had — making less than $400,000.”  So, I
couldn’t be accused of not wanting people to be able to make money. 

And we have — and that’s what we’ve done.  Not a single penny of taxes
have been raised by anybody making under $400,000.

But in the meantime, what’s happened?  We’ve grown the middle class. 
We’ve created 800,000 manufacturing jobs, 1.6 million — <s>1.6
million</s> \[16 million\] new jobs — more than any president has in
American history in this — in that period of time. 

We’ve moved our — (applause) — well, thank you, but we — well, the other
thing we’ve done is we provided heal- —  health care shouldn’t be a — an
option.  You know, we — I was able to change the Affordable Care Act and
another <s>800,000</s> \[8 million\] people — anyway — access to
insurance, access to health care.  (Applause.)  

I won’t go into the — and the last thing I said, which I really got
clobbered by the press, as you recall — and they’re good folks; they —
they just thought I was naïve, even though I’ve been around 270 years. 
(Laughter.)  I said, “You know, we got to bring the country together.” 
Because when I left the Senate, I was honored to the vi- — you know,
they do this ceremony.  When I was vice president, I left, and they vote
and say nice things about you.  Well, one of the things said was that I
was able to get more done than anybody in the Senate because I had
relations with Democrats and Republicans across the aisle. 

And — and so, I said we got to bring the country together.  They said,
“That’s naïve.  That used to be the case when Biden was a senator, but
he can’t do it anymore.”  Well, guess what, folks?  We’re the most
diverse country in the world.  Not a joke.  We’re the most unique
country in the w- — every other country is organized based on either
ethnicity, geography, religion.  But we’re the only country based on an
idea — not a joke, an idea.  Only country in history. 

And the idea was: We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men
and women are created equal, et cetera.  We’ve never lived up to it, but
we’ve never fully walked away from it. 

But what I realized was, the other guy was walking away from it —
walking away from it.  And so, we ran, and we were told we were going to
lose in 2020.  You remember?  Well, we won.  We were told we were going
to have — (applause) — because of you.  Because of you.

And, by the way, we’re also — we were also told that what was going to
happen is the — there — there was no possibility of being able to get
bipartisan legislation passed. 

You know, remember, Trump used to always talk about all he was going to
do in terms of — of the whole idea of building bridges, roads, internet,
and he had — he had Infrastructure Month every month.  He didn’t build a
thing.  (Laughter.)

But look what we’re doing.  We’re rebuil- — how can you be the most
powerful country in the world and have bridges that don’t work, highways
that don’t work, people — look, the internet is as consequential to most
people as the telephone used to be 50 years ago. 

And so, the point is that we were able to put it together.

I’m optimistic.  I’m optimistic.  We’ve done — I’m going to say
something that’s going to sound awful.  The press is here, so I’m gong
to say it in front of them.  I think most of the political historians
say I’ve gotten more done than most presidents have since Franklin
Roosevelt in terms of fundamental changes and — and, by the way, in the
process, all this is going on, we saved money.  We lowered the deficit. 
We gave people more jobs.  It didn’t do any of the thing — remember, it
was going to be this hard landing and nothing was going to happen? 
Well, guess what? 

I was worried — today, the Wall Street Journal talks about how — Wall
Street Journal economists think I am better than Trump in terms of the
economy.  That’s worrisome to me. 

But all kidding aside, think about it.  Because when you give people a
fighting chance, everybody does better.  Not a joke. 

And the last example I’ll give you is I’ve been fighting for years on —
taking on Big Pharma.  I can put you in Air Force One with me as we flew
up in, and — and if you have a prescription by an American drug company,
I can fly you to Toronto or to — to Berlin or to London or to Rome; get
you the same exact prescription from the same exact company for
somewhere between 40 to 60 percent less.

For example, I was able to reduce the price of insulin for people who
have serious problems they h- — need on a regular basis were $400 a
month to — to $35 a month.  I — (applause) — but here’s the deal. 
Here’s the deal.  The reason I was able to do that — guess what?  The
fact of the matter is they still make 3 and a — 350 percent profit.  It
cost them 10 bucks to make it.  It cost them 10 bucks to make it. 

And so, my point is what that did was — everybody said, “Biden is, you
know, this big liberal,” or are — you know, “This is going to cost us
mo-” — guess what?  It saved you, the taxpayer, $1.7 billion.  And
somebody — (applause) —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you!

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m — no, I’m serious.  Because Medicare didn’t have
to pay these prices; they can negotiate it. 

My generic point is that all the stuff we’ve do- — like, for example, I
make no apologies: I’m the most pro-labor president in American
history.  (Applause.)  I mean factually.  I know how to say the worl- —
word “union.” 

But here’s the deal.  I had the Treasury Department do a study: With an
increase in union membership and the contracts like I — I know I — I got
a lot of criticism because I walked the picket line with UAW; the only
president who’s ever done that.  Well, guess what?  What happened is, I
asked them to do a study: What’s the impact on the rest of the workers
in America?  Everybody does better.  Everybody — (applause) — no, no,
I’m serious. 

Got another $50 billion in investment from chips manufacturers.  We
invented those chips.  In everything from a telephone to a rocket.  And
guess what?  They’re all — they’re all somewhere else.  They were being
— they exported those jobs because they got cheaper labor.

And we have what they call — anyway. 

So, I went to Sou- — I went to South Korea to get them to come back. 
And guess what?  We got the — all these companies to come back.  Not
come back — reinvest in America. 

I asked Samsung why are they going to invest $20 billion in Western
Pennsylvania.  And they said, “Simple reason” — that they are.  “One,
you have the safest place in the world to invest.  And two, you have the
best workers in the world.” 

Everybody thinks, you know, you show up and you want to be an
electrician, you say, “I want to be an electrician.”  You go like — five
years apprenticeship.  It’s like going back to college. 

My generic point is I’m convinced to give people a chance — give people
a chance.  Everybody des- — no guarantees.  Just a chance.  And that’s
what we’ve done. 

And we’re — and that’s why I’m running again, to finish this job. 
There’s more to do.  I know I’m only 41.  (Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  God love you.  You’re like my sister.  (Laughter.)

Anyway.  But, folks, this is a — this an important moment.  And I hope
you — I used to — always when I finished my — I got elected — I was, for
the longest time, I was too young, because I was the second-youngest man
ever elected to the United States Senate.  And — anyway, and now I’m too
old. 

But I know, hopefully, with a little bit of age comes a little bit of
wisdom.  And I — hopefully that — in this — in this moment, I think the
alternative is not much of an alternative. 

And I do think ethics matter.  I do think decency matters.  I do think
we should reflect what the Ameri- — we’re an optimistic, we’re a decent,
we’re an honorable coumtr- — country. 

And I give you my word — last thing I’ll say — I am — never been more
optimistic about America’s possibilities than I am today.  Every one of
those foreign leaders you saw on television — the 32 members of NATO —
I’m going to say something outrageous: I’m the guy that pulled NATO
together.  I’m — literally, I ex- — was able to expand it. 

Every time I leave them, they go, “You — you — you got to win.” 
(Laughter.)  Because the other guy wants to — says — anyway.

But we have a — we have real opportunities — real opportunities.  And
so, we got to finish the job. 

And — and I promise you, I am — I’m okay. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)  I thought I’d walk around the tables and
(inaudible).  Is that okay? 

AUDIENCE MEMBERS:  Yeah!

5:14 P.M. EDT
