---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-10 19:32:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 15:21:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/10/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-alpha-kappa-alpha-sorority-incorporateds-75th-boule/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated\u2019\
  s 71st\_Boul\xE9"
---
 
Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center

Dallas, Texas

11:18 A.M. CDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, my goodness.  Hello, everyone.  (Applause.) 
Good morning, my sorors.  (Applause.)  Good morning.

Oh, my goodness.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.  Oh, my heart
is full. 

To our supreme basileus, Danette Anthony Reed, thank you for your
leadership, your kind words, your friendship, and all that you do.  To
the members of the Directorate, to my dear friend Dr. Glenda Glover, and
to all (inaudible) supreme basilei, thank you for your years of
leadership and mentorship.  (Applause.)

To my line sisters, the 38 Jewels of Iridescent Splendor — (applause) —
oh, you are such an incredible part of my journey.  And I love you,
guys.  Thank you for being here.

And to all those who serve Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated, it
is an honor — (applause) — and a joy to be with you today.

Before I begin, I will say a few words on Hurricane Beryl.  Our hearts,
of course, are with the millions of Texans who are facing the
devastating impact of the storm and all those who lost loved ones and
the first responders who have worked around the clock to keep people
safe and the line crews, who are working as fast as possible to restore
power.

President Biden has approved a major disaster declaration.  And we will
continue to stand with the people of Texas as we rebuild and recover.

And with that — (applause) — I will address the topic at hand.

Sorors, as many of you know, this sisterhood has been a part of my life
since my earliest days, starting with my aunt, Ms. Christine Simmons,
who was initiated in 1950 at Howard University.  (Applause.)  And from
1978 to 1981, she served as basileus of Alpha Nu Me- — Nu Omega Chapter
in Wa- — in Oakland, California.  (Applause.)

And, in fact, one summer, Auntie Chris hosted one of our revered
founders, Ms. Norma E. Boyd, who was then 93 years old.  And Ms. Boyd
gave me her book, “A Love That Equals My Labors,” which she signed, “To
Kamala.  With love, Norma E. Boyd.”  (Applause.)

And that cherished book now sits in my West Wing office at the White
House — (applause) — as a testament to our enduring legacy, a legacy
that began 116 years ago when Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated,
was founded to create desperately needed social and legal change and to
build networks of support for Black college women.

Our sisterhood was also founded, as we know, in the face of profound
challenges in our country.  Think about it.  In 1908, women were not
guaranteed the right to vote.  There was not a single Black person in
the United States Congress.  And that year, 89 Black Americans were
lynched, and that was just the number that was documented.

And yet, despite all of this, and perhaps because of it, our founders
believed in the power of sisterhood and service.  And our founders
believed in the promise of America — a promise of freedom, opportunity,
and equality not for some but for all.  (Applause.)

For generations, in furtherance of the vision of our founders, we have
fought, then, to realize that promise.  From our creation of the
Mississippi Health Project in the 1930s — (applause) — to job training
and literacy programs in the 1960s and ‘70s — (applause) — and then,
most recently, of course, the work on voting rights and economic
opportunity and child hunger.

Throughout our history, the leaders of Alpha Kappa Alpha have stood up,
spoken out, and done the work to build a brighter future for our nation,
including, of course, in 2020, when, during the height of a pandemic,
you helped elect Joe Biden president of the United States — (applause) —
and me as the first woman elected vice president of the United States. 
(Applause.)

And it is because of your work and your support that we have been able
to then fill our administration with incredible leaders, such as
Shalanda Young — Soror Shalanda Young — (applause) — who is the head of
the most powerful Office of Management and Budget — she controls the
money — (applause) — and, of course, a member of our sorority.

The promise of America: the promise of freedom, opportunity, and
equality for all people. 

You know, when we first took office, the president and I knew that to
realize that promise, we must address long-standing issues — some issues
that people just don’t like to even talk about. 

We decided we must, for example, make health care more affordable
because the reality is that access to health care should be a right and
not just a privilege of those who can afford it.  (Applause.)

We decided to look at specific communities that have been long suffering
on specific issues, then, including diabetes.  So, we decided to address
the cost of insulin with the knowledge that Black people are 60 percent
more likely to be diagnosed with diabetes.  (Applause.)  And we took on
Big Pharma and capped the cost of insulin for our elders at $35 a
month.  (Applause.) 

We knew, to realize the promise of America, we must address the issue of
student loan debt.  (Applause.)  And I know there are many here who have
benefitted from that work.  (Applause.)  Please testify.  (Laughs.)  And
we have forgiven debt for nearly 5 million people so far — and twice as
much for our public servants, including our nurses and our teachers and
our firefighters.  (Applause.)

The president and I have also taken on the issue of medical debt,
finally making it so that medical debt, which is usually the result of a
medical emergency — it’s not something you plan; it’s not something you
invite — but we have made it now so that medical debt can no longer be
used against your credit score.  (Applause.) 

Because that credit score, of course, is supposed to measure whether you
are responsible financially or not.  The fact that you have endured a
medical emergency is not a measure of that.  And so, it was just wrong,
and we have corrected that.

To realize the promise of America, we have addressed the long-standing
crisis of maternal mortality — (applause) — something, as you know, I’ve
been working on since I was in the United States Senate. 

Why?  Because women in America die at a higher rate in connection with
childbirth than women in any other wealthy nation in the world, and
Black women are three times more likely to die in connection with
childbirth.  (Applause.)

So, to address this crisis, among the work that I’ve done, I challenged
every state in our nation when we first came in.  I challenged every
nation in our — every state in our nation.  And I challenged them and
said, “Extend Medicaid coverage for postpartum coverage from the measly
two months a year that you’ve been doing to a full year.”  (Applause.) 
And I am proud to report that, when I issued the challenge, only 3
states offered a full year of coverage; now 46 states offer a for year —
full year of coverage.  (Applause.)

And today, I am announcing, for the first time, we have created national
health and safety standards for maternal care — for the first time,
national standards — (applause) — which means nearly every hospital in
our country will soon be required to provide new mothers with delivery
rooms that are fully stocked with lifesaving medical equipment. 
(Applause.)  It’s the first time.

So, sorors, all of us here are clear: While we have come a mighty long
way, we have more work to do.

Across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on hard-fought,
hard-won freedoms and rights: the freedom to vote, the freedom to be
safe from gun violence, the freedom to live without fear of bigotry and
hate, the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride, the
freedom to learn and acknowledge our true and full history as America —
(applause) — and the freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own
body and not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

And these are not only basic freedoms and rights.  These are the pillars
of our liberty, the essence of our democracy, and the promise of
America.

On that last point about the attacks we see on reproductive freedom,
understand how we got here.  Then-President Donald Trump hand-picked
three members of the United States Supreme Court — the court of Thurgood
— because he intended for them to overturn Roe v. Wade.  And as he
intended, they did.

Now, two years later, in the South, where the majority of Black women
call home, every state except Virginia has a ban — many with no
exceptions even for rape or incest. 

Now, we all know: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to
do with her body.  (Applause.)  If she chooses, she will talk with her
priest, her pastor, but it should not be the government replacing her
good judgment with its own.  (Applause.)  Faith and freedom can coexist.

And understand, the former president wants to pass a national abortion
ban to outlaw abortion in every single state, but we will not let him. 
(Applause.)  We will not let that happen.  We have worked too hard and
fought too long to see our daughters grow up in a world with fewer
rights than our mothers.  (Applause.) 

America must trust women.  America must honor individual choice. 
America must defend freedom.

And when Congress passes a law that restores the reproductive freedoms
of Roe, our president, Joe Biden, will sign it.  (Applause.)

And there is so much at stake in this moment — including last week, when
the Supreme Court basically told this individual, who has been convicted
of fraud — (applause) — that, going forward, he will be immune for
activity we know he is prepared to engage in if he gets back into the
White House.

Consider: Donald Trump has openly vowed, if reelected, he’ll be a
dictator on day one, that he will weaponize the Department of Justice
against his political enemies, round up peaceful protesters and throw
them out of our country, and even, and I quote, “terminate” the United
States Constitution.

What’s more, Trump advisors have created a 900-page blueprint of their
agenda for the second term.  They call it “Project 2025.”  It includes a
plan to cut Social Security, to repeal our $35 cap on insulin, to
eliminate the Department of Education and end programs like Head Start.

So, let us be clear: This represents an outright attack on our children,
our families, and our future.  (Applause.)

And all of this is to say, I do believe this is the most existential,
consequential, and important election of our lifetimes. 

Sorors — (applause) — sorors, this is a serious matter.

AUDIENCE:  Serious matter.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, in this moment, once again, our nation is
counting on the leaders in this room to guide us forward; to energize,
organize, and mobilize; to register folks to vote and to get them to the
polls in November.

Because we know, when we organize, mountains move.  (Applause.)  When we
mobilize, nations change.  And when we vote, we make history. 
(Applause.)

So, I’ll conclude with this.  For 116 years, the members of our sorority
have been on the front lines of the fight to realize the promise of
America.  This year, let us continue that work.

Let us fight for freedom, opportunity, and equality.  Let us, as always,
fight with optimism, with faith, and hope.  And let us see it through,
because when we fight, we win. 

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

END                  11:37 A.M. CDT
