---
date: '2024-07-27'
modified_time: 2024-07-28 11:56:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-27 23:50:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-11/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political\_Event"
---
 
Colonial Theater  
Pittsfield, Massachusetts

2:51 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  Oh, thank
you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you all.  (Laughs.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)   
  
Thank you, thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  Oh, thank you so very much. 

Pl- — can we please give it up for James Taylor, by the way?  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)

Oh, what a great treat for me to be on the same stage with James
Taylor.  (Laughter and applause.)  And Kim and Henry Taylor, as well,
are here, and I want to thank the whole family. And, James, in
particular, thank you for always using the gift of your voice in such a
courageous way.   
  
You provide us joy.  You provide us moments for reflection.  But you’re
always standing up, also, for what we care about and love in terms of
our country.  So, thank you for that.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
And thank you to all of today’s performers for being such an important
part of this afternoon, including the great Yo-Yo Ma — (applause) — and
the extraordinary Emanuel Ax.  (Applause.)  Thank you all.  
  
You know, the — the — an important part of every movement is our
artists.  And so, I — I’m very honored to be with you all today.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
And it is good to be with so many incredible leaders, including, of
course, Senator Elizabeth Warren — (applause) –Senator Ed Markey —
(applause) — Congressman Richie Neal — (applause) — Lieutenant Governor
Kim Driscoll — (applause) — Mayor Pete Marchetti.  (Applause.)  And I
also thank my dear friend, former Governor Deval Patrick — (applause) —
and former first lady Diane Patrick — (applause) — and the entire host
committee for welcoming us today.  Thank you all.   
  
So, I will begin by saying a bit — although I could talk all afternoon —
about our incredible president, Joe Biden.  (Applause.)  
  
So, it has truly been one of the greatest honors of my life and career
to serve as vice president to Joe Biden.   
  
His legacy of acco- — and James and I were just talking about this — his
legacy of accomplishment over his entire career and over the past three
and a half years is unmatched in modern history.   
  
In one term, he has already surpassed the legacy of most presidents who
have served two terms in office.  And as he said in his Oval Office
address earlier this week, in the next six months, he will continue to
fight for the American people.  (Applause.)  And I know we are all
deeply, deeply grateful for his continued service to our nation. 
(Applause.)  
  
And it is also my great honor to have Joe Biden’s endorsement in this
race.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
And many of you may know, already, we have earned the support of enough
delegates to secure the Democratic nomination.  (Applause.)  I thank you
for the help.  (Laughs.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you
all.  (Applause.)  
  
And I pledge to you that in the coming weeks, I will continue to work so
very hard to do what we must do to unite our party on the path to
uniting our country.   
  
And so, let me just say a few things about my background.   
      
Many of you may know, before I was elected vice president of the United
States, I was a United States senator.  And before then, I was elected
attorney general of California.  And before that, district attorney of
San Francisco.  And before that, I was a courtroom prosecutor.  
  
All that to say — (laughter and applause) — in those roles, I took on
perpetrators of all kinds — (laughter and applause) — predators who
abused women, fraudsters who ripped off consumers, cheaters who broke
the rules for their own gain.  So, hear me when I say: I know Donald
Trump’s type.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
In fact, I have been dealing with people like him my entire career. 
(Laughter.)  
  
For example, as attorney general, I took on one of our country’s largest
for-profit colleges that was scamming students.  Well, Donald Trump ran
a for-profit college that scammed students.   
  
As a prosecutor, I specialized in sexual abuse cases.  Well, Trump was
found liable for committing sexual abuse.   
  
As attorney general, I held the big Wall Street banks accountable for
fraud.  Donald Trump was just found guilty of fraud — 34 counts.   
  
So, in this campaign — and I say in all seriousness — I will proudly put
my record against his any day of the week.  (Applause.)  Any day of the
week.  
  
But let us — let us make no mistake.  This campaign is not just about us
versus Donald Trump.   
  
Our campaign has always been about two very different visions for our
nation.  One, ours, that is focused on the future, and the other that is
focused almost entirely on the past.   
  
We believe in a future that keeps America’s economy the strongest in the
world; a future that promotes both economic growth and economic
fairness, where every person has the opportunity to compete, thrive, and
prosper — to build a business, to own a home, and to build generational
wealth; where we, in the future, bring down cost for hardworking
Americans so they can afford to pay their bills and still have something
left over, so they have a chance not just to get by but to get ahead; a
future where every worker has the freedom to join a union — (applause) —
where no child has to grow up in poverty — (applause) — and where every
senior can retire with dignity — (applause); a future with affordable
health care, affordable childcare, and paid leave.  (Applause.)  

All of this is to say that building up the middle class will be a
defining goal of my presidency.  Because we know — (applause) — when
America’s middle class is strong, America is strong.  (Applause.)  
  
But as we fight to move our nation forward, Donald Trump intends to take
our country backward.  Just look at his Project 2025 agenda.  A- — and,
by the way, can you believe they put that thing in writing? 
(Laughter.)  Nine hundred pages of it.  (Laughter.)  
      
So, Project 2025 is a plan that would return America to a very dark past
— and weaken the middle class, by the way.   
      
Independent economists have said Trump’s plans would reignite inflation,
slow economic growth, and increase unemployment.   
  
Donald Trump intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.  He intends to
give tax breaks to billionaires and big corporations and make working
families foot the bill.   
      
He intends to end the Affordable Care Act and take us back to a time
when insurance companies had the power to deny people with preexisting
conditions.   
  
You guys remember what that was? It was real.  Children with asthma. 
Breast cancer survivors.  Grandparents with diabetes.   
  
And America has tried these failed policies before.  And we are not
going back.  We are not going back.  (Applause.)   

We are not going back.  We are not going back.  (Applause.)  
  
And, you know, there’s been this, I think, quite perverse thing that has
been happening over the last several years, which is that some folks
would suggest that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on
who you beat down — you know that — have you noticed? — right? — that
somehow you’re strong if you’re a bully? — instead of what we all know:
The true measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up
— who you lift up.  (Applause.)  That’s the strength of a leader.   
  
And so, to the friends here, I say, it is we who are working to lift up
the people of America.  We’re clear about this.   
  
You know, and when you know what you stand for, you know what to fight
for.   
  
We are clear, it is we who are intent on lifting up the people of our
nation.  And ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for
freedom.   
  
Generations of Americans before us led the fight for freedom, and now
the baton is in our hands.  It’s in our hands.   

We, who believe in the sacred freedom to vote, will finally pass the
John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the Freedom to Vote Act. 
(Applause.)   
  
We — we, who believe that every person in our nation should have the
freedom to live safe from the terror of gun violence, will finally pass
universal background checks — (applause) — red flag laws, and an assault
weapons ban.  (Applause.)  
  
And we, who believe in reproductive freedom, will stop Donald Trump’s
extreme abortion bans — (applause) — because we trust women to make
decisions about their own bodies and not have their government telling
them what to do.  (Applause.)  
  
And — I’m just going off script for a second.  So, here’s the thing —
(laughter) —  
  
Think about it.  You know, there’s so much about what we have prided
ourselves in about our country in terms of progress, understanding that
one of the defining components of that progress is the expansion of
rights.  And we are seeing a full-on agenda that is now about
restricting rights — and one of the most fundamental rights, the right
to make decisions about your own body.   
  
Think about that.  And if there are those who dare to take the freedom
to make such a fundamental decision for an individual, which is about
one’s own body, what other freedoms could be on the table for the
taking?  (Applause.)  
  
This is serious business — serious business.  And I pledge to you, when
Congress passes a law to restore reproductive freedoms, as president of
the United States, I will sign it into law.  (Applause.)  
  
So, to everyone here and all the friends I say, you know, ultimately, in
this election, I do believe that each one of us faces a question.  That
question being, what kind of country do we want to live in?   
  
Do we want to live in a country of freedom, compassion, and rule of law,
or a country of chaos, fear, and hate?  
  
And the beauty of our democracy is that each one of us has the power to
answer that question.  And the power then, I say, is with the people. 
The power is with the people.   
  
So, in 101 days, which is November 5th — (laughter) — let us be
clear-eyed: We have a fight ahead of us.  We got a fight ahead of us. 
And we are the underdogs in this race.  Okay?  Level set.  We’re the
underdogs in this race.   
  
But this is a people-powered campaign, and we have momentum.  The day
after I announced my candidacy, we saw the best 24 hours of grassroots
fundraising in presidential campaign history.  (Applause.)  
  
And since then — and since then, in battleground states, people have
been flooding our offices around the country to volunteer.  So —
(applause) — this is good.  We’ve got momentum.  It’s on our side.   
  
And you may have noticed Donald Trump has been resorting to some wild
lies about my record.  And some of what he and his running mate are
saying, it’s just plain weird.  (Laughter.)  I mean, that’s the box you
put that in, right?  (Laughter and applause.)

And you may have seen he just pulled out of our debate.  

AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Mm-hmm.  Right?  I hope he reconsiders.  I hope he
reconsiders.  Because we have a lot to talk about.  (Laughter and
applause.)  Yep.  
  
But the bottom line is we have our work cut out for us.  Okay?  We have
our work cut out for us.  And this is not going to be easy.  But I know
something about the folks in this room.  We can do hard things.  And we
like hard work.  That’s good work.   
  
And on that point, I will say, it is because of that I will tell you
what I sincerely and deeply know and believe: We are going to win.
 (Applause.)  We are going to win.   
  
So, today I ask, are you ready to get to work?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in freedom?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in opportunity?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in the promise of America?  
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And are we ready to fight for it?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)   
  
God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.
(Applause.)   
  
Thank you all.  Thank you.  

END                 3:10 P.M. EDT

  
