---
date: '2024-07-22'
published_time: 2024-07-22 12:39:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/07/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-celebrating-the-2023-2024-ncaa-championship-teams/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Celebrating the 2023-2024 NCAA Championship\_\
  Teams"
---
 
South Lawn

11:46 A.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Greetings, everyone. 
Greetings.

And, Lynda, I want to thank you for all you do to support these
extraordinary student athletes.  And it is good to be here with so many
leaders, including, of course, members of Congress, members of our
administration, and our extraordinary athletes.  

Our president, Joe Biden, wanted to be here today.  He is feeling much
better and recovering fast, and he looks forward to getting back on the
road.  And I wanted to say a few words about our president.  
  
Joe Biden’s legacy of accomplishment over the past three years is
unmatched in modern history.  In one term — (applause) — he has already
— yes, you may clap.  (Laughter and applause).  In one term, he has
already surpassed the legacy of most presidents who have served two
terms in office. 

And I first came to know President Biden through his son, Beau.  We
worked together as attorneys general in our states.  And back then, Beau
would often tell me stories about his dad.  He would talk about the kind
of father and the kind of man that Joe Biden is.   
  
The qualities that Beau revered in his father are the same qualities
that I have seen every day in our president: his honesty, his integrity,
his commitment to his faith and his family, his big heart, and his love
— deep love — of our country. 

And I am firsthand witness that every day our president, Joe Biden,
fights for the American people.  And we are deeply, deeply grateful for
his service to our nation.  (Applause.)

And so, with that, on behalf of our president and Dr. Biden, I am
honored to welcome all of you to the White House to celebrate the
achievements of these great athletes.  Every one of them is a national
champion — a national champion.

In America, tens of millions of people play a sport as a child, and the
best of the best grow up to become national champions.

Here today, we have 7 undefeated teams, 11 repeat champions, and 20
first-time winners.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)

Some of you have represented our nation on the international stage, in
world cups and world championships.  And, later this month, six of you
will represent our nation at the 2024 Olympics in Paris.  (Applause.)

As members of Team USA, you are ambassadors for our nation.  And with
pride, we will cheer you on.  And we look forward to congratulating you
when you bring home the gold.  (Applause.)

So, to all our athletes, I know it was not easy to make it to this
moment.  Each of you has faced challenges and obstacles, and you have
endured.  You have fought back and fought through. 

By doing so, you demonstrated that true greatness requires more than
skill.  It requires grit and determination.  You all know what it means
to commit and to persevere.  And you know what it means to count on
teammates. 

During the course of a long season, sports teams become a family.  You
rely on each other.  You develop relationships that will last a
lifetime.  And you make the people around you better in every way.  And
when you play, you inspire people across our nation.  You remind all of
us what can be achieved with hard work and ambition. 

And, of course, none of you made it here alone.  Today, you are
surrounded by the people who stood by you every step of this journey,
the folks who support you on and off the field: your friends, your
family members, your coaches, your trainers and teachers, who for years
have cheered you on.  So, today, again, let us give them a round of
applause.  (Applause.)

And in conclusion, I say to our athletes: Congratulations, again, on all
you have accomplished, and good luck on all that is to come.  Wherever
you all go from here, you will always — and know this — you always be
champions and we will always be so proud of you.  

And so, now it is my honor to welcome to the stage Jordynn Dudley, who
plays on the Florida State University women’s soccer team and our U-20
Women’s National Team. 

Please welcome Jordynn.  (Applause.)

END            11:52 A.M. EDT
