---
date: '2024-08-12'
modified_time: 2024-08-12 18:01:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-12 20:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/12/a-proclamation-to-further-facilitate-positive-adjustment-to-competition-from-imports-of-certain-crystalline-silicon-photovoltaic-cells-whether-or-not-partially-or-fully-assembled-into-other-products-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation To Further Facilitate Positive Adjustment to Competition From\
  \ Imports of Certain Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells (Whether or Not Partially\
  \ or Fully Assembled Into Other\_Products)"
---
 
     1.  On January 23, 2018, pursuant to section 203 of the Trade Act
of 1974, as amended (the “Trade Act”) (19 U.S.C. 2253), the President
issued Proclamation 9693, imposing a safeguard measure for a period of 4
years that included both a tariff-rate quota (TRQ) on imports of certain
crystalline silicon photovoltaic (CSPV) cells, not partially or fully
assembled into other products, provided for in subheading 8541.40.60
(currently 8541.42.00) of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States (HTS), and an increase in duties (safeguard tariff) on imports of
CSPV cells exceeding the TRQ and all imports of other CSPV products,
including modules provided for in subheading 8541.40.60 (currently
8541.43.00) of the HTS.  Proclamation 9693 exempted imports from certain
designated beneficiary countries under the Generalized System of
Preferences from the application of the safeguard measure.

     2.  After taking into account the United States International Trade
Commission’s (USITC) report on the results of its monitoring of
developments with respect to the domestic solar industry (USITC,
Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or
Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Monitoring Developments in the
Domestic Industry, No. TA-201-075 (Monitoring)) and the USITC’s report
regarding the probable economic effect on the domestic CSPV cell and
module manufacturing industry of modifying the safeguard measure (USITC,
Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or
Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Advice on the Probable Economic
Effect of Certain Modifications to the Safeguard Measure, No. TA-201-075
(Modification)), and after receiving a petition from a majority of the
representatives of the domestic industry with respect to each of the
following modifications, on October 10, 2020, the President issued
Proclamation 10101 under section 204(b)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19
U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B)).  In Proclamation 10101, the President determined
that the domestic industry had begun to make a positive adjustment to
import competition, as shown by the increases in domestic module
production capacity, production, and market share.  Proclamation 10101
also:

     (a)  revoked the exclusion of bifacial modules from application of
the safeguard measure on the basis that it had impaired and was
likely to continue to impair the effectiveness of the safeguard action;
and

     (b)  adjusted the safeguard tariff for the fourth year of the
safeguard measure from 15 percent to 18 percent on the basis that the
exclusion of bifacial modules from application of the safeguard tariff
had impaired the remedial effectiveness of the 4-year action proclaimed
in Proclamation 9693, and to achieve the full remedial effect envisaged
in that action.

     3.  On November 16, 2021, the United States Court of International
Trade (CIT) held in *Solar Energy Industries Association et al. v.
United States* that the President acted outside of his statutory
authority in issuing Proclamation 10101, and enjoined the Government
from enforcing that proclamation.  However, in November 2023, a panel of
the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the
CIT’s decision.

4.  After receiving the USITC’s December 8, 2021, determination and
report pursuant to section 204(c) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(c)),
which found that the safeguard action continues to be necessary to
prevent or remedy the serious injury to the domestic industry and that
there was evidence that the domestic industry was making a positive
adjustment to import competition (USITC, Crystalline Silicon
Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or Fully Assembled Into
Other Products, Investigation No. TA-201-75 (Extension)), and after
taking into account the information provided in the USITC’s report and
the information received from the public through the process published
in the *Federal Register* on September 30, 2021 (86 FR 54279), pursuant
to section 203(e)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2253(e)(1)(B)), I
issued Proclamation 10339 on February 4, 2022.  In Proclamation 10339, I
determined that the safeguard action on imports of CSPV cells, whether
or not partially or fully assembled into other products, continued to be
necessary to prevent or remedy the serious injury to the domestic
industry, and that there was evidence that the domestic industry was
making a positive adjustment to import competition.  I further
determined to extend the safeguard measure proclaimed in Proclamation
9693, as modified by Proclamation 10101, in relevant part, as follows:

(a)  continuation of the TRQ on imports of solar cells not partially or
fully assembled into other products imposed by Proclamation 9693, as
described in paragraph 1 of Proclamation 10339 and paragraph 1 of this
proclamation, for an additional period of 4 years, with unchanging
within-quota quantities of 5.0 gigawatts (GW) for each year and annual
reductions in the rates of duty applicable to goods entered in excess of
those quantities of cells in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
years, as described in Annex I to Proclamation 10339; and

(b)  continuation of the safeguard tariff on imports of modules imposed
by Proclamation 9693, as described in paragraph 1 of Proclamation 10339
and paragraph 1 of this proclamation, for an additional period of 4
years, with annual reductions in the fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth
years, as described in Annex I to Proclamation 10339.

5\.  If an extension of an action taken under section 203 of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2253) exceeds 3 years, section 204(a)(2) of the Trade Act
(19 U.S.C. 2254(a)(2)) requires the USITC to issue a report to the
President and the Congress on its monitoring of developments with
respect to the domestic industry, including the progress and specific
efforts made by workers and firms in the domestic industry to make a
positive adjustment to import competition, no later than the midpoint of
the period of the extension. 

6.  On February 6, 2024, the USITC issued its midterm report pursuant to
section 204(a)(2) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(a)(2)) on its
monitoring of developments within the industry producing CSPV products
since the President’s extension of the safeguard measure (USITC,
Crystalline Silicon Photovoltaic Cells, Whether or Not Partially or
Fully Assembled Into Other Products:  Monitoring Developments in the
Domestic Industry, No. TA-201-075 (Second Monitoring)).  In its report,
the USITC found that the safeguard measure has resulted in positive
adjustments from the domestic industry in light of increased actual and
planned module production; various announcements of planned domestic
cell production; and improvements in several of the domestic industry’s
financial, trade, and employment indicators.  

7.  On September 19, 2023, a majority of the representatives of the
domestic industry submitted a petition under section 204(b) of the Trade
Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B)) to modify the safeguard measure by
eliminating the TRQ and providing for tariff-free treatment of all
imports of CSPV cells, or alternatively to increase the TRQ from 5 GW to
20 GW annually.  The petition explains how the domestic industry has
continued to make a positive adjustment to import competition.  It also
explains that expected domestic module production coupled with current
lack of sufficient domestic cell production will require domestic module
producers to rely on imports in the near term, in excess of the current
5 GW within-quota TRQ amount.

8.  Section 204(b)(1)(B) of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2254(b)(1)(B))
authorizes the President, upon submission of a petition from a majority
of the representatives of the domestic industry, to reduce, modify, or
terminate an action taken under section 203 of the Trade Act when the
President determines that the domestic industry has made a positive
adjustment to import competition.

9.  After taking into account the information provided in the USITC’s
midterm report, and after receiving a petition from a majority of the
representatives of the domestic industry requesting expansion or
elimination of the TRQ on imports of certain CSPV cells, I have
determined that the domestic industry has been making and is continuing
to make a positive adjustment to import competition, shown by increased
actual and planned module production; various announcements of planned
domestic cell production; and improvements in several of the domestic
industry’s financial, trade, and employment indicators.  Furthermore, I
have determined that expected domestic module production and associated
imports of CSPV cells have increased such that it is necessary to modify
the action taken in Proclamation 9693, as extended by Proclamation
10339, by expanding the TRQ to unchanging within-quota quantities of
12.5 GW.  

10.  The in-quota quantity in each year of the TRQ described in
paragraph 9 of this proclamation shall be allocated among all countries
except those countries the products of which are excluded from such TRQ
pursuant to clause (4) of Proclamation 10339 or paragraph 10 of
Proclamation 9693.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, including sections 203, 204, and 604 of
the Trade Act, do proclaim that:

     (1)  In order to modify the action applicable to imports of CSPV
cells under HTS subheading 8541.42.0010 and other CSPV products, such as
modules under HTS subheading 8541.43.0010, subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTS is modified as set forth in Annex I to this proclamation.

     (2)  The modifications to the HTS made by this proclamation,
including Annex I hereto, shall be effective with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 1, 2024, and shall
continue in effect as provided in Annex I to this proclamation, unless
such actions are earlier expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.  

     (3)  CSPV products that are subject to the modifications described
in clause (1) of this proclamation, and which are entered into the
United States above the prior TRQ limit of 5 GW on or after August 1,
2024, shall be included within the modified TRQ limit of 12.5 GW and
shall not be assessed safeguard tariffs unless they enter into the
United States above the modified TRQ limit of 12.5 GW.

     (4)  U.S. Customs and Border Protection shall take such actions as
are necessary to ensure proper application of clauses (1), (2), and (3)
of this proclamation.

     (5)  One year from the termination of the safeguard measure
referenced in this proclamation, as modified by this proclamation, the
U.S. note and tariff provisions established in Annex I to this
proclamation shall be deleted from the HTS.

     (6)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twelfth day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
