---
date: '2024-08-30'
modified_time: 2024-08-30 12:06:00-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-30 11:58:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-recovery-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Recovery Month,\_2024"
---
 
  This month, we recognize the more than 21 million Americans in
recovery from substance use disorder.  They exemplify courage, hope, and
resilience as they seek new beginnings and help countless others find
pathways to healing.  People in recovery serve in every sector of
society as business leaders, public servants, community leaders, and
more.  During National Recovery Month, we celebrate their contributions,
and we honor the loved ones who have supported them on their recovery
journeys.  We also reaffirm our commitment to making sure every American
has the resources they need to recover and thrive.  
   
   Substance use disorder impacts Americans in communities nationwide.
 Too many families have lost their children, siblings, parents, and
friends to substance misuse and overdose.  Every loss is a painful call
to action.  With adequate support and resources, recovery is possible. 
Our Nation is stronger when people in recovery do well.  
  
     The main goal of my Administration’s National Drug Control Strategy
is to save lives.  My Administration is taking steps to provide the
resources needed to ensure people can achieve and sustain recovery, no
matter where they are.  The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration opened the Office of Recovery to improve community-based
recovery services across the country.  And last year, we released the
Recovery-Ready Workplace Toolkit to help employers create a safe and
healthy work environment, reduce stigmatization of people with substance
use disorder and mental illness, and promote treatment and recovery
services.   
  
     We are also disrupting the flow of illicit drugs across our borders
and into our neighborhoods; increasing prevention efforts; and expanding
access to treatment for substance use disorder and mental health
conditions, overdose reversal medications, and recovery services.  Under
my Administration, Federal law enforcement agents are keeping more
deadly drugs out of our communities than ever before.  Officials have
stopped more illicit fentanyl at ports of entry over the last 2 fiscal
years than in the previous 5 fiscal years combined.  The Department of
Justice has prosecuted thousands of drug traffickers, and the Department
of the Treasury has sanctioned more than 300 people and organizations
involved in the global illicit drug trade.  And in July 2024, I issued a
National Security Memorandum that calls on all relevant Federal
departments and agencies to work collaboratively to do even more to
disrupt the supply of illicit drugs.  
  
     We have expanded access to life-saving treatments, like medications
to treat opioid use disorder, and have increased the number of health
care providers who can prescribe these medications by 15 times.  In
February 2024, the Department of Health and Human Services issued a rule
to comprehensively update the regulations in governing Opioid Treatment
Programs for the first time in 20 years — removing barriers to the
treatment of substance use disorder and expanding access to care.  My
Administration has made historic investments in the State Opioid
Response and Tribal Opioid Response programs to improve prevention;
expand treatment; and deliver free, life-saving medications across
America.  Already, this program has delivered nearly 10 million kits of
opioid overdose reversal medications, such as naloxone.   
  
     And I have proposed a Budget that includes $1.8 billion for
recovery, including over $200 million of Federal Substance Use
Prevention, Treatment, and Recovery Services Block Grant program funding
for recovery support services to help all Americans access health care,
no matter where they are in their recovery process, as well as $22
billion to expand substance use treatment and help more Americans
achieve and stay in recovery.   
  
     During National Recovery Month, we support everyone in their
journey to and during recovery.  We recommit to helping them live long,
successful, and healthy lives, and we thank them for their contributions
to our country.  And we continue to ensure that those battling substance
use disorder are supported.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Recovery Month.  I call upon all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to take action to promote recovery and improve the health
of our Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

​​​​​​JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
