---
date: '2024-08-30'
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:19:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-labor-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Labor Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Every year on Labor Day, we celebrate the dignity of America’s
workers and the labor unions they have built.  I often say that Wall
Street did not build America — the middle class built America, and
unions built the middle class.  Labor unions have done so much for our
Nation — giving workers a voice at the workplace, raising standards on
the job, and fighting for better benefits and wages for us all.  Today,
we honor the pioneers who fought for the rights of working people, pay
tribute to the dedication of our American workforce, and honor the
enduring movement that powers our economy and strengthens our Nation.  
  
     My father taught me from a young age that a job is about far more
than just a paycheck — it is about your dignity.  When I came into
office, too many people had lost both their paychecks and their sense of
dignity.  Our economy was failing working-class and union families. 
Decades of trickle-down economics sent jobs overseas, shut down
factories, and hollowed out our communities.  People had lost their
sense of pride, their security, and their pathway to the middle
class.   
  
     That is why I promised to be the most pro-labor, pro-union
President in history and ensure unions have the support they need to
fight for our workers.  Last year, the Department of the Treasury
released a comprehensive report detailing how unions are not just good
for union workers but non-union workers as well, showing that union
growth helps to build a strong middle class in America.  I am proud to
be the first sitting President to walk the picket line to support
workers who were striking for better conditions.  I am also proud that,
to date, we have created nearly 16 million new jobs, including almost
800,000 manufacturing jobs and nearly 900,000 construction jobs.  In
fact, investment in construction of new factories has nearly tripled
since I took office.  My Administration announced more than 60,000
projects to rebuild America’s roads, bridges, airports, ports, and more
through our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  Wages are up, inflation is
down, and we have had the fastest recovery of any advanced economy in
the world since the pandemic started.   
  
     Furthermore, we are positioning American workers to lead the world
in innovation.  I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, the largest
investment in clean energy and climate action in history, creating
nearly 335,000 clean energy jobs according to outside estimates.  I also
signed the CHIPS and Science Act to bring semiconductor manufacturing
back home and ensure that America’s clean energy jobs go to American
workers.  To date, we have attracted nearly $900 billion in
private-sector commitments to invest in manufacturing and clean energy. 
I am proud that this manufacturing boom we ignited is being done with
American products and led by American workers — the most highly skilled
workers in the world — because of “Made in America” provisions that I
championed and my Administration enforced.   
  
     Today, more Americans are joining the workforce, and we have the
highest share of working-age Americans in the workforce in over 20
years.  And over the past 2 years, more workers have been petitioning
for union representation.  To ensure those workers have a voice on the
job, I have required the use of project labor agreements for nearly all
large-scale Federal construction projects.  I have also strengthened
Davis-Bacon requirements to guarantee that prevailing wages pay workers
what they deserve and enacted the Butch Lewis Act — the most significant
law for union retirement security in 50 years — that has protected the
pensions of 1 million union workers.  We issued a rule that expands
overtime protections to millions of workers, and my Administration is
working to crack down on noncompete agreements, which prevent 30 million
Americans from taking new, higher-paying jobs.  
  
     My Administration is also making sure that workers feel safe and
secure on the job.  That is why the Department of Labor is proposing a
new rule that will establish the Nation’s first-ever Federal safety
standard for excessive heat in the workplace.  That rule includes
developing a response to heat illness, training employees and
supervisors, implementing rest breaks, and ensuring access to shade and
water.  And we are limiting workers’ exposure to toxic materials like
silica dust to prevent them from developing preventable and irreversible
illnesses.  My Administration also issued a rule to ensure that workers
are empowered to have a representative accompany an Occupational Safety
and Health Administration official during workplace inspections.   
  
     I have long believed that workers deserve a seat at the table and
an opportunity to join a union, organize, and bargain collectively with
their employer without coercion or intimidation.  That is why I
appointed people who actually care about American workers to the
National Labor Relations Board.  And I established the White House Task
Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment, led by Vice President
Harris, which resulted in over 70 actions to promote worker organizing
and collective bargaining.  
  
     As we look to the future, my Administration is creating long-term
pathways to help people secure good-paying jobs, including union jobs.
 We invested nearly $730 million to expand Registered Apprenticeships,
which support the education and training needs of apprentices across the
country.  And I signed an Executive Order that expands Registered
Apprenticeship programs in the Federal workforce, encourages Federal
agencies to hire people who have participated in these programs, and
increases workers’ voices in Federal programs and contracts.    
  
     This Labor Day, let us stand in solidarity with America’s workers,
who are the engines behind our Nation’s prosperity.  Let us celebrate
labor unions, who give voice to our workers and ensure they are given
the dignity, respect, and protections in the workplace that they
deserve.  And let us recommit to ensuring that every hardworking
American has a fair shot at achieving the promise of the American Dream
for generations to come.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2, 2024, as Labor Day.  I call upon all public officials and
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that honor the energy and
innovation of working Americans.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
