---
date: '2024-08-02'
modified_time: 2024-08-02 10:20:48-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-02 10:20:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/02/a-proclamation-on-national-health-center-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Health Center Week,\_2024"
---
 
    Federally funded community health centers are a lifeline for over 30
million Americans nationwide — providing affordable access to quality
medical, dental, and behavioral health services, which save lives. 
Community health center sites are especially critical for people in
Tribal, rural, and underserved communities because they are often the
closest and most convenient sources of care.  During National Health
Center Week, we recognize the importance of the nearly 1,400 federally
funded community health centers that provide critical services to
Americans.  We express our gratitude to their dedicated staff, who
tirelessly devote themselves to the well-being of their patients.  And
we recommit to ensuring that every American has access to good-quality,
affordable health care.

     I have seen firsthand just how vital community health centers are
to our entire Nation.  At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, we
invested $7.6 billion in our Nation’s health center network so Americans
could get the care they needed, no matter their background or zip code. 
It worked.  For example, health centers distributed over 20 million
COVID-19 vaccines — 2 out of 3 went to people of color, and 2 out of 10
went to rural residents.  And every day, health centers have empowered
Americans to access the affordable, quality health care services they
need — from cancer screenings and maternal health care to telehealth
services that reach people where they are.

     Community health centers play a key role in making sure health care
is a right in this country, not a privilege — that is why my
Administration is investing in them at a historic rate.  My Budget would
put the Health Center Program on a pathway to double in size.  We have
also delivered funding for community health centers to expand critical
services, including substance use disorder treatments, behavioral health
care, pregnancy-related care, and preventative cancer screenings.

     At the same time, my Administration is lowering health care costs
so every American has access to the care that they need.  We
strengthened the Affordable Care Act, and more people in this country
have health care coverage under my Administration than ever before.  We
are also capping total prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare
at $2,000 per year, even for expensive medications.  We slashed the
price of insulin to $35 per month for seniors on Medicare, down from as
much as $400 per month.  And we finally beat Big Pharma by giving
Medicare the power to negotiate lower drug prices.  

     During National Health Center Week, we honor all of the health
center staff, who sacrifice so much to care for the health and
well-being of their communities.  We celebrate the impact of health
centers across the country, and we recommit to supporting their efforts
and their vision — a future where everyone has access to affordable,
quality health care.

  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of August
4 through August 10, 2024, as National Health Center Week.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this second day of
August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
