---
date: '2024-08-16'
modified_time: 2024-08-16 13:02:22-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-16 13:02:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/16/a-proclamation-on-the-establishment-of-the-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Establishment of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National\_\
  Monument"
---
 
        In August 1908, mere blocks from the former home of President
Abraham Lincoln, a white mob attacked the Black community in
Springfield, Illinois, lynching two Black Americans and burning homes
down to their foundations.  By the time the National Guard quelled the
violence, the mob had looted and destroyed businesses, razed city
blocks, and displaced hundreds of people from their homes.  Labeled by
the media as a race riot, the event was emblematic of the racism,
intimidation, violence, and lynchings that Black Americans experienced
in communities across the country in the late 19th and early 20th
Centuries.  The horror that became known as the Springfield 1908 Race
Riot drew the attention of national newspapers and Black and white
activists interested in social change.  In the wake of the devastation
and ensuing outcry, a group of visionary civic leaders launched the
National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, which went
on to achieve momentous civil rights victories and continues to work
toward racial justice and equity.    
     Today, the foundations of destroyed homes and the objects they
contain are tangible markers of these historic events and reminders of
the impact that the Springfield 1908 Race Riot had on our Nation.  The
area located between North 9th and 11th Streets, and between East Mason
and East Madison Streets, constitutes the Springfield 1908 Race Riot
Site.  This site weaves together two important threads in our Nation’s
story:  the hateful violence targeted against Black Americans, and the
power of dedicated individuals to come together across racial lines to
transform shock and grief into hope and action.   
At the turn of the 20th Century, the United States was still struggling
to fulfill the promises of the Thirteenth, Fourteenth, and Fifteenth
Amendments to the Constitution — amendments that abolished slavery;
guaranteed due process and equal protection under the law; and
prohibited abridgement of the right to vote on account of race, color,
or previous condition of servitude.  Numerous States and municipalities,
primarily in the South, passed anti-Black legislation, including Jim
Crow laws, to enforce racial segregation and to maintain white
structural power by restricting Black people’s daily lives.  As millions
of Black people migrated to towns and cities in the North seeking a
better life, they were often confronted with racial bias, segregated
schools, discriminatory and restrictive housing practices, and other
forms of discrimination.  Black people were also subjected to a
nationwide wave of racial violence that began after the Civil War.
 Between 1882 and 1910, there were 2,503 recorded lynchings of Black
people in the United States.  Many lynchings during this grim chapter of
American history occurred during riots led by white mobs engaged in a
broader pattern of violence, similar to the one that took place in
Springfield.   
     There, on Friday, August 14, 1908, a crowd of mostly white men
gathered outside the Sangamon County Jail, which was 2 blocks from the
edge of the Badlands neighborhood, a community northeast of the center
of the city that included many low-income Black residents and families.
 The mob was calling for the lynching of two Black men:  Joe James and
George Richardson.  James stood accused of the murder of a white man and
attempted assault on his daughter.  Richardson was accused of sexually
assaulting a white woman.  
     The sheriff, hoping to defuse the situation and avoid the white-mob
lynchings that had occurred in similar circumstances, arranged for the
two men to be quietly transferred to a jail in another town.  Harry
Loper, a local white leader who shared the sheriff’s concerns, agreed to
help with the transfer.  When the crowd learned of the sheriff’s and
Loper’s actions, it erupted in violence.  The mob wreaked havoc and
destruction in the surrounding Badlands and Levee neighborhoods —
attacking and destroying dozens of Black-owned businesses and
residences, as well as some Jewish-owned businesses and other businesses
that served the predominantly Black community.  Loper also paid a price
for helping the men; after he returned, the mob set fire to his car and
vandalized his restaurant.   
     One of the buildings the mob torched was in the Badlands
neighborhood on 12th Street between Madison and Mason Streets where
Scott Burton, a Black barber, was trying to protect his home.  At
approximately 2:30 a.m. on Saturday, August 15, 1908, the mob beat
Burton into unconsciousness before dragging him half a block south to
the corner of Madison and 12th Streets.  There, he was further
brutalized and hanged from a tree, and he died from his injuries.  All
the while, the rioters celebrated his lynching.    
     On Saturday, the second day of the riot, the violence briefly
abated as State militia reinforcements arrived and Governor Charles
Deneen designated the Illinois State Arsenal as a temporary refuge for
Black residents.  Black firefighters of Firehouse No. 5 responded to
fires and fought to quench the flames and save the homes of Black
residents and Black-owned businesses, even after being dismissed by the
Mayor of Springfield.  Despite these actions, by 7:00 p.m. Saturday
evening, crowds again amassed and resumed the mob violence of the
previous night.  
     That same day, the riot reached the home of William K. Donnegan, a
Black 84-year-old retired cobbler who had made shoes for Abraham Lincoln
and served as an Underground Railroad operative.  Donnegan was married
to a white woman and lived with his family in a nearby middle-class
white neighborhood.  On Saturday night, a group of white men gathered
outside of Donnegan’s house, beat him with bricks, and cut his throat
with a razor.  They dragged him across the street and hanged him from a
tree in the neighboring schoolyard, just 2 blocks from the Illinois
State Capitol.  The police and National Guard personnel found Donnegan
still alive, and took him to St. John’s Hospital, where he received
medical care along with other people injured in the riot — Black and
white alike.  Although he survived the night, he died the next day from
his injuries.   
     Soon after the riot, George Richardson’s accuser issued a signed
statement confessing that her assailant had in fact been a white man.
 Joe James’s story took a different turn.  His lawyer tried to remove
James’s case from Sangamon County, arguing he would not be able to get
an impartial jury there, but those efforts failed and James was tried
and convicted in the same community that carried out the race riot.  On
October 23, 1908, James was executed by hanging at the Sangamon County
Jail.  Only one white rioter was convicted of a violent crime in
connection with the destruction wrought on Springfield’s Black
community.  In a poignant postscript, the two men lynched, Scott Burton
and William K. Donnegan, were laid to rest in the same Springfield
cemetery as President Lincoln.      
     The national and local press covered the Springfield 1908 Race Riot
extensively.  The devastation of the Badlands neighborhood and nearby
sites captured the attention of prominent civil rights leaders and
spurred new action.  In response to the Springfield 1908 Race Riot, an
interracial group of dozens of civil rights leaders, including W.E.B. Du
Bois, William English Walling, Mary White Ovington, Ida B.
Wells-Barnett, and Mary Church Terrell, issued an open letter in
February 1909 “taking stock of the nation’s progress” on the centennial
of Lincoln’s birth.  Invoking Lincoln’s words from 1858 that “\[a\]
house divided against itself cannot stand,” the group “call\[ed\] upon
all the believers in democracy to join in a national conference for the
discussion of present evils, the voicing of protests, and the renewal of
the struggle for civil and political liberty.”   
     This call led to a meeting in the spring of 1909 of a group
initially called the National Negro Committee to discuss forming a
permanent, national organization that would advocate to combat lynching
and racial prejudice, improve the lives of Black Americans, and secure
the civil and political rights guaranteed to them by the Constitution.
 On May 12, 1910, the National Negro Committee formally named the new
organization the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People (NAACP).   
     For more than a century, the NAACP has been at the forefront of key
legal and political movements to end lynching, remove barriers of racial
discrimination, and advance civil and political rights.  The NAACP and
its legal team devised the transformative, decades-long legal strategy
culminating in Brown v. Board of Education (1954), in which the Supreme
Court declared the “separate but equal” doctrine to be unconstitutional
and gutted the legal underpinnings of segregation and Jim Crow laws.    
     The NAACP, along with partners and allies, turned the Springfield
1908 Race Riot’s legacy from one of tragedy alone into one that led to
enduring progress and change.  Yet those violent and fateful days had
persistent discriminatory effects on Springfield.  Although the rioters
did not succeed in driving Black residents from the city entirely, their
actions led to the displacement of Black people from the Badlands and
other affected neighborhoods and paved the way for so-called “urban
renewal projects” that erased much of the neighborhoods’ physical
imprint.  One of the country’s first public housing projects was
constructed on remnants of the Badlands neighborhood.  The 8-block John
Hay Homes housing complex, built in the 1940s, provided low-income
housing, primarily to white people.  The John Hay Homes and other
projects drastically altered the landscape, demolishing blocks of
structures to develop facilities including high-rise apartments,
low-rent apartments, an expressway, and a civic center.   
     Notwithstanding the changes to the surrounding neighborhoods, the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site, a 2-block area stretching northward
from East Madison Street between North 9th and 11th Streets, still
contains archeological remains and scars of the riot.  The site, which
has been identified as the approximate point where the violent assault
on the Badlands neighborhood began in 1908, provides some of the last
physical remains of the race riot and the neighborhood it destroyed,
including the charred foundations of five houses burned by the white mob
in 1908.    
     Archeological excavations of the site have uncovered other historic
objects remaining at the site, including a partial cellar, stone steps,
and a brick walk.  This area and the archeological artifacts it contains
have a singular ability to tell the story of the race riot and its
impacts on Black residents at this pivotal point in Springfield and the
Nation’s history.    
     Archeological studies have concluded that the site likely contains
significant additional resources and artifacts that could help further
illuminate the history of the Badlands neighborhood.  In addition to the
five burned houses, the site encompasses the plots of several other
buildings demolished in the riot.  Spared the architectural erasure of
urban renewal, the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site can help bring
greater attention to this chapter in American history.  The National
Park Service has recognized the historical significance of this site to
civil rights history by adding it to the African American Civil Rights
Network.  
Preservation of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site will protect the
objects of historic interest found therein from removal, development, or
other activities that could erase their presence in the area.  It will
also ensure that the site and its objects remain available for future
generations to learn about the Springfield 1908 Race Riot and how this
brutal event near President Lincoln’s home underscored the pattern of
racially motivated violence perpetrated on Black people throughout the
country and catalyzed the formation of the NAACP.  Ida B. Wells-Barnett,
one of the co-founders of the NAACP and a national hero who led the
campaign against lynching, described the Springfield 1908 Race Riot as
showing that “the hue and cry once started stops at no bounds.”
 Protecting the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site is essential to preserve
and narrate the history that galvanized civil rights leaders to
establish an institution to work for real and lasting change, creating
hope for our democracy out of the embers of this neighborhood in
Springfield, Illinois.   
     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and  
     WHEREAS, the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site preserves some of the
last remaining objects of historic interest from the Springfield 1908
Race Riot, memorializes the area where these tragic and notorious events
occurred, and has been found to meet the criteria for national
significance by the National Park Service in its June 2023 Special
Resource Study; and  
     WHEREAS, the City of Springfield, Illinois, has expressed support
for the establishment of a national monument to be administered by the
National Park Service; and  
     WHEREAS, the City of Springfield has donated fee interest in
approximately 0.39 acres of city-owned land within the Springfield 1908
Race Riot Site to the National Park Foundation; and  
     WHEREAS, St. John’s Hospital of the Hospital Sisters of the Third
Order of St. Francis has donated fee interest in approximately 1.18
acres of land within the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site to the National
Park Foundation; and  
     WHEREAS, the National Park Foundation has relinquished and conveyed
all of the lands and interests in lands associated with the Springfield
1908 Race Riot Site described above to the Federal Government for the
purpose of establishing a unit of the National Park System; and  
     WHEREAS, the City of Springfield owns additional land within the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site that potentially contains archeological
artifacts and has indicated an interest in making further land donations
in the future; and  
     WHEREAS, the designation of a national monument to be administered
by the National Park Service would recognize the historic significance
of the Springfield 1908 Race Riot Site, particularly the events that
took place at these locations from August 14-16, 1908, and their role in
inspiring the formation of a national civil rights organization, and
would provide a national platform for preserving and interpreting this
important history; and  
     WHEREAS, I find that all the objects identified above, and objects
of the type identified above within the area described herein, are
objects of historic interest in need of protection under section 320301
of title 54, United States Code, regardless of whether they are
expressly identified as objects of historic interest in the text of this
proclamation; and  
     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of historic interest identified
above, as required by the Antiquities Act; and  
     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to preserve and protect the
objects of historic interest associated with the Springfield 1908 Race
Riot;  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be part of the Springfield 1908
Race Riot National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of
protecting those objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and
interests in lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United
States within the boundaries described on the accompanying map, which is
attached to and forms a part of this proclamation.  The reserved Federal
lands and interests in lands within the monument’s boundaries encompass
approximately 1.57 acres.  The boundaries described on the accompanying
map are confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care
and management of the objects to be protected.  
     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, leasing, or other disposition under
the public land laws, including withdrawal from location, entry, and
patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under all laws
relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.    
     The establishment of the monument is subject to valid existing
rights.  If the Federal Government acquires any lands or interests in
lands not owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the
boundaries described on the accompanying map, such lands and interests
in lands shall be reserved as part of the monument, and objects of the
type identified above that are situated upon those lands and interests
in lands shall be part of the monument, upon acquisition of ownership or
control by the Federal Government.  
     The Secretary of the Interior shall manage the monument through the
National Park Service, pursuant to applicable legal authorities and
consistent with the purposes and provisions of this proclamation.  For
the purpose of preserving, interpreting, and enhancing the public
understanding and appreciation of the monument, the Secretary of the
Interior, through the National Park Service, shall prepare a management
plan for the monument.  The management plan shall ensure that the
monument fulfills the following purposes for the benefit of present and
future generations:  (1) to preserve the historic and cultural resources
within the boundaries of the monument; (2) to interpret the story of the
Springfield 1908 Race Riot and its significance to the history of racial
violence that occurred across the Nation; and (3) to commemorate the
history of the Civil Rights Movement and civic leaders’ work to build
transformative organizations, including the NAACP.  The National Park
Service shall develop the management plan in consultation with local
communities, organizations, and the general public to set forth the
desired relationship of the monument to and support for other sites
evaluated in the Springfield Race Riot Special Resource Study such as
the Badlands Riot Area, the Levee Riot Area, the Sangamon County
Courthouse/Old State Capitol, Firehouse No. 5, the home of Mabel Hallam,
Kate Howard’s Boarding House, the site of Scott Burton’s lynching, the
site of William Donnegan’s lynching, the Illinois Executive Mansion,
Camp Lincoln, St. John’s Hospital, and the gravesites of Scott Burton
and William Donnegan in Oak Ridge Cemetery.    
     The National Park Service shall consult with appropriate Federal,
State, and local agencies and nongovernmental organizations in planning
for interpretation, appropriate commemorative design, and visitor access
and services at the monument.   
     The National Park Service is directed, as appropriate, to use
applicable authorities to seek to enter into agreements with other
entities to address common interests and promote management
efficiencies, including the provision of visitor services,
interpretation and education, establishment and care of museum
collections, and commemoration and preservation of historic objects.
 These entities may include the Lincoln Presidential Foundation, the
NAACP, the Springfield and Central Illinois African American History
Museum, and the American Civil Liberties Union.   
     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.  
     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.  
If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to a
particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not be
affected thereby.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
