---
date: '2024-08-30'
modified_time: 2024-08-30 13:11:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-30 13:11:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-preparedness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Preparedness Month,\_2024"
---
 
During National Preparedness Month, we honor our first responders for
their bravery in helping us respond to natural disasters, and we
recommit to equipping Americans with the resources they need to overcome
the climate crisis and bouts of extreme weather and emerge stronger,
more resilient, and more secure.

Across the country, historic heat waves, flooding, and fires have
tragically claimed the lives of too many Americans.  These crises have
impacted communities by keeping children out of schools, hurting small
businesses, and destroying infrastructure — and they are only getting
more ferocious and costly with climate change.  Disasters affect people
across our Nation, but the most vulnerable among us typically bear the
greatest impacts — from housing insecurity to financial hardship.  

My Administration has taken historic action to prepare and protect
communities and make our Nation more resilient.  Thanks to the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, we are
investing more than $50 billion in climate resilience, ensuring
communities can prepare for and recover from extreme weather events. 
For example, we are elevating roads and bridges over projected flood
zones, and we are upgrading buildings to make them stronger and more
energy efficient.  We are also planting trees to protect neighborhoods
from extreme heat.   

Since taking office, Vice President Harris and I have traveled across
the country and directed our team to meet people where they are when
they need our help the most.  To that end, we have made substantial
changes to our Federal assistance policies, making it easier for
disaster survivors to receive much-needed support and resources.  The
Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has expanded benefits for
Americans applying for disaster relief and simplified the disaster
assistance application process, reducing the burden on overwhelmed
families and individuals.  My Administration also secured $6.8 billion
for FEMA under the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to support communities
suffering from disaster and avoid future disaster.  In total, we have
provided hundreds of billions of dollars in disaster relief funding to
communities nationwide, including FEMA public and individual assistance,
Small Business Administration disaster assistance loans, COVID Economic
Injury Disaster Loans, and other supplemental funds. 

There is still more work to do to improve the safety and security of our
country, so my Administration has also taken steps to protect Americans’
lives and livelihoods.  No American should worry about how they will get
the care they need if disaster strikes.  That is why we have expanded
the Affordable Care Act and lowered the cost of health care for
Americans and working families.  We have also created new jobs that
strengthen our country and ensure that we have the resources we need —
especially in times of crisis.  To get prepared and learn more about how
to keep your family and community ready, visit Ready.gov or Listo.gov
for Spanish speakers. 

During National Preparedness Month, we recommit to ensuring that our
Nation is ready for any challenge that comes our way.  We support
efforts to keep Americans safe, and we encourage optimism and
preparation for our shared future.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 2024 as
National Preparedness Month.  I encourage all Americans to recognize the
importance of preparedness and work together to enhance our resilience
and readiness.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
