---
date: '2024-08-30'
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:39:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-ovarian-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Too many Americans know the pain of losing a mother, sister, wife,
daughter, or friend to ovarian cancer — the deadliest of all female
reproductive system cancers.  This year alone, nearly 20,000 women will
be diagnosed with this terrible disease.  During National Ovarian Cancer
Awareness Month, we honor the memories of all the women we have
tragically lost.  We reaffirm our support for all the brave women living
with ovarian cancer and all those who have survived it.  And we thank
their loved ones, who stand loyally by their side, and the medical
researchers, health care providers, and caretakers who fight tirelessly
to save lives every day.     
  
     In our decades-long fight to find cures for cancers, scientists
have made incredible breakthroughs and discovered better ways to
prevent, detect, and treat them.  But for ovarian cancer, in particular,
there remains no reliable method for asymptomatic screening and
detection, which can delay a diagnosis until the cancer has become
deadly.  Even after a diagnosis has been made, the flood of medical
information, appointments, procedures, and financial expenses is
overwhelming.  And too often, families, caregivers, and patients are
left to advocate for themselves for effective care.  
  
     Jill and I know from personal experience that a cancer diagnosis
takes a severe toll on the whole family.  That is why I made fighting
cancer a top priority for our Administration.  I reignited the Biden
Cancer Moonshot with the goal of cutting the cancer death rate by at
least 50 percent over 25 years and improving the experience of patients
and loved ones.  I established the Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health, securing $4 billion in bipartisan funding to support scientists,
innovators, and public health professionals who are pioneering efforts
to prevent, detect, and treat cancer and other life-threatening and
life-altering diseases.  And we delivered new reimbursement codes so
that, for the first time ever, families facing cancer can get patient
navigation services paid for through Medicare, Medicaid, and private
insurance.  Cancer navigation services are personalized assistance to
patients, caregivers, and families to help guide them through the many
decisions and challenges that come with a cancer diagnosis, which has
been shown to reduce cancer disparities, improve health outcomes, and
make an enormous difference in people’s lives.  
  
     My Administration has also been working hard to make cancer
treatments more affordable.  I am proud to strengthen Medicaid and the
Affordable Care Act (ACA) by expanding health care coverage to millions
of Americans — saving millions of families $800 per year on health
insurance premiums.  And through the Inflation Reduction Act, we are
capping total out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for seniors and
others with Medicare at $2,000 per year — including for ovarian cancer
medications, which can cost more than $10,000 per year.  
  
     Additionally, because early detection is essential to beating
ovarian cancer, my Administration is working to ensure that every
American can access life-saving cancer screenings.  During my first year
in office, we expanded coverage under the ACA, which requires insurers
to pay for recommended cancer screenings and primary care visits.  I
encourage all women to discuss risk factors with their doctors and
remain vigilant against symptoms.  Experts recommend that patients with
a personal or family history of breast or ovarian cancer — or whose
ancestry is associated with harmful gene variants — discuss risk factors
with their doctors to see if genetic counseling and testing is
appropriate.  
  
     During National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, let us resolve to
doing all we can together to provide patients, survivors, and their
families the treatments, care, and support they need and deserve.  Let
us rededicate ourselves to the urgent work of increasing awareness about
ovarian cancer so that we can save more lives more quickly.  And let us
never lose hope or waver in our resolve to ending cancer as we know it —
for all the lives lost and all those we can still save.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon
the people of the United States to speak with their doctors and health
care providers to learn more about ovarian cancer.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to detect and treat ovarian cancer.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
