---
date: '2024-08-30'
modified_time: 2024-08-30 12:36:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:36:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Too many Americans know the grief of losing a father, son, brother,
or friend to prostate cancer.  Nearly 300,000 American men get diagnosed
with this terrible disease and over 35,000 people lose their lives to
it, making prostate cancer the second leading cause of cancer death for
men.  This National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we mourn all the
courageous men we have tragically lost too soon to prostate cancer.  We
honor the extraordinary resilience of those currently living with and
surviving this disease.  And we thank the families who tirelessly
support their loved ones every step of the way.   
  
     Despite the enormous strides made over the last few decades in
fighting and treating prostate cancer, challenges persist.  Far too many
men — approximately one in every eight — will be diagnosed in their
lifetime.  Furthermore, the disease disproportionately affects Black and
Hispanic men.  And too many patients and their families are left to
decipher complex medical information alone, are saddled with the
overwhelming cost of treatment, and are forced to advocate for effective
medical care for their loved ones.  
  
     I came into office committed to putting our country’s best minds
and resources toward ending cancer as we know it.  Toward that aim, I
reignited the Cancer Moonshot with the goal of cutting the cancer death
rate by at least 50 percent over 25 years.  I secured $4 billion in
bipartisan funding for the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health
to pioneer new breakthroughs in preventing, detecting, and treating
cancer and other life-threatening diseases.  The Departments of Defense
and Veterans Affairs expanded research efforts to provide more service
members and veterans facing prostate cancer with the opportunity to
participate in clinical studies to learn about this disease and develop
new treatment approaches.  And the National Institutes of Health is
funding groundbreaking research to better treat prostate cancer in the
early stages and help people with prostate cancer live longer, healthier
lives.   
  
     I believe that health care is a right, not a privilege.  That is
why my Administration is working to ensure that every American has free
access to a doctor by expanding and strengthening coverage under the
Affordable Care Act, Medicaid, and Medicare.  Now, millions of Americans
have access to free cancer screenings and primary care visits, and
millions of families are saving approximately $800 per year on their
health insurance premiums.  I also signed the Inflation Reduction Act,
which will soon cap total out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for
people on Medicare at $2,000 per year, which could save beneficiaries
with prostate cancer thousands per year.  Additionally, we are making
cancer navigation resources, which guide families through the diagnosis
and treatment process, more accessible — from transportation to the
hospital to determining how to pay for the exorbitant health care
costs.  I am proud that, since I took office, millions of Americans have
gained access to these critical services for the first time.  
  
     During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we are reminded
that early detection and screening are critical to beating prostate
cancer.  Experts recommend that men — especially those at high risk for
cancer — discuss screening for prostate cancer with their doctors.  This
month and every month, let us come together and recommit to finally
ending cancer as we know it — for all the lives we have tragically lost
and the lives we can still save.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and cure
prostate cancer.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
