---
date: '2024-08-06'
modified_time: 2024-08-06 16:32:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-06 16:32:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/06/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-advancement-by-countries-of-concern-in-sensitive-technologies-and-products-critical-for-the-military-intelligence-surveillanc/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Advancement\
  \ by Countries of Concern in Sensitive Technologies and Products Critical for the\
  \ Military, Intelligence, Surveillance, or Cyber-Enabled Capabilities of Such\_\
  Countries"
---
 
     On August 9, 2023, by Executive Order 14105, I declared a national
emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act
(50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) to deal with the unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security of the United States constituted by the
advancement by countries of concern in sensitive technologies and
products critical for the military, intelligence, surveillance, or
cyber­enabled capabilities of such countries.  As described in Executive
Order 14105, this threat to the national security of the United States
has its source in whole or substantial part outside the United States,
and certain United States investments risk exacerbating this threat.

     Certain ongoing activities, such as the comprehensive, long-term
strategies of countries of concern that direct, facilitate, or otherwise
support advancements in sensitive technologies and products that are
critical to such countries’ military, intelligence, surveillance, or
cyber-enabled capabilities, significantly enhance such countries’
ability to conduct activities that threaten the national security of the
United States.  As part of this ongoing strategy of advancing the
development of these sensitive technologies and products, countries of
concern are exploiting or have the ability to exploit certain United
States outbound investments, including certain intangible benefits that
often accompany United States investments and that help companies
succeed.  Such investments risk exacerbating this threat to United
States national security.  

     For this reason, the national emergency declared in Executive Order
14105 of August 9, 2023, must continue in effect beyond August 9, 2024.
 Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1 year the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 14105 with respect to the
threat posed by the advancement by countries of concern in sensitive
technologies and products critical for the military, intelligence,
surveillance, or cyber­enabled capabilities of such countries.

     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
August 6, 2024.
