---
date: '2024-08-23'
modified_time: 2024-08-23 15:03:51-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-23 15:03:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/23/a-proclamation-on-womens-equality-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s Equality Day,\_2024"
---
 
   One hundred and four years ago, American women won the right to vote
with the ratification of the 19th Amendment, bringing us closer to
living up to our Nation’s most fundamental values of dignity, fairness,
freedom, and equality.  On Women’s Equality Day, we recognize the
courage of generations of visionaries who fought tirelessly for the
sacred cause of women’s suffrage and all those who continue to work
toward a more equitable future for women and girls in America.   
  
     The 19th Amendment marked a critical milestone in our Nation’s
history, but it did not guarantee the right to vote for all.  For many
women of color, that right would not be secured until decades later when
the Voting Rights Act was passed in 1965.  Today, our Nation is still
facing relentless assaults on the sacred right to vote freely and fairly
and to have every vote count.  At the same time, women’s fundamental
rights are under attack, which undermines our democracy and our
freedoms.  These challenges serve as a critical reminder that our work
as a Nation is never done — realizing the full promise of the 19th
Amendment is as important today as ever before.  
       
     My Administration is committed to upholding the vision of
suffragists, who understood that equality at the ballot box was a
critical step to advancing rights and opportunities for American women.
 Over the past three and a half years, Vice President Harris and I have
leveraged the full force of the Federal Government to protect those
rights and remove barriers that prevent women and girls from reaching
their full potential.  We are defending reproductive freedom, delivering
the highest women’s prime-age labor force participation and the
narrowest gender pay gap on record, making historic investments in the
care economy, fighting to end violence against women, increasing access
to educational opportunity, and promoting women’s representation,
leadership, and human rights here at home and around the globe.  
  
     Guaranteeing women access to affordable, quality health care has
also been a top priority for my Administration.  That is why we have
been working to address the maternal health crisis, with Vice President
Kamala Harris announcing our Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal
Health Crisis.  Furthermore, in addition to issuing an Executive Order
directing the most comprehensive set of executive actions to expand
research on women’s health, last year the First Lady and I were proud to
launch the first-ever White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research,
and the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health has dedicated $100
million to solve challenges in women’s health.  As part of the Biden
Cancer Moonshot, we are taking significant actions to save and improve
the lives of the millions of American women facing cancer.  During my
first year in office, we expanded coverage under the Affordable Care
Act, which requires insurers to pay for cancer screenings and primary
care visits, including those that will detect cancer early when outcomes
are best.  Furthermore, I have taken action to safeguard access to
reproductive care — and the Vice President and I will keep calling on
the Congress to restore *Roe v. Wade* as the law of the land.  Americans
show time and again that they agree that health care decisions should be
made by a woman with the help of her doctor, not politicians — and we
will continue fighting to ensure that women can access the health care
they need in every State.  
  
     To be the strongest economy in the world, we cannot leave women —
who make up half our workforce — behind.  Through our American Rescue
Plan, my Administration made the biggest investment in child care ever,
helping over 225,000 child care programs that serve 10 million children
across the country keep their doors open and enabling parents,
especially mothers, to enter or remain in the workforce.  We have taken
steps to advance pay equity and transparency for Federal employees and
contractors, eliminating practices that allow pay discrimination to
follow workers from job to job and helping workers better negotiate and
reduce pay inequities.  We are also ensuring that women have access to
the millions of good-paying jobs created by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation
Reduction Act.   
  
     Women and girls deserve to live free from violence and fear.  Next
month marks 30 years since the Congress passed the Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA) — a historic law that I championed and wrote.  VAWA
gave our Government more comprehensive tools to prevent and prosecute
sexual assault, provide support for survivors, and save countless
women’s lives.  Today, this law, which I reauthorized in 2022, has
record funding levels and grant programs.  In addition,
my Administration is working to address online harassment and abuse,
including image-based sexual abuse generated by artificial
intelligence.  And we restored and strengthened vital protections under
Title IX for students who have experienced campus sexual assault and
other forms of sex discrimination in schools and universities.  
  
     Since I took office, I have been proud to serve alongside the first
woman ever elected as Vice President, Kamala Harris, and to have
appointed women to the highest levels of my Administration, including a
record number of female Cabinet Secretaries.  I established the White
House Gender Policy Council to advance the rights of women and girls at
home and abroad.  My Administration released the first-ever National
Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality.  And during Women’s History
Month this year, I signed an Executive Order to increase the
representation of women’s history in the National Park System and to
help honor the legacy and contributions of women and girls to our
country.  
  
     My Administration will continue to fight for every American’s
sacred right to vote — carrying on the legacy of the suffragists we
celebrate today.  I continue to call on the Congress to pass the John
Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act to
restore and expand access to the ballot and prevent voter suppression —
because every American’s voice deserves to be heard.   
  
     We are making tremendous progress, but more must be done to ensure
equal rights and opportunity for women and girls.  I urge the Congress
to recognize the ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment and affirm
the fundamental truth that all Americans should have equal rights and
protections under the law.  This Women’s Equality Day, let us recommit
to building a country and a world where our daughters have the same
opportunities as our sons.  Because when women thrive, we all thrive.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 26, 2024, as Women’s Equality Day.  I call upon the people of the
United States to celebrate and continue to build on our country’s
progress toward gender equality and to defend and strengthen the right
to vote.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
