---
date: '2024-08-30'
modified_time: 2024-08-30 12:05:29-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:05:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-childhood-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, we honor the
extraordinary courage of the hundreds of thousands of children who are
facing cancer, who survived cancer, or who were taken too soon by this
deadly disease.  We offer strength and support to their families and
friends, who devotedly care for their loved ones through every step of
their cancer journeys.  And we recommit to finally ending cancer as we
know it so that every child has the opportunity to realize their full
potential and lead healthy, long, fulfilling lives.  
  
     Cancer is the leading cause of death by disease for children in
America.  As every family who has dealt with cancer knows — of all the
things cancer steals from us, time is the cruelest.  So many young,
bright children who should be exploring our world are forced to spend
their precious time confined to hospital rooms.  Meanwhile, families and
caregivers are left to navigate mountains of medical information,
decipher complex treatment options, and find the means to pay for
exorbitant medical bills as the emotional, physical, and financial toll
mounts.   
  
     For my family, and for millions of Americans, the fight against
cancer is personal.  When I lost my son Beau after his courageous battle
with cancer, I buried a piece of my soul.  It is a feeling too many
families know all too well.  That is why I came into office with a
mission to accelerate research into curing cancer and to ensure that
cancer patients and their families are treated with dignity throughout
the process.  Toward that aim, the First Lady and I reignited the Biden
Cancer Moonshot — mobilizing the entire country to cut the cancer death
rate in half within 25 years and to strengthen support for patients and
families.  Additionally, I formed the first-ever Cancer Cabinet to break
down silos and deliver all of the cancer prevention, early detection,
treatments, care, and support needed to save more than 4 million
Americans’ lives by 2047.   
  
     Through these and other initiatives, we are making tremendous
progress.  We secured $4 billion in bipartisan funding from the Congress
to realize my Administration’s vision for a new biomedical research
agency, the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, to drive
breakthroughs in prevention, diagnosis, and treatment for cancer and
other diseases.  The National Cancer Institute developed a National
Cancer Plan to fast-track effective cancer treatments, including for
children, and this year alone we have secured $7.3 billion for work
across the National Cancer Institute.  We are creating a national
network to connect eligible children, adolescents, and young adults to
opportunities to participate in clinical trials by launching the
Childhood Cancer–Data Integration for Research, Education, Care, and
Clinical Trials.  The Institute’s Childhood Cancer Data Initiative is
also providing free molecular testing of tumors.  Moreover, we are
working to implement the RACE for Children Act to identify and approve
precision pediatric drugs quickly.  And I signed the Childhood Cancer
STAR Reauthorization Act to increase funding for childhood cancer
research.     
  
     My Administration is also working hard to ensure that treatment is
more accessible and affordable.  I am proud to strengthen Medicaid and
the Affordable Care Act (ACA) by keeping children covered under Medicaid
for a full year and expanding ACA coverage to millions of families —
saving them approximately $800 per year on health insurance premiums.
 And we are receiving commitments from companies, nonprofits,
and patient groups to increase screening, prevent exposure to toxic
substances, deliver new research innovations, and improve access for
more Americans to effective care.  
  
     At the same time, my Administration is making sure that no family
is left behind in the cancer treatment process.  Everyone needs a
navigator who can help guide them through each step of their cancer
journey — from sorting through health care costs to figuring out
transportation to the hospital.  We delivered new reimbursement codes so
that, for the first time ever, families facing cancer can get patient
navigation services paid for through Medicare, Medicaid, and private
insurance.  Cancer navigation services are personalized assistance to
patients, caregivers, and families to help guide them through the many
decisions and challenges that come with a cancer diagnosis, which have
been shown to reduce cancer disparities, improve health outcomes, and
make an enormous difference in people’s lives.  To date, 40 cancer
centers and community oncology practices nationwide along with 7 leading
insurance companies who serve more than 150 million Americans have
committed to providing and paying for navigation services for families
facing cancer.  
  
     Across the Nation, millions of families hold on to hope that their
loved ones will get the cancer treatment they need to be cured for good.
 During this National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month, let us give
strength to all the pediatric patients, their families, and their
caretakers.  Let us pay tribute to all the brave kids who inspire us to
keep fighting and never give up.  And let us recommit to doing all we
can together to create a brighter, cancer-free future for America’s
youth.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Childhood Cancer Awareness Month.  I
encourage citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, the media, and other interested groups to increase
awareness of what Americans can do to support the fight against
childhood cancer.  I encourage anyone experiencing uncertainty around
risk factors or treatment options or looking for other opportunities for
support to connect with a trained specialist at 1-800-4-CANCER or visit
cancer.gov.  
      
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
