---
date: '2024-08-15'
modified_time: 2024-08-15 14:56:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-15 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/15/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-the-agreement-for-cooperation-between-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-government-of-the-republic-of-singapore-c/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on the Agreement\
  \ for Cooperation Between the Government of the United\_States of America and the\
  \ Government of the Republic of Singapore Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear\_\
  Energy"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to subsections 123 b.
and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C.
2153(b), (d)) (the “Act”), the text of an Agreement for Cooperation
Between the Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Republic of Singapore Concerning Peaceful Uses of
Nuclear Energy (the “Agreement”).

I am also pleased to transmit my written approval, authorization, and
determination concerning the Agreement and an unclassified Nuclear
Proliferation Assessment Statement (NPAS) concerning the Agreement.  In
accordance with section 123 of the Act, a classified annex to the NPAS,
prepared by the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director of
National Intelligence, summarizing relevant classified information, will
be submitted to the Congress separately.  The joint memorandum submitted
to me by the Secretaries of State and Energy and a letter from the Chair
of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission stating the views of the Commission
are also enclosed.  An addendum to the NPAS containing a comprehensive
analysis of the export control system of the Republic of Singapore with
respect to nuclear-related matters, including interactions with
countries of proliferation concern and the actual or suspected nuclear,
dual-use, or missile-related transfers to such countries, pursuant to
section 102A(w) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C.
3024(w)), is being submitted separately by the Director of National
Intelligence. 

The Agreement has been negotiated in accordance with the Act and other
applicable law.  In my judgment, it meets all applicable statutory
requirements and will advance the nonproliferation and other foreign
policy interests of the United States of America.

The Agreement contains all of the provisions required by subsection 123
a. of the Act.  It provides a comprehensive framework for peaceful
nuclear cooperation with the Republic of Singapore based on a mutual
commitment to nuclear nonproliferation.  It would permit the transfer of
material, equipment (including reactors), components, and information
for peaceful nuclear purposes.  It would not permit the transfer of
Restricted Data or sensitive nuclear technology.  Any special
fissionable material transferred could only be in the form of low
enriched uranium, with the exception of small quantities of material for
use as samples, standards, detectors, or targets, or for such other
purposes as the parties may agree. 

Through the Agreement, the Republic of Singapore would affirm its intent
to rely on existing international markets for nuclear fuel services
rather than acquiring sensitive nuclear technology (i.e., for enrichment
and reprocessing), and the United States would affirm its intent to
support those international markets to ensure a reliable supply of low
enriched uranium fuel to the Republic of Singapore.

The Agreement has a term of 30 years, although it can be terminated by
either party on 1 year’s advance written notice.  In the event of
termination or expiration of the Agreement, key nonproliferation
conditions and controls will continue in effect as long as any material,
equipment, or components subject to the Agreement remain in the
territory of the party concerned or under its jurisdiction or control
anywhere, or until such time as the parties agree that such material,
equipment, or components are no longer usable for any nuclear activity
relevant from the point of view of International Atomic Energy Agency
(IAEA) safeguards.

The Republic of Singapore strongly supports the nonproliferation of
weapons of mass destruction and has consistently reiterated its
commitment to nonproliferation.  The United States and the Republic of
Singapore have fostered a close relationship on strategic trade and
interdiction issues.  The Republic of Singapore is a party to the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and has concluded a
Comprehensive Safeguards Agreement and Additional Protocol thereto with
the IAEA.  The Republic of Singapore is a State Party to the Treaty on
the Southeast Asia Nuclear Weapon-Free Zone.  A more detailed discussion
of the Republic of Singapore’s domestic civil nuclear activities and its
nuclear nonproliferation policies and practices is provided in the NPAS
and its classified annex.

I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested
departments and agencies in reviewing the Agreement and have determined
that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an
unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security.  Accordingly, I
have approved the Agreement and authorized its execution and urge that
the Congress give it favorable consideration. 

This transmission shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both
subsections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Act.  My Administration is prepared
to immediately begin the consultations with the Senate Foreign Relations
Committee and the House Foreign Affairs Committee, as provided in
subsection 123 b.  Upon completion of the 30 days of continuous session
review provided for in subsection 123 b., the 60 days of continuous
session review provided for in subsection 123 d. shall commence.

                              Sincerely,

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
