---
date: '2024-08-23'
modified_time: 2024-08-23 18:06:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-23 18:06:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/23/a-proclamation-on-overdose-awareness-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Overdose Awareness Week,\_2024"
---
 
During Overdose Awareness Week, we mourn those who have lost their lives
to overdose deaths.  We acknowledge the devastating toll the opioid
epidemic has taken on individuals, families, and communities across
America.  We reflect on the progress we have made so far in reducing the
number of annual overdose deaths and protecting American lives — and how
much more there is to do.  And we reaffirm our commitment to doing more
to disrupt the supply of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids and
support those who suffer with substance use disorder and their families
in all of our communities.

My Administration made beating the opioid epidemic a key priority in my
Unity Agenda for the Nation, calling for Republicans and Democrats to
work together to stop fentanyl from flowing into our communities, hold
those who brought it here accountable, and deliver life-saving
medication and care across America.  

We are working to tackle this crisis through a comprehensive approach,
including by expanding access to evidence-based prevention, treatment,
harm reduction, and recovery support services as well as reducing the
supply of illicit drugs.  We have expanded access to life-saving
treatments, like medications to treat opioid use disorder, and have
increased the number of health care providers who can prescribe these
medications by 15 times.  In February 2024, the Department of Health and
Human Services issued a rule to comprehensively update the regulations
in governing Opioid Treatment Programs for the first time in 20 years —
removing barriers to the treatment of substance use disorder and
expanding access to care.  My Administration has made historic
investments in the State Opioid Response and Tribal Opioid Response
programs to improve prevention; expand treatment; and deliver free,
life-saving medications across America.  Already, this program has
delivered nearly 10 million kits of opioid overdose reversal
medications, such as naloxone.  

We also continue to fight the stigmatization that surrounds substance
use and accidental overdose so that people feel comfortable reaching out
for help when they need it.  Naloxone is now available over-the-counter
for people to purchase at their local grocery stores and pharmacies.  We
also launched the White House Challenge to Save Lives from Overdose and
several awareness campaigns, raising awareness and securing commitments
from local governments and cross-sector organizations to increase
training on and access to opioid overdose reversal medications in
schools, worksites, transit systems, and other places where overdose may
occur in our communities.  My Fiscal Year 2025 Budget requests $22
billion to expand substance use treatment and help more Americans
achieve and stay in recovery.

Under my Administration, Federal law enforcement agents are keeping more
deadly drugs out of our communities than ever before.  We are seizing
deadly drugs at our borders so that illicit drugs never reach our
neighborhoods.  Officials have stopped more illicit fentanyl at ports of
entry over the last 2 fiscal years than in the previous 5 fiscal years
combined.  The Department of Justice has prosecuted leaders of the
world’s largest and most powerful drug cartel along with thousands of
drug traffickers.  The Department of the Treasury has sanctioned more
than 300 people and organizations involved in the global illicit drug
trade.  I have also deployed cutting-edge drug detection technology
across our southwest border, and I continue to call on the Congress to
strengthen border security, increase penalties on those who bring deadly
drugs into our communities, and close loopholes that drug traffickers
exploit.  And in July 2024, I issued a National Security Memorandum that
calls on all relevant Federal departments and agencies to work
collaboratively to do even more than they are already doing to stop the
supply of illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids into our
country. 

I am also committed to working with partners across the globe to address
this crisis.  Last year, I negotiated the re-launch of counternarcotics
cooperation between the United States and the People’s Republic of China
— which has led to increased law enforcement coordination, increased
efforts to tackle illicit financing of drug cartels, and increased
regulation of certain precursor chemicals.  I have increased
counternarcotics cooperation with other key foreign governments;
launched the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats, which
brings together more than 150 countries in the fight against drug
trafficking cartels; put in place new initiatives between the United
States, Mexico, and Canada targeting the supply of illicit drugs; and
made countering fentanyl and other synthetic opioids a key priority of
the G7.     

Now for the first time in 5 years, the number of overdose deaths in the
United States has started to decline.  But even one death is one too
many, and far too many Americans continue to lose loved ones to
fentanyl. 

Today I grieve with all the families and friends who have lost someone
to an overdose.  This is a time to act.  And this is a time to stand
together — for all those we have lost and all the lives we can still
save.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim August 25 through
August 31, 2024, as Overdose Awareness Week.  I call upon citizens,
government agencies, civil society organizations, health care providers,
and research institutions to raise awareness of substance use disorder
so that our Nation can combat stigmatization, promote treatment,
celebrate recovery, and strengthen our collective efforts to prevent
overdose deaths.  August 31 also marks Overdose Awareness Day, on which
we honor and remember those who have lost their lives to the overdose
epidemic.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
