---
date: '2024-08-30'
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:33:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-sickle-cell-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sickle Cell Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     Every person in this country deserves to live a healthy and
fulfilling life, but nationwide, approximately 100,000 Americans have
Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) — a painful genetic blood disorder that causes
life-threatening complications such as strokes, infections, and organ
damage.  Those living with SCD often have to put the goals and plans of
everyday life on hold because of the chronic pain and serious health
difficulties associated with it.  During National Sickle Cell Awareness
Month, we recommit to finding a cure for SCD, supporting those who
suffer from the disease, and addressing the health disparities that
exist in communities across our Nation.   
  
     From dealing with the costs of expensive medical treatments and
unplanned hospital trips to facing stigma and lacking access to health
care providers with SCD expertise, many living with the disease face
barriers to getting care, and there is no widely available cure.  Though
SCD impacts people of all backgrounds, it disproportionately affects
Black and Hispanic Americans.  Many children in the United States living
with SCD are not receiving the treatments they need to prevent serious
complications, and adults too often struggle with uncoordinated and
fragmented care.  
  
     My Administration is working to deliver for people with SCD and
their families — and that work begins with following the science to find
new, improved treatments.  Last year, the Food and Drug Administration
approved the first gene therapies to treat those living with SCD and
offer long-lasting results for SCD patients.  They have also approved
new drug therapies that can help people with SCD manage pain.  And the
National Institutes of Health is working to improve the quality of life
for people with SCD.  Those efforts include funding clinical trials for
SCD pain management, identifying cost-effective drugs to treat SCD, and
finding therapies that can lead to a full recovery.   
  
     At the same time, my Administration is working to make treatment
for SCD more accessible and affordable to help close health
disparities.  We are empowering people with SCD on Medicare and Medicaid
to have greater access to cell and gene therapy treatments.  This will
give hope to thousands of Americans with this rare and severe disease
while improving health outcomes, increasing access to treatment, and
lowering health care costs.  The Health Resources and Services
Administration (HRSA) is also expanding access to quality care for those
with SCD through community-based organizations, ensuring they are taken
care of no matter if they are at home or in the hospital.  HRSA also
provides resources to families whose newborns were diagnosed with SCD
from the moment they were screened and throughout their treatment.   
  
     Additionally, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has
expanded data collection efforts to better target resources to regions
of the United States with the greatest need for SCD support.  And the
Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology is
improving data collection and coordination efforts to drive more
effective research, increase integrated care, and improve health
outcomes for individuals with SCD and their families.     
  
     During National Sickle Cell Awareness Month, we recommit to finding
better treatments, developing a cure, and celebrating the courage and
resilience of all those living with this terrible disease.  We also find
hope in the health care professionals, researchers, and scientists
working tirelessly to find transformative treatments for SCD.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Sickle Cell Awareness Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to learn more about Sickle Cell Disease and
the progress we are making to reduce the burden of this disease on our
fellow Americans.  
     
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
