---
date: '2024-08-30'
published_time: 2024-08-30 12:12:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/30/a-proclamation-on-national-wilderness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Wilderness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s beautiful natural landscapes are part of our Nation’s
identity, history, and heritage.  One century ago, the Gila Wilderness
was established as our country’s first designated wilderness area,
protecting this national treasure and beginning a new era of Federal
conservation.  Across our Nation, designated wilderness areas protect
some of our most precious sites — soaring mountains, winding rivers,
expansive deserts, and lush forests.  These special places unite us,
inspire us, and connect us to something bigger than ourselves.  During
National Wilderness Month, we recommit to the essential work of
protecting our Earth, celebrate our country’s natural places, and
continue our work to ensure that every community has access to nature’s
gifts.  
  
     By conserving our wilderness, we not only protect key pieces of our
Nation’s history — we also protect the livelihoods of people who depend
on our lands and waters.  We protect and preserve Tribal communities’
sacred landscapes.  We sustain wildlife and conserve landscapes to help
fight climate change and improve our Nation’s resilience.  And we ensure
that generations of Americans will be able to enjoy the beauty and power
of our country’s wilderness today and into the future.  
  
     That is why my Administration set the most ambitious conservation
goal ever — committing to conserve at least 30 percent of all our
Nation’s lands and waters by 2030.  That goal is at the heart of my
“America the Beautiful” initiative to support locally led, voluntary
conservation and restoration efforts across the country.  To that end,
my Administration has made historic investments to protect our shared
natural heritage, such as investing $1.4 billion in ecosystem
restoration and resilience through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
  
     To date, my Administration has conserved more than 41 million acres
of our Nation’s lands and waters.  I restored protections for the desert
buttes of both the Bears Ears National Monument and the Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah and the underwater canyons
of Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument.  I
established six new national monuments, including the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni in Arizona and the Avi Kwa Ame National Monument in Nevada.  And
I expanded the San Gabriel Mountains National Monument and the Berryessa
Snow Mountain National Monument in California.   
  
     Further, I withdrew the United States Arctic Ocean from new oil and
gas leasing.  And I took executive action to consider designating more
than 700,000 square miles of the Pacific Ocean southwest of Hawaii as a
new National Marine Sanctuary, which could make this one of the largest
marine protected areas on the planet.   
  
      My Administration is taking action to harness our natural
resources in the fight against climate change; protect our forests; and
improve the health of our Nation’s lands, waters, and wildlife. 
Together, we can continue to advance locally led and locally supported
proposals for conserving our most unique and beautiful lands and
waters.  And we can continue our partnership with Tribal Nations,
working together as co-stewards and ensuring that Indigenous Knowledge
is respectfully included in the care of our natural heritage.  
  
     During National Wilderness Month, may we celebrate the people who
steward and care for our Nation’s designated wilderness areas.  And may
we continue to protect and conserve these areas so that generations of
Americans will know their beauty, serenity, and power.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 2024 as National Wilderness Month.  I encourage all Americans
to experience our Nation’s outdoor heritage, to recreate responsibly and
leave no trace, to celebrate the value of preserving an enduring
wilderness, and to strengthen our commitment to protecting these vital
lands and waters now and for future generations.  
     
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of August, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
