---
date: '2024-08-07'
modified_time: 2024-08-07 16:22:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-07 16:22:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/07/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-the-agreement-among-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-the-government-of-australia-and-the-government-of-the-united-king/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on the Agreement\
  \ Among the Government of the United\_States of America, the Government of Australia,\
  \ and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland\
  \ for Cooperation Related to Naval Nuclear\_Propulsion"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 123 d. of
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)) (the
“Act”), the text of the Agreement Among the Government of the United
States of America, the Government of Australia, and the Government of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (the “United
Kingdom”) for Cooperation Related to Naval Nuclear Propulsion (the
“Agreement”).  I am also pleased to transmit my written approval,
authorization, and determination concerning the Agreement.  The joint
memorandum submitted to me by the Secretaries of Defense and Energy
providing their summary position on the Agreement is also enclosed.

Pursuant to the enhanced trilateral security partnership called “AUKUS”
announced in September 2021, our three governments engaged in an
18-month consultation period to seek an Optimal Pathway for Australia to
acquire a conventionally armed, nuclear-powered submarine capability at
the earliest achievable date.  On November 22, 2021, the AUKUS partners
signed the Agreement between the Government of the United States of
America, the Government of Australia, and the Government of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for the Exchange of Naval
Nuclear Propulsion Information (ENNPIA) to permit the three Parties to
communicate and exchange Naval Nuclear Propulsion Information (NNPI),
including certain Restricted Data (RD), as needed for purposes of
consultations on the Optimal Pathway.  The ENNPIA entered into force on
February 8, 2022, and remains in force until December 31, 2025, unless
superseded by a subsequent agreement.

The Agreement, which would supersede the ENNPIA, would permit the
continued communication and exchange of NNPI, including certain RD, and
would also expand on the cooperation between the governments by enabling
the transfer of naval nuclear propulsion plants of conventionally armed,
nuclear-powered submarines, including component parts and spare parts
thereof, and other related equipment.  The Agreement also enables the
sale of special nuclear material contained in complete, welded power
units, and other material as needed for such naval nuclear propulsion
plants.  Equipment transferred in accordance with the Agreement could
include equipment needed for the research, development, or design of
naval nuclear propulsion plants, including their manufacture, operation,
maintenance, regulation, and disposal, and could also include training,
services, and program support associated with such equipment.

The Agreement includes conditions and guarantees required by the Act;
promotes the AUKUS partners’ goal of setting the highest
nonproliferation standard; protects controlled and classified United
States information; prevents further dissemination of information,
material, or equipment beyond the jurisdiction of the Parties without
United States agreement; and protects United States intellectual
property.  The Agreement also ensures that the United States and the
United Kingdom have sufficient ability to ensure that relevant
agreements and arrangements between Australia and the International
Atomic Energy Agency set the highest nonproliferation standard, properly
protect sensitive information, and are consistent with the Agreement.

The trilateral partners also concluded a non-legally binding
Understanding Among the Government of the United States of America, the
Government of Australia, and the Government of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland (Understanding), which reflects the
governments’ intended approach to certain articles of the Agreement and
provides additional related political commitments.  The Understanding
would become operative on the date on which the Agreement enters into
force.

In my judgment, the Agreement meets all statutory requirements.

I have determined that Australia and the United Kingdom, by
participating with the United States pursuant to international
arrangements, are making substantial and material contributions to our
mutual defense and security.  Australia is party to the Australia, New
Zealand, and United States Security Treaty (ANZUS), and the United
Kingdom is party to the North Atlantic Treaty and participates in the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).  Australia and the United
Kingdom continue to be committed to the mutual defense and security
provided through ANZUS and NATO, respectively.

I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested
departments and agencies and have determined that the performance of the
Agreement will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to,
the common defense and security.  Further, I have approved the program
outlined in the Agreement and have determined that such program will
promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common
defense and security.  Accordingly, I have approved the Agreement,
authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable
consideration.

                             Sincerely,

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
