---
date: '2024-08-16'
published_time: 2024-08-16 13:15:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/08/16/a-proclamation-on-national-employer-support-of-the-guard-and-reserve-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Every member of the National Guard and Reserve forms a link in the
chain of honor that stretches back far before our Nation’s founding. 
Throughout the centuries, these extraordinary citizens have committed
themselves to a life of service and sacrifice for the United States. 
During National Employer Support of the Guard and Reserve Week, we show
gratitude for the members of our National Guard and Reserve, who
protect, defend, and serve our Nation.  And we thank their patriotic
civilian employers, who go above and beyond to support their mission.  
     The First Lady and I have a special place in our hearts for the
National Guard and Reserve because our son Major Beau Biden served in
the Delaware Army National Guard.  We know firsthand the sacrifices
these brave women and men make.  The members of our National Guard and
Reserve must be ready to answer the call of duty at a moment’s notice —
leaving their civilian jobs behind to serve on missions across the
country and around the world.  It is a sacrifice that requires agility
to adapt to an often unpredictable schedule that affects not only their
lives and their families, but their employers as well.   
     That is why, this week, we thank all the outstanding employers who
go above and beyond to ensure the members of our National Guard and
Reserve receive the critical support they need.  Employers have stepped
up when they are away for military training or deployed — from offering
flexible leave policies to ensuring their families continue to have
access to health care and benefits.  Our National Guard and Reserve
members’ civilian employers empower them to take on critical missions
that support national security efforts and keep all of us safe.  
     Our National Guard and Reserve service members serve to preserve
our freedom because they know that freedom is never guaranteed.  Every
generation has to earn it, fight for it, and defend it.  Our service
members’ sacrifices ensure that America continues to have the greatest
fighting force in the history of the world, and we are grateful to all
the employers across the country who help make it possible.  These
employers are a reminder that there is truly nothing we cannot
accomplish as a Nation if we work together.  This week, may we show our
gratitude for our troops and all the employers who support their
mission.  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
August 18 through August 24, 2024, as National Employer Support of the
Guard and Reserve Week.  I call upon all Americans to observe this week
by honoring our National Guard and Reserve service members, who
sacrifice so much to keep our country and communities safe and secure,
and to commend the employers who empower these service members to
thrive.  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of August, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
