---
date: '2022-12-04'
published_time: 2022-12-04 22:24:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/04/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-2022-kennedy-center-honorees-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 2022 Kennedy Center Honorees\_Reception"
---
 
East Room

4:52 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Please — please have
a seat.  Welcome, everyone.  Jill and I are truly honored to host for
our — some of our most favorite events here at the White House.  This
ranks right up there.  
  
And a special thanks to our friend David Rubenstein.  David, you’ve
become a friend.  (Applause.)  David — David is Chairman of the Board of
the Kennedy Center here and probably puts more time in there than does
in his business.  But thank you, David, for all you do.  
  
And President of the Kennedy, Deborah Rutter.  Deborah, raise your
hand.  Let people see where you are.  (Applause.)   
  
And to all of you: supporters of the arts, and families and friends of
this year’s honorees.   
  
You know, this reception is a fitting way to cap what has been a special
week.   
  
On Monday, Jill unveiled the theme of this year’s holiday at the White
House.  A theme that’s reflected in the incredible decor that you see in
every room that’s grounded in the very idea of America: “We the
People.”  “We the People.”  The first words of the Constitution.  The
beating heart of our democracy.  The story of our nation that makes
America, America.   
  
The power of democracy is something I talked about a few days before,
when President Macron was here and — the President of France — we hosted
on our first state visit.  France, our oldest ally.   
  
We talked about the inflection point we face as free nations and how the
choices we make today and in the next several months or the next years
as well are going to determine the future for decades to come — dealing
with everything from an unjust war in Ukraine to the climate crisis to
the global economy on the move.  
  
But we share confidence and optimism that we will meet this moment
because of our faith in “We the People.”  And that’s the truth.

And our — at our state dinner, Jill and I asked an artist to capture the
faith as only an artist can do.  Jon Batiste was our guest, the son of a
famed — (applause) — the son of a famed New Orleans family of jazz
musicians and civil rights leaders.  An Oscar and Grammy winner.  
  
He sang his song called “Freedom” and spoke about the power of art that
brings people together despite our differences to see each other, to see
ourselves in one other, and to unite in common cause.   
  
Tonight, we celebrate a truly exceptional — and this no — that’s not an
exaggeration — a truly exceptional grout \[sic\] of artists — group of
artists — (applause) — who embody the very spirit of “We the People.” 
At this year’s Kennedy Center honorees, they’re a — an incredible group
of people.   
  
In “We the People,” we see character.   
  
We see Amal Clooney’s husband.  (Laughter.)  George is one of the most
celebrated actors, directors, producers, and screenwriters of our time. 
Two Academy Awards.  One of only three people nominated in six different
categories.  A — you know, he portrays iconic characters: an heroic
doctor, a daring astronaut, a wise-cracking con-man.  The list goes
on.   
  
I res- — one thing I respect most about George — and I mean this
sincerely — is his deep empathy.  He’s never forgotten before the fame,
back home, what it was like back in Kentucky and Ohio as a kid.  A kid
with dyslexia.  A college dropout figuring out life.   
  
After missing his dream of playing baseball for the Cincinnati Reds —
you think he’s joking; I’m not joking — he chases a new dream in
Hollywood.  Working on a tobacco farm to earn some scratch.  Sleeping in
his friend’s closet with nowhere to go until he finally gets his
break.   
  
No matter where he is or what he does, he always remembers where he came
from.  You know, he’s the son of Nick and Nina, both of who are here
tonight.  Nick and Nina, raise your hands please.  (Applause.)   
  
Dad is a reporter.  And Mom, a councilwoman.  But Mom looks more like
his sister.  (Laughter.)  They taught George and his big sister that the
life spent challenging the powerful on behalf of the powerless is a life
of purpose.   
  
He travels to warzones to end genocides and war crimes, exposes war
profiteers, helps refugees, and advances the rights of journalists. 
Raises millions of dollars to support 9/11 first responders; victims of
natural disaster; and advocates — and advocates who, along with him, are
combatting hate.   
  
Mentors — he mentors these — those historic kids from Parkland on their
march and their lives — against gun violence.  I met with every one of
those kids, and they really appreciate what you did, George.  Not a
joke.  
  
He knows the work remains unfinished, yet he is unrelenting and
undaunted.  That’s character in real life.  And that’s George Clooney. 
(Applause.)   
  
In “We the People,” we see faith and light.   
  
We see Amy Grant, a child of Nashville — (applause) — a child of
Nashville sitting in the front pew of church with her great-grandmother,
singing hymns and learning harmony.   
  
With her parents’ love, she recorded her first album while she was still
in high school — the start of a more than three-decade career and still
counting — that established the contemporary Christian music as we know
it today.   
  
Six Grammy’s.  Six Grammy’s.  Nineteen nominations.  The first
contemporary Christian artist to be number one on the pop charts.  And
her <s>Christian</s> \[Christmas\] songs are played on repeat in
millions of homes across America.   
  
Like the — like the greatest, she has — you know, I can’t get over you,
quite frankly.  (Laughter.)  Like the greatest do, she writes songs from
her soul about joy, about loss, about healing, about how others feel and
how you make people feel when you sing.  I really mean it.  
  
She does more than that.  Everywhere you turn in Nashville, you see
Amy’s fellowship.  Established musical therapy at a children’s hospital;
for veterans struggling with wounds of war.  Playing benefit concerts
for a long list of worthy causes.   
  
Amy calls music a “soul-enlarging experience.”  In my church, St.
Augustine said it slightly differently.  He said, “Singing is praying
twice.”  “Singing is praying twice.”  
  
You understand when you hear Amy Grant sing.  Her voice — her voice is a
true gift of God, and she shares it with everyone, especially with her
incredible family, including her husband Vince Gill, who has a pretty
damn good voice himself.  (Laughter.)  
  
Amy, thank you for always keeping the faith.  Every time I’d walk out of
my Grandpop Finnegan’s house in Scranton, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the
faith.”  My grandma would yell, “No, Joey, spread it.”  You spread
it.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
In “We the People,” we also hear goodness and grace of the one and only
<s>Express</s> \[Empress\] of Soul, Gladys Knight.  God love you. 
(Applause.)  
  
A daughter of Atlanta who grew up in a church choir.  Began performing
with her brother, sister, and cousins — a group that became known as
“Glady Knight and the Pips.”  You’re (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
After over 6 decades, 7 Grammy’s, 20 nominations, including the best
Gospel album; 11 number one R&B singles — singles; 6 number one R&B
albums; 2 number one top Billboard hits.  Grammy Hall of Fame.  Rock N’
Roll Hall of Fame.  Rhythm and Blues Hall of Fame.   
  
She’s performed on the biggest stages.  But — but a point of personal
privilege, I think her performance in <s>1919</s> \[2019\] at the 100th
anniversary of the Delaware State Fair was pretty special.  (Laughter.) 
They’re still talking about it, Gladys.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.  And
down at the fair, they speak like y’all do down in Atlanta, you know
what I mean?  (Laughter.)  
  
Just a few days ago, we observed World AIDS Day — a much different day
than during the worst of the epidemic in the ‘80s.   
  
Back then, Gladys joined Elton John, Stevie Wonder, Dionne Warwick and
the benefit — in a benefit record to sing “That’s What Friends Are
For.”  It reached number one on the charts, shattering the stigma and
opening hearts.   
  
The title of her autobiography is “You were there between each line of
my pain and glory.”  Gladys, your voice — your voice has spoken to what
breaks our hearts, what tears us apart, what lifts our spirits, what
brings us together, what makes us human.  Gladys, you’re truly one of
the best things ever to happen to any of us.  (Applause.)  
  
So, if you don’t mind me saying it, we’re going to get on that midnight
train, because I think — (laughter) — I speak for all of America when I
say, “We’d rather live in your world than be without you in ours.” 
(Applause.)  
  
I told her I think I have about every one of her songs on my phone. 
(Laughter.)  But — because I remember them.  She was only 12 when she
was making them, but — (laughter).  
  
In “We the People,” we also hear courage and creativity.   
  
We hear Tania León, born and raised in working-class Havana, surrounded
by the varied sounds of Cuba and the fusion of cultures and music.   
  
A young child who danced to the radio not long after she learned to
walk.  At age four, her grandmother enrolled her in a music
conservatory.  She trained into her 20s to be a classical piano player
and broadened a — and boarded a Freedom Flight to Miami in the wake of
the Cuban Revolution.  Just days later, landed in New York City.   
  
Over the next six decades, she became one of the most important
classical composers and conductors of our time.  During the Civil Rights
Movement, she co-founded the Dance Theatre in Harlem — the country’s
first Black classical ballet company.  (Applause.)  
  
She also conducted the world-renowned New York Philharmonic and worked
with the Brooklyn Philharmonic to bring classical music beyond concert
halls into city neighborhoods.   
  
She led symphonies in South Africa to Ger- — from South Africa to
Germany.   
  
A mentor and a professor, she champions new composers.  Earning dozens
of honors — her versatility, her vision, her defying labels, her
deepening Latin American influence in classical music.   
  
It was President Kennedy who laid the groundwork for the Freedom Flights
that brought <s>Tiana</s> \[Tania\] to America.  Fifty-five years later,
she now receives a Kennedy Center honors.  And we thank her — thank her
for breathing new sounds into the soul of the nation.  (Applause.)  
  
In “We the People,” we hear the words of one of my favorite poets of all
time.  
  
My colleagues up in the United States Senate used to kid me because I
was always quoting Irish poets on the floor.  They thought I did it
because I was Irish.  That’s not the reason.  I did it because they’re
the best poets in the world.  (Laughter.)  
  
But we hear the words of Yeats: “Think where a man’s glory most begins
and ends and say my glory was I had such friends.” Words that echo from
an island close to my heart, as a descendent of County Mayo and County
Louth.   
  
Tonight, we honor four sons of Ireland, poets in their own right — best
friends who started a band as teenagers in Dublin and became one of the
greatest bands in history.  Larry, Adam, The Edge, Bono — U2.  U2. 
(Applause.)   
  
Inheritors of the Irish traditions of poetry and protest; rebellion and
rejoicing; faith, hope, and love; and a belief in the dignity of all
people, everywhere.  Dignity is a very important word to them all.   
  
And to quote my friend Bono, “Music can change the world because it can
change people.”  For more than 40 years, U2 has changed the world. 
Anthems about civil rights, solidarity of workers, the struggle for
peace.  Ballads about love and family.  Concerts dedicated to ending
poverty and disease.  
  
Twenty-two Grammy’s.  Forty-six nominations.  More wins than any group
in history.  A hundred and fifty million albums.  (Applause.)  A hundred
and fifty albums sold, among the most ever.   
  
And it’s true that their music is a bridge between Ireland and America,
between two friends linked in memory and imagination, joined by our
histories, and joined by a nostalgia for the future.  
  
I — you know, they put down the things that are original quotes of — of
Presidents and senators?  The only one they have listed for me is — and
it really is something I realize I got from my family — is “The Irish
are the only people in the world who are always nostalgic about the
future.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But it’s more than that — more universal, more fundamental, and more
important than ever.  From “Sunday Bloody Sunday” to “Pride (In the Name
of Love)” to “Ordinary Love” to “One,” the — U2 has spoken and sung
about the unspeakable cost of hate and anger and division — the pain,
the suffering, the denial of freedom, the senseless loss of life, and
the inhumanity we inflict on one another as nations, as people, and in
our own lives.  All flowing from division that, for all of us is — its
visible manifestations lie first and foremost in our hearts.   
  
Just before America’s bloody and deadly Civil War, President Lincoln
wrote, “We are not enemies… We must not be enemies.”  In the midst of
great division, that was President Lincoln’s plea.  He would — we would
do well to remember it today.  
  
At a moment when there’s too much hate, too much anger, too much
division here in America and, quite frankly, around the world, we have
to remember today, as their song goes, “We’re one, but we’re not the
same.  We get to carry each other.”  
  
From this Irish American President in a White House designed by an Irish
hands, who built this and designed it, I want to thank U2 for all you’ve
done and the way you lift people up.   
  
You really make a difference.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 Kennedy Center Honorees.  Congratulations
to you and your wonderful families.  And thank you for showing us the
power of the arts in “We the People.”  
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
5:10 P.M. EST
