---
date: '2022-12-13'
modified_time: 2022-12-13 12:35:50-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-13 12:35:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/13/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-administrations-efforts-to-tackle-inflation/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Administration\u2019s Efforts to Tackle\_\
  Inflation"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

10:33 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  This morning, we received some welcome
news, in my view — and I think the view of most economists — on the
economic front, news that provides a reason for some optimism for the
holiday season and, I would argue, for the year ahead.  And we learned
last month’s inflation rate came down, down more than experts expected.

In a world where inflation is rising at double digits in many major
economies around the world, inflation is coming down in America.

In fact, this new report is the fifth month in a row where annual
inflation has fallen in the United States.  Inflation outside of food
and energy, a key measure of — that economists use, also fell.

Make no mistake — prices are still too high.  We have a lot more work to
do.  But things are getting better, headed in the right direction.

Most Americans can see the progress driving down the street, finding
relief at the pump as gas prices fall.  Gas prices are now lower than
they were a year ago, and half the gas stations selling gas at — are
selling gas at $3.09 or less.  The most common price for gas stations
across the country is $2.99.

The decline in gas price is giving consumers a break they need, helping
them keep our economy growing.  
  
When you’re a two-car family, they’re saving hundreds of dollars a
month.  It’s a big deal.

Today’s report contains another pri- — piece of good news: Food
inflation has slowed last month, providing much-needed relief for
millions of families at the grocery store.

This is welcome news for families across the country as they get ready
for the holiday celebrations and for family dinners.

It’s also important that we put today’s news in a broader context.

When I took office, we inherited a nation with a pandemic raging and an
economy that was reeling.  We acted quickly and boldly to vaccinate the
country and to put in place a — a new economic strategy — a strategy
built on an economy that was based on “from the bottom up and the middle
out.”  
  
Now, 21 months later, we can see how our — our economic plan is
working. 

We’ve added, every single month — every single month of my presidency,
we’ve added jobs — a total of 10,500,000 new jobs; 750,000 of them are
manufacturing jobs.

Where is it written, as I’ve — you heard me say it before, and I
apologize for repeating it — where is it written that America can’t lead
the world again — once again in manufacturing?

And, by the way, remember I talked at length about the need to continue
to invest in research and development.  Look what’s going on from the
Department of Energy on the nuclear front.  There’s a lot of good news
on the horizon.  
  
The unemployment rate is down to 6.4 percent when I was sworn in — down
from 6.4 percent when I was sworn in.  It’s now 3.7 percent, near a
50-year low.

We’ve done all of this while lowering the federal deficit in the two
years we’ve been in office: $1.7 trillion.  Let me say that again: $1.7
trillion we’ve lowered the federal debt.  No administration has ever cut
the deficit that much.  And now inflation is coming down as well.

Prices of things like televisions and toys are going down, and it’s good
news for the holiday season.  Used car prices fell for the fifth month
in a row.  New car prices didn’t go up this month.  That savings is
critical to so many families.  It gives them just a little bit of
breathing room for the holiday season. 

And all of this means that, for the last several months, wages have gone
up more than prices have gone up.  Wages have gone up more than prices
have gone up.

And I want to be clear: It is going to take time to get inflation back
to normal levels as we make the transition to a more stable and steady
growth.

But we could see setbacks along the way as well.  We shouldn’t take
anything for granted.  But what is clear is that my economic plan is
working, and we’re just getting started.

My goal is simple: Get price increases under control without choking off
economic growth; bring inflation down while keeping our labor market
resilient; build an economy from the bottom up and the middle out — an
economy with good jobs, good wages and for the long run, not a
boom-or-bust economy.

Because of my plan, we’re beginning to see historic investments that are
leading companies to invest hundreds of billions of dollars — let me say
that again: hundreds of billions of dollars — to build semiconductor
factories and other advanced manufacturing right here in America.  It’s
going to create tens of thousands of good-paying jobs in the years
ahead.

And, by the way, a significant number of these jobs are expected to be
jobs that pay an average of $125,000 a year, and many don’t require a
college degree.  So, things are looking up.

So what’s next?

Because of my plan, we’re taking powerful interests to lower — powerful
actions to lower prescription drug costs and health insurance premiums
and energy bills.

In just a few weeks, starting in January, families will get a little
more breathing room.  They’ve been told for some time since we passed
the legislation that we’re going to be able to lower the price of
drugs. 

Let me give you just one example.

Coming January 1, seniors with diabetes on Medicare are going to pay no
more than $35 a month for a prescription of insulin.  They — up to now,
they’ve been paying as much as $400 a month.  That’s a genuine savings
for seniors.

This matters to so many families with loved ones who have diabetes and
rely on insulin to survive, going from an average of $400 down to 15- —
or $35 a month. 

In January, they won’t have to choose between paying their insulin —
paying for their insulin and, in many cases, putting food on the table.
It matters.  It’s real savings to people, and it’s just about to kick
in.  The same is true from healthcare to clean energy.

By taking action, we’re making real progress in strengthening and
stabilizing our economy, giving Americans across the country some
breathing room in the process.

Look, I know it’s been a rough few years for hardworking Americans and
for small businesses as well.  And for a lot of folks, things are still
pretty rough.  But there are bright spots all across America where we’re
beginning to see the impact of our economic strategy, and we’re just
getting started.

I say it again: I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future. 
And today’s news gives me another reason to be optimistic about that
future.

We’re building a better America, an economy from the bottom up and the
middle out, not the top down.  When the — when the poor have a shot and
the middle class do well, the wealthy always do very well. 

We just have to keep going.  I know we can get this done. 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

And I’ll take questions — I — I’m going to be seeing y’all a little
later this afternoon.  I’m not taking any questions right now.  Thank
you very much.

Q    Can you say when you expect prices to get back to normal, Mr.
President?

THE PRESIDENT:  I hope by the end of next year we’re much closer, but I
can’t make that prediction.  I just — I’m convinced they’re not going to
go up.  I’m convinced they’re going to continue to go down.  
  
10:40 A.M. EST
