---
date: '2022-12-06'
modified_time: 2022-12-06 19:20:19-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-06 18:50:01-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/06/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-international-brotherhood-of-electrical-workers-phone-bank-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on American Manufacturing and Creating Good-Paying\_\
  Jobs"
---
 
 TSMC Semiconductor Plant  
Phoenix, Arizona

2:17 P.M. MST

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know if any of you have any seats, but if you
have a seat, please take them.  (Laughter.)  I once said that when I
first became President, and they said, “Biden is so slow, he doesn’t
realize there’s no seats out here.”  (Laughter.)

Anyway, thank you, Mark, for that introduction.  I appreciate it very
much.  Your company’s commitment to building, as you put it, a vibrant —
“a vibrant semiconductor ecosystem in the United States.”  And that’s
what we’re doing with your help.

Thank you to everyone at TSMC, especially Morris Chang who founded this
company in 1987 and grew it into a global giant.  But the most
significant thing about him is his wife, Sophie.  I tell you, believe it
or not, Sophie worked in my first senatorial campaign when I ran for the
Senate.  True story.  (Applause.)  So I owe an awful lot to this
company. 

We had a lieutenant governor named S.B. Woo, and whose wife <s>Kathy</s>
\[Katy\] were on my staff, and they got her involved.  And so I want to
— I want to thank her very much for that.

Mayor, thank you for welcoming us to your city.  And, Gov, you and I are
different sides, but we see and share the same vision as Arizona as a
hub — literally a hub for tech — for technical change that’s going to
take place.  And that’s well underway. 

Governor-elect Hobbs — is she — is Governor-elect Hobbs here?  I don’t
think — Gov, congratulations.  Congratulations.  (Applause.)  Well, I’ll
tell you what — you’re starting off in the right place.  This is going
to be an incredible asset to the state of Arizona.

A special thanks to the incredible Arizona Democratic members of
Congress who fly — who flew out with me today from Washington.  Senator
Kelly, you deliver for Arizona every single day, including — including
on the CHIPS and Science Act, which will bring jobs to this state and
would not be law without you.  And that’s no hy- — that’s not
hyperbole.  Arizona is lucky to have you fighting for them in the — for
the next six years. 

And Gabby <s>Gifford</s> \[Giffords\], a great friend, is here as well. 
When I gave Gabby the Presidential Medal of Freedom this summer, I said
she was one of the most courageous people I’ve ever known.  The people
of Tucson elected her to the Congress three times because they trusted
her, they believe in her, and she’s the embodiment — the embodiment of
that core American trait: Never, ever, ever, ever give up.  And she
never does.  (Applause.) 

And I want to thank Senator Sinema, who can’t be with us today.  She’s
in Washington working on another major piece of legislation.  A
tremendous advocate for the people of Arizona and a leader in so many
issues important to this state. 

Four of Arizona’s representatives are here with me: Ruben, Greg, Tom,
and Raul.  And where are you guys?  They’ve — they’re — and we flew out
together.  They’re still talking to me.  (Laughter.)  Anyway, thank you,
gentlemen, very much for all you’ve done to get us here today.  And
champions for their constituents working to build an economy that
doesn’t leave anyone behind — doesn’t leave anyone behind.

Gina Raimondo is an outstanding Secretary of Commerce, a fierce champion
of U.S. industry, especially in semiconductors. 

I want to thank you, to the business leaders here today:

Tim Cook of Apple.  Where are you, Tim?  He buys a few of these little
chips.  (Laughter.)  And he’s a — he’s a small customer here at this
outfit — (laughter) — between 25 and 35 percent of their — but, anyway. 
I hope they’re treating you well.  (Laughter.)

And Sanjay of Micron.  Sanjay has represented more than two dozen tech
and manufacturing companies.  And you’re here because you’re seeing what
we’re all seeing: American manufacturing is back, folks.  American
manufacturing is back.  (Applause.) 

I recently took a trip — literally, around the world — starting in Egypt
and ending up in Guam, and finally coming home, ending with a meeting in
Indonesia with the G20 — the countries with many of the largest
economies in the world.  And what was clear in those meetings is the
United States is better positioned than any other nation to lead the
world economy in the years ahead if we keep our focus. 

There’s a strong sense from many — from all the world leaders — of the
resiliency of the American economy, and we’re seeing it here at home
with investments like the one we’re talking about today.

Together, with the help of your elected leaders here today, we’ve had an
extraordinary two years of progress.

We passed the American Rescue Plan, keeping tens of thousands of cops,
firefighters, teachers, first responders on the job in all 50 states
when revenues dropped because of the lak- — the nature of the economy.  
  
     We fully vaccinated more than 220 million people.  We’re rebuilding
our infrastructure, fixing our roads, our bridges, our airports;
strengthening American manufacturing by creating seven hundred thou- —
750,000 manufacturing jobs just since I’ve become President.

And what I’m most excited about is people are starting to feel a sense
of optimism as they see the impact of the achievements in their own
lives.  It’s going to accelerate in months ahead, and it’s part of the
broad story about the economy we’re building that works for everyone:
one of the grow- — one that grows from the bottom up and the middle out,
that positions Americans to win the economic competition of the 21st
century.  When we grow it that way, the poor have a shot, the middle
class do well, and the wealthy do very well.  
  
     My dad used to have a saying.  I said — you’d say, “A job is about
a lot more than a paycheck, Joey, it’s about your dignity.  It’s about
respect.  It’s about being able to look your child in the eye and say,
‘Honey, it’s gonna be okay.  It’s gonna be okay.’”

Thousands of Arizonans are going to be able to look their kid in the eye
because of what you’re doing here today and saying, “Honey, it’s going
to be okay” and mean it.

Back in April 2021, I met with Mark and other industry leaders.  TSMC
had made a $12 billion investment here in Phoenix to build their first
fab to make semiconductors in the United States.  Now the equipment is
ready to move in.  Next year, commercial operations are going to begin. 
And today, TSMC has announced a second major investment.

They will construct a second fab here in Phoenix to build chips — 3-nano
chips.  The 3-nano chip.  Chips that are three nano.  Any- — you know
what I’m saying.  (Laughter and applause.)  Nano no-no.  I don’t know. 
(Laughter.)  
  
     But, look, these are the most advanced semiconductor chips on the
planet.  The chips will power iPhones and MacBooks, as Tim Cook can
attest.

Apple had to buy all the advanced chips from overseas.  Now they’re
going to bring more of their supply chain here, home.  It can be a
gamechanger.

All told, TSMC is investing $40 billion here in Arizona — the largest
foreign \[direct\] investment in the history of this state.  Over 10,000
construction jobs and 10,000 high-tech jobs will be created.  And I want
to thank everyone in this company for making this happen.

You know, I know our host won’t mind my pointing out that America
invented the chip.  Morris Chang was a pioneer in the era, graduating
from MIT and getting his start at Texas Instrument.

Federal investment helped reduce the cost of those chips, creating a
market and an entire industry that America led.  Over 30 years ago,
America had more than 30 percent of the global chip production.  Then
something happened.  American manufacturing, the backbone of our
economy, began to get hollowed out.  Companies moved jobs overseas.   
  
     Today — today we’re down to producing only around 10 percent of the
world’s chips, despite leading the world in research and design in new
chip technologies.  But, folks, where is it written — where is it
written that America can’t lead the world once again in manufacturing? 
I don’t know where that’s written, and we’re proving it can.  
  
     Not just here in <s>America</s> \[Arizona\].  Micron is investing
$100 billion to build semif- — semiconductor factories in Syracuse, New
York.  Intel is investing $20 billion to do the same in Ohio.  IBM is
investing $20 billion in Poughkeepsie, New York.  We just went up there.

These investments are helping us build and strengthen the supply chain
here in America.

I want to be clear: As we build the stronger supply chain, our allies
and partners are building it alongside us as well.

Some of the companies here today are customers that are going to buy
these chips made here.  Some are suppliers that are going to help make
these chips.  And they’re all — they all depend on a suppol- — strong
supply chain.  That’s why we’re doing — what we’re doing here in Arizona
matters across the country and around the world.

Folks, as we see here in Phoenix, the United States is a top destination
for companies across the globe looking to make investments because we
have a world-class, highly skilled, committed workforce — union labor.

And more than —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Wooo!

THE PRESIDENT:  You can clap for that.  (Applause.) 

More than 3,000 union workers, the most highly trained and best in the
world, are helping build this fab.  The second fab will be built with
union labor as well.

And we’re working with companies, community colleges, technical schools,
universities, union-led apprentice programs and training programs.

I had a conversation with the Business Roundtable, all the major
Chambers of Commerce.  The reason why business should be hiring union
folks, if you don’t mind my saying, is simple:  They’re the best in the
world.  They’re the single-greatest technicians in the world.  You’re
the best laborers in the world.  And you build the best products. 
(Applause.)

But you don’t just decide that you want to be a pipefitter or an
electrician, like most people think.  It takes you four or five years of
hard work as an apprentice.  It’s like going to college.  You’re the
best trained workers in the world.

And Wall Street didn’t build this country, although there’s a lot of
good folks there.  The middle class built the country, and unions built
the middle class.  (Applause.) 

As I said, we’re making once-in-a-generation investments in our nation’s
roads, bridges, railroads, ports, airports, lead-free water systems,
high-speed Internet.  The biggest investment in American infrastructure
since Eisenhower’s Interstate Highway System.

And here in Phoenix, we’re building a new taxiway for Sky Harbor Airport
to cut down on how long planes wait to take off and arrive at a gate
after landing.  We’re making flying in and out of Phoenix smoother and
more economic.

We’re building a pedestrian and bicycle bridge across the river in South
Phoenix, extending light rail to connection families in South Phoenix
with jobs and opportunities downtown.

Down the road in — in — in Buckeye, KORE Power is making lithium-ion
batteries to power electric vehicles and electric grid storag- —
storage.  It’s a $1.2 billion investment.  It’s going to create
thousands of good manufacturing jobs, 90 percent of which won’t require
a college degree and yet you get a good wage.

And we’re replacing Phoenix diesel buses with new models powered by
clean energy to significantly reduce pollution, especially for folks
getting on and off of those buses.

Diesel’s exhaust can really make people sick.  That’s why we’ve been
helping school districts all across America electrify their school buses
to help kids avoid childhood asthma.

And as of — and as of now, more than 326,000 households in Amer- — in
Arizona are getting affordable high-speed Internet thanks to our
investment in infrastructure, with much more to come.  (Applause.) 

When Arizonans see the big picture in your hometowns — cranes going up,
shovels in the ground, workers with hard hats — I want you to feel the
way I feel: pride.  Pride.  We can do — what we can do together is just
anything — virtually anything. 

Folks, here’s the bottom line: Our approach to building the economy of
the future is from the bottom up and the middle out, and it’s working. 
We’ve added jobs every single month of my presidency — 10.5 million new
jobs, 750,000 of them manufacturing jobs.  Exports are up, which means
we’re making things here in America and shipping the products overseas
rather than shipping the jobs overseas to make things overseas and bring
them back home.  And we have much more to do.

All of this is why the economy grew 2.9 percent last quarter.

And now inflation at the grocery store is coming down.  Prices of things
like clothing, televisions, appliances are going down. 

And there’s good news for the holiday season: Gas prices have fallen
below the levels they are before Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

It’s going to take time to get inflation back to normal levels as we
keep our job market resilient.  We could see setbacks along the way, to
state the obvious, but we’re laser-focused on this.

And all the hard work is making a real difference for people, including
folks right here in Arizona like Patricia McKinley, who owns her own
small trucking business here in Phoenix.  She has five employees.  The
pandemic hit her company hard.  But these new infrastructure projects
for Arizona mean more work for her and her team, a chance to grow her
business, to secure her — her business.

And Paul Sarzoza, who grew up picking seasonal product or — excuse me,
seasonal produce here in Arizona.  His parents believed in education, so
Paul went to college and studied business.  He launched a cleaning
business.  Now he has over 100 employees in his company.  TSMC is now
his biggest customer.  And now they’re expanding into Phoenix, Paul will
be hiring a lot more workers.

These are countless stories like these across the country, where people
are benefiting from what you all are doing. 

People working hard every day, never giving up, seizing every
opportunity they can to get ahead.  That’s who this is about — folks
like Patricia and Paul.  And they’re why I’m unapologetic about fighting
for American workers and getting the economy to work for working people.

Let me close with this.  It’s been a rough few years for hardworking
Americans, for businesses as well.  A lot of families — in a lot of
families, things are still pretty rough.  But there are bright spots
where America is reasserting itself, and the innovation and
manufacturing boom here in Anizo- — Arizona is one of those places.

I asked leaders of companies like TSMC this question: When the United
States decides to invest considerable resources in a new industry that
we need to build up, does that encourage business or — to get them in
the game or does it discourage them?  The answer is, it encourages them.

Federal investment attracts private sector investment.  It creates jobs
and industries.  And it demonstrates we’re all in this together, and
that’s what today is about.

I’ve never been more optimistic — and I mean this from — I’ve been
around a long while, as you can see — (laughter) — but I’ve never been
more optimistic about America’s future.  And I really mean that. 
Never.  We’re building a better America.  We just have to keep going,
and I know we can.

We’re proving it’s never, ever, ever, ever been a good bet to bet
against America — ever, ever.  (Applause.)  Ever. 

Folks, we just need to remember who we are.  We are the United States of
America.  And there is virtually nothing — nothing beyond our capacity
if we work together.  Not a single thing.  So let’s go keep this moving.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
2:33 P.M. MST
