---
date: '2022-12-01'
published_time: 2022-12-01 12:23:19-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/01/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-emmanuel-macron-of-france-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Emmanuel Macron of France Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

10:44 A.M. EST 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, it’s great to have my good friend back here. 
Welcome back to the White House.  This is his second visit. 

And we’ve always — it’s interesting — as we said today in our short
remarks, France and the United States have always stood together.  And I
can say that President Macron and I have stood together since we’ve
worked together in the G7 meetings, the G20.  And we — France is an
incredibly, incredibly valued ally.

And I know it sounds like hyperbole, but from — from the Revolutionary
War to the world wars to today, we’re — we’ve been locked at the hip in
what we’ve been doing. 

And our efforts are continuing at NATO, the G7, the G20.  And there’s a
lot — a lot going on. 

As I constantly am probably boring you all with, we are at a real
inflection point.  Things are changing rapidly — really rapidly. 

And it’s really important that we stay in close communication.  It
doesn’t mean that every single, solitary thing we agree on.  But it does
mean that we agree on almost everything.

And we’re working together to strengthen the security and prosperity
across the Atlantic and in each of our countries, but also Europe as a
whole.

Emmanuel is not just the leader of France, he’s one of the leaders of
Europe.  He’s been very outspoken, and he has been very, very commanding
in Europe. 

And this morning, we’re going to discuss our cooperation on all the
issues, from high-tech commerce to defense to cyber to space to a whole
range of issues that are on both of our agendas.  
  
     Mr. President, I look forward to our conversation today.  I know
you’ve had some good conversations already with some of our senior
administration officials.  And I look forward to today.  
  
     The floor is yours, sir.  
  
     PRESIDENT MACRON:  Thank you.  Thank you, Mr. President, dear Joe.

  
     Let me first say that I’m extremely happy and honored to be here
for the first state visit of your administration.  And this is, for me,
the best evidence of this, indeed, very long-term friendship and
partnership.  And this is exactly the basis of — of our relation.  
  
     We will discuss about a lot of topics, but, obviously, we — we are
together in challenging times globally and with the war in Ukraine
launched by Russia.  And so, obviously, it will be the first topic of
discussion for both of us.  
  
     And since the very beginning of this war, we worked very hard
together in order to help Ukraine to resist and to be resilient, and we
will reinforce this — this action. 

But what we want to do as well — and I want really to pay tribute to a
lot of statements you made — we want to build peace.  And sustainable
peace means full respect of sovereignty and territorial integrity of
Ukraine but, at the same time, a new architecture to be sure that we
have a sustainable peace on the long run.  And we are very much
committed on — on the — on this issue.  
  
     We will discuss about, as well, energy, economy, space, nuclear. 
And I spoke about this: We’re in synchronization.  And I think this is
extremely important, precisely, to have close coordination between us on
these different issues.  Because we want to fix the direct and indirect
consequences of the war on our economies and our people. 

But at the same time, we want to prepare for future generations a
carbon-neutral economy, creating a lot of jobs, which means investing a
lot in our economies.  And we have to synchronize our action on this
issue.  And it will be an important topic of discussion.  
      
     Beyond that, we will discuss climate change and biodiversity and
the common actions in the — in this field, health, and a lot of global
topics where our alliance is so critical.  
  
     But let me, once again, thank you — thank you and your wife for the
wonderful dinner we had yesterday, for the friendship, and, really, for
the quality of the discussion we have together and the common action and
the common decisions we take in this so difficult times. 

Because I think when we look at our common history, this friendship
always prevailed — with quite good results, by the way. 

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Yes.

     PRESIDENT MACRON:  So, it will prevail.

     PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Folks, we’ll —

(Cross-talk.)

Wait, hold on.  Hold on.  Hold on a second.  You know we are going to do
a press conference, so we’ll answer your questions at the press
conference.  And that’s going to be shortly.  And I don’t know how
shortly — but shortly, okay?

                            END                10:54 A.M. EST
