---
date: '2022-12-02'
modified_time: 2022-12-02 11:02:09-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-02 11:00:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/02/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-macron-of-france-at-state-dinner/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Macron of France at State\_Dinner"
---
 
South Lawn

9:45 P.M. EST   
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Please, have a seat.  Good evening, everyone.  Jill
and I are honored.  We’re truly honored to welcome you all to the first
State Dinner that the President and the First Lady of United States have
been able to have because of COVID.  And we couldn’t have had a better
guest than the President of France and the First Lady of France.  
  
Tonight, we cel- — (applause) — tonight, we celebrate the enduring
alliance between France and United States, a partnership that’s marked
by so many firsts.  France was our first ally, the first country to fly
the American flag after our revolution.  (Applause.)  And <s>Franc</s>
\[France\] hosted the first diplomatic posts.  Before — more than
anything else, France has been our first friend.  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, I actually grew up in a place called New Castle,
Delaware — County, and — near Brandywine Battlefield, where a young man
named Marquis de Lafayette fought for the American cause and became
close friends with a fellow named George Washington.  
  
Later, Lafayette wrote of their friendship, he’d quote — and I quote,
“It was a such simplicity that two friends were united by the greatest
of causes.”  
  
Today, we’re still united by the greatest causes: democracy, liberty,
equality, opportunity, and freedom.  We stand together against
oppression and injustice.  We stick up for one another in our — and
democratic values to which Washington and Lafayette dedicated their
lives.  And we still strive to build a world that’s worthy of our
highest hopes and of our future, knowing that we can always, always
count on one another as allies and friends.  
  
Ladies and gentlemen, please join me — (applause) — please join me in
raising our glasses, which neither one of us have — (laughter) — there
you go — to raising our glasses, to President Macron and his wife
Brigitte, to France, ladies and gentlemen, to the history that binds us
and the values that still unite us, and to the future we’re going to
forge together.  
  
*Vive la France*.  And God bless America.  (Applause.)  
  
(President Biden offers a toast.)   
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  To our friendship.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It’s all yours, boss.  
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  Let’s applaud.  (Applause.)   
  
Mr. President, dear Joe; Madam First Lady, dear Jill; ladies and
gentlemen; distinguished members: I — I do hope you had a great dinner. 
(Laughter.)   
  
But let me tell — let me tell you that it’s a great honor that Brigitte
and myself and our delegation were invited for this first state visit
and to be with you tonight at the White House in this (inaudible)
setting.  And it means a lot for us.  A lot.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  It means a lot to us.   
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  You perfectly described the challenges we have in
front of us.  And I will not repeat what — several times this morning,
in the wonderful celebration you organized — what we told both of us.   
  
We come from the same values.  I (inaudible) during this (inaudible) to
Judge Breyer this Constitution of the United States.  “We the people.” 
“We the people.”   
  
And when Lafayette came here indeed to fight, he fought for these
principles and to have people here living in democracy and freedom.  And
this is the same — it’s the same thing in my country.   
  
And when these principles were at risk in my country, you came and did
the same.  And in a lot of places today, these principles are at risk or
challenged.  Even in our societies, in our democracies, a lot of people
just want to jeopardize or revert on this principle, challenge and
contest elections and so on.   
  
We stand together, shoulder to shoulder, precisely to be entitled to
say, at the same time, “We the people” and “*Liberté, égalité,
fraternité.” * (Applause.)  
  
This is why this evening we are not just honored and moved, but we feel
the importance of this moment.  It means a lot for all of us, because
this is our history, this is our shared life, because a lot of you have
beloved on the other side of the oceans or share your life between our
countries.   
  
But this is how to build our future and how to work together for
climate, to fight against inequality, for inclusive societies, to unify
our nations.  Shoulder to shoulder, we will do so and we will prevail.  
  
So, I want to thank you.  And let me have a toast as well with you.   
  
Dear Joe, my dear friend — my dear friend, I’m immensely grateful for
the honor once again of this unique opportunity.  
  
*Et laisse-moi dire, vive les États-Unis d’Amérique, vive la France, et
vive l’amitié entre nos deux pays.*  
  
(President Macron offers a toast.)  (Applause.)  
  
Cheers.  Thank you.   
  
9:52 P.M. EST
