---
date: '2022-12-01'
published_time: 2022-12-01 19:46:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/01/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-macron-of-france-in-joint-press-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Macron of France in Joint Press\_\
  Conference"
---
 
East Room

1:18 P.M. EST

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, it’s great to see you all today.  President
Macron and I have had a chance to spend some time together.  We went to
a private dinner last night with our wives, and we’re — just came to
tell you that, and we’re leaving.  (Laughter.)  No.

But we’re — we’ve — it’s wonderful to have him here.  We’ve had a great
conversation and always appreciate the opportunity to share ideas with
you, Mr. President.

And I especially enjoyed our time that Jill and I and Brigitte had last
night and our visit.  First time I’ve gone to dinner — a private dinner
in Washington in a long, long time.  And — but I had the protection of
the French government with me.  But — (laughter).

But all kidding aside, France is one of our strongest partners and
historically — but one of our strongest partners and our most capable
allies and — and Emmanuel has also become a friend in addition to being
President of that great country.

And we — we share the same values and will remain the core, common
agenda that we — address all challenges together.  And occasionally, we
have some slight differences, but never in a fundamental way, thus far —
at least as long as I’ve been in Washington, and that’s been more than a
couple years.

Today, we’re reaffirmed that France and the United States, together with
all our Alli- — all our NATO Allies and European Union and the G7 stand
as strong as ever against Russia’s brutal war against Ukraine.  We
talked a lot about that in our bilateral meeting.

And we’ll continue the strong support for the people of Ukraine as they
defend their homes and their families and their sovereignty and
territorial integrity against Russian aggression, which has been
incredibly brutal.

I knew Russia was, but I didn’t anticipate them being as brutal as they
have been in what they’ve been doing.  Many of the reporters in this
room have been there themselves and covered from there, and they know
what it’s like. 

Today, we reaffirm that, as I said, we’re going to stand together
against this brutality.

And we’ll continue the strong support for the Ukrainian people as they
defend their homes and their families and their nurseries, their
hospitals, their sovereignty, their integrity, and — against Russia
aggression.

And I want to thank you, Mr. President, for welcoming — that the people
of France have given to over 100,000 Ukrainian refugees — it’s a mark of
who you are as a people, and — who have flee- — or are fleeing Putin’s,
just, barbarism.

Putin thinks that he can crush the will of all those who oppose his
imperial ambitions.  But attacking civilian infrastructure in Ukraine,
choking off energy to Europe to drive up prices, exacerbating food — a
food crisis, that’s hurting very vulnerable people not just in Ukraine
but around the world.  And he’s not going to succeed. 

President Macron and I have resolved that we’re going to continue
working together to hold Russia accountable for their actions and to
mitigate the glota- — global impacts of Putin’s war on the rest of the
world. 

The United States is helping Europe diversify away from Russian natural
gas in the immediate term while accelerating our clean-energy
transitions, and we’re going to continue working in close partnership
with Europe as we move forward.  I welcome the progress we’ve already
made on many of these issues through the U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy
Security. 

And today, we also committed to deepening cooperation between France and
the United States on civil nuclear energy through our bilateral Clean
Energy Partnership. 

Around the world, France and the United States are working to strengthen
stability and security.  We share the vision — the same vision in the
Indo-Pacific.  We’re looking, for one, an Indo-Pacific that’s free and
open, prosperous and secure. 

And we’re going to continue to strengthen our cooperation to defend core
international principles in the Indo-Pacific, including freedom of
navigation and freedom of overflight. 

We’re working together to support the Middle East that is more
integrated, peaceful, and prosperous.  And we want to particularly thank
President Macron for his efforts to help bring about the historic
maritime boundaries agreement between Israel and Lebanon. 

We also stand with the people of Iran.  And the French and the United
States are working together to hold accountable those responsible for
the human rights abuses, to counter Iran’s support for Russia’s war, and
to ensure that Iran does not — does not — emphasize “does not” — ever
acquire a nuclear weapon. 

And, as we in the United States are looking forward to hosting the
upcoming U.S.-African Leaders Summit, President Macron and I understand
Africa’s influence and importance.  And he has much to add — France has
much to add.

We also are going to deepen our engagement, listening to and working
with our African partners, to help strengthen the governance and
security and economic opportunities across the continent and to tackle
the global challenges of our time. 

Our partnership also extends to cooperating in outer space, from
coordinating defenses and our — excuse me — from coordinating defense of
our space activities to strengthening scientific efforts to monitor
Earth’s changing climate. 

And we’re — we are — we had a detailed discussion of the Inflation
Reduction Act.  I know none of you are curious about that, but we did
talk about that a good deal. 

The United States and Europe share the goal of making bold investments
in clean energy to meet the challenges of the climate crisis and to
build — and to build the industries of the future, including batteries
and green hydrogen. 

We agreed to discuss practical steps to coordinate and align our
approaches so that we can strengthen and secure the supply chains,
manufacturing, and innovation on both sides of the Atlantic. 

We asked our teams to follow up on this part as ongoing U.S.-EU
consultation continues to — because we can work out some of the
differences that exist, I’m confident.

France and the United States are also leading efforts to strengthen the
global health and global health security. 

President Macron’s visits — visit falls on the World AIDS Day.  And I
want to particularly highlight our joint effort to reach our goal of
ending the AIDS epidemic by 2030.  That is a goal we set, and it’s a
goal we’re going to accomplish and the goal we’re sticking with.

And to do it, we have to — all the tools we need.  We just have to make
finishing this fight a top priority for not just the two of us, but for
other nations as well. 

And that’s why I’m proud to take the baton from you, President Macron,
and host the Global Fund’s Seventh Replenishment Conference this year,
building on France’s strong record of leadership.  
  
     We’ve raised $15.7 billion with the United States and France as the
two largest contributors to the Global Fund.  And it’s going to save
millions — literally millions of lives.  
  
     If I listed all the areas where cooperation between France and the
United States was delivering — were delivering meaningful progress, we’d
be here until dinnertime.  
  
     But so, let me just close by highlighting our long-term investment
to deepen the ties between our people, particularly the Fre- — the
U.S.-French Fulbright Program, which celebrates its 75th anniversary and
has facilitated thousands of exchanges between our students, our
educators over the last decades.   
  
     It’s been critical to our relationship.  It’s a key part of
ensuring that the future of this vital alliance remain strong and
vibrant for generations to come.   
  
     So, Emmanuel, I want to thank you again for all that our nations
are doing together and the cooperation.  My administration has built our
foreign policy around the strength of our alliances, and France is the
very heart of that commitment.  
  
     So, *merci*, my friend.  And I look forward to continuing to work
with you.  And as I used to say in the body I worked in a long time, in
the United States Senate, “The floor is yours.”

  
     PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you, Mr.  President. 
Mr. President, dear Joe, thank you ever so much for these words that
very much reflect the discussions we just had. 

But most importantly, thank you very much for your warm welcome.  And
indeed, together with my wife, Brigitte, we were very pleased to share
this moment together with you and your spouse last night.

And let me tell you how honored and moved we are, both my delegation and
myself, to be here, invited by you, on the occasion of this first state
visit by your administration.  
  
     And regarding this relationship, we said it this morning and you
just said it again: This heritage is based on — on life sacrifice, on so
much.  And I would like to say that, over centuries, every time there
was something vital at stake, we were there one for the other without
any doubt, without any hesitation.  And this is very much what should
structure the rest of it.  
  
     It is this spirit that is prevailing in the current circumstances
since last February.  And I do not repeat what President Biden perfectly
described.  And, dear Joe, indeed, you very much described what we’re
doing together in Ukraine.  
  
     We clearly condemned this war immediately.  We led all the
diplomatic actions to condemn this war, the war crimes committed by
Russia on the Ukrainian soil.  And we support both the Ukrainian army
that is resisting, the Ukrainian population resisting as well.  And
please allow me here to very much thank the United States of America for
all the support it has provided, because this war is impacting the
European soil even more directly, and you’ve chosen to invest so much to
contribute to this joint effort.  
  
     In this context, our discussion this morning was an opportunity to
confirm the initiatives we will be taking, once again, in the coming
weeks and months to keep supporting — to strengthen our support to the
Ukrainian troops and to enable them to resist.  
  
     We also agreed to continue to work together to support the
Ukrainian people to help them resist, because we can very well see today
that the Russian war effort is very much targeting the civilian
infrastructure, bringing even more violence to try and make the
Ukrainian people desperate and make it impossible for them to survive
this winter.  
  
     This is the reason why we decided to organize, on the 13th of
December, a conference to support Ukraine, and very much would like to
thank you for the close cooperation in preparing for that event.  
  
     And we are working in close cooperation with President Zelenskyy
based on his 10-point plan that he proposed.  And I also would like to
take this opportunity to commend the efforts of President Zelenskyy to
try and find a way, a path to peace while leading the heroic resistance
they’ve been organizing for 10 months.  
  
     We always agreed: Help Ukraine resist.  Never give up on anything
in the U.N. Charter.  Prevent any risk of escalation in this conflict. 
And make sure that, when the time comes, on basis of conditions to be
set by Ukrainians themselves, help build peace.  
  
     And I believe your positions being so clear, it is something
important to us, because we’re both working for sustainable peace.  
  
     We also talked about the direct and indirect consequences of this
war, including on food security and energy security for the entire
planet.  And our joint initiatives within the G20, the G7 very much go
in that direction.  
  
     And we also recalled this morning all of that — all we’re doing to
try and help all countries to weather the consequences of the conflict
on their economies.  
  
     This morning, we also had an excellent discussion on the IRA and
the recent pieces of legislation adopted by the American
administration. 

And like President Biden just said, we agreed to resynchronize our
approaches, our agendas in order to invest in critical emerging
industries — semiconductors, batteries, hydrogen, everything that is
absolutely decisive — because, as a matter of fact, we share the same
vision and the same willingness.

President Biden wishes to create more industrial jobs in the long run
for his country and to build a strong industry and secure your supplies,
and this is very much our approach as well. 

And this is the reason why we tasked our teams to continue this work in
close cooperation — coordination to find solutions on the topics we
identified. 

And, of course, we will coordinate with all of the Europeans and with
you to have an agenda that will only bring more jobs — industry jobs in
the United States as well as in Europe, and guarantee the strength and
the resilience of our supply chains, and to do that with a strong
integration.

This European work is also the one we want to deliver on all of the
issues on our agenda. 

And, President, you just said it, what we would like to do as well is to
work on a number of topics of the future.  And yesterday, we had some
sessions — working sessions — and our ministers and teams have been
working as well — so that we could approve an agenda of hope and — for
the future, like I said this morning, in the space industry, research,
exploration, but as well the industries of the future — civil nuclear
industry. 

Here again, with some common research projects, in particular, on the
most advanced technique, because I believe I can say on behalf of both
of us that the civil nuclear industry is very much part of the energy
mix in which we believe in that will not only bri- — bring jobs, but
enable us as well to have a secure supply and to meet our climate
objectives.

We also talked about the quantum issues with a number of stakeholders —
innovation, and here as well our delegations are here to illustrate the
work that is taking place so that we can deliver on that common agenda.

Lastly, we also have all of our commitments on the major international
challenges which are very much, I would say, feeding our relationship as
well.  And I can only tell you, once again, how pleased we were with
your choices that very much match your history and your campaign
commitments.

The fact that you’re back on major international challenges, such as
health and climate — it is really a new deal.  And we’ve been resisting
for a number of years, and now we’re being able to engage with you. 

And on this day of World AIDS Day as well, we are very much continuing
to work to deliver by 2030.  And I would like to say how much has been
achieved by both our countries, which are major contributors to the
Global Fund to deal with, of course — eradicate AIDS, but also malaria
and a number of other diseases for the benefit of the most fragile
populations.

And the same goes in our relationship when we’re doing everything we can
to deal with climate change and biodiversity. 

Of course, we want more innovation.  We want to promote solutions on
climate change.  But we also very concretely acknowledge a number of
initiatives in this respect on the occasion of this state visit. 

It is about finding a new financing means for the most fragile
countries, emerging countries to support them on both development and
climate change.

And in this respect, you will be playing a key role in the summit we
intend to organize next summer to build a new partnership between the
North and the South.  And this is very much along the lines of providing
more resources to the southern countries, and as well reforming our ma-
— our main international financial institutions with the reform of the

World Bank and a number of international existing tools.

And regarding the biodiversity, we had this lunch yesterday with the
relevant caucus.  And here again, our willingness is to have an agenda
which is extremely ambitious.  In particular, we will be working
together to prepare for the One Forest Summit in Gaborone, in Africa at
the end of the next semester. 

And this topic, of course, is very much at the heart of the — the ones
you will be covering with them, the African countries coming to
Washington in a few days.   So here, again, a strong convergence of
views between us.

And lastly, we will continue to work together to fight terrorism and to
act for peace. 

And of course, my thoughts go to our soldiers who fell in Afghanistan,
in the Middle East, in Africa over the past few years to fight for the
security of these regions of the world and of all countries. 

And here, again, please allow me to say once again that we’re committed
within our international coalition in the Middle East through our
military action, and we will continue to do so because this fight is not
over yet. 

And it is important to remind all of our allies and partners that we
need to continue to work to fight terrorism in the Middle East and in
the Near East. 

     And I would like to thank you for all your very valuable support
over the past few years for the fight against terror, including in the
Sahel in Africa.  And that enabled us to have some very concrete
results, including a bit over the past few weeks.  And we’ll continue to
work together.

     I could carry on during the entire afternoon.  We could talk about
the Indo-Pacific — the way, in particular, we’re organizing our presence
in the Indian Ocean. 

To put things right, dear Joe, you elegantly thanked France for the role
we played in the historical agreement between Israel and Lebanon.  We
did our utmost to finalize the accord, but, let me be honest, I think
most of the work was yours. 

So, I think it was the work of the utmost importance.  And Lebanon is so
dear to us, and they needed this accord in the context of everything
that is still on the agenda for Lebanon in the coming weeks and month. 

Ladies and gentlemen, I very much meant to thank President Biden because
what he said — I can say it as well — you’re not just a leader with whom
we share many values, many battles; you’re someone with whom we are
having some very frank and respectful discussions on any topic.  And you
also became a friend.   
  
     And so, thank you ever so much for this warm welcome and for the
importance of being able to spend some time together now — so important
for our joint future.  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you, Emmanuel.  I began to refer to him
privately as my “closer.”  That — that deal with Lebanon and Israel — we
did negotiate, but we needed a closer to get the job done.  And you did
it.  And thank you very much.

All right.  We’re going to take — we’re each going to call on two people
— a total of two people — a total of four, all — all told. 

And the first questioner is going to be from AFP, Ms. End.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I will have a question for you and one
for the French President, if I may. 

For you, first, you now are saying that you are going to better
coordinate, especially your green economic policies.  But yesterday,
Emmanuel Macron said that the Inflation Reduction Act is, in fact,
“super aggressive,” I quote, toward European companies.  Does that mean
that you are ready to grant exception — exemptions of (inaudible) to
European industries?

And now my question to you, Mr. President: (Speaks French.) (As
interpreted.)  Mr. President, will you leave Washington with the
assurance that you will be able to deal with these (inaudible)?  Do you
think there is risk of generating divisions?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’ll answer the last question, since I didn’t hear any
of it.  I didn’t understand a word of it, so I’ll answer it. 
(Laughter.)

PRESIDENT MACRON:  Can we take care of it?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  No, look, the United States makes no apology — and I
make no apologies, since I wrote it — for — the — the legislation you’re
talking about. 

But there are occasions when you write a massive piece of legislation —
and that has almost $368 billion dollars for the largest investment in
climate change on all he- — of all of history.  And so, there’s
obviously going to be glitches in it and need to reconcile changes in
it.

For example, there’s a provision in it that says that there is the
exception for anyone has a free trade agreement with us.  Well, that was
added by a member of the United States Congress who acknowledges that he
just meant allies; he didn’t mean, literally, free trade agreement.  So,
there’s a lot we can work out. 

But the essence of it is: We’re going to make sure that the United
States continues — and just as I hope Europe will be able to continue —
not to have to rely on anybody else’s supply chain.

We’re — we are our own supply chain, and we share that with Europe and
all of our allies.  And they will, in fact, have the opportunity to do
the same thing.  
  
     So, there’s tweaks that we can make that can fundamentally make it
easier for European countries to participate and/or be on their own. 
But that is something that is a matter to be worked out.

There is no fundamental — it was never intended, when I wrote the
legislation — I never intended to exclude folks who were cooperating
with us.  That was not the intention.

The intention was to make sure we were no longer in a position — when
there was a pandemic in Asia, and China decided they’re going to no
longer sell us computer chips.  We invented the damn things, you know? 
(Laughs.)  
  
     So, anyway — but my point is: We’re back in business, Europe is
back in business, and we’re going to continue to create manufacturing
jobs in America, but not at the expense of Europe.

PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  What we’ve been discussing with
President Biden and what, as a matter of fact, he just said — and that’s
what I talked about with the caucus yesterday — that simple: The United
States of America adopted a piece of legislation for their country, for
their industry with a common objective, goal that we share: creating
jobs, creating opportunities for the middle class, and succeeding in
implementing the energy transition.

The reality is that the consequences, as we’ve seen in our discussions —
it is certainly not the intention of the United States, but, as a matter
of fact, project that were growing — being developed in Europe, there’s
such a difference in subsidies that these projects might come to an
end. 

And a number of senators, yesterday, said it was certainly not their
intention.  So, France simply did not come to ask for an exemption or
another for — for our economy but simply to discuss the consequences of
this legislation.

And the news — the circumstances mean that we have no alternative but to
work together.  So, therefore, I believe we need to resynchronize, as I
say, find a new policy to clarify our goals and continue together.  And
the discussion we had this morning was extremely clear.  And I could
feel the very same intent on behalf of the members of the Congress
yesterday.

And the wish of President Biden is to rebuild a strong industry here and
to have somehow to secure some technology solutions for the future. 
France wishes exactly the same thing for itself.  And we’ve been
fighting, day in, day out, to do the very same thing in our country. 
And this will enable us to put an end to some 15 years of industry loss
in our country and to have new manufacturing jobs. 

And so, we’ll be working on that.  And we decided to do that together
with the other members of the European Union and the European
Commission.  So, we will work on the technical elements to make sure
that there is no domino effect on ongoing projects in Europe.  We want
to succeed together, not one against the other. 

It’s been clear.  This is the outcome of our discussions this morning. 
And this is exactly the philosophy that I share, and it is the one that
we need.

Q    (As interpreted.)  Presidents — William Galibert, on behalf of RTL
Radio.

In French, President Biden, we say, “There is no love, there is only
proof of love.”  Do you feel that your French friend will go home very
much reassured?  Do you feel you were able to reassure your European
friends?  
  
     And to be more precise, President Macron, do you have some specific
deadlines or specific industries in relation to which you’re hoping to
have some adaptation of the economic policies of the United States?

PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  Well, first of all, to be very
clear, we have some work to do with the Europeans on semiconductors,
hydrogen batteries, on industry.  We will continue to move forward as
Europeans.  And we’re not here simply, really, to ask for “proof of
love.”  We were here — we came to agree on a strategy and to clarify
what was necessary to clarify, and we did.

Now we are conducting our own work, and we can’t ask the United States
of America to adopt whatever rules would be necessary to deal with our
issues in Europe.  But we need to have the same ambition and very much
synchronize. 

And in addition, we clarified things today.  There are already a number
of discussions, frameworks.  And it is in the coming weeks and months
that we will — can deal with that.  And fairly quickly, because these
projects are ongoing.

So, for me, there is some very clear strategy.  We’ve had some very
frank discussions.  And I believe, accordingly, that in the coming days,
the discussions we will be having with the European Commission, the
close — we will — the discussions we will have in close cooperation with
our German partners and others will enable us to very much clarify all
of this without any difficulty.

So, I’m — I’m going home confident but, as well, (inaudible) as to what
remains to be done on the European side, which is a good thing.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m confident.  (Laughter.)  That’s my answer. 
(Laughter.)

Okay, who’s the next question?  I got my list here. 

PRESIDENT MACRON:  On this side.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Is it my turn to call on someone?  Right?

Okay, how about NPR, Tamara Keith.

Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I have a domestic question for you.  And
then, Mr. Macron, I have a president — a question for you about
Ukraine. 

But first, President Biden, do the freight rail workers deserve more
than one day of paid sick leave, like millions of Americans have? 

And if so, why didn’t you negotiate for that when you were helping to
negotiate that contract that you now want Congress to impose?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I love you guys.  I negotiated a contract no one else
could negotiate.  The only thing that was left out was whether or not it
was paid leave. 

You know I’ve been trying to get paid leave not just for rail workers,
for everybody.  But that other team — they’re called the Republicans —
they voted against it.  They said we couldn’t do it.  We’re one of the
few nations in the world that don’t have paid leave for our workers.

And so, what we’re doing is — we can’t afford to have — and, by the way,
in the meantime, they got a 43 — 45 percent increase in salary, et
cetera.  There’s a lot of good things that happened in that. 

And if, in fact, this shuts down over the question of one to five paid —
or seven or nine or whatever the number is that’ve been negotiating — of
paid leave days, it’s going to immediately cost 750,000 jobs and cause a
recession. 

And so, what I made really clear is that — what was negotiated was so
much better than anything they ever had that it’s worth — and they all
signed on to it, by the way.  There are only four unions that — out of
the 13 or 14 — that didn’t agree.  So, the majority at the time it was —
that I presented it, they asked me to do it.  I presented it; they all
signed on. 

But here’s the story: It doesn’t mean because we are going to pass this,
God willing, on — by Friday, by the time the — by the weekend that we’re
— that I’m going to back off of paid leave.

I made it really clear: I’m going to continue to fight for paid leave
for not only rail workers, but for all American workers.  I sup- — I
imagine it may surprise some of our European friends that there’s no
paid leave in the United States of America.  We’re one of the few major
countries in the world that don’t have it.  It’s about time. 

And so, that’s the context in which this all took place. And — and — you
know, and labor signed on to it as well, as you recall, initially. 
There were 4 unions out of the, I think, 13 or 14 that didn’t like it. 

And — but I think we’re going to get it done but not within this
agreement — not within this agreement.  We’re going to avoid the rail
strike, keep the rails running, keep things moving, and I’m going to go
back and we’re going to get paid leave not just for rail workers but for
all workers.

Q    President Macron, (inaudible) President Biden is asking Congress
for $38 billion of additional funding for support for Ukraine.  There’s
been some pushback from Republicans in Congress, saying that they cannot
continue to write a blank check. 

So do you have confidence that the United States will be able to
continue supporting Ukraine’s defense in the way it has over the past
year, in the months going forward?  And did you talk to President Biden
about trying to urge Ukraine to negotiate to end this war, you know,
especially with winter bearing down and the effects on energy prices?

PRESIDENT MACRON:  Look, I do thank President Biden and his
administration for the great commitment they had vis-à-vis Ukraine and
the Ukrainian people. 

And let me just say that our two nations are made of values and
history.  And what is at stake in Ukraine is not just

very far from here in a small country somewhere in Europe, but it’s
about our va- — our values, and it’s about our principles.  And it’s
about what we agreed together in the U.N. Charter: protecting
sovereignty and territorial integrity.

And this is why I do believe that having the U.S. strongly supporting
the Ukrainians in that time is very important not just for the
Ukrainians, for the Europeans we are — this is why we do thank you for
the solidarity — but for the stability of our world today.  Because if
we consider that we can abandon the country and abandon the full respect
of these principles, it means that there is no possible stability in
this world. 

So, I think it’s extremely important to have you so much committed.  So,
I’m confident because I think your people and — and your representatives
do endorse and understand this objective.  We will follow up our own
support.  We increased our military support.  We increased our economic
support.  We — we — we are increasing our humanitarian support. 

And for the second question you raise, let me tell you that we will
never urge the Ukrainians to make a compromise which will not be
acceptable for them because they are so brave and they defend precisely
their lives, their nation, and our principles, and because it will never
build a sustainable peace.

If we want a sustainable peace, we have to respect the Ukrainians to
decide the moment and the conditions in which they will negotiate about
their territory and their future.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This will be the last question. 

Q    (As interpreted.)  We hear that you will be talking to President
Putin anytime soon.  What is your approach? 

And as the Ukrainian war seems to be at a turning point, do you feel
realistic that President Zelenskyy is putting a condition to open
negotiations and that is the return of Crimea to Ukraine?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Look, there is one way for this war to end the
rational way: Putin to pull out of Ukraine.  Number one.  But it appears
he’s not going to do that. 

He’s paying a very heavy price for failing to do it, but he’s inflicting
incredible, incredible carnage on the civilian population of Ukraine —
bombing nurseries, hospitals, children’s homes.  It’s sick what he’s
doing. 

But the fact of the matter is, I have no immediate plans to contact Mr.
Putin.  Mr. Putin is — let me choose my words very carefully — I’m
prepared to speak with Mr. Putin if in fact there is an interest in him
deciding he’s looking for a way to end the war.  He hasn’t done that
yet.  If that’s the case, in consultation with my French and my NATO
friends, I’ll be happy to sit down with Putin to see what he wants — has
in mind.  He hasn’t done that yet.

In the meantime, I think it’s absolutely critical what Emmanuel said: We
must support the Ukrainian people.  The idea that Putin is ever going to
defeat Ukraine is beyond comprehension.  Imagine them trying to occupy
that country through the next 2, 5, 10, 20 years if they could — if they
could.

He’s miscalculated every single thing he initially calculated.  He
thought he’d be greeted with open arms by the Russian-speaking portions
of the Ukrainian population. 

Go back and read his speech when he invaded — when I said they were
going to invade, and they did when we said they were.  Go back and read
the speech he made.  He talked about him — with needing to be another
Peter the Great.  He talked about the need for the people — that Kyiv is
the motherload of Russian identity in the beginning, et cetera, et
cetera.  He’s just miscalculated across the board.

And so, the question is: What is his decis- — how does he get himself
out of the circumstance he’s in?

I’m prepared, if he’s willing to talk, to find out what he’s willing to
do, but I’ll only do it in consultation with my NATO Allies.  I’m not
going to do it on my own. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  Regarding your question and the
preconditions or the conditions set by the Ukrainian President, I
believe that what is important for all of us to look at is that as
Ukraine is resisting, suffering from war crimes, attacks on their
civilian infrastructure, leading counteroffensive, President Zelenskyy
presented a 10-point peace plan. 

So we, I believe, very much need to continue to engage with him because
there is a genuine willingness, on behalf of Ukraine, to discuss these
matters.  And we acknowledge it, and we commend it.

And for a number of years, I was in charge of monitoring the
implementation of the Minsk Agreements.  And the latest — at the last
meeting between President Zelenskyy and President Putin, the only one —
December 2019 — at the time, I was with Chancellor Merkel.  And I can
tell you that I saw a President who was sincere in his willingness to
talk and to negotiate. 

And since he was elected, until May, President Zelenskyy was very much
willing to talk and negotiate.  The one who wanted to go to war, to wage
war was President Putin.  And I could see it by myself, including when I
visited Russia and Ukraine at the beginning of February. 

So, it’s only legitimate that President Zelenskyy sets some conditions
to talk.  We need to work on what could lead to a peace agreement, but
it is for him to tell us when the time comes and what the choices of the
Ukrainians are.

So once this has been said, indeed, I will continue to talk to President
Putin.  And as a matter of fact, we talked about it this morning with
President Biden, because we constantly as well tried to prevent
escalation and to get some very concrete results. 

So, I will talk to him about security and safety of nuclear plants in
the areas that are being claimed, including Zaporizhzhia, in
particular.  And over the past few months, we did some work on the
Chernobyl Nuclear Plant, and there is some outstanding work ongoing,
which is very important, by Mr. Grossi and his agency, the IAEA.  So we
will continue.

Thank you so much.

                          END                 1:50 P.M. EST
