---
date: '2022-12-12'
published_time: 2022-12-12 15:42:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/12/remarks-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-75th-anniversary-toys-for-tots-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the 75th Anniversary Toys for Tots\_\
  Event"
---
 
Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall  
Arlington, Virginia  
 

12:44 P.M. EST  
  
     THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  And — and thank
you to your family as well.  And thank you for your service.  
  
     And I’m so happy to be with some great friends today, who also
happen to be the spouses of our senior Department of Defense and service
leaders, and I want to thank them for helping — for coming to help
out.  
  
     So, Merry Christmas and happy holidays.  
  
     I’m sorry, I have laryngitis.  (Laughs.)  
  
     So, how many of you know this book?  
  
     (Holds up “How the Grinch Stole Christmas.”)  
  
     Oh, everybody.  Wow.  Okay.  (Laughs.)  I love this book.  And, as
a matter of fact, I might have — I might have dressed up as the Grinch
for a White House event when I was Second Lady.  
  
     But — and you probably know the whole story of the Grinch, but I’d
like to read you one of my favorite parts.  
  
     Okay, actually, is there someone who would want to come up and read
the one page?  So — are you a good reader?  Yeah?  You come on up.  
  
     That way I — here, we’ll give him the apple box.  
  
     Okay.  Just this page.  
  
     (A child reads a page from “How the Grinch Stole Christmas.”)  
  
     Thank you.  (Applause.)  You did a great job.  What’s your name?  
  
     CHILD:  Adam.  
  
     THE FIRST LADY:  Adam.  Thank you, Adam.  (Applause.)  Wow. 
(Laughs.)  You did a great job.  
  
     So, if there’s one group of kids who understands that the holiday-
— what the holidays are about more than what’s under the tree, it’s you
— all of you — our military children.  
  
     And you understand that gifts that mean the most can’t be the ones
held in our hands.  You need a friend or time with the people you love,
or the chance to serve your community and your country with honor and
pride.  Those things can’t be bought.  They’re only given with our
hearts.  
  
     So, military kids like you give our country so much.  You support
your parents through moves and deployments.  And you sometimes help take
care of the family members who came home with, maybe, illnesses or
injuries.  And you help out neighbors when they need it, just like
you’re going to do today.  
  
     Now, I bet a lot of you put up trees and lights at your home
already.  How many have you — have done that?   
  
     Most of you.  Wow.  
  
     Well, at the White House, we do the same thing.  But how many trees
do you think we have?  
  
     Wait, wait — how many do you think?  
  
     CHILD:  One hundred and fifty?  
  
     THE FIRST LADY:  One hundred and fifty?  That’s close.  
  
     Okay, how about you?  
  
     CHILD:  I think maybe, like, close to 65-ish.  
  
     THE FIRST LADY:  Oh, close!  Wow.  You?  
  
     CHILD:  One hundred and six.  
  
     THE FIRST LADY:  One hundred and six.  Well, you’re all pretty
close, because we have 77 trees in the White House.  And I hope you all
come and take a tour and visit.  And we have millions of lights.  
  
     And we have one very special room called “We the Children.”  And
it’s decorated to honor kids just like you, with drawings and
reflections of the magic that, really, children, like all of you, bring
to our holidays.    
  
     And you remind us that even though we have a lot of challenges
ahead, our future is full of promise because you are going to lead it.  
  
     Oops.  
  
     Just like the Grinch himself, seeing all of you here, eagl- — eager
to make someone else’s holiday a little more special, it’s enough to
make my heart grow three sizes as well.   
  
     So, thank you to Toys for Tots for bringing us all together.  So,
Merry Christmas, and may you receive as much love this holiday as you
give.  
  
     And now, it’s my honor and my pleasure to introduce our next
speaker, Samara Donahue.  And in addition to supporting her parents
through deployments to Iraq and Afghanistan, she has plans to follow in
Joe’s footsteps and become President of the United States.  (Applause.) 
I can’t wait to vote for you.   
  
     And she has to finish — she just has to finish school first —
(laughter) — and wait about 25 years until she’s eligible.  
  
     So, anyway, we are all rooting for you.  So, come on up, and you
can talk to everybody.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                12:50 P.M. EST
