---
date: '2022-12-13'
modified_time: 2022-12-14 09:09:10-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-13 09:01:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/13/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-at-signing-of-h-r-8404-the-respect-for-marriage-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris at Signing of H.R. 8404,\
  \ the Respect for Marriage\_Act"
---
 
South Lawn

3:59 P.M. EST  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon. 
(Applause.)  Let me start by thanking Heidi and Gina for your courage
and your leadership and your devotion to our country.

President Biden, members of our Cabinet, members of Congress, and my
fellow Americans, please have a seat.  (Laughs.)  (Laughter.)

You know, I often reflect on the week of Valentine’s Day 2004, when I
had the honor to stand in San Francisco City Hall and perform some of
our country’s first marriages of same-sex couples.  (Applause.) 

I saw tears of joy that day as people celebrated basic human rights: the
right to be recognized as a family; the right to be with the person you
love, whether at a military graduation, a hospital bedside, or a
naturalization ceremony.

I also think back to June 28th, 2013, when after we won the fight to
strike down Proposition 8 — (applause) — and I had the privilege and
honor to pronounce my friends Kris Perry and Sandy Stier spouses for
life — (applause) — again, at San Francisco City Hall.  And this time it
was on the Harvey Milk Balcony.  (Applause.)

And Kris and Sandy are here today with their four sons, Elliot, Frank,
Spencer, and Tom.  (Applause.) 

And, of course, then, let us think about today: December 13, 2022, a day
when, thanks to Democrats and Republicans, we finally protect marriage
rights in federal law.  (Applause.)

For millions of LGBTQI+ Americans and interracial couples, this is a
victory.  And it is part of a larger fight.  The Dobbs decision reminds
us that fundamental rights are interconnected, including the right to
marry who you love, the right to access contraception, and the right to
make decisions about your own body.  (Applause.)

So to continue to protect fundamental rights, let us continue to stand
together, because that is the beauty of the coalition assembled here
today who fight for equality as activists and allies and parents and
neighbors and young leaders. 

And as the great Harvey Milk once said, I quote, “Rights are won only by
those who make their voices heard.”  (Applause.)

And because you made your voices heard, marriages are more secure and
Joe Biden is our President.  (Applause.)  A President who elevated
LGBTQI+ leaders to every level of our administration, who fights for the
safety and freedom and dignity of all people every single day. 

And so, with pride, let us welcome the President of the United States,
Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.) 

Today is a good day.  (Applause.)  A day America takes a vital step
toward equality, toward liberty and justice, not just for some, but for
everyone — everyone.  (Applause.)  Toward creating a nation where
decency, dignity, and love are recognized, honored, and protected. 
(Applause.)

Today, I sign the Respect for Marriage Act into the law.  (Applause.) 

Deciding whether to marry, who to marry is one of the most profound
decisions a person can make.  And as I’ve said before, and some of you
might remember, on a certain TV show 10 years ago — (laughter) — I got
in trouble.  (Laughter.)  Marriage — I mean this with all my heart —
marriage is a simple proposition: Who do you love, and will you be loyal
with that person you love?  It’s not more complicated than that. 

And the law recognize that everyone should have the right to answer
those questions for themselves without the government interference. 
(Applause.)

It also secures the federal rights, protections that come with marriage,
like when your loved one gets sick and you’ve legally recognized as a
next of kin.

For most of our nation’s history, we denied interracial couples and
same-sex couples from these protections.  We failed.  We failed to treat
them with an equal dignity and respect.

And now, the law requires that interracial marriages and same-sex
marriage must be recognized as legal in every state in the nation. 
(Applause.)

I want to thank all of you for being here today, for being part of this
important movement.  Jill, Kamala, Doug, my Cabinet members, including
Pete Buttigieg.  (Applause.)  And a special thanks to our performers:
Joy, Sam, and Cyndi.  Look, you know — and the Gay <s>Man’s Choir</s>
\[Men’s Chorus\] of Washington D.C. — the Gay Men’s marri- — Choir. 
(Applause.)

And the members of Congress here today.  In the Senate, this bipartisan
vote simply would not have happened without the leadership and
persistence of a real hero: Tammy Baldwin — Senator Tammy Baldwin. 
(Applause.)

And thank you, Susan Collins, who did not rest until this bill got done;
and to Leader Schumer; Senators Portman, Sinema, Tillis, Feinstein, and
Booker.

And in the House, this would not have happened — as much wouldn’t have
happened without Nancy Pelosi, the Speaker.  (Applause.)  Equality and
dignity for the LGBT community has always been her North Star, from her
first speech on the House floor pledging to end AIDS and signaling the
bill — and signing the bill today.  All that time span.

Madam Speaker, on behalf of all Americans, thank you for this and so
much more — for your decades of service.  (Applause.)

We also owe our special thanks to representatives like Jerry Nadler who
— (applause) — first introduced the Respect for Marriage Act a decade
ago; David Cicilline and Sharice Davids, as leaders of the Equality
Caucus; and so many others, many of whom are here today, who did what
was right.

Standing behind me are dozens of plaintiffs, up there — don’t jump —
(applause) — are dozens of plaintiffs who fought for marriage equality
through the years, as well as families whose existence would not be
possible without the bonds of love and — this law honors and protects. 
(Applause.)

Look, we’re here today to celebrate their courage and everyone who made
today possible.  Courage that led to progress we’ve seen over the
decades.  Progress that gives us hope that with every — every generation
will continue our journey toward a more perfect union.

On this day, I think of Mildred and Richard Loving — a young woman of
color and a young white man.  They met as family friends and eventually
fell in love.

In 1958, they drove to Washington, D.C., to get married because their
relationship was illegal in Virginia.  They went back home.  Five weeks
later, police burst into their house and arrested them for the crime of
being married.  The crime of being married.

They were sentenced to one year in prison unless they agreed to leave
Virginia and not return for 25 years.  They appealed the sentence.  And
it wasn’t — it took until nine years later, in 1967, the Supreme Court
of the United States ruled unanimously.  It declared that laws against
interracial marriage were unconstitutional. 

And today — (applause) — today we’re joined by one of the lawyers who
represented the Lovings and the widow of their other lawyer that took
the fight to the highest court because they believed their love should
not be criminalized but should be honored and respected.

As Mildred Loving said, previous generations were, quote, “bitterly
divided over something that should have been so clear and right.”  So
clear and right.  No one could put it better.

And later, Mildred fought \[for\] something else that’s so clear and
right: marriage equality for LGBTQ Americans.

And today we celebrate our progress: From Hawaii, the first state to
declare that denying marriage of same-sex couples was unconstitutional;
to Massachusetts, the first state to legalize marriage equality for
couples like Gina and Heidi, who just — you just heard from; to all the
advocates — (coughs) — excuse me — who worked to block or overturn state
bans.

As you heard earlier, Vice President Ha- — Vice President Harris took a
stand as Attorney General in California.  Talked earlier.  (Applause.) 

Others also spoke out.  One of them was my son, Beau Biden, who was
Attorney General of the state of Delaware, who filed the amicus brief
with the Supreme Court in favor of marriage equality and pushed to add
gender identity protections into the law as well.  (Applause.) 

Today, we remember Edie Windsor and her partner — (applause) — and her
partner, Thea.  In 1965, they met in their 30s.  They fell in love. 
Secretly — secretly got engaged.  And Edie wore an engagement pin,
rather than a ring, to avoid questions.

They had 40 wonderful years together, and then Thea was diagnosed with
MS and Edie became her full-time caregiver.  They went to Canada, and
they got married.  As Edie would say, “Don’t postpone joy.”

And then Thea died soon after.  Giving Edie — a grieving Edie learned,
since their marriage was legally — ille- — wasn’t legally recognized,
she would have to pay $360,000 in estate taxes.  Viewed as strangers,
rather than partners, for four decades.  Simply unconscionable and
unacceptable.  So, Edie took her case to the Supreme Court and she won.

Before Edie passed away, she fell in love again at age 87 — finally
experienced the joy and dignity of a legally recognized marriage to
Judith.  Judith is here with us today.

Judith, are you up there?  (Applause.) 

Also here today are many of the 16 plaintiffs in the same-sex marriage
case that helped bring us here.  They were subjected to intense public
scrutiny and harassment, physical threats and violence for years, as
their cases made their way through the courts.

Jim couldn’t be here today, but he and I spoke on that day in June 19- —
2015 when he was wa- — on the steps of the Supreme Court.  I called him
right after that historic victory — a victory not just for the
plaintiffs, but for the whole country and, I would argue, for the
world.  (Applause.) 

My fellow Americans, the road to this moment has been long.  But those
who believed in equality and justice, you never gave up — many of you
standing on the South Lawn here. 

So many of you put your relationships on the line, your jobs on the
line, your lives on the line to fight for the law I’m about to sign.

From me and the entire nation, thank you, thank you, thank you. 
(Applause.) 

It’s one thing — it’s one thing for the Supreme Court to rule on a case,
but it’s another thing entirely for elected representatives of the
people to take a vote on the floor of the United States Congress and say
loudly and clearly: Love is love.  Right is right.  Justice is justice.

These things are fundamental things that America thinks matter. 

So, sadly, we must also acknowledge another reason we’re here.  Congress
is acting because an extreme Supreme Court has stripped away the right
important to millions of Americans that existed for half a century.  The
Dobbs decision — the Court’s extreme conservative majority overturned
Roe v. Wade and the right to choose.

In his concurring opinion, Justice Thomas went even further and he wrote
the following: Quote, “We should reconsider all of \[the\] Court’s
substantive due process precedents, including Griswold, Lawrence…
Obergefell.” 

That means he thinks we should reconsider whether you got the right to
access to conce- — to contraception and, yes, we should “reconsider”
whether you have the right to marry who you love.  And that’s not only
the challenge ahead.

When a person can be married in the morning and thrown out of a
restaurant for being gay in the afternoon, this is still wrong.  Wrong. 
(Applause.)   

And that’s why the people you heard speak today continue to fight to
pass the Equality Act.  (Applause.) 

When hospitals, libraries, and community centers are threatened and
intimidated — (coughs) — excuse me — because they support LGBTQ children
and families, we have to speak out.  We must stop the hate and violence
like we just saw in Colorado Springs, where a place of acceptance and
celebration was targeted for violence and terror.

We need to challenge the hundreds of callous and cynical laws introduced
in the states targeting transgender children, terrifying families and
criminalizing doctors who give children the care they need.  And we have
to protect these children so they know they are loved and that we will
stand up for them and so they can seek for themselves.  (Applause.) 

Folks, racism, antisemitism, homophobia, transphobia — they’re all
connected.  But the antidote to hate is love.

This law, and the love it defends, strike a blow against hate in all its
forms.  And that’s why this law matters to every single American, no
matter who you are or who you love.

This shouldn’t be about conservative or liberal, red or blue.  No, this
is about realizing the promise of the Declaration of Independence — a
promise rooted in the sacred and secular beliefs; a promise that we’re
all created equal, we’re all entitled to what Abraham Lincoln called “an
open field and a fair chance.” 

You know, there’s nothing more decent, more dignified, and more American
that we’re about — what we’re doing here today.  It’s about who we are
as a nation.  It’s about the substance of our laws.  It’s about being
true to the best of the soul of America.  Decency.  Dignity.  Love. 
(Applause.) 

Let me close with something else that happened on the same day that
Congress sent me this bill.  Brittney Griner was finally on her way
home.  (Applause.) 

I got to know her incredible wife as we worked to bring Brittney home
from her unjust imprisonment in Russia. 

We were together in the Oval Office — her wife and I — when we heard
Brittney’s voice on the phone when she was freed.  And we addressed the
nation together.  When we did that, Brittney’s wife said, quote, “Today,
my family is whole.”

My fellow Americans, that all-consuming, life-altering love and
commitment — that’s marriage.

Thank you to everyone on the hard-fought victory generations in the
making.  It’s been a long road, but we got it done.  And we’re going to
continue the work ahead, I promise you.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

And now, let me sign the Respect for Marriage Act into law. 
(Applause.) 

(The bill is signed.)

4:19 P.M. EST
