---
date: '2022-12-12'
published_time: 2022-12-12 18:45:16-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/12/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-virtual-educator-appreciation-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery By First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Virtual Educator\
  \ Appreciation\_Event"
---
 
The White House

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Good evening, educators!

On the first full day of our Administration, I kicked off my time as
First Lady by inviting Becky and Randi to the White House—along with all
of you, virtually. And this year, we are happy to also be joined by our
UAW higher education colleagues.

With your help, we’ve gotten so much done already, so as we close out
our second year, I wanted to bring us all together once again.

As you can guess, we’re in full holiday swing here at the White
House—and every room is decorated with twinkling lights and beautiful
ornaments.

In fact, in the State Dining Room, we were inspired by “We the
Children”—and the trees are decorated with self-portraits created by the
students of our most recent Teachers of the Year.

And when I walk through that room, I’m reminded of the dedication and
determination of my colleagues across the country—and of the promise of
the next generation, and the future that they will create.

Educators shape that future every day. So it’s my honor to be with all
of you this evening—and to introduce the leaders of the NEA and AFT.

They’ve been incredible partners, tireless advocates for educators and
their students, and of course, good friends. Please welcome, Becky
Pringle and Randi Weingarten.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, Becky and Randi. Your commitment to your members and to our
students is unparalleled.

Right now, we’re in the last stretch of the semester. And I know that,
like me, many of you are working on final exams and tabulating grades.

This time of year is magical—but there’s always a bit of mayhem too, as
you manage an overflowing schedule of winter assemblies and holiday
concerts and class parties.

Meanwhile, nurses’ offices fill with sniffles, shoes covered in slush
and ice run through the halls, and cafeteria kitchens make sure kids
don’t go hungry during the holiday break.

I know it can be overwhelming, on top of doing a job that’s not easy in
the simplest of times.

So, I wanted to personally let all of you know how grateful the
President and I are for the incredible work you do, no matter the
season.

This year, I’ve met inspiring educators across the nation—from
bright-eyed teaching apprentices in Knoxville, getting paid to do their
student teaching; to veteran teachers in Connecticut, helping kids catch
up in the summer months and learn to swim; to educators in Milwaukee
working with parents after school at a homework diner.

Their stories have reminded me of how much hope can be found in our
classrooms.

And I have never been more proud to call myself an educator.

Teachers, counselors and custodians, bus drivers and nurses—our students
depend on us.

So when budgets run thin, when schools need more support, when we see
injustice and inequality, we fight for our classrooms and our
communities.

Thank you for standing up for your students and for each other. Thank
you for using your “teacher voice” to fight for justice and equity.
Thank you for showing up when it matters most.

And I want you to know that you aren’t in this alone. You have a
champion in the White House—two in fact: your President and me.

I always knew that Joe would be an education President. Because this
means so much to him. He’s working every day to support what we call the
three R’s of teaching: recruiting, respecting, and retaining our
educators. And he’s delivered on his promises:

From historic investments to safely re-open schools, to addressing the
mental health and academic needs of our students, to signing the
bipartisan gun bill, to providing loan forgiveness for public servants.

And we’re not done yet. We’re going to keep fighting for you and your
students. We’re going to keep standing with you as you change lives in
little ways and big ones.

We still have a lot of work left to do, but I know that together, we
will continue to transform our country and change our future for the
better.

So I hope you can use your holiday break to rest and spend some time
with your families and friends. And get your flu and updated COVID
vaccines so that you can enjoy your time off with less stress, and
refresh for the year ahead.

You know, a few weeks ago, I was in New Hampshire, and I ran into a
student of mine from more than 30 years ago. In that moment, I could
picture exactly where he sat in my classroom—and he told me that he
remembered my lessons, too—they had left an impression that lasted all
these decades later.

As you calculate your grades and mid-year evaluations, you can see the
difference you’re making in your students’ lives.

But your influence goes beyond books read, or lectures given.

It’s how you see the boy who feels like he’s fading away, and help him
express himself through music or art.

How you help the girl who thinks she’s not smart enough, find the
intelligence that’s always been there.

How you tell a mom that, despite her fears, she’s doing a good job.

How you know that sometimes “I’m fine” means that everything is
wrong—and how you light a path when someone feels lost.

Those are the tiny miracles that you perform every day—and that magic
lasts beyond one class or semester. You help students become kinder and
smarter and more optimistic—become the people they want to be.

You shape our world, one student at a time.

From the bottom of my heart, thank you and happy holidays.

\###
