---
date: '2022-12-15'
published_time: 2022-12-15 13:23:37-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/15/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-africa-summit-leaders-session-on-partnering-on-the-african-unions-agenda-2063/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the U.S.-Africa Summit Leaders Session on Partnering\
  \ on the African Union\u2019s Agenda\_2063"
---
 
Walter E. Washington Convention Center  
Washington, D.C.

11:42 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good still morning, everyone.  I — I realized last
night, when our dinner ended and the entertainment ended, it was five
o’clock in the morning for most of you.  (Laughs.)  So I admire your
collective stamina.  Thank you very much.  And I promise my comments
will not take you to tomorrow morning.  
  
My friends, I’m honored to host you all here in Washington for the
U.S.-African Su- — Leaders Summit.  It’s wonderful to spend time with
you and your spouses last night at dinner.  And I truly enjoyed it, and
thank you for making the time.  
  
And let me also convey my condolences to the people of the Democratic
Republic of the Congo for the tragic loss of life and the communities
impacted due to the flooding.  
  
Mr. President, we missed you last night, but if there’s anything the
United States can do to help in this effort, please, please let us
know.  We’ll do whatever we can.  
  
Today, I’m looking forward to hearing more from all of you about the
issues and priorities that matter most to Africa  
and how we can deepen our cooperation.  And I emphasize “cooperation.”  
  
Our nations have worked closely together for a long time.  We’ve
improved the lives of countless people in all our countries in
meaningful ways, on both sides of the Atlantic.  
  
And with this summit, and with the African Union’s Agenda 2063, our eyes
are fixed squarely on the future.  We’re now in the early years that
will be deci- — that will be a decisive decade.  
  
The choices that we make today and the remainder of this decade and how
we tackle these challenges, in my view, will determine the direction the
entire world takes in the decades to come.  
  
As I said yesterday, the United States is all in on Africa and all in
*with* Africa.  
  
African voices, African leadership, African innovation all are critical
to addressing the most pressing global challenges and to realizing the
vision we all share: a world that is free, a world that is open,
prosperous, and secure.  
  
Africa belongs at the table in every room — in every room where global
challenges are being discussed and in every institution where
discussions are taking place.  
  
That’s why I announced in September, at the United Nations General
Assembly, that the United States fully supports reforming the U.N.
Security Council to include permanent representation for Africa.   
  
And today I’m also calling for the African Union to join the G20 as a
permanent member of the G20.  Whether it’s — (applause) — it’s been a
long time in coming, but it’s going to come.  
  
And today I’m also — whether we’re upholding or defending the
foundational principles of global peace and security enshrined in the
U.N. Charter and the U.N. — and in the AU’s semil- — seminal documents,
or meeting the challenges that impact every nation, the people of Africa
are indispensable partners, delivering — to delivering the progress that
benefits everyone, not just in Africa and the United States, but the
whole world.  
  
The COVID-19 pandemic, followed by Russia’s unjust and unprovoked war
against its neighbor Ukraine, has roiled the global economy, erasing
many of the development gains that we worked so hard together to achieve
over the past two decades.  
  
But that doesn’t change our shared goals and our commitment to seeing
them through.  It only makes it more urgent for us to take decisive
action and take it together.  
  
That’s why, over the next three years, working in close cooperation with
the United States Congress, we plan to commit $55 billion in Africa to
advance the priorities we share and su- — and to support the Agenda
2063.    
  
That number represents a comprehensive commitment from the United States
to invest in Africa’s people, Africa’s infrastructure, Africa’s
agriculture, Africa’s health system, Africa’s security, and more.  
  
In our view, our new shared vision statement lays out a forward-looking
foundation for the 21st century partnership between Africa and the
United States.  
  
We want to work with you on these issues that matter most to our
people’s lives.  And we’re looking to increase our collaboration in
every area, from rural communities to urban centers, to cyber space to
outer space.  
  
In addition to our investments, we’re also committed to helping African
countries assess the financing you need — the financing you need to
build sustainable and inclusive economies.  
  
We’re leading a global effort to pursue equitable arrangements for
global creditors to provide debt relief so nations can prioritize their
people, not back-breaking debt payments.  
  
And I’m asking the Congress for the authority to lend $21 billion to the
International Monetary Fund to provide access to necessary financing for
low- and middle-income countries — which is so difficult to come by now
— and to — will help Africa’s recovery efforts and support projects that
build resilience against future crises.  
  
As we engage with your countries, the United States will always lead
with our values.  Support for democracy, respect for the rule of law,
commitment to human rights, responsible government — all are part of our
DNA.  
  
That doesn’t mean we always get everything right.  We surely don’t.  And
the work of democracy is never finished or never guaranteed.  It’s about
consistent and constant self-improvement.  
  
But that’s why democracy is the best tool we have to address the wide
range of challenges we all face, and that belief is shared by Africans
and Americans alike.  
  
From South Africa’s world-changing triumph over apartheid to Nigeria’s
“Not Too Young To Run” movement empowering a new generation of
change-makers, to the record voter turnout in Zambia, where young people
demanded a better future, we see over and over again that our greatest
power is our people.  
  
So one of the new commitments I want to highlight today is the
investment in countering democratic backsliding through our new African
Democratic and Political Transition initiative.  
  
Collaborating closely with African governments, regional institutions,
and civil society, my administration will work with the United States
Congress to invest $75 million to strengthen transparent, accountable
governance; facilities — facilitate voter registration; support
constitutional reform; and more.  
  
We’ll also work to support and strengthen the security benefits that
flow from good governance, including with a new 21st Century Partnership
for African Security.  
  
Through this three-year, 100-billion-dollar — 100-million-dollar pilot
program, the Department of Defense will work with our African partners
to boost reforms that build their security capacity.  
  
Now, as every leader here understands, the real measure of success is
not in announcements, but it’s in the follow-through.  That’s why I’ve
asked one of our great diplomats — a man with deep respect for Africa
and long experience working with the governments across the continent —
to oversee implementation coming out of this summit: Ambassador Johnnie
Carson.  
  
Many of you already know him personally.  You certainly know his skill
and his reputation.  So you know that he’s going to make sure we
translate our commitments on paper into progress that people can see in
their daily lives.  
  
And on Tuesday, I also directed the establishment of the President’s
Advisory Council on African Diaspora Engagement in the United States so
we can tap the enormous strength of the diaspora communities here in the
United States and make sure their insight and experiences are reflected
in our work.  
  
And finally, I’m grateful that all of you have made the journey to
Washington for this summit, and I’m eager to visit your continent.  
  
As I told some of you — you invited me to your countries.  I said, “Be
careful what you wish for because I may show up.”  The poor relatives
always show up.  The wealthy ones never show up.  The poor come and they
eat your food and stay longer than they should.  Well, I’m looking
forward to seeing many of you in your home countries.  
  
I also directed the establishment of the President’s Advisory Council,
as I said, on the di- — on the diaspora, and we’ll get input from
them.  
  
And finally, I’m grateful that all of you have made the journey, as I
said.   
  
And I know it’s been long.  And I know when you arrive here at — in the
middle of the night and then start off a couple hours later at meetings,
it’s a long haul.   
  
I — Vice President Harris is also planning to visit, as is my wife,
Jill.   
  
Secretary Blinken is on his way.  Secretary of Defense Austin. 
Secretary of the Treasury Yellen.  Secretary of Commerce Raimondo.  The
USAID Administrator, Power.  And our Ambassador to the United Nations,
Linda Thomas-Greenfield.   
  
Promise you’ll send them back.  Promise you’ll send them back.  I need
them.  They all want to go, but I’m worried they won’t come home.   
  
The — but I’m all — all kidding aside, we’re all going to be seeing you
and — you’re going to see a lot of us because we’re deadly earnest and
serious about this endeavor.    
  
And you’re going to see us deliver our commitments — all of our
commitments.  
  
Now we’ve crafted this summit and this agenda in close cooperation with
the African Union and focus on African priorities.  
  
The United States fully supports the blueprint you laid out in Agenda
2063 to build an integrated — quote, “integrated, prosperous, and
peaceful Africa” that is driven by African people, centered in inclusive
and sustainable development and where Africa is an indispensable global
partner.   
  
I’m eager to hear from all of you how can the United States deepen our
partnerships with you and better work with African nations and the AU to
fulfill the aspirations of Agenda 2063.  
  
And I want to thank you all again.   
  
And I’m now going to turn it over to Secretary of State Blinken to
facilitate our discussion.  
  
Again, thank you so much for being here.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)  
  
11:53 A.M. EST
