---
date: '2022-12-01'
published_time: 2022-12-01 17:12:18-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-macron-of-france-at-state-luncheon/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Macron of France at State\_\
  Luncheon"
---
 
*Department of State  
*Washington, D.C.**

2:55 P.M. EST  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.   
  
President Macron, Mrs. Macron — Emmanuel and Brigitte: On behalf of the
administration, the American people, welcome to Washington.  It is good
to see you both again.   
  
And Doug and I — the first Second Gentleman of the United States — thank
you also for so warmly welcoming us when were recently in France.  
  
I want to thank Secretary Blinken and Ms. Ryan for hosting us and
co-hosting us today, and for all that you do for our nation.  
  
And to our distinguished guests — Speaker Pelosi, members of Congress,
leaders from the American and French governments, the private sector,
and the arts: Thank you all for all that you do for our nation and this
very important relationship.  
  
In 1778, from Valley Forge, Marquis de Lafayette wrote to his wife on
the alliance between France and America, wherein he said, “My heart has
always been completely convinced that in serving the cause of humanity
and America, I was fighting in the interests of France.”  Indeed, our
long, shared history has demonstrated the interests of America, of
France, and of humanity are deeply interconnected.  
  
There is no greater example of this than when our troops fought and died
together on the battlefields of the two world wars.   
  
Last year, Doug and I walked the solemn grounds of the Suresnes American
Cemetery outside of Paris, the final resting place of thousands of
Americans who answered the call to serve our common cause.  
  
President Macron, I joined you the very next day on Armistice Day to
honor the Tomb of the Unknown Solider at the Arc de Triomphe.  And
yesterday, you visited our Tomb of the Unknown Solider in Arlington.  
  
We will always honor the shared sacrifice of those who served and the
freedoms they fought for — not only for the American and French people,
but for millions of people around the world.  
  
And, of course, our cooperation extends beyond the battlefield.  Our
connections span the arts and culture, business and technology, and
science and medicine.  In each of these areas, our work together has
benefitted humanity.   
  
For example, French researchers at the Institut Pasteur first
hypothesized in 1918 that influenza was caused by a virus.  This
discovery helped American scientists develop some of the first flu
vaccines.  In the 1960s, French researchers collaborated with American
scientists at Cal-Tech and Harvard to discover mRNA.  
  
This work led to a range of scientific advances, including in the 1980s
when my mother, Dr. Shyamala Harris, a breast cancer researcher,
traveled to Paris to partner with the legendary French Professor
Baulieu.  
  
My mother and Professor Baulieu ultimately published their findings
which identified a specific protein that is in — is present in mammary
glands that helps kill cancerous cells.  
The work that they did then is saving lives today.   
  
And of — (applause) — and, of course, the mRNA discovery more recently
led to lifesaving COVID-19 vaccines to the benefit of people around the
world.  Indeed, it was my great privilege on my recent trip to France to
visit Institut Pasteur and meet with Professor Baulieu, who is well into
his 90s.  
  
President Macron, President Biden and I are very proud to work with you
to build on this very long and important history.  You and I have had
numerous meetings and phone calls together over the past two years.  We
have discussed and advanced our cooperation on security and prosperity
in Europe, the Indo-Pacific, and Africa.   
  
We have worked together to support the people of Ukraine and to hold
Russia accountable.  And we have collaborated on issues including
cybersecurity, climate, space, and global and gender inequality.  And I
have witnessed how your personal leadership has strengthened France’s
global leadership  
to the benefit, without any question, of the people of the United States
and the people of the world.  I thank you.   
  
As we move forward, the relationship between the United States and
France will be guided by our shared history and our shared vision for
the future — a future where international rules and norms are
strengthened and upheld, a future where we seize the opportunities of
space to meet the challenges here on Earth, a future where we tackle the
climate crisis and protect the people of our planet, and a future where
we reduce global inequality.  
  
I thank you, Mr. President, for being an extraordinary champion of this
shared vision.  And so, on the occasion of this first state visit of our
administration, let us all remember the words of Lafayette: The fates of
America and France are intertwined with each other and with all of
humanity.   
  
So, I offer a toast to our relationship and to those who have
contributed to our long history of cooperation and to the billions more
who will benefit from our future work together.   
  
Cheers.  
  
(Vice President Harris offers a toast.)   
  
And it is now great honor to introduce President Emmanuel Macron. 
(Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you so
much.  
  
Madam Vice President, dear Kamala; Mr. Secretary (inaudible) Antony,
thank you for (inaudible)*.*  
  
First, I do want to apologize, because we had a very long meeting with
President Biden.  (Laughter.)  We almost fixed everything — (laughter) —
so you will see a lot of big changes in your life — (laughter) — in the
coming hours and days.  So this is, at least, the argument I have to
survive vis-à-vis you for the coming minutes and hours.  (Laughter.)  
No, thank you very much for your patience and sorry to make you wait.   
  
Let me first thank you, Tony, for welcoming us here and organizing such
a wonderful lunch.  And thank you once again, Vice President Kamala, for
your friendship.  And thanks to both of you for your words.  
  
I have to say, both of you mentioned Lafayette, Benjamin Franklin.  I
could add to this list Jefferson and so many others who built these
incredible links between our two countries.  
  
A lot of people ask President Biden, “Why did you choose President
Macron to come for the first state visit?”  (Laughter.)  Obviously, I’m
not the one to answer this question — (laughter) — but I can tell you
why the U.S. and France, definitely.  
  
I think because a lot of people in this world do believe sometimes we
are too proud, too self-confident, and some — but it’s because both of
us do believe that we can and we are, in a certain way, in charge of
universal values.   
  
And you just quoted this word from Lafayette.  He had this in-depth
feeling that he will fight for his own country and for liberty
together.  
  
And when your soldiers came during the First and the Second World War in
our country, they had exactly the same feeling.  And we will never
forget that a lot of your families lost children on the soils they never
knew before just because they were fighting for liberty and for
universal values.  
  
And I think this link in the current environment in our world is
unique.  And this is why I think we are here today and I’m so proud to
be, indeed, with you.  
  
(Inaudible) you have a wonderful delegation.  We have our ministers and
a lot of civil servants working hard on a daily basis for the bilateral
relation.   
  
We have business leaders, and we were very proud, two days ago, to have
the first Franco-American Business Council.  And I want to thank all
those who contributed to this event.   
  
We have a lot of members of our parliament, on both sides.   
  
And we had a wonderful discussion yesterday with the caucus.  And I will
meet representatives and senators right after this luncheon.  
  
I want to thank our delegation as well.  For that, you have a lot of
tech players, a lot of investors, a lot of people involved in culture,
sports, because we are so much linked by all these sectors, so much
linked by the strength of creativity on both sides and our common
ability to convey our faith in science and knowledge and our appetite
for talent and creativity.  
  
And, indeed, we have a lot of common work and common challenge
together.  We are very much engaged together to help the Ukrainians in
this war and to resist the Russian aggression.  And I want to thank your
country for the unique commitment and investment alongside the Ukrainian
people and in great solidarity with the Europeans.  
  
And we are, as well, very much engaged for climate change — more
solidarity in this world.  We will work hard for this new partnership
between North and South in the coming months.  
  
We are committed for climate and biodiversity.  And yesterday, we had a
wonderful discussion for some initiatives regarding better conservation
and — and protect our rainforests and our oceans.  And what we have in
common is precisely to work very hard for these values and to make them
concrete for our people.  
  
We have huge challenges in our democracies, because our — our middle
classes do suffer, and the recent years and decades were so, so tough. 
And within our countries, almost everywhere, the sort of resurgence of
hatred speech, racism, divisions.  
  
One way is to accompany this movement, to be a demagogue.  You decided
not to do so, and I want to thank you for that.  
  
And we try to resist on our side as well to precisely deliver more and
be efficient and provide concrete solution to our fellow citizens when
we speak about health, when we speak about climate, when we speak about
(inaudible) our country, when we speak about defense and security.  And
this is how our partnership has to work and deliver.  And this is why
this morning we had a very useful and fruitful discussion to work on —
on this issue.   
  
I was very happy as well to have very concrete discussion yesterday with
you on space.  And we are so proud of our astronauts and our common
journey today and the future.   
  
We had very good discussion on nuclear energy, on science and research,
on quantic \[sic\], and so many different fields.   
  
And tomorrow, I will go to New Orleans with a wonderful delegation to
speak about green energy, climate change, culture, and Francophonie — as
I can demonstrate it right now.  (Laughter.)  But I want to give you
some time — also, I want to avoid translation.   
  
But we will clearly as well launch a new program for French language. 
And you’re a perfect example, both of you, of this attachment for the
French language.  
  
But I come from a country where everybody knows that gastronomy and a
good lunch is part of diplomacy.  (Laughter.)  And a lot of people
presented that Talleyrand who was so successful because he was already
with his cooker.  And some people claim that, in fact, Talleyrand’s
cooker is the actual diplomat.  (Laughter.)   
  
So I don’t want to be longer.  I want you to enjoy this lunch, because I
think it’s part of diplomacy.  (Laughter.) And I — I think it’s the best
way to share a very good moment.  
  
But let me tell that in these challenging times, this history and the
friendship between the United States of America and France, on both
sides, is part of our soul, our roots, but, as well, part of our
future.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Indeed.  
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  And I will be committed to deliver concrete results
for our fellow citizens on both sides of the oceans in this context,
thanks to this common history and committed to this common destiny.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Let me now toast.   
  
(President Macron offers a toast.)  
  
END                 3:11 P.M. EST

  
  
