---
date: '2022-12-12'
modified_time: 2022-12-12 16:31:41-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-12 16:31:40-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/12/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-75th-anniversary-toys-for-tots-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 75th Anniversary Toys for Tots\_Event"
---
 
Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall  
Arlington, Virginia

12:51 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  When I was that age, I could hardly say my name in
public.  (Laughter.)  Actually, I used to stutter when I was a little
boy, until I was in high school.  It’s the only thing everybody —
anyway.  You’re a very impressive child.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Yes.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Good afternoon.  And, Samara, thank you for everything.  Kids like you
are the reason why I’ve never been so optimistic about our country. 
Think about it.   
  
I just have one request: When you’re President of the United States and
they say that Joe Biden is in the outer office, promise me you won’t say
to your staff, “Joe who?”  (Laughter.)  You’ll remember me?   
  
All right.  Okay.  That’s all I ask.  (Laughs.)  
  
I also want to thank General Bellon for welcoming us today.  And — and I
told him he and I have something in common: We both married way above
our station.  Mrs. Bellon, it’s a pleasure to see you.   
  
And, Lieutenant General Laster, you truly exemplify the Marine motto,
“Always” — “Always Faithful.”  Over 38 years of service in uniform and
four more leading Toys for Tots, I want to thank you as well for not
walking away.   
  
Folks, it’s an honor to — to be with you celebrating the 75th
anniversary of this incredible cause.  And it is an incredible cause.   
  
Toys for Tots is one of the best events of the year  
at the White House.  We set up donation boxes everywhere.  And last
week, one of the collection boxes in the Eisenhower building had things
— a huge thing — stuffed animals, a smiling toy bunny perched on the
edge.  You can’t see something like that without smiling.  And that’s
what you all do.   
  
For 75 years, you’ve brought joy and laughter and smiles to families all
across this country.   
  
Last year alone, you collected 22 million toys for more than 8 million
children, giving Santa a run for his money.  
  
And — but unlike Santa, you don’t wear big red suits.  You don’t travel
the world in just one night.  Instead, you wear Dress Blues and Army
Greens.  And as Marines, soldiers, sailors, you stand watch around the
world every single night.  
  
As Jill mentioned, we have a “We the Children*”*’s room at the White
House.  And one of the pieces of this year’s broader holiday theme is
“We the People,” when you come to the White House.   
  
Those are the very first words of our Constitution — I say to all the
adults.  They’re very idea of America.  And in “We the People,” we see
you and the best of us — the women and men who gave everything to our
country and give back to our communities.  You aren’t just the heart and
soul of our nation, you’re the very spine of our nation.  And we owe
you.  
  
In “We the People,” we also see all the spouses, partners, and children
here today.  Jill and I know how much you give to our nation and how
much you sacrifice.  
  
The English poet, John Milton, once wrote, “They also serve who only
stand and wait.”  And it’s true.  
  
We know that for those of you with husbands, wives, moms, dads, friends,
loved ones deployed overseas, it can be extra tough this time of year.  
  
When our son Beau was deployed in Iraq for a year, it was hard to look
at that empty seat at the dinner table every night, particularly on the
holidays.  And for our granddaughters and grandson — they were the same
age as many of you here today — it was even harder not to have their dad
around on Christmas morning.  
  
So I want to tell you what I told them: You have to keep brave — you
have to be brave.  Even when your mommies and daddies are far away, they
are so proud of you.  
  
And I’m so proud of you, as your President.  All of you here today, you
all give back.  You’re helping other people, other kids, just like your
parents are helping.  And sometimes, just a little bit of help can
change everything for someone.   
  
I think about the story that Toys for Tots shared of a young girl, only
nine years old, who fled violence from Nicaragua to come to the United
States with her family.  It about 35 years ago.  Her parents had saved
all the pennies they were able to get here.  And they told her
“Christmas isn’t going to happen this year” when she arrived, 35 years
ago.  
  
But then one morning, a big Toys for Tots truck pulled up to her new
home in San Jose.  Marines hopped out, and she got to pick a gift.  You
know what she picked?  A huge stuffed bunny.  She used it as a pillow.  
  
That little girl grow — grew up to join the United States Marine Corps. 
She served our country in uniform for 26 years.  She’s now a Major in
the Marine Corps.  I wish she could be here today, but she’s on active
duty.  
  
But she still remembers that first Christmas in the United States, and
she shared her story with Toys for Tots — because this program gives so
much more than just gifts.  It gives hope.  You give community.  And you
are the inspiration that lasts a lifetime.  And that’s not hyperbole. 
You know it to be true in your gut.  You’ve seen it in the face of — the
looks of these children.  
  
So all of you kids, keep it up.  Keep on being brave.  Keep on being
involved.  Keep on helping other people.   
  
And may God bless you all.  You have a Merry Christmas.  And may God
protect our troops.   
  
Now let’s get sorting these gifts.  Okay?  You with me?  (Applause.) 
All right.   
  
(The President sorts gifts with Toys for Tots volunteers.)  
  
Q    Are you sending U.S. troops to Ukraine?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Are we sending troops to Ukraine?   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No.  We’re sending material like we have.  Billions of
dollars’ worth.    
  
12:57 P.M. EST
