---
date: '2022-12-14'
published_time: 2022-12-14 15:51:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/14/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-u-s-africa-business-forum/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the U.S.-Africa Business\_Forum"
---
 
Walter E. Washington Convention Center  
Washington, D.C.  
 

1:47 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  It’s good to see you
all.  Please have a seat.  And I know you’re saying to yourselves, “Make
it short, Biden.  There’s a…” — (laughter) — “… There’s a semi-final
game coming up.”  (Laughter.)  I get it.

I see Secretary Kerry over there nodding.  Hey, John.  How are you,
pal?  (Laughs.)

Well, I want to thank Secretary Raimondo — she is one of the brightest
and best folks I have working with me — and for all of you in this room
for making this forum a success, particularly in Prosper Africa deal
room.

That sounds like something we shouldn’t be saying.  “Prop-” — you know,
“Prosper Africa deal room.”  I kept asking, “Where’s — where’s the deal
room?”  I think I’m looking at it.  
  
Folks, I want to thank you all for being here, particularly since I said
Morocco is about to play as the first African nation in the semi-finals
of the World Cup.  (Applause.)   
  
Distinguished heads of state; leaders of regional and global
institutions; and, of course, representatives of more than 300
companies, African and American: Welcome to Washington.  
  
And I want to recognize our co-host, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and
the Corporate Council of Africa — two great compa- — two great champions
for building and growing ties of business and trade and investment
between Africa and the United States — as well as the members of my
administration and the members of Congress who are here today.

All the members of Congress, please stand up, if you’re here so I know —
can identify who you are.  (Applause.)  There’s the man.  All right. 
And I’m sure you’re out there somewhere.  
  
Look, this forum is about building connections.  It’s about closing
deals.  And above all, it’s about the future, our shared future.  
  
We’ve known for a long time that Africa’s success and prosperity is
essential to ensuring a better future for all of us, not just for
Africa.   
  
I’ve been engaged in these issues going back to my days as a young man
in the United States Senate.  When I was on the Foreign Relations
Committee, I was chairman of the African Affairs subcommittee and got to
spend a lot of time in Africa.  I’ve visited almost all of your
countries.  
  
When I was Vice President, serving with President Obama, we hosted the
first U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, including U.S.-Africa Business
Forum.  
  
We saw so clearly the enormous potential that we could harness if we did
it together.  And holding the first-of-its-kind summit in 2014 was a
watershed moment to cement new kinds of partnerships between our
nations, partnerships not to create political obligation, not — or
foster dependence — its dependence, but to spur shared success — I
emphasize “shared success” — and opportunity.  Because when Africa
succeeds, the United States succeeds; quite frankly, the whole world
succeeds as well.  
  
Now, eight years later, the world has undergone a great many changes.  
  
We’re still grappling with a deadly pandemic, facing down war and
instability, addressing economic challenges of — with global impact,
fighting — fighting rising food prices, tackling the impacts of climate
change.  
  
And each of these crises has only heightened — heightened the vital role
African nations and peoples play to address the global challenges that
drive our global progress.  
  
We can’t solve any of these challenges without African leadership at the
table — and I’m not trying to be nice; that’s a fact — African ideas and
innovation helping to shape the solutions and Africa population
contributing to every step.   
  
So the only question when I took office was not if we’d host another
U.S.-African Leadership Summit, but when.  
  
My administration’s engagement with Africa and the priority we place on
these relationships began on day one.  
  
We’ve been working steadily with regional diplomacy and investments to
demonstrate our commitment.  
  
We harnessed decades — decades of cooperation through PEPFAR and
President’s Malaria Initiative, and other partnerships on global health
security to help save lives and combat Clovid-ni- \[sic\] — COVID-19.  
  
The United States delivered 231 — 231 million doses of vaccines to 49
countries across Africa, and worked together with you to get the
vaccines into the arms to har- — in hard-to-reach communities.  
  
Critically, we invested in Africa’s capacity to manufacture its own
vaccines, diagnostics, and therapeutics so Africa — Africa can meet its
own needs and contribute to the global supply chain.  
  
And even as we work to end COVID-19, we continue building stronger
health systems and institutions, and accelerating efforts to achieve
universal health coverage to make sure we’re better prepared to tackle
the health challenges, including the next pandemic.  And there surely
will be one.  
  
We also advanced our commitment to strengthen food security, including
expanding the Feed the Future program to partner with eight additional
African countries.  
  
And I’ll be speaking more tomorrow about this effort to both address the
immediate food crisis and strengthen the food system in Africa for the
long term.  
  
We’re taking on climate crisis, prioritizing just — not just energy
transition in America but in nations of all of Africa, and meeting the
urgent needs to countries to adapt to the climate impacts that are
already here.

Just last month, I traveled to COP27 in Egypt where I announced $150
million in an effort to support adaptation efforts in Africa, a down
payment on my commitment to provide $3 billion annually to global
adaptation efforts for 2024.  
  
And in a year that has seen elections across Africa, we have worked
together with the African Union to strengthen democracy and the core
values that unite our people — all our people, especially young people —
freedom, opportunity, transparency, good governance.  
  
Now, you might be thinking this is a forum dedicated to deepening
business ties and advancing two-way trade investments between Africa and
the United States.  “Why is Biden talking so much about all these other
areas?”  
  
Well, it’s because Africa’s economic transition depends on good
government, healthy populations, and reliable and affordable energy. 
These things business seeks out when they’re looking to invest.  They
attract new opportunities, and they launch new partnerships.  
  
And the United States is committed to supporting every aspect — every
aspect of Africa’s inclusive growth and creating the best possible
environment for sustained commercial engagement between Africa companies
and American companies.  
  
The United States is all in on Africa’s future.  And the work we’ve done
over the past two years, building on decades of vital investments made
under previous American presidents, has helped make possible the
critical steps that I’m about to announce.  
  
First, the United States is signing an historic memorandum of
understanding with the new African Continental Free Trade Area
Secretariat.  This MOU will unlock new opportunities for trade and
investment between our countries and bring Africa and the United States
even closer than ever.  
  
This is an enormous opportunity — an enormous opportunity for Africa’s
future, and the United States wants to help make those opportunities
real.  
  
We’re finally implementing the African Continental Free Trade Area.  It
will represent one of the largest free trade areas in the world, 1.3
billion people, and a continent-wide market totaling $3.4 trillion.  
  
And with the new MOU, we’re doing things correctly: enshrining
protections for workers both across Africa and in the United States;
looking out for small- and medium-sized entrepreneurs and enterprises to
make sure they have a fair shot to compete; lifting up opportunity for
women-owned businesses, diaspora-owned businesses, and businesses owned
by members of historically underserved communities; and supporting and
investing in the continent’s vibrant and growing urban economies.  
  
Together, we want to build a future of opportunity where no one — no one
is left behind.  
  
Second, we’re investing to facilitate greater regional trade within
Africa, including by investing in infrastructure.  
  
Today, the Millennium Challenge Corporation signed its first-ever
regional transport compact with the governments of Benin and Niger. 
This compact will invest $500 million to build and maintain roads, put
in place policies that reduce transportation costs, making it easier and
faster for ships to ship goods from the Port of Cot- — excuse me, from
the Port of Cotonou to neighboring locked — landlocked countries.  
  
Since the start of my administration, the MCC has announced new
investments of nearly $1.2 billion in Africa.   We expect the MCC to
commit an additional $2.5 billion across Africa in just the next three
years, supporting everything from agriculture to transportation to
access to renewable energy.

In fact, the MCC just announced dec- — decis- — excuse me — just
announced discussions for partnerships with four African countries, our
first com- — four compacts: Gambia, Togo to boost economic development;
and a compact with Senegal to bolster regional connections; and a
threshold program with Mauritania to help strengthen democratic
governance and pursue policy reform to unlock economic growth. 
(Applause.)  
  
These MCC investments are part of the work we’re doing worldwide through
the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment.   
  
I proposed this initiative together with the rest of the G7 to help fill
the need for quality, high-standard infrastructure in Africa and in
low-income and middle-income countries around the world.  And at the G7
meeting earlier this year, we announced our intention to collectively
mobilize $600 billion in the next five years.  
  
Today’s announcements joint — join a portfolio of Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment projects already underway in Africa,
including mobilizing $8 billion in public and private finance to help
South Africa replace coal-fired power plants with renewable energy
sources and develop cutting-edge energy solutions like clean hydrogen; a
deal worth $2 billion to build solar energy projects in Angola; $600
million in high-speed telecommunications cable that will connect
Southeast Asia to Europe via Egypt and the Horn of Africa and help bring
high-speed Internet connectivity to countries all along the way.   
  
The bottom line is simple: Trade runs on reliable infrastructure to
support and secure resilient supply chains.  
  
And improving Africa’s infrastructure is essential to our vision of
building a stronger global economy that can better withstand the kinds
of shocks that we’ve seen in the past few years.  
  
Third, we’re continuing to support innovation and entrepreneurship
across Africa, investing in the African — investing in Africa’s
people.  
  
Developing human capital, alongside physical infrastructure, is another
core aspect of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment.   
  
Today, I’m announcing that the U.S. International Development Finance
Corporation is investing nearly $370 million in new projects: $100
million to increase the reliable clean energy for millions of people in
Sub-Saharan Africa; $20 million to provide financing for fertilizer to
help smallholder farmers, particularly women farmers, increase the
yields of their crops; $10 million to support small- and medium-sized —
small- and medium-sized enterprises that help bring clean drinking water
to communities all across the continent.   
  
Just to name a few examples.  (Applause.)   
  
And we also know — and we also know that one the most essential
resources of any entrepreneur or small-business owner who wants to
participate in the global economy is reliable and affordable access to
the Internet.  
  
So, today, I’m announcing a new initiative: the Digital Transformation
with Africa.  Working with Congress to invest $350 <s>billion</s>
\[million\] to facilitate more than almost half a billion dollars in
financing to make sure more people across Africa can participate in the
digital economy.  (Applause.) 

That includes partnerships like a new collaboration between Microsoft
and Viasat to bring in Internet access to 5 million Africans, part of
Microsoft’s commitment to bring access to 100 million people across
Africa by the end of the year 2025.  
  
That means — that means programs to train African entrepreneurs with a
focus on women entrepreneurs to code and build skills that need to start
their own businesses, to secure good-paying jobs and technol- — with
technology firms.  
  
And this will include partnerships between Africa, American comp- —
African and American companies to provide cybersecurity services to make
sure Africa’s digital environment is reliable and secure.  
  
And that brings me to my final announcement.  I said at the top of this
forum about closing deals, and we’ve delivered.   
  
So, just give me a few — let’s give you a few highlights from the deal
room, for the benefits they will deliver to Africa.  
  
Cisco Systems and Cy- — Cybastion, a diaspora-owned small business, is
jointly announcing $800 million in new contracts to protect African
countries from cyber threats.  (Applause.)   
  
Visa is committing and putting more than $1 billion into Africa over the
next five years to further expand the operations on the continent,
including providing mobile payment services for more micro-, small-, and
medium-sized businesses across Africa.  (Applause.)   
  
General Electric and Standard Bank will together provide $80 million to
improve healthcare services and provide access to cutting-edge
healthcare equipment.  
  
Altogether, the forum has spurred more than $15 billion in new deals,
which will turn, lift up, and improve lives of people all across the
continent.  And that’s the biggest deal of all.   
  
These are long-term investments that are going to deliver real benefits
to people; create new, good-paying jobs, including here in the United
States; and expand opportunities for all our countries for the years to
come.  
  
All of you — all of you, the deals you’ve signed, the investments we’ve
made together, are concrete proof of the enduring commitment we’re
making to one another, government to government, business to business,
people to people.   
  
And most important — and this is just the beginning — there’s so much
more we can do together and that we will do together.  
  
So, thank you for your participation today, for being part of another
historic U.S.-African Leaders Summit.  
  
We’ve got a lot of ground to cover in the coming days, and I’m eager to
listen to the priorities you have for the future of the partnership
between our nations.  
  
So, thank you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you very,
very much.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)   
  
Thank you.  Thank you very much.  
  
2:04 P.M. EST  
