---
date: '2022-12-02'
modified_time: 2022-12-02 18:35:39-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-02 18:35:38-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-international-brotherhood-of-electrical-workers-phone-bank/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at an International Brotherhood of Electrical\
  \ Workers Phone\_Bank"
---
 
   
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers 103  
Boston, Massachusetts

4:05 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Please, please, please, please sit down.  (Applause.) 
Hey, guys, how you doing?  (Applause.)  Please.  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.   
  
Well, I — I came up here — I — years ago, when I was a kid, I lived in
Boston for a little over a year and a half.  My dad worked at the
shipyard during the war, a little — actually, after, but — at any rate,
to make a long story short.   
  
And, you know, the reason Marty didn’t come up is because I didn’t let
him.  (Applause.)  No, no.  I said last night — I was with him — I said,
“Marty, come on.  Why don’t you fly up with me tomorrow?”  And he has
something doing with — going on with young kids.  He has like 110 kids
in Washington doing something today.  He said, “If I come up…”  He said,
“They’ll never let me come back if I leave all these kids here.”   
  
But at any rate, what I really want to find out is how you all are going
to talk to those folks down in Georgia.  (Applause.)  I mean, they’re —
you’re getting on the phone and say — I keep kidding Marty — (speaks
with a Boston accent) — Marty Walsh.  Well, you know, you still park car
— (speaks with a Boston accent) — park cars in car barns up here.  And,
you know, down there, they don’t have — they have barns, but they don’t
have cars.   
  
Anyway, all kidding aside, what you’re doing really makes a gigantic
difference.  And this is — as Elizabeth can tell you, it’s not a joke. 
Thank you for waving.   
  
As that — I wouldn’t be standing here without the IBEW.  That’s not
hyperbole.  That’s — that’s the God’s truth.  (Applause.)   
  
And, you know, when — one of the things that this guy and I — our whole
careers have been about is making sure ordinary families have a fighting
chance — just a shot.  My dad used to say everybody deserves just a
little bit of breathing room.  Everybody deserves to be treated with
respect.   
  
And we, all three of us — when we served in the Senate together and now
as President and two senators, we really do believe that, you know, the
middle class — I’m tired of trickle-down economics, where the —
(applause) — no, no, for real.  
  
It works well for the wealthy, and, every once in a while, a
middle-class person gets lucky.  But I was determined, my whole career
and this time when I ran with your help — is to make sure that we built
this economy from the middle up, out, and — the bottom up and the middle
out.   
  
Because when the middle class does well, the poor have a shot and the
wealthy do very well.  They don’t have any problems.  They don’t have
any problems.   
  
And the middle class is what built this country.  But you built the
middle class.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)   Not labor —
without the union movement, there would be no middle class.  That’s what
makes us the most unique countries in the world.   
  
And so, I just want to say thank you for all you’ve done and all you
continue to do.   
  
And, look, folks, this race in Georgia — this is the second time there’s
been a runoff in two years here — is really, really critical.   
  
As both your congressmen — both your senators can tell you that, you
know, when you have 50 — a vote of 50/50 in the Senate requi- — the good
news for that is Vice President — every time she votes, she wins.  So
—  
  
But, you know, that means you got 50 presidents.  Any one could decide
to change the direction of the country.  And we’re — we’re a diverse
party.  And — but we still have all stuck together on the major, major
issues.   
  
And one of the things that we need — we need that 51st vote.  I know — I
know Reverend Warnock well.  First and foremost, he’s a man of — and I
know you know this too, but I wanted to emphasize it.  I measure the
people I work with based on their character — based on their
character.   
  
You know, when I got elected when I was 29 years old to the Senate — I
come from a family that lived in a three-bedroom home — a nice home in a
neighborhood with four kids and a grandpop living with us in a
split-level home.   
  
So, we weren’t poor, but we weren’t — everything — you know, at the end
of the month, if gas prices had gone up 10 cents, we would have been in
real trouble.  Not a joke.  Was the the — the things we dis- — we
discussed at the kitchen table.   
  
My dad used to say, as I said, everybody — every family needs just a
little bit of breathing room and be treated with dignity.   
  
And one of the things about Warnock is he has real character.  He’s a
truly decent, honorable man.  And when I got elected people used to come
to me — because I got elected and beat someone in the middle of it, when
Nixon won my state by at that — at that time, it was by 64 percent.  And
I won by 3,100 votes.  We used to be a — a red state when I started in
the state of Delaware.   
  
And people would say, “What’s the secret?  I want to run. What’s the
most important thing for me to know?”  What these two people know: what
you’re willing to lose over.  What are you willing to lose over?  If you
don’t know what you’re willing to lose over, you don’t have a principle
to know why you’re running.  Go do something else.  It’d be a hell lot
easier.  You can do better and a lot less grief.  
  
But here’s what — Warnock knows what’s worth losing over. He’s not going
to compromise on something that’s a matter of principle for him.  And he
has real character.  Real character. And we all got to know him. 
They’ve worked with him in the Senate, and I got to know him by
campaigning the first time with him and going up and down Georgia with
him.   
  
And so, folks, this is a guy who needs our help.  And I think, you know,
we have a chance to do something that I don’t think — my mentor when I
got started in public life was Teddy Kennedy.  Not a joke.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yeah!  (Applause.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No — no, he was, though.  For real.  When I got elected,
I was — as I said, I got elected on November the 3<sup>rd</sup>.  And on
November 18th, I — December 18th, I was down in Washington, and I was
hiring staff.  I hadn’t turned —  
I’d just turned 30.  I just wasn’t eligible to be sworn in until I got
to be 30.  And I got a phone call saying my wife and daughter had just
been killed and my two sons were not likely to live.  A tractor trailer
broadsided them and killed them.   
  
But here’s my point: I had people — there were five senators, led by
Teddy Kennedy, who came to my rescue — not a joke — who insisted that I
— I didn’t want to — I didn’t want to be sworn in.  I didn’t want to be
part of it.  I wanted — just wanted to — I didn’t see how I could be a
dad and a senator at the same time.  
  
And Teddy and then another senator named Fritz Hollings from South
Carolina and another senator named Tom Eagleton from Missouri — five of
them got together and said, “Just come and stay.  Just stay for eight
months.  Help us organize.”  Well, I was so stupid, I didn’t realize we
already had 58 United States senators.  They didn’t need me to organize
anything, but they kept with me the whole time.   
  
That’s the kind of guy Warnock is.  That’s the kind of guy Warnock is. 
He doesn’t walk away from people.  He doesn’t walk away from the
people.   
  
And, folks, people — things are beginning to change.  
South Ca- — excuse me, Georgia, when I got started, was as — we had
Democratic senators, but it was a very Southern state, very — the things
we care so much about — Massachusetts’s agenda and Georgia’s agenda was
kind of different.   
  
But things are changing.  They’re changing in a big way.   
  
And, you know, this is not — this is not a referendum on Warnock.  This
is a choice — a choice between two men.  One man who does not deserve to
be in the United States Senate.  There’s lots of times both nominees
deserve, one just better than the other.  One doesn’t deserve to be in
the United States Senate based on his ver- — veracity and what he said
and what he hadn’t said.  The other man is a really, truly decent,
honorable guy.  
  
So, what you’re doing makes a gigantic difference.  For example, you
know, I — looking down the list here, you know, we got — we — the —
we’re in a situation where we got the  
legislation passed that wouldn’t have been passed were it not for this
guy over here named Markey, and that is the Inflation Reduction Act. 
That — (applause.)   
  
No, no, but here’s the point: Warnock helped you.  He helped.  Warnock
got engaged.  And what it was is the greatest investment — the greatest
investment in environment and jobs of any — of anything ever written. 
Two hun- — three hundred and sixty-eight billion dollars.  
  
You know, and it means a great deal.  It makes a great deal of
difference.   
  
And by the way, your International president, the reas- — I remember I
got in trouble for not introducing my — even though I’ve been deeply
involved in environmental issues for my whole career.  I was getting
beat up because I hadn’t announced it yet, because I didn’t want — I
wanted — wasn’t going to do anything until I had labor with me.   
  
And labor sat down, and all of a sudden everybody figured out, you know,
we’re going to put in 550,000 charging stations.  And guess who’s
putting them in?  (Applause.)  You.   
  
No, I’m serious.  I’m serious.   
  
So, you know, it — did I say 500?  It’s not 500 — (laughs) — 50, right
now, to start off with.  We’re just getting going. 

But — but my point is, we got a lot that we’re going to get done for the
American people.  We’ve created more jobs because of your two senators
and because of Warnock than we’ve ever — than any President has in his
first — almost two years.  Over 10,500 — I mean, 10,500,000 jobs.  I —
even it surprises me when I say the numbers.  (Laughter.)  
  
But all kidding aside, things — things are moving.  Things are moving. 
And so, we came along and we had the infrastructure bill.  Do you know
how much that legislation is?  A trillion two hundred billion dollars. 
And it’s remaking America.  (Applause.)   
  
I’m trying — for example, so far — so far, your state of Massachusetts
has got $3.4 billion toward that.  (Applause.)   
  
Georgia, when you talk to folks in Georgia, they got $4.8 billion so
far.   
  
My point is: How can we compete with the rest of world unless we have
the most modern infrastructure in the world? Roads, bridges, Internet,
the whole — the whole thing.  
  
But it’s all of you.  It’s labor that’s getting this done.  And so, when
you’re talking to these folks down in Georgia, let them know — let them
know how important it is for their jobs.  For example, your two senators
came along with Warnock and we decided we were going to pass the thing
that had to do with building semiconductors.  
  
Well, guess what?  We invented those suckers here in the United States
of America.  We modernized them.  And then we lo- — we paid no
attention.  We kept exporting jobs instead of product.  
  
And now guess what?  There’s over — there’s about $300 billion committed
to be invested in new factories.  (Applause.)   
  
And, by the way — and, by the way, one of the things that — of the — for
example, out in — just in what I call the “fields of dreams,” just
outside of Columbus, Ohio, there’s $20 billion being invested by Intel
out there.   
  
Well, guess what?  Of those jobs — there’s 12,000 of them building the
facilities, 5,000 permanent jobs.  The average salary in those — for
those jobs: $128,000.  And guess what?  You don’t need a college
degree.  You don’t need a college degree.  (Applause.)   
  
So, my point is — I’m sorry to go on, but it really matters whether we
continue to control the United States Senate in a way that — where
you’re not going to be able to have anybody hold us up and not do
certain things.  And Warnock is the real deal.  He’s the real deal.  
  
And like I said, it’s not a referendum — like Warnock and what’s
happened and not happened.  It’s — it’s a choice between Warnock and
Herschel Walker.  Now that they found out — I’m not positive, I think
I’m right about this — they found out that he takes — he uses his — to
get a major tax cut — his primary home was in Texas.  I don’t know the
last time anybody won a seat in the United States Senate from
Massachusetts living in Maine.  (Laughter.)  But maybe.  I don’t know.  
  
Well, look, I’m taking too much of your time, but it really matters. 
These calls really matter.  And today, I found out from my staff that
this morning there’s been a higher turnout, in terms of turnout, of any
time at this stage of the game, early — in early voting.  And the early
voting looks good for us.  
  
But last point I’ll make is: You know, one of the things that a lot of
people thought that maybe my talking about democracy being at risk — and
I made that speech down in Independence Hall, then I made one not too
long before this last election.   
  
Well, guess what?  There are over 330 Republicans running <s>from</s>
\[for\] office who denied the election was legitimate, denied that I got
elected President, wanted to make sure the states and local officials
could determine who the electors were that go to determine who votes for
the President of the United States — the ultimate — the ultimate
decision.  
  
And we’ve talked a lot about it — all three of us.  And what happened
was people began to realize — 70 percent of the American people were
worried about: Is democracy still functioning?  Is it still working?  Is
it going to be square?  
  
And so we started electing — spending money electing state auditors,
state asecretaries of state — the local people who determine whether or
not the votes count.  And that’s at stake in Georgia, too. 

And so we need to have — make sure we have Warnock elected.  We need to
make sure.   
  
And he — by the way, he’s pro-union.  I can’t think of anything he
hadn’t voted for with us.  There may be something.  I — you know, I know
it’s a problem, because they’re running against him, saying he votes 98
percent of the time with Joe Biden.  (Laughs.)  I wouldn’t tell them
that on the phone.

But — (laughter) — but — so, anyway, thank you for what you’re doing. 
Keep it up.  Just keep it going.  We have to win this election.  It will
give us 51 votes.  And that changes the dynamic of anybody being able to
say they want to change what we’re going to do.   
  
It also is going to bring along some Republicans.  And the reason it is:
Republicans are having what we Catholics call an “epiphany.” 
(Laughter.)They’re — some of them are, because they’re realizing that —
you know, we’ve all three had friends in the Senate who are Republicans,
who privately tell us they’d like to be able to vote with us, but
they’re afraid to do it because they’re afraid to get, in fact,
primaried and they’ll lose their race.  Well, it’s not particularly
courageous, but it’s a reality.

If we have 51 votes and we don’t need anybody and it’s going to pass
anyway, it’s a lot easier to say, “Well, I voted for it anyway; it was
going to pass” than it is when your ha- — when you’re — you’re the
deciding vote.

So, there’s a lot going on, a lot you can do to help make sure we get —
continue this path.

And like I said, we’ve created real jobs — good-paying jobs — jobs that
people can, you know, live a life on and, as my dad would say, at the
end of the month, have just a little bit of money left over after you
pay all your bills.

One of the things we’ve done, with the leadership of your senators:
We’re in a situation now where, beginning January 1st, people — any- —
you know anybody who needs insulin for diabetes?  (Applause.)

Well, guess what?  Instead of paying $400 for a shot of insulin, it’s
going to be $35 max you can pay.  (Applause.)  
And, by the way, they’re still going to make a lot of money.  It costs
them 10 bucks to make it; another, probably, 4 bucks to package it; and
they’ve been charging $4- to $800 for it.

So, we’re changing li- — people’s lives.  So much we’re doing.  And,
again, it’s not anything particularly noble; it’s just simply the right
thing to do.  The right thing to do.

And I said the reason why people have a middle-class life is because of
unions.

And last thing I’ll say: You know, I get criticized.  They say, “Well,
Biden is pro-union.  He’s so — talks about it so much.”  I talk to
corporate America about pro-union.  I talk to the Business Roundtable
about why.   
  
And here’s the deal: I pointed out that it may cost more to have an IBEW
union worker put in an electric facility.  That’s going to make it —
it’s going to cost you less in the long term because they’re the best in
the world.  (Applause.)  
No, no, no.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.

It will last longer.  I really mean it.  Not a joke.  The best in the
world.  In the long run, it’s cheaper — cheaper — than having somebody
who does it half — not such a great job.  (Laughter.)  I’m looking at my
guys over there.  (Laughter.)

Anyway, thank you, thank you, thank you.  Keep it up.  Call, call,
call.  (Applause.)  It ain’t over until it’s over, so let’s wait until
the last vote is in.   
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)

4:24 P.M. EST
