---
date: '2022-12-19'
modified_time: 2022-12-19 22:21:30-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-19 22:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/12/19/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-hanukkah-holiday-reception/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Hanukkah Holiday\_\
  Reception"
---
 
Grand Foyer

7:21 P.M. EST

THE FIRST LADY: Happy Hanukkah, and welcome to the White House! It’s
wonderful to see so many friends and familiar faces. And we’re excited
to celebrate Hanukkah together.

All around you are decorations inspired by you, “We the People.” They’re
the first words of our Constitution and the heart and soul of our
nation.

We may celebrate different holidays, we may sing different songs or say
different prayers, but our shared American values endure season after
season: kindness and gratitude, faith that can light our way forward,
peace, wisdom, and strength.

Throughout these halls, in the shining silver and shimmering mirrors,
you will catch glimpses, I hope, of your own reflection. And I hope you
will notice something else as well: a new menorah. (Applause.)

It’s made of historic wood from the beams of this house, rescued when
President Truman renovated this building. Its hand-hammered silver cups
are meant to magnify the glow of the candles, their beauty reminding us
both the mir- — the Hanukkah miracle and the joy it inspired. Each
detail was carefully chosen and executed by our Executive Residence
Carpenter Shop.

It’s a work, really, of historic importance, but it’s also a work of
love. Lawrence and Robbie, thank you for creating this gift to all
Americans.

Where are you? Here they are! (Applause.)

Honestly, they created it, and it — if you haven’t seen it, it is so
beautiful.

You know, other menorahs have been borrowed before — borrowed —
beautiful, significant, and meaningful ones. But the White House has
never had its own menorah until now. (Applause.) It is now a cherished
piece of this home, your home.

Tonight, when the candles are lit, you will — we will recreate the
wonder of the Maccabees and the oil with a blessing that recalls the
miracles performed both in the days of old and at this time.

We will begin with one small flame that spreads to each wick it touches.

As the light grows and the menorah’s silver cups create a kaleidoscope
of reflections, we hope that you will see yourself in it as well.

The story of America is the story of you, of all of us, drawing strength
from those who came before, spreading the fire that burns in our hearts,
grateful for the miracles of love and faith and kindness and courage
that surround us each and every day.

May the promise of “We the People” light our path forward into Hanukkah
and the New Year, and it — may it bring us together, as always. Thank
you. (Applause.)

Now, our candle lighters today bring us stories of pain and resilience,
faith and justice. Joining us are:

Bronia Brandman, who, at 12 years old, was deported to Auschwitz with
her family. And she didn’t speak about her pain for 50 years, until she
started volunteering at the Museum of Jewish Heritage. Now she shares
her story with all who need to hear it, including the President earlier
this year.

Next is the U.S. Representative to the United Nations Human Rights
Council, Ambassador Michèle Taylor. A daughter and a granddaughter of
Holocas- — Holocaust survivors, she is an advocate for civil rights
around the world.

And finally, Avi Heschel, granddaughter of Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel,
a leader in the civil rights movement.

Since his passing 50 years ago this month, Rabbi Heschel’s legacy has
lived on through his family and all who keep his words in their hearts.

But first, I have the pleasure of introducing Rabbi Charlie
Cytron-Walker. (Applause.) When his congregation was taken hostage,
Rabbi Cytron-Walker hos- — Cytron-Walker courageously kept the gunman
calm and put himself in harm’s way so that his congregants could escape.
We are honored to have him here to share the blessing with us.
(Applause.)

RABBI CYTRON-WALKER: I want to thank you, Dr. Biden, for your kind
words. We are so grateful to you, and we’re so grateful to President
Biden for your warmth and your hospitality this evening. It means the
world. It really means the world to us.

A lot of people will ask me about that day, and they’ll ask about the
trauma, and they’ll talk about it as a tragedy. And I’ll respond back
that we all made it out. Thank God it wasn’t a tragedy. It could have
been — (applause) — it could have been so much worse. It was terrible
and it was terrifying, and we were able to get out alive.

And that is the story of Hanukkah — the story where the Jewish people
suffered through oppression and pain and loss and war.

And despite all the difficulties and all the struggle, we are here today
to celebrate because, against all odds, Judaism endured, and Judaism has
thrived.

So I am celebrating Hanukkah this year with such gratitude. It is so
good to be here. (Applause.) It is so good to stand here before you.
Last night we said, “Thank you, God, for enabling us to reach this
season.” I meant it. I meant it.

And I am so grateful for all the support that we have received.
Antisemitism may be on the rise, and thank God that people are standing
at our side. We have such — we have had such overwhelming love and
support, especially from our President and from Dr. Biden.

THE FIRST LADY: Thank you.

RABBI CYTRON-WALKER: Thank you. (Applause.) Thank you.

It is not a contradiction to acknowledge our challenges and still be
filled with appreciation. Our history is filled with tenacity and
resilience. We have experienced the worst of humanity, haven’t we? And
we refuse — we refuse to give in to despair.

In our darkest hours, we bring light. We bring light to our family. We
bring light to our community. We bring light to our country. We bring
light to our world.

So with gratitude and appreciation, I invite you all to join with me as
we offer our Hanukkah blessings.

And at this time, I’d like to invite forward our candle lighters to join
me as we light this beautiful, incredible, historic Hanukkah menorah.

(The menorah candles are lit and a blessing is offered.)

Happy Hanukkah. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, everybody. (Applause.) My name is Joe Biden, and
I’m Jill’s husband. (Laughter.) And you three guys have been standing
there a — want to come up on the stage and sit down here with me?

Why don’t you just have seat? It’s easier. You can sit if you want.

(Three children come and sit on the stage.)

THE PRESIDENT: They’re being great kids, I tell you. (Laughter.)

CHILD: He gets it! (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT: Well, I don’t know, I —

Well, folks, Happy Hanukkah, everyone. (Applause.) On behalf of Jill,
Doug, and Kamala, thank you. And, Rabbi, Bronia, thank you for hanging
out with me la- — a couple weeks ago. And Michèle and — and Abigale. To
all of you here, including so many friends, thank you being — for being
part of this moment.

Just over two months ago, Jill and I her- — hosted the first-ever High
Holiday reception at the White House.

It was deeply meaningful. It was something that we’ve alwa- — we’ll
remember. And I felt — it felt what — what the Jewish proverb teaches:
“What comes from the heart goes to the heart.” And it went to our heart,
for real. It’s never happened before in the White House.

Tonight, we’re honored to mark another new tradition we’re establishing
tonight. And that is the lighting of what will be the first-ever
permanent White House menorah. (Applause.) It will also be the first
Jewish artifact in the entire White House collection. (Applause.)

You know, Jill just described it, and I echo her — her gratitude to the
incredible White House carpenters who made it. You all didn’t really —
really appreciate that. But I tell you what, guys — thank you, thank
you, thank you for the love you put into it. (Applause.)

You know, to celebrate Hanukkah, previous administrations borrowed a
menorah with special significance of survival, hope, and joy.

This year, we thought it was important to celebrate Hanukkah with
another message of significance: permanence. Permanence.

The very promise of America is that we all are created equal and deserve
to be treated equally throughout our entire lives.

While we have never lived up to that promise, we’ve never fully walked
away from that promise. It’s been up to each successive generation to
dedicate ourselves to delivering on that promise.

That’s the story of America. It’s also the story of Hanukkah — a story
of recapturing, restoring, and rededication of the Temple of Jerusalem,
desecrated by the ancient Greeks. A timeless story — a timeless story of
miracles; of a small, courageous band of warriors fighting — fighting
for their values and their freedom to defeat one of the most
historically powerful empires.

The miracle of that small jar of oil, found among the temple wreckage,
it should only have lasted one day yet burned brightly for eight days.
Eight days. The flame of faith that burns from tragedy to persecution
with a spirit of survival and resilience that endures. And it has
endured.

In America, we see it in our contributions of the generations of Jewish
Americans enriching every single part and aspect of American life,
contribution defined by the values of equality and justice, freedom,
charity, service, dignity.

The spirit of survival and resilience also endures in this menorah,
built from the foundation — reclaimed and rededicated White House wood,
possibly dating as — to the early 1800s, for generations past.

And supposedly — you know, it’s supported by modern, polished silver
cups, from today and for generations to come.

But the Talmud teaches us we cannot rely on or expect miracles; we have
to earn them. Earn them. We know that task is not easy. No one knows
better than this audience.

This year’s Hanukkah arrival — arrives in the midst of rising
emboldenment of antisemitism at home and, quite frankly, around the
world.

I recognize your fear, your hurt, your worry that this vile and venom is
becoming too normal.

As your President, I want to make this clear — as my dad would say, and
many of you have said: Silence is complicity. We must not remain silent.
(Applause.)

And I made no bones about it from the very beginning: I will not be
silent. America will not be silent. (Applause.) I mean it.

Over 20 years ago, here in the White House, my dear friend Elie Wiesel —
and he was a friend, became a friend — who passed away six years ago and
who we all miss — delivered a speech about, quote, the “Perils of
Indifference.” The “Perils of Indifference.”

He said, “Indifference is not a response. Indifference is not a
beginning; \[Indifference\] is an end. And therefore, indifference is
always the friend of the enemy…” Always the friend of the enemy.

Today, we must all say clearly and forcefully: Antisemitism and all
forms of hate and violence in this country can have no safe harbor in
America. Period. (Applause.)

And evil — this is not hyperbole — evil will not win. Hate will not
prevail.

Like this White House menorah, our commitment to the safety of the
Jewish people and to the vibrancy of Jewish life that’s tightly woven
into every fabric of America, it’s permanent. Permanent.

And folks — (applause) — that’s why I appointed Deborah Lipstadt, the
Holocaust expert — (applause) — there you are, Deborah — a Holocaust
expert, the first Ambassador-level Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
Antisemitism. And you got it in your heart, you got it in your hand, and
you got the capacity to do it. God love you. (Applause.)

I’ve launched a new effort to develop a national strategy  
to counter the scourge of antisemitism and convene the first-of-its-kind
White House summit on combating hate-fueled violence.

We helped secure the largest increase in federal funding ever for the
physical security of non-profits, including synagogues and Jewish
community centers. (Applause.)

And nobody — nobody — for nobody should ever fear going to a religious
service and a school or walking down the street wearing a symbol of
one’s faith.

Let me close with this. Just as we light one candle after another,
another lesson from the Talmud is this: No matter what challenge we
face, we’ve never stopped moving forward. Think about it. Never once
have we stopped moving forward.

“We must rise in our faith and holiness. Never decline.”

And as we do, let us also hold on the hope, as the Jewish proverb says,
ever glimmer of light — every glimmer of light can dispel much darkness.
“Even a glimmer of light,” I should say.

That’s why, during this sacred season, I’ve never been more optimistic —
and I mean this from the bottom of my heart — I’ve never been more
optimistic about America — the future of America.

In all of you, I see glimpses of light — and I mean it — and I know many
of you very well, especially the menorah lighters that came up here,
representing three generations — three generations:

A Holocaust survivor, to make sure we never forget.

A heroic rabbi who I spoke to that day, who leaves no one behind — left
no one behind. That’s an interesting notion when you think about it, but
it took a lot of courage.

An ambassador who advocates for human rights.

And the young granddaughter of the great Rabbi Abraham Heschel who
marched with Dr. King for the dignity of all people and inspired all of
us to get involved in the civil rights movement.

Kid, if my mom — if my dad were here, he’d look at you and, “Kid, you
got good blood.” You got good blood. No, your great-grandpop was
amazing. An amazing man. He inspired my generation. My generation.
That’s how I got involved in public life. Not a joke. Not a joke.

And so, like each distinct candle, we come from different  
backgrounds, traditions, and generations, but we’re bonded by the
menorah and the enduring belief that, in America, we know and we love
the story of a nation that depends not on any one of us, not on some of
us, but on all of us.

So this Hanukkah, let’s celebrate the rededication — the rededication of
ourselves to the spirit of resilience, unity, and permanence.

Let’s remember who we are. We are the United States of America and
there’s nothing beyond our capacity when we decide to do it together.
Not a single thing.

Happy Hanukkah, America. (Applause.) And God bless you all. God bless
you all. (Applause.)

7:43 P.M. EST
