---
date: '2025-10-10'
published_time: 2025-10-10 14:37:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/presidential-message-on-national-breast-cancer-awareness-month/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Presidential Message on National Breast Cancer Awareness Month
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Every day, breast cancer upends the lives of countless Americans,
subjecting them and their loved ones to unimaginable fear, uncertainty,
and heartbreak.  This National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we
recognize the resilience and courage of those battling breast cancer—and
we reaffirm our commitment to ending this horrific disease once and for
all.

One in every 8 women in the United States will face breast cancer during
their lifetime.  My Administration is determined to end this tragedy. 
As part of our historic Make America Healthy Again Commission, we are
working to lower cancer rates so that fewer lives, families, and futures
will be devastated by cancer’s enduring physical and emotional torment.

My Administration urges all Americans to prioritize their health by
knowing their family history and other risk factors, using methods of
early detection, and implementing preventative protocols and lifestyle
changes that may reduce cancer risk. We also commit to the continued
prioritization of research and medical advancements that accelerate
cures.

This month, we rejoice with our Nation’s four million breast cancer
survivors, we pray for those who are fighting for remission and healing,
and we mourn with all who have lost a precious loved one.  United in
purpose, we commit to working towards a healthy, prosperous, and
cancer-free American future.
