---
date: '2025-10-07'
modified_time: 2025-10-07 14:08:38-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-07 14:08:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/national-manufacturing-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Manufacturing Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

From the first mills and forges that built our young Republic to the
cutting-edge industries of today, manufacturing has always been the
foundation of our prosperity, the strength of our communities, the
safeguard of our independence, and the engine of our greatness.  This
National Manufacturing Day, we celebrate the unmatched might of
America’s industrial base — and we acknowledge the enduring truth that
no nation can rival the strength of the American workforce when we
manufacture products at home.

To restore America’s industrial power, in my first 100 days in office, I
secured more than $5 trillion in new private and foreign investments in
the United States, creating more than 450,000 new jobs and setting the
stage for a new era of American manufacturing dominance.  These
commitments prove that innovation surges, factories expand,
opportunities multiply, and capital flows back into our Nation when we
promote production on our shores.

By placing reciprocal tariffs on foreign nations whose trade policies
threaten our economy, we are protecting American manufacturing from the
unfair practices that have hollowed out our manufacturing base in past
decades.  My tariff policy is reminding the world that America’s trade
policy must serve the American people first, strengthen American
industries, and ensure that no other country prospers at America’s
expense.  Already, my Administration has brought in billions of dollars
in tariff revenue — and in the years ahead, that revenue will be
invested in communities from coast to coast, securing lasting benefits
for the American people.

     At the same time, we are eliminating burdensome regulations that
stifle innovation and growth.  After 4 years of decline and stagnation,
we are cutting red tape, rejecting the failures of the Green New Scam
agenda, and pursuing bold reforms that save taxpayers billions of
dollars every year.  These actions are sparking growth, unleashing
innovation, creating jobs, and empowering American enterprise to build
and expand.  Through the passage of the historic One Big Beautiful Bill
Act earlier this year, we enacted 100 percent immediate expensing for
new factories and industrial improvements, making the United States the
investment capital of the world and ensuring that expansion remains the
hallmark of American manufacturing for decades to come.  And through a
whole-of-government approach to workforce development, my Administration
is also harnessing artificial intelligence to accelerate productivity,
revitalize manufacturing, create new industries, and ensure no American
workers are left behind.

     This National Manufacturing Day, we affirm that the strength of our
Republic rests on the strength of our industries and the determination
of our workers.  Under my leadership, we are protecting domestic
production, enforcing fair trade, driving new investment into our
homeland, and securing lasting prosperity for our people by ensuring
that America remains the world’s leading industrial power.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 3, 2025,
as National Manufacturing Day.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate
the entrepreneurs, innovators, and workers in manufacturing who are
making our communities strong.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
