---
date: '2025-10-10'
modified_time: 2025-10-10 20:11:49-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-10 20:10:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/general-pulaski-memorial-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: General Pulaski Memorial Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

In 1777, a young nobleman from Poland ventured across the Atlantic to
join the fight for American independence.  Known as the “Soldier of
Liberty” and the “Father of the American Cavalry,” the legendary
Brigadier General Casimir Pulaski offered his talents to a Nation in
revolution, devoting his life to freedom.  Today, we honor his legacy,
we salute his courage, and we pledge to advance the great purpose he
fought, bled, and died for 246 years ago.

General Pulaski’s resolve had been hardened long before he set foot on
American soil.  In his native Poland, he had fought for independence
against the Russian Empire, learning firsthand that freedom demands
sacrifice.  When Benjamin Franklin urged him to aid the American
Revolution, Pulaski did not hesitate.  Writing to General George
Washington, he declared:  “I came here, where freedom is being defended,
to serve it, and to live or die for it.”

True to his words, Pulaski began to equip and train the Patriots for
battle, oftentimes at his own personal expense.  During his first
engagement at the Battle of Brandywine, he led a bold cavalry maneuver
that saved the life of General Washington and countless soldiers in the
Continental Army during one of its darkest hours.  Without Pulaski’s
incredible courage, the dream of American independence might have ended
before it truly began.

Pulaski was later elevated to Brigadier General and forged a cavalry
corps whose discipline, speed, and bravery played a key role in the
fight for American independence.  On October 9, 1779, more than 4 years
into the Revolutionary War, Pulaski once again rode into the storm,
leading his men against the might of the British Empire at the Siege of
Savannah.  He was struck down in the fire of battle and succumbed to his
wounds — dying just as he had promised, in defense of the sacred cause
of freedom.

His sacrifice is one of the bonds that forever links Poland and the
United States.  Our two nations have stood together across centuries and
continents:  on the battlefields of Europe, in the skies of the Second
World War, and in the long twilight struggle of the Cold War — always
united in freedom, human dignity, the rule of law, sovereign borders,
national independence, and the enduring belief that tyranny is no match
for the full force of liberty.  Today, millions of Polish-Americans
continue to carry forward General Pulaski’s legacy of patriotism.

As our Nation prepares to celebrate 250 years of independence, we
remember General Pulaski and all those who dared to stake their lives on
the American promise.  Their courage gave life to this Republic, and
their sacrifice calls for our undying gratitude.  The legacy of these
Patriots reminds us still that freedom can never be taken for granted,
and it is only earned, defended, and preserved by those bold enough to
fight for it.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 11, 2025, as
General Pulaski Memorial Day.  I encourage all Americans to commemorate
on this occasion those who have contributed to the furthering of our
Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

tenth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
