---
date: '2025-10-10'
published_time: 2025-10-10 20:11:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/250th-anniversary-of-the-founding-of-the-united-states-navy/
tags: presidential-actions
title: 250th Anniversary of the Founding of the United States Navy
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Two hundred and fifty years ago, the rising tide of revolution surged
from land to sea when the Second Continental Congress established what
would ultimately become the United States Navy — the mightiest, most
lethal, and most legendary maritime fighting force ever conceived. 
Today, we honor the Navy’s epic role in safeguarding our sovereignty and
projecting our power beyond our coasts.  We salute the Navy’s
indispensable role throughout every chapter of our national story. 
Above all, we pay tribute to the generations of gallant Sailors who have
fearlessly lived by those timeless words: * Non sibi sed patriae* — Not
for self, but for country.

Nearly 6 months after the American Revolution erupted into open fire at
the Battles of Lexington and Concord, the path to independence remained
long and uncertain.  Following King George III’s rejection of the Olive
Branch Petition — the American Colonies’ final attempt to avoid full
descent into war — it became clear that the Army alone would not be
sufficient.  Indeed, to protect their freedom of trade, defend their
homes against invasion, and seize British supplies at sea, the American
Colonies had no choice but to extend their righteous crusade for
independence beyond their shores.

On October 13, 1775, in a radical and extraordinary act of
self-determination, the Second Continental Congress passed a resolution
to formally establish the Continental Navy. 

Almost immediately, the Congress purchased ships and established a naval
committee, which quickly took up its immortal place in history.  In the
250 years since, our American story has been infused with seminal naval
battles fought by legions of Sailors who safeguarded our liberty with
unwavering grit.  In every conflict — from our fight for independence,
through two world wars, to battles in Korea, Vietnam, and the Persian
Gulf — the Navy has secured our sovereignty at sea and heroically
defended our birthright of freedom against every enemy, big or small.

In November 1781, just weeks after the Patriots’ triumph over British
forces at Yorktown, General George Washington penned a letter to a
French military officer, in which he stated:  “It follows then as
certain as that night succeeds the day, that without a decisive naval
force we can do nothing definitive, and with it, everything honorable
and glorious.”  On this 250th anniversary of the United States Navy, we
reaffirm those mighty words.  We salute the extraordinary devotion of
our active duty and Reserve Sailors and the families who bear the
sacrificial life of service with unmatched resilience and grace — and we
pledge to keep our Navy, our country, and our inheritance of freedom
alive and flourishing for generations to come.  We will never give up
the ship.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 13, 2025, as a
day to commemorate the founding of the United States Navy with
appropriate ceremonies and programs.  I call upon all Americans to honor
the Navy’s rich heritage, and the patriotism of all who have served.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

tenth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
