---
date: '2025-10-09'
published_time: 2025-10-09 12:38:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/leif-erikson-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Leif Erikson Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

More than a millennium ago, legendary Norse Viking Leif Erikson forever
changed the course of history when he fearlessly embarked on a daring
expedition into the unknown, becoming the first European to ever set
foot in the New World.  This Leif Erikson Day, we summon his courage, we
honor his enduring legacy of adventure and exploration, and we renew our
resolve to advance the limits of human achievement.

According to tradition, Leif Erikson’s zeal for adventure began as a
young man in Greenland, where he heard stories of distant lands across
the sea.  Determined to chart those waters himself, and guided by his
deep Christian faith, he assembled a brave crew and set sail, voyaging
more than 1,800 miles across the Atlantic Ocean through brutal winds and
storms.  With courage in his veins and faith in his God, Erikson
realized his purpose when he reached the shores of a land he called
“Vinland,” known today as L’Anse aux Meadows at the northern tip of
Newfoundland, Canada.

With this incredible discovery, Leif Erikson became the first European
to land in North America and cemented his place as one of the great
explorers in world history.  He returned home a hero, bringing with him
the exciting news of uncivilized lands.  His achievement inspired
countless explorers to venture into North America, and ultimately paved
the way for the first American settlement in Jamestown, Virginia, more
than 600 years later.

Leif Erikson’s triumphant spirit of exploration has continued to define
the American story — from the pioneers who tamed the Western frontier to
the Apollo 11 astronauts who proudly planted the Stars and Stripes on
the Moon.  His legacy lives on through the millions of Americans who
proudly share in his Nordic ancestry.  These patriots have embodied the
same character of courage and resolve, and have immensely enriched our
history, our culture, and our communities.  My Administration continues
to strengthen our bonds with the proud Nordic nations from which Erikson
came.  Together, with our allies in Norway, Sweden, Denmark, Iceland,
and Finland, we are advancing fair trade and promoting peace through
strength — ensuring a safer and more prosperous future for America and
the North Atlantic.

As we celebrate the heroic life of the great Leif Erikson, we embrace
his legacy, recognize the contributions of the millions of Nordic
Americans, and recommit to advancing the timeless drive of discovery
that has always stood at the heart of America’s destiny.

To honor Leif Erikson, son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, and to
celebrate our Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint
resolution (Public Law 88-566) approved on September 2, 1964, has
authorized the President of the United States to proclaim October 9 of
each year as “Leif Erikson Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 9, 2025, as
Leif Erikson Day.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate the
achievements and contributions of Nordic Americans to our Nation with
appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
