---
date: '2025-10-17'
modified_time: 2025-10-17 19:24:07-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-17 19:24:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/national-energy-dominance-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Energy Dominance Month, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

From the Appalachian Mountains to the Mississippi River to the Great
Plains and beyond, for nearly 250 years, America has been endlessly
sustained and enriched by our abundance of precious natural resources
like oil, clean coal, minerals, and natural gas.  This National Energy
Dominance Month, my Administration proudly recommits to harnessing the
liquid gold and minerals under our feet and bountiful resources in our
waters, forests, and fields, achieving American energy dominance, and
forging a future defined by three simple words:  “Drill, baby, drill.”

During my first term in office, America became the number one producer
of oil and natural gas in the world and the coal industry was coming
back — after eight hard years of Obama’s War on Coal.  Tragically, after
the conclusion of my first term, the previous administration launched a
war on American energy — reversing all of my historic first term
actions, leading all 50 States to hit record-high gas prices. 
Meanwhile, the Green New Scam shuttered dozens of coal plants leaving
our power grid vulnerable, halted mining productions, and shipped our
energy jobs from Texas to Tehran, from the Midwest to Moscow, and from
Baton Rouge to Beijing.  As I have stated many times before, energy
security is national security.  My predecessor outrageously depleted our
Strategic Petroleum Reserve — emboldening our enemies and making us
reliant on foreign nations while subjecting the American people to
sky-high energy prices here at home. 

This period of national self-destruction ended on January 20, 2025.  As
the 47th President of the United States, my energy policy is defined by
maximum production, maximum prosperity, and maximum power.  On my first
day in office, I declared a National Energy Emergency to lower
escalating energy prices.  I signed an Executive Order to unleash
American energy, which rolled back energy restrictions imposed by the
previous administration.  I established the National Energy Dominance
Council to ensure the American energy industry maintains its global
leadership in the decades to come.  I also took action to revive
America’s dominance in offshore critical minerals and resources, lift
burdensome regulations on coal plants to ensure they can continue to
run, launch the nuclear energy renaissance, and open up the Arctic
National Wildlife Refuge in Alaska, one of the largest drilling sites in
the world.  Every day, we are making good on our promise to restore the
United States as a global energy superpower — and our work has only just
begun.  Now, under my Administration, our workers are drilling, mining,
and producing like never before.

This month, we continue our crusade to bring back American energy
dominance, uplift the American worker, protect the American industry,
cherish American resources, and make America the most prosperous country
on the face of the Earth.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2025 as
National Energy Dominance Month.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
