---
date: '2025-10-24'
modified_time: 2025-10-24 18:42:56-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-24 18:42:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/regulatory-relief-for-certain-stationary-sources-to-promote-american-mineral-security/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Regulatory Relief for Certain Stationary Sources to Promote American Mineral
  Security
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

 1.  Copper is essential to America’s energy, defense, and manufacturing
sectors.  From the electric grid to semiconductors, copper plays a
critical role in supporting our modern economy.  Maintaining and
increasing domestic copper smelting capacity is vital to reducing
reliance on foreign supply chains and ensuring American mineral
security.  Executive Order 14220 of February 25, 2025 (Addressing the
Threat to National Security From Imports of Copper),recognized copper as
a “critical material essential to the national security, economic
strength, and industrial resilience of the United States,” and directed
action to address the national security threat posed by excessive
reliance on foreign sources by strengthening domestic capacity across
the copper supply chain.

2.  On May 13, 2024, the Environmental Protection Agency published a
final rule, pursuant to section 112 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.
7412, titled *National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants:
 Primary Copper Smelting Residual Risk and Technology Review and Primary
Copper Smelting Area Source Technology Review*,89 FR 41648 (Copper
Rule).  The Copper Rule imposes new emissions-control requirements on
primary copper smelters.

3.  The Copper Rule imposes severe burdens on the few remaining domestic
copper smelters by requiring compliance with new national emissions
standards.  These standards are premised on the use of emissions-control
technologies that do not exist in a commercially demonstrated or
cost-effective form.  The Copper Rule sets a uniform compliance timeline
at 89 FR 41657 that does not account for the unique operational and
technical constraints of this legacy industrial sector.  In 2024, only
two primary copper smelters remained in operation across the country.
 Imposing these requirements on such a limited and already strained
domestic industry risks accelerating further closures, weakening the
Nation’s industrial base, undermining mineral independence, and
increasing reliance on foreign-controlled processing capacity.
 Preserving all domestic smelting capability is essential to ensuring
access to critical minerals in times of crisis.

4.  NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including section 112(i)(4) of the Clean Air
Act, 42 U.S.C. 7412(i)(4), do hereby proclaim that certain stationary
sources subject to the Copper Rule, as identified in Annex I of this
proclamation, are exempt from compliance with the Copper Rule for a
period of 2 years beyond the Copper Rule’s relevant compliance dates
(Exemption).  This Exemption applies to all compliance deadlines
established under the Copper Rule applicable to the stationary sources
listed in Annex I, with each such deadline extended by 2 years from the
date originally required for such deadline.  The effect of this
Exemption is that, during each such 2-year period, these stationary
sources will be subject to the emissions and compliance obligations that
they are currently subject to under the applicable standard as that
standard existed prior to the Copper Rule.  In support of this
Exemption, I hereby make the following determinations:

a.  The technology to implement the Copper Rule is not available.  Such
technology does not exist in a commercially viable form sufficient to
allow implementation of and compliance with the Copper Rule by the
compliance dates in the Copper Rule.

b.  It is in the national security interests of the United States to
issue this Exemption for the reasons stated in paragraphs 1 and 3 of
this proclamation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP

ANNEX I

1.  Affected Facility/Source: Miami Smelter, Arizona

i\. Freeport-McMoRan Miami Inc.
