---
date: '2025-10-07'
modified_time: 2025-10-07 16:15:04-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-07 16:15:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/fire-prevention-week-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Fire Prevention Week, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

During Fire Prevention Week, we call on every household and community to
prioritize fire prevention by taking steps that reduce risks and
strengthen safety.  Americans honor the steadfast courage and dedication
of firefighters and first responders across our Nation who protect our
lives, property, and natural resources from the devastation of fire. 
Together, we also renew our commitment to promoting commonsense
awareness and preparedness measures to prevent fires — and to keeping
the American people safe and secure in the face of disaster.

In recent years, our Nation has seen the staggering costs of poor fire
prevention and disaster preparedness.  When wildfires erupted in
California earlier this year, sparked by arson and exacerbated by the
Green New Scam agenda and disastrous forest management, State and local
leaders were left totally unprepared to safeguard our fellow citizens. 
Hydrants ran dry.  Reservoirs were left empty.  Due to this incompetent
leadership, at least 30 people died, while survivors saw their homes and
belongings descend in flames, costing hundreds of billions of dollars in
damages.

To reverse this and similar derelictions, this past June I proudly
signed an Executive Order returning common sense to wildfire prevention
and response.  Among other key actions, the order directs the Secretary
of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture to consolidate their
wildland fire programs, encourages local wildfire preparedness and
response, and orders the use of new technology — including artificial
intelligence and data sharing — to enhance State and local wildfire
identification and response.  I also established a Task Force to assess
the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s ability to address disasters. 
I also signed an Executive Order to expedite response and recovery
efforts for the people of California, including the largest wildfire
hazardous waste cleanup in the history of the Environmental Protection
Agency.

This week, we offer our sincere thanks to all the dedicated firefighters
and first responders who do not flinch in times of crisis.  Without
regard for their own safety, they plunge into roaring flames to bring
hope to the desperate and comfort to the afflicted.  That is why,
earlier this year, I was proud to sign a bill into law for permanent pay
increases for Federal wildland firefighters.  Their courage and service,
along with our local first responders, help protect our Nation’s
bountiful resources and keep our communities strong in times of
hardship.  We also express our deep appreciation for critical
infrastructure personnel and disaster volunteers for their selfless
service to their fellow citizens when fires do break out.

As my Administration works to prevent wildfires, we encourage every
family to take measures to avert the risks and damages caused by
household fire — including by having a fire escape plan, testing smoke
and carbon monoxide alarms on a monthly basis, and identifying potential
hazards like unattended cooking, faulty wiring, or overheated
appliances.

This week, we pledge to provide all resources necessary to keep our
communities safe when fire blazes — and we express our unending thanks
to every heroic first responder who embodies the strength and
determination of the American spirit.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, Donald J. Trump, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 5 through
October 11, 2025, as Fire Prevention Week.  I call on all Americans to
participate in this observance with appropriate programs and activities
and by renewing their efforts to prevent fires and their tragic
consequences.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
