---
date: '2025-10-13'
modified_time: 2025-10-13 16:42:09-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-13 16:42:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/the-trump-declaration-for-enduring-peace-and-prosperity/
tags: presidential-actions
title: The Trump Declaration for Enduring Peace and Prosperity
---
 
We, the undersigned, welcome the truly historic commitment and
implementation by all parties to the Trump Peace Agreement, ending more
than two years of profound suffering and loss — opening a new chapter
for the region defined by hope, security, and a shared vision for peace
and prosperity.

We support and stand behind President Trump’s sincere efforts to end the
war in Gaza and bring lasting peace to the Middle East.  Together, we
will implement this agreement in a manner that ensures peace, security,
stability, and opportunity for all peoples of the region, including both
Palestinians and Israelis.

We understand that lasting peace will be one in which both Palestinians
and Israelis can prosper with their fundamental human rights protected,
their security guaranteed, and their dignity upheld. 

We affirm that meaningful progress emerges through cooperation and
sustained dialogue, and that strengthening bonds among nations and
peoples serves the enduring interests of regional and global peace and
stability.

We recognize the deep historical and spiritual significance of this
region to the faith communities whose roots are intertwined with the
land of the region — Christianity, Islam, and Judaism among them.
 Respect for these sacred connections and the protection of their
heritage sites shall remain paramount in our commitment to peaceful
coexistence.

We are united in our determination to dismantle extremism and
radicalization in all its forms.  No society can flourish when violence
and racism is normalized, or when radical ideologies threaten the fabric
of civil life.  We commit to addressing the conditions that enable
extremism and to promoting education, opportunity, and mutual respect as
foundations for lasting peace.

We hereby commit to the resolution of future disputes through diplomatic
engagement and negotiation rather than through force or protracted
conflict.  We acknowledge that the Middle East cannot endure a
persistent cycle of prolonged warfare, stalled negotiations, or the
fragmentary, incomplete, or selective application of successfully
negotiated terms.  The tragedies witnessed over the past two years must
serve as an urgent reminder that future generations deserve better than
the failures of the past.

We seek tolerance, dignity, and equal opportunity for every person,
ensuring this region is a place where all can pursue their aspirations
in peace, security, and economic prosperity, regardless of race, faith,
or ethnicity.

We pursue a comprehensive vision of peace, security, and shared
prosperity in the region, grounded in the principles of mutual respect
and shared destiny.

In this spirit, we welcome the progress achieved in establishing
comprehensive and durable peace arrangements in the Gaza Strip, as well
as the friendly and mutually beneficial relationship between Israel and
its regional neighbors.  We pledge to work collectively to implement and
sustain this legacy, building institutional foundations upon which
future generations may thrive together in peace.

We commit ourselves to a future of enduring peace.

**Donald J. Trump**

President of the United States of America

**Abdel Fattah El-Sisi**

President of the Arab Republic of Egypt

**Tamim bin Hamad Al-Thani  **

Emir of the State of Qatar

**Recep Tayyip Erdoğan**

President of the Republic of Türkiye
