---
date: '2025-10-09'
published_time: 2025-10-09 12:37:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/columbus-day-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Columbus Day, 2025
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Today our Nation honors the legendary Christopher Columbus — the
original American hero, a giant of Western civilization, and one of the
most gallant and visionary men to ever walk the face of the earth.  This
Columbus Day, we honor his life with reverence and gratitude, and we
pledge to reclaim his extraordinary legacy of faith, courage,
perseverance, and virtue from the left-wing arsonists who have sought to
destroy his name and dishonor his memory.

Born in Genoa, Italy in 1451, Columbus quickly emerged as a titan of the
Age of Exploration.  On August 3, 1492, following years of intense
study, preparation, and petitioning, Christopher Columbus secured
funding from the Spanish Crown to set out on a daring expedition that
most believed to be impossible.  Commissioned by Ferdinand and Isabella
of Spain, Columbus and his crew boarded three small ships — the Niña,
Pinta, and Santa Maria — to set sail on a perilous voyage across the
Atlantic.  He was guided by a noble mission:  to discover a new trade
route to Asia, bring glory to Spain, and spread the Gospel of Jesus
Christ to distant lands.

Just over 2 months later, on October 12, 1492, Columbus made landfall in
the modern-day Bahamas.  Upon his arrival, he planted a majestic cross
in a mighty act of devotion, dedicating the land to God and setting in
motion America’s proud birthright of faith.  Though he initially
believed he had arrived in Asia, his discovery opened the vast frontier
and untold splendors of the New World to Europe.  He later ventured
onward to Cuba and other islands in the Caribbean — exploring their
coasts and engaging with their people.

Guided by steadfast prayer and unwavering fortitude and resolve,
Columbus’s journey carried thousands of years of wisdom, philosophy,
reason, and culture across the Atlantic into the Americas — paving the
way for the ultimate triumph of Western civilization less than three
centuries later on July 4, 1776. 

Outrageously, in recent years, Christopher Columbus has been a prime
target of a vicious and merciless campaign to erase our history, slander
our heroes, and attack our heritage.  Before our very eyes, left-wing
radicals toppled his statues, vandalized his monuments, tarnished his
character, and sought to exile him from our public spaces.  Under my
leadership, those days are finally over — and our Nation will now abide
by a simple truth:  Christopher Columbus was a true American hero, and
every citizen is eternally indebted to his relentless determination.

As we celebrate his legacy, we also acknowledge the contributions of the
countless Italian-Americans who, like him, have endlessly contributed to
our culture and our way of life.  To this day, the United States and
Italy share a special bond rooted in the timeless values of faith,
family, and freedom.  My Administration looks forward to strengthening
our long and storied friendship in the years to come.

This Columbus Day, more than 500 years since Columbus arrived in the New
World, we follow his example, we echo his resolve, and we offer our
gratitude for his life of valor and grit.  Above all, we commit to
restoring a Nation that once again dares to tame the unknown, honors our
rich cultural inheritance, and offers rightful praise to our Creator
above.

In commemoration of Christopher Columbus’s historic voyage, the
Congress, by joint resolution of April 30, 1934, and modified in 1968
(36 U.S.C. 107), as amended, has requested the President proclaim the
second Monday of October of each year as “Columbus Day.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 13, 2025, as
Columbus Day.  I call upon the people of the United States to observe
this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  I also direct that
the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on
the appointed day in honor of the great Christopher Columbus and all who
have contributed to building our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                               DONALD J. TRUMP
