---
date: '2025-10-04'
modified_time: 2025-10-10 08:50:17-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-04 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/department-of-war-security-for-the-protection-of-federal-personnel-and-property-in-illinois/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Department of War Security for the Protection of Federal Personnel and Property
  in Illinois
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF WAR

              THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

              THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Department of War Security for the Protection of Federal
Personnel and Property in Illinois

The situation in the State of Illinois, particularly in and around the
city of Chicago, cannot continue.  Federal facilities in Illinois,
including those directly supporting Immigration and Customs Enforcement
(ICE) and the Federal Protective Services (FPS), have come under
coordinated assault by violent groups intent on obstructing Federal law
enforcement activities.  These groups have sought to impede the
deportation and removal of criminal aliens through violent
demonstrations, intimidation, and sabotage of Federal operations.  These
violent activities appear to be increasing, and the situation in the
State of Illinois, particularly in and around the city of Chicago,
cannot continue.

These activities are not occurring in isolation.  Instead, these
activities are similar to other ongoing efforts in multiple States and
cities around the country to disrupt the faithful enforcement of Federal
law.  On June 7, 2025, I determined that similar activities warranted
the mobilization of the National Guard.  Likewise, at the end of
September, I directed the Secretary of War to mobilize the National
Guard due to ongoing violence and interference with Federal law
enforcement in Oregon.

In those prior directives and in this instance, I have determined that
these incidents, as well as the credible threat of continued violence,
impede the execution of the laws of the United States.  I have further
determined that the regular forces of the United States are not
sufficient to ensure the laws of the United States are faithfully
executed, including in Chicago. 

In light of both past incidents in Chicago and the credible threat of
future incidents, and in light of my determinations, by the authority
vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United
States of America, including 10 U.S.C. 12406, I hereby call into Federal
service at least 300 members of the Illinois National Guard, until the
Governor of Illinois consents to a federally-funded mobilization, under
Title 32 of the United States Code, of the Illinois National Guard under
State control.  The members of the Illinois National Guard called into
Federal service shall protect ICE, FPS, and other United States
Government personnel who are executing Federal law in the State of
Illinois, and Federal property in the State of Illinois.  They shall do
so at any locations at which violent demonstrations prevent the
execution of Federal law or are likely to prevent the execution of
Federal law based on current threat assessments and planned operations. 
The duration of such Federal service shall be 60 days or at the
discretion of the Secretary of War.  Further, I direct and delegate
actions as necessary for the Secretary of War to coordinate with the
Governor of the State of Illinois and the Chief of the National Guard
Bureau in identifying and ordering into Federal service the appropriate
members and units of the Illinois National Guard under this authority.

To carry out this mission, the deployed National Guard personnel may
perform those protective activities that the Secretary of War determines
are reasonably necessary to ensure the execution of Federal law in
Illinois, and to protect Federal property in Illinois.  Following the
deployment of any National Guard personnel to any location in Illinois,
the Secretary of War shall consult with the Attorney General and the
Secretary of Homeland Security prior to withdrawing the personnel from
such location.  The Secretary of War and the Secretary of Homeland
Security may delegate to subordinate officials of their respective
Departments any of the authorities conferred upon them by this
memorandum.

                             DONALD J. TRUMP
