---
date: '2025-10-17'
modified_time: 2025-10-17 19:22:23-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-17 19:22:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/national-cybersecurity-awareness-month-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, 2025
---
 
By the President of the United States of America

A Proclamation

This National Cybersecurity Awareness Month, my Administration renews
its commitment to strengthening our Nation’s cybersecurity to improve
American lives, defend American sovereignty, and uphold the rights of
every American citizen.

In recent years, advancements in cybersecurity have presented new
threats to our national defense and personal privacy.  Criminal
organizations and our foes overseas have continued to wage cyber
campaigns targeting American civilians and businesses.  These attacks
have disrupted critical services across our Nation and inflicted
billions of dollars in damages.

For this reason, earlier this year, I signed an Executive Order to
strengthen our Nation’s cybersecurity by focusing on critical
protections against foreign cyber threats and improving secure
technology practices.  Among other crucial measures, this action orders
the Federal Government to advance secure software development, directs
the adoption of the latest encryption protocols, and refocuses
artificial intelligence cybersecurity efforts towards identifying and
managing vulnerabilities rather than censoring the lawful speech of the
American people. 

In this effort, I am especially proud of the First Lady, whose steadfast
leadership has helped protect America’s children in the digital world. 
Earlier this year, she championed the bipartisan TAKE IT DOWN Act, a
landmark law that gives families and young people stronger protections
against the spread of non‑consensual intimate images and other forms of
online exploitation.  Her dedication reminds us that cybersecurity is
not only about networks and infrastructure, but also about safeguarding
the dignity, privacy, and well-being of every American child.

We are also putting the interests of American citizens and American
companies first in cyberspace, ensuring that our inheritance of freedom
prevails and endures in the digital age.  We are fueling American
innovation by eliminating unnecessary regulatory burdens and securing
greater investments in our technology sector.  My Administration will do
whatever it takes to make America cyber secure.

This month, especially, the First Lady and I encourage every American to
take steps to safeguard their personal devices, technology, and data —
including by using stronger passwords and multifactor authentication,
reporting fraudulent emails, backing up critical data, and regularly
updating software.  We also renew our pledge to unleash the full might
of American ingenuity to respond to every threat to our privacy,
freedom, and national security — and we vow to never waver in defending
the lives, liberty, and safety of the American people.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2025 as
National Cybersecurity Awareness Month.  I call upon the people,
companies, and institutions of the United States to recognize the
importance of cybersecurity and to observe this month through events,
training, and education to further our country’s national security and
resilience.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-five, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
fiftieth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP
