---
date: '2025-10-17'
modified_time: 2025-10-17 18:23:28-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-17 18:21:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/10/adjusting-imports-of-medium-and-heavy-duty-vehicles-medium-and-heavy-duty-vehicle-parts-and-buses-into-the-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Adjusting Imports Of Medium- And Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Medium- And Heavy-Duty
  Vehicle Parts, And Buses Into The United States
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

1.  Three weeks ago, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary) transmitted
to me a report on his investigation into the effects of imports of
medium- and heavy-duty vehicles (MHDVs) (such as trucks), medium- and
heavy-duty vehicle parts (MHDVPs), and buses on the national security of
the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended, 19 U.S.C. 1862 (section 232).  Based on the facts considered
in that investigation, the Secretary found and advised me of his opinion
that MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses are being imported into the United
States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security of the United States and provided
recommendations for action under section 232 to adjust the imports of
MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses so that such imports will not threaten
to impair the national security of the United States. 

2.  The Secretary found that MHDVs are essential to United States
national security.** ** MHDVs and MHDVPsplay a vital role in sustaining
national security by enabling the Department of War to maintain military
readiness.  They do so by enabling the transport of personnel, weapons
systems, ground defense vehicles, and critical supplies.  In addition to
aiding critical ground mobility, combat support, and logistics
operations throughout all branches of the military, MHDVs and MHDVPs
support emergency response across medical, law enforcement, and disaster
relief efforts by providing mobile coordination, evacuation, and
field-operations capabilities.  Beyond crisis scenarios, MHDVs are
indispensable to the continuity of American critical infrastructure and
economic stability, moving over 70 percent of the Nation’s freight by
weight, including essential goods like food, fuel, and medical supplies.

3.  The Secretary also found that import penetration from foreign
assemblers of MHDVs is substantial and growing.  From the 1950s through
the 1990s, the United States was an undisputed leader in MHDV
manufacturing, with iconic American brands like Ford, General Motors,
Chrysler, and others producing nearly all MHDVs domestically.
 Offshoring of MHDV manufacturing, enabled by foreign industrial
practices and other policies, has resulted in an import penetration
level of 43 percent of Class 4 through 8 MHDVs sold on the United States
market.  The United States suffers 50 percent import penetration in
Class 8 MHDVs — the heaviest-duty trucks.  American companies continue
to shift production outside the United States because of favorable
dynamics for offshoring.

4.  Further, the Secretary found that the United States relies on
foreign suppliers for several important categories of MHDVPs.  The
domestic truck industry is dependent on engines, batteries, transmission
shafts, castings, forgings, and other MHDVPs at a level that creates
national security vulnerabilities.  The supply chain for MHDVPs is much
less diversified than for domestic passenger vehicles and light trucks,
with significantly fewer United States producers of MHDVPs.  Without a
secure domestic supply chain for critical MHDVPs, a disruption of
imports could strain the ability to execute national defense missions
and critical infrastructure requirements, such as transporting
personnel, weapons, or essential supplies in a conflict or an emergency.

5.  The Secretary also found that there is significant overlap in the
components, materials, and manufacturing capacity between the MHDV
industry and the bus industry, including because many MHDVPs are used as
components in buses.  The Secretary noted that buses are vital for
United States national security because they directly support, among
other things, United States military troop movements, Government
disaster response and evacuations, and basic operations in critical
infrastructure sectors like energy, healthcare, and emergency services. 
Yet, as the Secretary found, the bus industry is at risk of becoming
overly dependent on foreign supply chains, including MHDVP suppliers,
and the United States trade balance in buses has worsened in recent
years.  The Secretary determined that this risk of dependency threatens
the national security of the United States.

6.  In light of these findings, the Secretary recommended a range of
actions, including actions to adjust the imports of MHDVs, certain
MHDVPs, and buses so that such imports will not threaten to impair the
national security.  For example, the Secretary recommended that I impose
a 25 percent *ad valorem* duty on MHDVs and key MHDVPs and a 10 percent
*ad valorem* duty on buses.  The Secretary recommended that I conform
the previously established section 232 automobile tariff program with
any program I establish to adjust the imports of MHDVs and MHDVPs.  The
Secretary also recommended that the goal of the adjustment of MHDV
imports should be a long-term stabilization of United States-produced
MHDVs‘ market share at approximately 80 percent in order to achieve the
adjustments’ national security objective.

7.  After considering the Secretary’s report, the factors in section
232(d) (19 U.S.C. 1862(d)), and other relevant factors and information,
I concur with the Secretary’s finding that imports of MHDVs, certain
MHDVPs, and buses threaten to impair the national security of the United
States.  In my judgment, and in light of the Secretary’s report, the
factors in section 232(d) (19 U.S.C. 1862(d)), and other relevant
factors and information, I also determine that it is necessary and
appropriate to impose a tariff system, as described below, to adjust
imports of MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses so that such imports will
not threaten to impair the national security of the United States.

8.  In my judgment, the actions in this proclamation will, among other
things, strengthen supply chains; bolster industrial resilience; create
high-quality jobs that will expand the skilled workforce in the United
States; and increase domestic capacity utilization and United
States-produced market share for MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses. 
These actions will also encourage capital investment and drive
innovation in the United States industries for MHDVs, MHDVPs, and buses,
and will strengthen the ability of the military and national defense
industry to domestically produce key defense systems and products that
support critical ground mobility, combat, and logistics operations. 
Modernization and renewed investment will curb further erosion of the
United States truck and bus industries and improve their efficiency,
resource utilization, and product yield.  These actions will adjust the
imports of MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses so that imports of these
products do not threaten to impair the national security. 

9.  To ensure that the imposition of tariffs on MHDVs, certain MHDVPs,
and buses in this proclamation is not circumvented or that the purpose
of this action to eliminate the threat to the national security of the
United States by imports of MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses is not
undermined, I also deem it necessary and appropriate to establish a
process to identify and impose tariffs on additional MHDVPs, as further
described below.

10.  In addition, given the close connections and overlap between part
suppliers for the automobile industry and for the medium- and heavy-duty
vehicle industry, I determine that it is necessary and appropriate to
conform certain aspects of the tariff system imposed in Proclamation
10908 of March 26, 2025 (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile
Parts Into the United States), as amended, with the tariff system
imposed in this proclamation for MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses.  In
my judgment, conforming the tariff system imposed in Proclamation 10908,
as amended, to address the national security threat found in
Proclamation 9888 of May 17, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and
Automobile Parts Into the United States), as amended, with the tariff
system imposed in this proclamation for MHDVs, certain MHDVPs, and buses
will more effectively address the national security threat found in
Proclamation 9888, as amended, and the national security threat found in
this proclamation.

11.  Section 232 authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an
article and its derivatives that are being imported into the United
States in such quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to
impair the national security so that such imports will not threaten to
impair the national security.  

12.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483)
(section 604), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized
Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes
affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the
removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or
other import restriction.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, DONALD J. TRUMP, President of the United States of
America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including section 232, the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*),
section 604, and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

\(1\)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all imports of
MHDVs and the MHDVPs specified in Annex I to this proclamation, or in
any action designed to address the national security threat found in
this proclamation, shall be subject to a 25 percent *ad valorem* duty
rate, except for buses and other vehicles classified in HTSUS heading
8702, which shall be subject to a 10 percent *ad valorem* duty rate.
 These tariffs shall apply to goods entered for consumption or withdrawn
from warehouse for consumption on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight
time on November 1, 2025, and shall continue in effect, unless such
actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.  The above
tariffs are in addition to any other duties, taxes, fees, exactions, and
charges applicable to such products, except as otherwise specified
herein.

\(2\)  For MHDVs, except for buses and other vehicles classified in
HTSUS heading 8702, that qualify for preferential tariff treatment under
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), importers of such
products may submit documentation to the Secretary identifying the
amount of United States content in each model imported into the United
States.  The term “United States content” refers to the value of the
MHDV attributable to United States-based activity supporting domestic
production, as determined by the Secretary.  Thereafter, the Secretary
may approve imports of such MHDVs to be eligible to apply the *ad
valorem* duty rate of 25 percent in clause (1) of this proclamation
exclusively to the value of the non-United States content of the MHDV. 
The non-United States content of the MHDV shall be calculated by
subtracting the value of the United States content in an MHDV from the
total value of the MHDV.

\(3\)  Imports of individual MHDVPs within the scope of the tariffs
described in clause (1) of this proclamation that qualify for
preferential tariff treatment under the USMCA shall not be subject to
the additional *ad valorem* duty rate imposed under this proclamation
until such time that the Secretary, in consultation with the
Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP), establishes a
process to apply the tariff exclusively to the value of the non-United
States content of such MHDVPs and publishes a notice in the *Federal
Register*.  Imports of MHDV knock-down kits or equivalent parts
compilations, as determined by CBP, shall continue to be subject to the
additional *ad valorem* duty rate imposed under this proclamation
regardless of USMCA preferential treatment qualification.

\(4\)  I find that it is necessary to reduce duties assessed on MHDVPs
accounting for 15 percent of the value of an MHDV assembled in the
United States from 2025 through 2030.  Accordingly:

\(a\)  For MHDVs assembled in the United States, MHDV manufacturers
shall be eligible to receive an import adjustment offset.  An MHDV
manufacturer may apply to the Secretary for an import adjustment offset
amount equal to 3.75 percent of the aggregate value of all MHDVs
assembled in the United States by that manufacturer, as determined
annually by the Secretary, from November 1, 2025, through October 31,
2030.

\(b\)  The percentage rate provided in subsection (a) of this clause
reflects the total duty that would be owed when a 25 percent duty is
applied to parts accounting for 15 percent of an MHDV’s value.

\(c\)  Only MHDVs that undergo final assembly in the United States are
eligible to be included in this calculation.  The manufacturer’s import
adjustment offset amount may be used only by importers of record
authorized by that manufacturer.

\(d\)  A manufacturer’s import adjustment offset amount may be used only
to offset tariff liability related to that manufacturer’s MHDVP tariff
liability under clauses (1), (7), or (12) of this proclamation.

\(e\)  Consistent with the need to address the national security threat
found in this proclamation, the Secretary shall establish a process for
MHDV engine manufacturers equivalent to the process described in
subsections (a) through (d) of this clause.  Import adjustment offsets
for these engine manufacturers shall be based on the aggregate value of
MHDV engines assembled by that manufacturer in the United States and
shall follow the same accrual percentage rate and United States assembly
requirement as the import adjustment offsets for MHDV manufacturers
specified in subsections (a) through (d) of this clause.

\(f\)  If the Secretary finds that the import adjustment offset program
for a particular product is inconsistent with addressing the threat to
the national security found in this proclamation, the Secretary may
publish in the *Federal Register* a notice that prospectively prohibits
MHDV or MHDV engine manufacturers from using offset amounts for imports
of those products.

\(g\)  Imports of MHDV knock-down kits or other equivalent parts
compilations, as determined by CBP, shall not be eligible for import
adjustment offsets of the sort specified in this clause.

\(5\)  The Secretary shall take all necessary steps to implement the
import adjustment offset program outlined in clause (4) of this
proclamation, including supplying CBP with the information necessary for
CBP to administer and implement the import adjustment offset, such as
importer of record number(s) for the importer(s) eligible to use each
offset amount and the approved import adjustment offset amount.  CBP
shall confer the approved offset amount to the approved importer(s) of
record using processes and mechanisms consistent with CBP’s operational
framework and tariff administration procedures, including by applying
the offset against current tariff obligations due at the time of entry,
or by using other lawful methods.

\(6\)  If CBP determines that the declared value of non-United States
content of imports under clause (2) of this proclamation is inaccurate
due to an overstatement of United States content, the 25 percent tariff
specified in clause (1) of this proclamation shall apply to the full
value of the MHDV, regardless of the actual United States content.  In
addition, the 25 percent tariff specified in clause (1) of this
proclamation shall be applied to the full value of all MHDVs of the same
model imported by the same importer or responsible party from the date
of the inaccurate declaration until compliance is verified by CBP.  This
clause does not apply to or otherwise affect any other applicable
duties, taxes, fees, exactions, or charges.

\(7\)  The Secretary shall establish a process for including additional
MHDVPs within the scope of the tariffs established in clause (1) of this
proclamation.  The Secretary may add MHDVPs within the scope of the
tariffs established in clause (1) of this proclamation if — after
considering the information from the Secretary’s monitoring of imports
of MHDVs, MHDVPs, and buses, as well as any factor the Secretary deems
appropriate — the Secretary determines that inclusion of the import will
reduce or eliminate the national security threat found in this
proclamation.  Appropriate factors may include the factors in section
232(d) (19 U.S.C. 1862(d)) and whether the imports of MHDVs, MHDVPs, and
buses have increased in a manner that threatens to impair the national
security of the United States or otherwise undermines the objectives set
forth in this proclamation.  The process the Secretary establishes may
include provisions for the receipt of information and requests for
additions of specific MHDVPs from domestic producers of MHDVPs or other
interested entities or individuals.

\(8\)  Any product subject to tariffs pursuant to this proclamation,
except those eligible for admission under “domestic status” as defined
in 19 C.F.R. 146.43, that is admitted into a United States foreign trade
zone on or after the effective date of this proclamation, as set forth
in clause (1) of this proclamation, must be admitted in “privileged
foreign status” as defined in 19 C.F.R. 146.41, and will be subject upon
entry for consumption to any duties related to the classification under
the applicable HTSUS subheading.

\(9\)  The application of multiple tariffs (stacking) for imports of
MHDVs, MHDVPs, and buses subject to this proclamation shall follow the
same rules for stacking for imports subject to Proclamation 10908, as
amended.  For purposes of Executive Order 14289 of April 29, 2025
(Addressing Certain Tariffs on Imported Articles), as amended, a product
remains “subject to” this proclamation or Proclamation 10908, as
amended, even if the tariff imposed by these two proclamations is not
owed and payable due to compliance with USMCA rules of origin, use of an
offset adjustment, or tariff reductions effected through the
implementation of agreements on trade and security.

\(10\)  The tariffs imposed under clauses (1) through (3) of this
proclamation shall not apply to MHDVs or buses and other vehicles
classified in HTSUS heading 8702 that were manufactured in a year at
least 25 years prior to the date of entry of those MHDVs or buses.

\(11\)  Clause (1) of Proclamation 10925 of April 29, 2025 (Amendments
to Adjusting Imports of Automobiles and Automobile Parts Into the United
States), is revised to read as follows:

“(1)  To more effectively eliminate the threat to impair national
security posed by imports of automobiles and certain automobile parts, I
find that it is necessary to reduce duties assessed on automobile parts
accounting for 15 percent of the value of an automobile assembled in the
United States from 2025 through 2030.  Accordingly:

\(a\)  Automobile manufacturers may apply to the Secretary for an import
adjustment offset amount equal to 3.75 percent of the aggregate
Manufacturer’s Suggested Retail Price (MSRP) value of all automobiles
assembled in the United States by the manufacturer, as determined
annually by the Secretary, from April 5, 2025, through April 30, 2030. 

\(b\)  The percentage rate provided in subsection (a) of this clause
reflects the total duty that would be owed when a 25 percent duty is
applied to parts accounting for 15 percent of an automobile’s value.

\(c\)  The Secretary shall establish an import adjustment offset
equivalent to that specified in subsections (a) and (b) of this clause
for automobile engine manufacturers.  Offset accrual for these engine
manufacturers shall be based on the aggregate value of automobile
engines assembled in the United States by the engine manufacturer and
shall follow the same accrual percentage rate and United States assembly
restriction as the offset program for automobile manufacturers specified
in subsection (a) of this clause.

(d)  Only automobiles that undergo final assembly in the United States
are eligible to be included in this calculation.  The manufacturer’s
import adjustment offset amount may be used only by importers of record
authorized by that manufacturer.

\(e\)  A manufacturer’s import adjustment offset amount may be used only
to offset tariff liability related to that manufacturer’s automobile
parts tariff liability under Proclamation 10908, as amended, or under
clause (12) of the Proclamation of October 17, 2025 (Adjusting Imports
of Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Medium- and Heavy-Duty Vehicle
Parts, and Buses Into the United States).

\(f\)  If the Secretary finds that the offset program is not fulfilling
the purposes of Proclamation 10908, as amended, for particular products,
the Secretary may publish in the *Federal Register* anotice that
prospectively prohibits automobile or automobile engine manufacturers
from using their offset amount for imports of those products.

\(g\) Imports of automobile knock-down kits or other equivalent parts
compilations, as determined by CBP, shall not be eligible for import
adjustment offsets.”.

\(12\)  An importer of record may declare an automobile part or MHDVP as
subject to the automobile parts tariff pursuant to Proclamation 10908,
as amended, or to the MHDVP tariff pursuant to this proclamation.  For
an automobile or MHDV part to be eligible for this treatment, the part
must meet the following conditions: 

\(a\)  the part cannot be presently subject to the tariffs imposed
pursuant to Proclamation 10908, as amended, or this proclamation;

\(b\)  the part cannot be classifiable in Chapters 72, 73, or 76 of the
HTSUS; and

\(c\)  the part must be used for automobile- or MHDV-related production
or repair activity in the United States, as attested to by certification
from the importer of record.

\(13\)  To more effectively address the national security threats found
in Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum
Into the United States), as amended; Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States); Proclamation 9888,
as amended; and this proclamation, I deem it necessary and appropriate
to allow modification of tariffs imposed under Proclamation 9704, as
amended, and Proclamation 9705, as amended, based on certain increased
commitments of certain steel or aluminum products that support United
States production capacity of key products, including United States
automobiles and MHDVs.  Accordingly, the Secretary is authorized to
reduce tariffs owed under Proclamation 9704, as amended, and
Proclamation 9705, as amended, by up to half the applicable rate for
aluminum or steel producers that operate production facilities in Canada
or Mexico and supply United States automobile or MHDV manufacturers. 
Such adjustments shall be limited to quantities of aluminum or steel
equal to newly committed United States production capacity, as
determined by the Secretary.  In no cases shall the adjusted rate under
Proclamation 9704, as amended, and Proclamation 9705, as amended, be
lower than 25 percent.  Rate adjustments shall also be limited to
imports of aluminum and steel that qualify for preferential tariff
treatment under the USMCA and that were smelted and cast or melted and
poured in Canada or Mexico.  Any adjustment by the Secretary shall be
consistent with the need to address the national security threats I have
found under section 232, including in Proclamation 9704, as amended;
Proclamation 9705, as amended; Proclamation 9888, as amended; and this
proclamation.

(14)  The Secretary shall continue to monitor imports of MHDVs, certain
MHDVPs, and buses.  The Secretary also shall, from time to time, in
consultation with any senior executive branch officials the Secretary
deems appropriate, review the status of such imports with respect to the
national security.  The Secretary shall inform the President of any
circumstances that, in the Secretary’s opinion, might indicate the need
for further action by the President under section 232.  The Secretary
shall also inform the President of any circumstance that, in the
Secretary’s opinion, might indicate that the increase in duty rate
provided for in this proclamation is no longer necessary.

\(15\)  As of the effective date of this proclamation, only
manufacturing drawback claims made in accordance with subsections (a)
and (b) of section 313 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, 19 U.S.C.
1313(a)–(b), and no other drawback, shall be available with respect to
the duties imposed on MHDVPs pursuant to this proclamation and on
automobile parts pursuant to Proclamation 10908, as amended.  The
Secretary may adjust a company’s offset accrual amount as necessary to
avoid awarding excessive offset accrual benefits for United
States-assembled vehicles production that receives drawback benefits
upon exportation.

\(16\)  The Secretary, in consultation with the Chair of the United
States International Trade Commission and the Commissioner of CBP, shall
determine the modifications necessary to the HTSUS to effectuate this
proclamation and shall make such modifications to the HTSUS through
notice in the *Federal Register*. 

(17)  To the extent consistent with applicable law and the purpose of
this proclamation; Proclamation 9704, as amended; Proclamation 9705, as
amended; and Proclamation 10908, as amended, the Secretary and the
Secretary of Homeland Security are directed and authorized to take all
actions that are appropriate to implement and effectuate this
proclamation and any actions contemplated by this proclamation;
Proclamation 9704, as amended; Proclamation 9705, as amended; and
Proclamation 10908, as amended, including, consistent with applicable
law, the issuance of regulations, rules, guidance, and procedures and
the temporary suspension or amendment of regulations, within their
respective jurisdictions, and to employ all powers granted to the
President under section 232.  The Secretary and the Secretary of
Homeland Security may, consistent with applicable law, including 3
U.S.C. 301, redelegate any of these functions within their respective
departments.  All executive departments and agencies shall take all
appropriate measures to implement and effectuate this proclamation and
Proclamation 10908, as amended.

\(18\)  The Secretary may issue regulations and guidance consistent with
this proclamation, including to address operational necessity.

(19)  CBP may take any necessary or appropriate measures to administer
the tariffs imposed by this proclamation.

(20)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  If any provision of
this proclamation or the application of any provision to any individual
or circumstance is held to be invalid, the remainder of this
proclamation and the application of its provisions to any other
individuals or circumstances shall not be affected.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-five, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and fiftieth.

                              DONALD J. TRUMP

[Click here to view Annex
I](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/2025MediumandHeavyDutyVehicles.Parts_.Buses_.section232.prc_.rel-ANNEX.pdf)
