---
date: '2024-07-19'
modified_time: 2024-07-19 16:44:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-19 16:44:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/19/a-proclamation-on-captive-nations-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Captive Nations Week,\_2024"
---
 
During Captive Nations Week, we remember all those around the world
living under oppression and fighting for their liberty.  They remind us
that freedom is never free and that even the most brutal regime cannot
erase the human yearning for dignity and self-determination.

As we marked the 80th anniversary of D-Day this year, we were reminded
of the dark forces that the United States and its allies fought against
in World War II, like aggression, greed, and the desire to dominate and
change borders by force.  Still today, the struggle between dictatorship
and freedom continues.  We see it in various places around the world,
where rulers govern with contempt for basic human rights, the rule of
law, and democratic governance.  In countries like Belarus, Cuba, the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Iran, Nicaragua, the People’s
Republic of China, Syria, Russia, Venezuela, and more, millions live
without basic freedoms.

In Europe, we see another stark example.  Russia is waging an illegal,
unjustifiable, and unprovoked war of aggression against Ukraine.  For 2
years, the Ukrainian people have fought with extraordinary courage and
bravery.  The United States is standing with them, alongside a coalition
of more than 50 countries, and we will not walk away or bow down.  The
autocrats of the world are watching closely to see what happens in
Ukraine and if we will let this illegal aggression go unchecked.  We
cannot let that happen.  That is why I signed a national security
package into law that provided $61 billion to the people of Ukraine to
meet their urgent security and defense needs, ensuring they have the
support they need to defend their country.

At the same time, we support the equal and inalienable rights of all
people everywhere.  That is why my Administration has been working with
the Congress to provide up to $11.8 billion through the end of Fiscal
Year 2025 to strengthen democracies across the globe.  This year, at the
Third Summit for Democracy, the United States and countries around the
world came together to strengthen democratic resilience, respect for
human rights, and good governance globally.  But there is still so much
we must do.  We must continue working to ensure that women and girls
enjoy equal rights and equal participation.  We must ensure that
Indigenous groups; racial, ethnic, and religious minorities; and people
with disabilities do not have their potential stifled by systemic
discrimination.  We must remember wrongfully detained Americans around
the world.  And we must ensure that LGBTQI+ people are not targeted with
violence because of who they are.  When human rights are not upheld, the
effects are felt everywhere.  They are essential to the advancement of
human progress that brings us together.

The challenges of our time remind us that we must continue to secure our
freedom and democracy here at home.  I signed an Executive Order to
promote access to voter registration and election information so every
American has an opportunity to exercise their right to vote.  And I
signed the Electoral Count Reform Act to ensure that our elections
answer to the will of the people.  I continue to call on the Congress to
pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act, which would further protect the sacred right to vote.

As Americans, we represent something special to the world.  We are the
only Nation on Earth founded on the idea that all men and women are
created equal.  Both at home and abroad, our actions every day will
ensure that our democracy endures, the soul of our Nation endures, and
the free world remains free.  This week, we recommit to ensuring that
democracy is preserved, is defended, and prevails.

The Congress, by joint resolution approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat. 212),
has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation
designating the third week of July of each year as “Captive Nations
Week.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim July 21 through July 27, 2024, as Captive
Nations Week.  I call upon all Americans to reaffirm our commitment to
championing those around the world who are working, often at great
personal risk, to secure liberty and justice for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
