---
date: '2024-07-17'
modified_time: 2024-07-17 19:33:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-17 19:26:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/17/executive-order-on-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-through-hispanic-serving-institutions/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on White\_House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,\
  \ Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving Institutions"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, and in order to advance equity
in economic and educational opportunities, strengthen the capacity of
Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) to provide a high-quality
education, increase opportunities for these institutions to participate
in and benefit from Federal programs, and ensure that HSIs can continue
to be engines of educational opportunity and economic mobility, it is
hereby ordered as follows

     Section 1.  Policy*.*  Hispanic-Serving Institutions have a history
of expanding educational opportunities for generations of Hispanic and
Latino students.  As defined in section 502(a)(5) of the Higher
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)(5)), HSIs are institutions of
higher education that have an enrollment of at least 25 percent Hispanic
undergraduate full-time-equivalent students and satisfy other criteria,
including with respect to enrollment of needy students and expenditures
per full-time-equivalent undergraduate student.

     Today, more than 500 HSIs, located in 27 States, the District of
Columbia, and Puerto Rico, serve more than 4.7 million students
annually.  Hispanic-Serving Institutions vary in size; support a range
of academic interests; and serve urban, rural, and suburban communities.
 Over half of Hispanic and Latino postsecondary students in America
attend an HSI, and nearly 40 percent of those students attend a 2-year
HSI.  Hispanic-Serving Institutions serve a significant number of
students from low-income backgrounds.  Students enrolled at HSIs account
for approximately 30 percent of all Pell Grant recipients, even though
these colleges and universities make up only 13 percent of all
postsecondary degree-granting institutions.  Further, HSIs can play a
critical role in fostering diversity in science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics fields.  Notably, 69 percent of doctoral
students in HSIs are enrolled in science- and engineering-related
degrees, highlighting the significant role HSIs can play in ensuring a
workforce that meets the Nation’s evolving needs in technical fields.

     As Hispanic and Latino college enrollment has grown to historic
levels over the last few decades, so has the number of HSIs, making
HSIs’ success vital to the strength of the Nation.  These institutions
are creating and implementing evidence-based practices that lead to
Hispanic and Latino student success.  

     Despite the fact that HSIs represent a large and fast-growing
segment of the Nation’s colleges and universities, per-student Federal
funding at HSIs is 25 percent less than at other degree-granting
institutions.  Over the last 30 years, the number of HSIs has more than
doubled and Hispanic or Latino student enrollment at HSIs has more than
tripled.  But per-student Federal funding at HSIs remains low compared
to degree-granting institutions generally, and many HSIs report having
unmet physical and digital infrastructure needs.  This scarcity of
resources often leaves HSIs at a disadvantage when compared with
better-resourced institutions.  Students, faculty, and staff at
under-resourced HSIs often face challenges in accessing the resources
they need to excel.

     Despite these funding disparities, research has shown that HSIs
tend to do more for Hispanic and Latino student success than non-HSI
colleges and universities — and do so with fewer resources.  Many HSIs
are leaders in promoting economic mobility for Hispanic and Latino
students, including by closing college access, completion, and success
gaps.  Hispanic-Serving Institutions could further improve outcomes for
students if they were adequately funded.  The Federal Government must
strengthen the capacity of HSIs to improve and expand their reach, while
recognizing that HSIs face discrete challenges and opportunities that
reflect their history and the communities they serve.

     As set forth in Executive Order 14045 of September 13, 2021 (White
House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and
Economic Opportunity for Hispanics), the Federal Government must
collaborate with Hispanic and Latino communities to ensure their
long-term success, including by eliminating barriers to Federal funding
and strengthening the capacity of HSIs.  This order builds on those
policies by establishing the White House Initiative on Advancing
Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through
Hispanic-Serving Institutions and the President’s Board of Advisors on
Hispanic-Serving Institutions. 

     It is the policy of my Administration to advance educational
equity, excellence, and economic opportunity through strong partnerships
with HSIs to ensure that they have access to Federal resources to help
current and future generations of students succeed.  The Federal
Government must collaborate with HSIs and the students, families, and
communities they serve to address and overcome barriers that may impede
educational attainment and upward economic mobility.  Strengthening the
capacity of the Nation’s HSIs is critical to fulfilling that objective.

     Sec. 2.  White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving
Institutions.  (a)  In furtherance of the policy set forth in section 1
of this order, there is established within the Department of Education
(Department) the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity Through Hispanic-Serving
Institutions (Initiative), of which the Secretary of Education
(Secretary) shall serve as Chair.  The Secretary shall designate an
Executive Director for the Initiative (Executive Director).  The
Executive Director shall manage the day-to-day operations of the
Initiative, in consultation with the Assistant to the President and
Director of the White House Office of Public Engagement, as appropriate,
and coordinate with senior officials in the Executive Office of the
President, who shall lend their expertise and advice to the Initiative.

     (b)  The Initiative shall advance educational equity, excellence,
and economic opportunity through HSIs by focusing on the following
goals:

\(i\)     identifying and promoting the availability of Federal programs
and resources to enhance HSIs’ educational capacity, including with
respect to research and infrastructure development, while also breaking
down barriers and expanding pathways for HSIs to access such programs
and resources;

(ii)    identifying best practices for HSIs on developing, implementing,
expanding, and sustaining strategies, programs, and initiatives that
support the educational success and economic mobility of their students;

(iii)   improving the ability of HSIs to align their program offerings
with the Nation’s economic needs and promote opportunities for careers
in critical professions, with an emphasis on increasing the number of
students preparing for careers in in-demand and high-wage fields, such
as science, technology, engineering, and math, as well as teaching,
including bilingual and multilingual education;

(iv)    coordinating efforts to improve the fiscal security of HSIs;

(v)     developing new relationships, and fostering collaboration, among
HSIs and philanthropic organizations, public- and private-sector
organizations, elementary and secondary education providers, labor
unions, and other entities to improve postsecondary affordability and
degree attainment, pathways for students to enroll in HSIs, career
preparation at HSIs, and employment opportunities that advance economic
mobility for HSI students and graduates;

(vi)    strengthening Federal recruitment activities at HSIs to build
accessible and equitable pathways into Federal career opportunities for
HSI students, faculty, staff, and alumni;

(vii)   encouraging HSIs, as institutions that provide students with
degrees that lead to upward economic mobility, to participate in Federal
policymaking processes;

(viii)  encouraging the development of highly qualified, diverse,
multilingual, and culturally responsive educators who support and
instruct HSI students and contribute to effectively meeting those
students’ social, emotional, and academic needs; and

\(ix\)    providing data, tools, and analytics to support HSIs in
improving educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for
students.

     (c)  On an annual basis, the Executive Director, in consultation
with the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, shall report to
the President on the Initiative’s progress in carrying out its mission
and function under this order.

     (d)  The Executive Director shall meet regularly with HSI students,
leaders, and other representatives to discuss matters related to the
Initiative’s mission and function.

     (e)  The Department shall provide funding and administrative
support for the Initiative to the extent permitted by law and within
existing appropriations.  To the extent permitted by law, including the
Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), and subject to the availability of
appropriations, other executive departments and agencies (agencies) and
offices may detail personnel to the Initiative to assist the Department
in meeting the objectives of this order.

     (f)  To advance shared priorities and policies that advance
educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity through HSIs,
the Initiative shall collaborate and coordinate with other White House
Initiatives, including by sharing best practices on improving student
success — including the success of Hispanic and Latino students —
between HSIs and other institutions of higher education.

     Sec. 3*.*  President’s Board of Advisors on Hispanic-Serving
Institutions.  (a)  In furtherance of the policy described in section 1
of this order, there is established within the Department the
President’s Board of Advisors on Hispanic-Serving Institutions (Board).

     (b)  The Board shall consist of not more than 21 members, appointed
by the President, and may include individuals who serve as
representatives of their respective organizations and institutions, such
as educational institutions, educational advocacy organizations, labor
organizations, research institutions, public and private philanthropic
organizations, private-sector organizations, nonprofit organizations,
and community-based organizations.  Members of the Board should be
knowledgeable about the experiences of those who attend, work for, and
work to strengthen HSIs.

     (c)  The President shall designate one member of the Board to serve
as its Chair, and may designate another member of the Board to serve as
Vice Chair.  The Chair, in consultation with the Executive Director of
the Initiative, shall convene regular meetings of the Board, determine
the Board meeting agenda, and support the work of the Board consistent
with this order.

     (d)  The Department shall provide funding and administrative
support for the Board to the extent permitted by law and within existing
appropriations.  Members of the Board shall serve without compensation,
but may be allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of
subsistence, as authorized by law for persons serving intermittently in
the Government service (5 U.S.C. 5701-5707).  Insofar as chapter 10 of
title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the Federal Advisory
Committee Act), may apply to the Board, any functions of the President
under that Act, except that of reporting to the Congress, shall be
performed by the Secretary, in accordance with guidelines issued by the
Administrator of General Services.

     (e)  The Board shall provide advice to the President through the
Secretary on how to advance the policy goals set forth in section 2(b)
of this order, including with respect to:

(i)    increasing the visibility of and participation by HSIs in Federal
policymaking, including participation in Federal grant review processes;

(ii)   providing HSIs, including those that have newly satisfied the
criteria for the statutory definition, information about and access to
Federal programs and Federal resources;

(iii)  supporting the development of institutions on an enrollment
trajectory to become an HSI, such as through mentorship with existing
HSIs and sharing of best practices on how to improve the fiscal security
of HSIs; and

(iv)   establishing partnerships between HSIs and philanthropic
organizations, public- and private-sector organizations, elementary and
secondary education schools and their school districts, and labor
unions.

     (f)  The Board shall periodically report to the President, through
the Secretary and after consulting with the Executive Director, on the
Board’s progress in carrying out its mission and function under this
order.

     Sec. 4.  Administrative Provisions.  (a)  As used in this order,
the terms “Hispanic-Serving Institutions” and “HSIs” mean those
institutions that meet the definition of “Hispanic-serving institution”
in section 502(a)(5) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20
U.S.C. 1101a(a)(5)).

     (b)  The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to
the Initiative and the Board established in this order, consistent with
applicable law, as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the
Initiative and the Board.

     (c)  Each agency shall bear its own expenses of participating in
the Initiative established in this order.

     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    July 17, 2024.
