---
date: '2024-07-03'
modified_time: 2024-07-03 11:57:54-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-03 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/03/president-biden-names-fifty-second-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "President\_Biden Names Fifty-Second Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing his intent to nominate one individual to a
federal circuit court and three individuals to federal district
courts—all of whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and
devoted to the rule of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country—both in terms of personal and professional
backgrounds.

This will be President Biden’s fifty-second round of nominees for
federal judicial positions, bringing the number of announced federal
judicial nominees to 251.

**<u>United States Circuit Court Announcement</u>**

1.  **<u>Ryan Y. Park: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals
    for the Fourth Circuit</u>**

Ryan Y. Park has been the Solicitor General of North Carolina since
2020, and previously served as Deputy Solicitor General of North
Carolina from 2017 to 2020. Mr. Park worked as an associate at Boies,
Schiller & Flexner LLP from 2014 to 2017 and in the Office of the Legal
Adviser at the U.S. Department of State from 2012 to 2013. He served as
a law clerk to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg and Justice David H. Souter
on the U.S. Supreme Court from 2013 to 2014, for Judge Robert A.
Katzmann on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from 2011
to 2012, and for Judge Jed S. Rakoff on the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York from 2010 to 2011. Mr. Park received his
J.D., *summa cum laude*, from Harvard Law School in 2010 and his B.A.,
with distinction, from Amherst College in 2005. Before attending law
school, he taught English in South Korea on a Fulbright Scholarship.

**<u>United States District Court Announcements</u>**

1.  **<u>Byron B. Conway: Nominee for the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of Wisconsin</u>**

Byron B. Conway has been an attorney in the Green Bay, Wisconsin office
of the law firm Habush, Habush & Rottier S.C. since 2006 and a
shareholder at the firm since 2010. From 2002 to 2006, Mr. Conway worked
as an associate at the Milwaukee, Wisconsin law firm Gimbel Reilly
Guerin & Brown LLP. He received his J.D. from Marquette University Law
School in 2002 and his B.A. from Santa Clara University in 1998. Mr.
Conway was recommended by the bipartisan Wisconsin Federal Nominating
Commission established by Senators Ron Johnson and Tammy Baldwin.

1.  **<u>Judge Jonathan E. Hawley: Nominee for the United States
    District Court for the Central District of Illinois</u>**

Judge Jonathan E. Hawley has been a United States Magistrate Judge for
the U.S. District Court for the Central District of Illinois since 2014.
Prior to joining the bench, Judge Hawley served in the Federal Public
Defender’s Office for the Central District of Illinois from 1999 to
2014, including as the District’s Chief Federal Public Defender from
2011 to 2014. Judge Hawley served as a law clerk for Justice James D.
Heiple on the Illinois Supreme Court from 1998 to 1999, for Judge
Michael P. McCuskey on the U.S. District Court for the Central District
of Illinois in 1998, and for Judge McCuskey on the Illinois Third
District Appellate Court from 1997 to 1998. He received his J.D., *cum
laude*, from DePaul University College of Law in 1997 and his B.A, *cum
laude*, from the University of Illinois at Chicago in 1992.

1.  **<u>Judge Gail A. Weilheimer: Nominee for the United State District
    Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania</u>**

Judge Gail A. Weilheimer has been a judge on the Montgomery County Court
of Common Pleas in Norristown, Pennsylvania since 2014. Previously,
Judge Weilheimer worked as a senior counsel at Wisler Pearlstine, LLP in
Blue Bell, Pennsylvania from 2006 to 2013 and as a litigation associate
at Frank & Rosen LLP in Elkins Park, Pennsylvania from 2003 to 2006.
From 2004 to 2008, Judge Weilheimer served as an elected Commissioner
for Abington Township, Pennsylvania. In 2002, Judge Weilheimer worked as
an associate at Abrahams, Loewenstein and Bushman, P.C. in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. Before that, she served as an Assistant District Attorney
in the Philadelphia District Attorney’s Office from 1995 to 2002. Judge
Weilheimer received her J.D. in 1995 and her B.A. in 1992, both from
Hofstra University.

\###
