---
date: '2024-07-10'
published_time: 2024-07-10 09:16:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/10/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states-7/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United\_States"
---
 
    On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of the Secretary’s opinion that steel
articles are being imported into the United States in such quantities
and under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the national
security of the United States.  
  
     In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation 9705
(as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States)), are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of steel articles by imposing a 25 percent
ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries except
Canada and Mexico.  Proclamation 9705 further stated that any country
with which the United States has a security relationship is welcome to
discuss alternative ways to address the threatened impairment of the
national security caused by imports from that country, and noted that,
should the United States and any such country arrive at a satisfactory
alternative means to address the threat to the national security such
that the President determines that imports from that country no longer
threaten to impair the national security, the President may remove or
modify the restriction on steel articles imports from that country and,
if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to other countries, as the
national security interests of the United States require.  
  
     In Proclamation 9705, the President also directed the Secretary to
monitor imports of steel articles and inform the President of any
circumstances that in the Secretary’s opinion might indicate the need
for further action under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended, with respect to such imports.  
  
     In Proclamation 9894 of May 19, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President noted that the United States had
successfully concluded discussions with Mexico on satisfactory
alternative means to address the threatened impairment of the national
security posed by steel imports from Mexico.  The United States agreed
on a range of measures with Mexico that were expected to allow imports
of steel from Mexico to remain stable at historical levels without
meaningful increases, thus permitting the domestic capacity utilization
to remain reasonably commensurate with the target level recommended in
the Secretary’s report.  In the President’s judgment, these measures
would provide effective, long-term alternative means to address the
contribution of Mexico’s imports to the threatened impairment of the
national security.  
  
     The President determined in Proclamation 9894 that, under the
framework in the agreement reached with Mexico, imports of steel from
Mexico would no longer threaten to impair the national security and
accordingly excluded Mexico from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9705, as amended.  The President noted that the United States would
monitor the implementation and effectiveness of these measures in
addressing our national security needs, and that the President may
revisit this determination as appropriate.  
  
     In Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of
Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel Articles Into the
United States), the President noted that, among other things, imports of
certain derivatives of steel articles had significantly increased since
the imposition of tariffs and quotas on imports of steel articles in
2018.  The President further noted the Secretary’s assessment that
foreign producers increased shipments of such derivative articles to the
United States to circumvent the duties on steel articles imposed in
Proclamation 9705, and that the net effect of the increase of imports of
these derivatives had been to erode the customer base for United States
producers of steel and undermine the purpose of Proclamation 9705.  
  
     Based on such assessments by the Secretary, the President concluded
in Proclamation 9980 that it was necessary and appropriate in light of
our national security interests to adjust the tariffs imposed by
previous proclamations to apply to certain derivatives of steel articles
from most countries, excluding Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea.  This action was necessary and appropriate to
address circumvention that was undermining the effectiveness of the
adjustment of imports made in Proclamation 9705, as amended, and to
remove the threatened impairment of the national security of the United
States found in that proclamation.   
  
     The Secretary has informed me that domestic steel producers’
capacity utilization remains below the target 80 percent capacity
utilization recommended in the Secretary’s report of January 11, 2018,
and imports of steel articles from Mexico have increased significantly
as compared to their levels at the time of Proclamation 9894.  In the
Secretary’s opinion, these developments indicate the need for further
action under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
with respect to such steel imports.  In monitoring the implementation
and effectiveness of the agreement with Mexico in addressing
our national security needs, I have determined that it is appropriate to
revisit the President’s determination in Proclamation 9894 regarding the
applicability of the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9705 to steel
articles imports from Mexico.  
  
     Accordingly, the United States will implement a melt and pour
requirement for imports of steel articles that are products of Mexico
and will increase the section 232 duty rate for imports of steel
articles and derivative steel articles that are products of Mexico that
are melted and poured in a country other than Mexico, Canada, or the
United States.  In order to be eligible for importation free from
section 232 tariffs, steel articles and derivative steel articles that
are products of Mexico must be melted and poured in Mexico, Canada, or
the United States.  In my judgment, these measures will provide an
effective, long-term alternative means to address any contribution by
Mexican steel articles imports to the threatened impairment of the
national security by restraining steel articles imports to the United
States from Mexico, limiting transshipment, and discouraging excess
steel capacity and production.  The United States will monitor the
implementation and effectiveness of the measures agreed upon with Mexico
in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit this
determination, as appropriate.  
  
     To prevent transshipment, excess production, or other actions that
would lead to increased exports of steel articles to the United States,
the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the
Secretary, shall advise me if there is a surge in imports of steel
articles to the United States from Mexico and on the appropriate means
to ensure that such imports from Mexico do not undermine the national
security objectives of the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9705, as
amended.  If necessary and appropriate, I will consider directing the
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) of the Department of Homeland
Security to no longer exclude imports of steel articles from Mexico from
the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9705, as amended.  
  
     In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705, as amended, as applied to eligible steel articles
imports from Mexico, respectively, I have considered whether it is
necessary and appropriate in light of our national security interests to
make any corresponding adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other
countries.  I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at
this time, to maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other
countries.  
  
     Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.  
  
     Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301
of title 3, United States Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:  
  
     (1)  To establish a melt and pour requirement for imports of steel
articles and derivative steel articles that are products of Mexico, and
an increase in the duty rate for imports of steel articles and
derivative steel articles that are products of Mexico that are melted
and poured in a country other than Mexico, Canada, or the United States,
amendments to U.S. note 16 to subchapter III of chapter 99 and new HTSUS
headings are provided for in the Annex to this proclamation.  Imports of
steel articles and derivative steel articles that are products of Mexico
shall be exempt from the duty provided that such steel products are
melted and poured in Mexico, Canada, or the United States.  
  
     (2)  For purposes of implementing the melt and pour requirements in
this and other proclamations, importers of steel and steel derivative
articles shall provide to CBP the information necessary to identify the
countries where the steel used in the manufacture of steel articles
imports, covered by clause 1 of Proclamation 9705, and derivative steel
articles, specified in Annex II of Proclamation 9980, are melted and
poured.  CBP shall implement the melt and pour information requirements
as soon as practicable.  
  
     (3)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 10, 2024, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.  
  
     (4)  Any imports of steel articles that are products of Mexico and
that were admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged
foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on July 10, 2024, shall be subject upon entry for
consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July
10, 2024, to the provisions of Proclamations 9894 and 9980.    
  
     (5)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
