---
date: '2024-07-25'
published_time: 2024-07-25 16:19:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/25/a-proclamation-on-national-korean-war-veterans-armistice-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day,\_2024"
---
 
     On National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, we honor the service
and sacrifice of the American and Korean service members who fought
valiantly in the Korean War from 1950 to 1953.  We hold in our hearts
the memories of the 36,000 Americans and more than 7,000 Korean
Augmentation to the United States Army soldiers who laid down their
lives for the sacred cause of freedom.  We recommit to upholding their
legacy through our alliance with the Republic of Korea and by securing
the future they gave everything for — one of peace, stability, and
prosperity.  

     Today, I am thinking of Korean War veterans like Colonel Ralph
Puckett, Jr., USA (Ret.), whom I awarded the Medal of Honor to in 2021.
 Prior to his passing in April, Colonel Puckett was the last living
Korean War veteran to have received the Medal of Honor.  His story,
though one of uncommon valor, was reflected in the experiences and
trials of so many of our Nation’s Korean War veterans — trudging through
frozen rice paddies, fighting on the rocky terrain of the Korean
Peninsula, and persisting in spite of the fact that the enemy often far
outnumbered our troops.  Like I said to Colonel Puckett and his family
years ago:  Though the Korean War is sometimes called the “Forgotten
War,” the heroes who were there under his command will never forget his
bravery, and neither will we.  Our entire Nation owes a debt of
gratitude to every Korean War veteran for their service and sacrifice.
 As we recognize the service and sacrifice of our Nation’s Korean War
veterans, we also remember the thousands of service members who went
missing in action during the Korean War — we will never stop working to
bring each of them home.   

     Last year, I joined President Yoon of the Republic of Korea to mark
the 70th anniversary of our countries’ alliance.  It is an unbreakable
bond because it was forged in bravery and the sacrifice of both of our
peoples — sanctified by the American and Korean troops who fought and
died to defend liberty.  Our Korean War veterans are the reason the
alliance stands and remains strong today as two vibrant and innovative
democracies.  This alliance is why I was proud to sign the Korean
American VALOR Act into law, helping Korean veterans who fought
alongside American troops and are now American citizens receive access
to Department of Veterans Affairs health care services.

     Our Nation’s Korean War veterans answered the call to duty.  Like
every generation before them, these veterans knew that freedom is never
guaranteed — one has to fight for it and defend it in the battle between
autocracy and democracy, between the greed of a few and the rights of
many.  As Colonel Puckett said:  “Our country depends on you, me, what
you do every day, and how you live…It depends on us.”  May we all show
our gratitude for our service members, who show us every day what it
means to put our democracy and our Nation first.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
27, 2024, as National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day.  On this day, I
encourage all Americans to reflect on the strength, sacrifices, and
sense of duty of our Korean War veterans and bestow upon them the high
honor they deserve.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor and give thanks to our
distinguished Korean War veterans.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
