---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-10 09:00:14-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 09:00:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/10/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states-6/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United\_States"
---
 
1\.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security
of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary found and advised the
President of the Secretary’s opinion that aluminum articles are being
imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.

2\.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President concurred in the
Secretary’s finding that aluminum articles are being imported into the
United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles by imposing a 10
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  Proclamation 9704 further stated that any
country with which the United States has a security relationship is
welcome to discuss alternative ways to address the threatened impairment
of the national security caused by imports from that country, and noted
that, should the United States and any such country arrive at a
satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national
security such that the President determines that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, the
President may remove or modify the restriction on aluminum articles
imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it
applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the
United States require.

3.  In Proclamation 9704, the President also directed the Secretary to
monitor imports of aluminum articles and inform the President of any
circumstances that in the Secretary’s opinion might indicate the need
for further action under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended, with respect to such imports.

4.  In Proclamation 9893 of May 19, 2019 (Adjusting Imports of Aluminum
Into the United States), the President noted that the United States had
successfully concluded discussions with Mexico on satisfactory
alternative means to address the threatened impairment of the national
security posed by aluminum imports from Mexico.  The United States
agreed on a range of measures with Mexico that were expected to allow
imports of aluminum from Mexico to remain stable at historical levels
without meaningful increases, thus permitting the domestic capacity
utilization to remain reasonably commensurate with the target level
recommended in the Secretary’s report.  In the President’s judgment,
these measures would provide effective, long-term alternative means to
address the contribution of Mexico’s imports to the threatened
impairment of the national security.

5.  The President determined in Proclamation 9893 that, under the
framework in the agreement reached with Mexico, imports of aluminum from
Mexico would no longer threaten to impair the national security and
accordingly excluded Mexico from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9704, as amended.  The President noted that the United States would
monitor the implementation and effectiveness of these measures in
addressing our national security needs, and that the President may
revisit this determination as appropriate.

6.  In Proclamation 9980 of January 24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of
Derivative Aluminum Articles and Derivative Steel Articles Into the
United States), the President noted that, among other things, imports of
certain derivatives of aluminum articles had significantly increased
since the imposition of tariffs and quotas on imports of aluminum
articles in 2018.  The President further noted the Secretary’s
assessment that foreign producers increased shipments of such derivative
articles to the United States to circumvent the duties on aluminum
articles imposed in Proclamation 9704 and that the net effect of the
increase of imports of these derivatives had been to erode the customer
base for United States producers of aluminum and undermine the purpose
of Proclamation 9704.

7.  Based on such assessments by the Secretary, the President concluded
in Proclamation 9980 that it was necessary and appropriate in light of
our national security interests to adjust the tariffs imposed by
previous proclamations to apply to certain derivatives of aluminum
articles from most countries, excluding Argentina, Australia, Canada,
and Mexico.  This action was necessary and appropriate to address
circumvention that was undermining the effectiveness of the adjustment
of imports made in Proclamation 9704, as amended, and to remove the
threatened impairment of the national security of the United States
found in that proclamation.

8\.  The Secretary has informed me that domestic aluminum producers’
capacity utilization remains below the target 80 percent capacity
utilization recommended in the Secretary’s report of January 19, 2018,
and imports of aluminum articles from Mexico have increased
significantly as compared to their levels at the time of Proclamation
9893.  Furthermore, Mexico lacks primary aluminum smelting capabilities,
and the country of smelt or country of most recent cast is unknown for a
significant volume of aluminum imports from Mexico.  In the Secretary’s
opinion, these developments indicate the need for further action under
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, with respect
to such aluminum imports.  In monitoring the implementation and
effectiveness of the agreement with Mexico in addressing our national
security needs, I have determined that it is appropriate to revisit the
President’s determination in Proclamation 9893 regarding the
applicability of the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9704 to aluminum
articles imports from Mexico.

9\.  Accordingly, the United States will implement a country of smelt
and country of most recent cast requirement for imports of aluminum
articles that are products of Mexico, and will increase the section 232
duty rate for imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum
articles that are products of Mexico containing aluminum for which the
reported primary country of smelt, secondary country of smelt, or
country of most recent cast is China, Russia (subject to paragraph 10 of
this proclamation), Belarus, or Iran.  In order to be eligible for
importation free from section 232 tariffs, aluminum articles and
derivative aluminum articles that are products of Mexico must be
accompanied by a certificate of analysis and must not contain primary
aluminum for which the reported primary country of smelt, secondary
country of smelt, or country of most recent cast is China, Russia
(subject to paragraph 10 of this proclamation), Belarus, or Iran.  In my
judgment, these measures will provide an effective, long-term
alternative means to address any contribution by Mexican aluminum
articles imports to the threatened impairment of the national security
by restraining aluminum articles imports to the United States from
Mexico, limiting transshipment, and discouraging excess aluminum
capacity and production.  The United States will monitor the
implementation and effectiveness of the measures agreed upon with Mexico
in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit this
determination, as appropriate.

10\.  In Proclamation 10522 of February 24, 2023 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President determined that it was
necessary and appropriate to impose a 200 percent ad valorem tariff on
aluminum articles where any amount of primary aluminum used in the
manufacture of the aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the
aluminum articles are cast in Russia, and derivative aluminum articles
where any amount of primary aluminum used in the manufacture of the
derivative aluminum articles is smelted in Russia, or the derivative
aluminum articles are cast in Russia.  Proclamation 10522 shall continue
to apply to aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles that are
products of Mexico to the extent such articles contain any primary
aluminum that is smelted or cast in Russia.  If Proclamation 10522 is
suspended, this proclamation shall apply with respect to aluminum
articles and derivative aluminum articles that are the product of Mexico
and contain primary aluminum for which the primary country of smelt,
secondary country of smelt, or country of most recent cast, is Russia. 
While in effect, Proclamation 10522 supersedes this proclamation.

11.  To prevent transshipment, excess production, or other actions that
would lead to increased exports of aluminum articles to the United
States, the United States Trade Representative, in consultation with the
Secretary, shall advise me if there is a surge in imports of aluminum
articles to the United States from Mexico and on the appropriate means
to ensure that such imports from Mexico do not undermine the national
security objectives of the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9704, as
amended.  If necessary and appropriate, I will consider directing the
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) of the Department of Homeland
Security to no longer exclude imports of aluminum articles from Mexico
from the tariff imposed in Proclamation 9704, as amended.

12\.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9704, as amended, as applied to eligible aluminum articles
imports from Mexico, I have considered whether it is necessary and
appropriate in light of our national security interests to make any
corresponding adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other
countries.  I have determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at
this time, to maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other
countries.

13\.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.

14\.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:

\(1\)  To establish a country of smelt and country of most recent cast
requirement for imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum
articles from Mexico, and an increase in the duty rate for imports of
aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles that are products of
Mexico containing aluminum for which the reported primary country of
smelt, secondary country of smelt, or country of most recent cast is
China, Russia (subject to paragraph 10 of this proclamation), Belarus,
or Iran, amendments to U.S. note 19 to subchapter III of chapter 99 and
new HTSUS headings are provided for in the Annex to this proclamation. 
Imports of aluminum articles and derivative aluminum articles that are
products of Mexico shall be exempt from the new duty provided that such
aluminum products do not contain primary aluminum for which the reported
primary country of smelt, secondary country of smelt, or country of most
recent cast is China, Russia (subject to paragraph 10 of this
proclamation), Belarus, or Iran.

\(2\)  Aluminum articles eligible for treatment under clause 1 of this
proclamation must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis in order
to receive such treatment.  Eligible aluminum articles must not contain
primary aluminum for which the reported primary country of smelt,
secondary country of smelt, and country of most recent cast is China,
Russia (subject to paragraph 10 of this proclamation), Belarus, or
Iran.  “Primary country of smelt” is defined as the country where the
largest volume of new aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or
aluminum oxide) by the electrolytic Hall-Héroult process.  “Secondary
country of smelt” is the country where the second largest volume of new
aluminum metal is produced from alumina (or aluminum oxide) by the
electrolytic Hall-Héroult process.  “Country of most recent cast” refers
to the country where the aluminum (with or without alloying elements)
was last liquified by heat and cast into a solid state.  The final solid
state can take the form of either a semi-finished product (slab, billets
or ingots) or a finished aluminum product.  The Secretary, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and the United
States Trade Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are
necessary to ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply
could result in applicable remedies or penalties under United States
law.

\(3\)  For purposes of implementing this and other proclamations,
importers shall provide to CBP the information necessary to identify the
countries where the primary aluminum used in the manufacture of aluminum
articles imports covered by clause 1 of Proclamation 9704 are smelted
and information necessary to identify the countries where such aluminum
articles imports are cast.  CBP shall implement the smelt and cast
information requirements as soon as practicable.

\(4\)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July 10, 2024, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.

\(5\)  Any imports of aluminum articles that are products of Mexico and
that were admitted into a U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged
foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern
daylight time on July 10, 2024, shall be subject upon entry for
consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on July
10, 2024, to the provisions of Proclamation 9893, Proclamation 9980, and
Proclamation 10522 (for imports containing aluminum smelt or cast in
Russia).

\(6\)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
