---
date: '2024-07-25'
published_time: 2024-07-25 15:51:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/25/a-proclamation-on-the-anniversary-of-the-americans-with-disabilities-act-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Today, we celebrate the anniversary of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), one of our Nation’s most significant civil
rights laws to protect people with disabilities from discrimination. 
For the more than 70 million Americans living with a disability, the ADA
enshrines into law the idea that we all deserve opportunity, inclusion,
respect, and dignity.  I am proud to have co-sponsored this landmark
legislation years ago, and I am honored to celebrate its lasting legacy
today.

     The ADA was a historic triumph against discrimination that opened
the doors to opportunity and independence for people with disabilities. 
But more work still needs to be done.  Disabled Americans often earn
less for the same work as nondisabled people.  Additionally, too often,
disabled Americans face obstacles that keep them from voting, prohibit
them from getting to and from work and school, or limit their ability to
enjoy public spaces. 

     I believe in building an America for all Americans.  That is why,
in my first few months in office, I signed an Executive Order
establishing a Government-wide commitment to advancing equality and
equity in Federal employment, including for people with disabilities. 
It brought together the Department of Labor and the Office of Personnel
Management to ensure that Federal workplaces are fully accessible to
people with disabilities and that the dignity and rights of disabled
Americans are built into our policies. 

     At the same time, the Department of Labor is also ensuring our
workers are protected by ending unjust employment practices across our
economy.  For example, my Administration is helping State and local
governments, businesses, and nonprofits access Federal funds to hire
more disabled Americans.  And we are making the Federal Government a
model employer when it comes to wages, accommodations, and opportunities
to advance for people with disabilities. 

     Further, we are ensuring that every child with a disability,
including early learners, receives a rigorous education in a learning
environment that supports their development and well-being and leads to
promising pathways after high school.  To that end, the Department of
Education announced funding to involve parents of children with
disabilities as partners in creating equitable and inclusive schools.

     Concurrently, my Administration is also taking action to improve
access to health care for disabled Americans.  Through my Inflation
Reduction Act, we have lowered health care costs for people with
disabilities.  The Department of Health and Human Services issued a rule
to bar denials of medical care related to organ donations or lifesaving
care for disabled Americans based on their disability alone.  They also
launched long COVID clinical trials to study its debilitating health
effects and created the Office of Long COVID Research and Practice with
a first-of-its-kind initiative in our history.  The United States Access
Board has proposed updated medical diagnostic equipment guidelines to
ensure people with disabilities can access health care providers and
improve accessibility for manual and powered wheelchair users.  Further,
the National Institutes of Health made it easier for scientists to get
funding for research on health disparities in the disability community
by designating people with disabilities a “health disparity
population.”  We also launched the Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health, which is advancing new biomedical science breakthroughs and is
opening up new funding for unmet health needs specific to disabled
Americans, like biomedicine to prevent, detect, and treat diseases like
cancer, diabetes, and multiple sclerosis.

     Meanwhile, we are making public spaces and care more accessible to
people with disabilities.  The American Rescue Plan provided $37 billion
to enhance, expand, and strengthen home-based services.  That empowers
more people with disabilities — including intellectual and developmental
disabilities — to live independently at home.  In April, the Department
of Health and Human Services finalized a rule that will help ensure
access to these critical services.  Further, our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law makes the biggest investment in our history — $1.75
billion — to make transit and rail stations more accessible.  At the
same time, we are investing $5 billion to add wheelchair ramps and
accessible restrooms at airports and other locations.  In addition to
issuing a rule that now requires all new single-aisle aircraft over a
certain size to have wheelchair-accessible restrooms, the Department of
Transportation proposed a new rule to ensure that travelers using
wheelchairs can fly safely and with dignity. 

     Everyone in America should be able to share in the benefits of
technology.  That is why my Administration has taken action to ensure
that we are improving our digital infrastructure for people with
disabilities.  The Department of Justice issued standards for State and
local governments to make their web content and mobile apps more
accessible to Americans with disabilities so they can more easily access
local government services, emergency services, voting information, and
publicly funded education.  And my Administration is working to make
online health services and applications for jobs in the Federal
Government more accessible.

     As we celebrate the anniversary of the ADA, we honor the courageous
activists who worked so hard to get this historic legislation passed.
 We recognize the strength of people with disabilities, who remind us
every day that America is stronger when we tap into the talents of all
our people.  And we renew our commitment to moving America closer to the
promise of equal opportunity for all Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
26, 2024, as the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  I
encourage Americans to celebrate the 34th year of this defining moment
in civil rights law and the essential contributions of individuals with
disabilities to our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
