---
date: '2024-07-19'
published_time: 2024-07-19 16:35:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/19/a-proclamation-on-made-in-america-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Made in America Week,\_2024"
---
 
Across the Nation, American workers are writing the greatest comeback
story in our country’s history.  After a once-in-a-century pandemic,
they are bringing new jobs, businesses, and hope to their communities. 
This week, we celebrate the American workers, unions, companies, and
innovators who are the backbone of America’s economy, who make “Made in
America” not just a slogan but a reality, and who are leading our
Nation’s transformation to win the global economic competition of the
21st century.

For decades, manufacturing products here at home created good-paying
jobs across the country and forged a clear path to the middle class. 
But over the years, trickle-down economics reversed that progress. 
American manufacturers shut down their factories.  American jobs were
exported overseas.  And American communities were hollowed out.  People
and families throughout the United States were robbed of not just their
jobs but their dignity, hope, and pride.

My Administration was determined to turn things around by investing in
America and Americans once again — building an economy from the middle
out and bottom up, not the top down.  The results are clear:  Since I
came into office, the economy has created over 15 million jobs —
including nearly 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  The unemployment rate fell
to its lowest level in half a century.  And manufacturing is roaring
back with new factories being built all across the country — in big
cities and rural communities.  So far, companies have invested more than
$700 billion in American manufacturing.  

On my watch, Federal projects are being made with American products and
are being built by American workers.  I signed the “Invent It Here, Make
It Here” Executive Order, which directs Federal agencies to prioritize
domestic manufacturing when it comes to research, development,
innovation, and bringing inventions to market.  We are also using the
immense purchasing power of the Federal Government — the largest buyer
of consumer goods in the world — to bring manufacturing back home.
My Administration has implemented the most robust change to the Buy
American Act in almost 70 years by raising the domestic content
threshold for Federal procurement from 55 percent to 65 percent in 2024
— and we are set to raise the bar even higher to 75 percent in 2029.

Additionally, thanks to our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, 60,000 new
infrastructure projects have been announced across the country,
rebuilding our roads, bridges, airports, ports, rail networks, water
systems, and more.  We are investing $90 billion to provide affordable,
reliable, high-speed internet to everyone in the United States, which is
driving manufacturing jobs in industries like fiber optic cable
manufacturing.  My CHIPS and Science Act is investing in more research
and development for manufacturing than ever before, attracting $348
billion in private sector investments to build new semiconductor
factories.  This manufacturing boom is creating hundreds of thousands of
jobs — many of which pay over $100,000 and do not require a college
degree. 

At the same time, our Inflation Reduction Act is ensuring that the clean
energy future is built here in America.  Our investments have spurred
the private sector to build and create new jobs here at home.  To date,
the private sector has announced investments in 126 new and expanded
solar manufacturing plants; more than 30 wind manufacturing facilities;
more than 150 new or expanded sites for electric vehicle assembly,
component manufacturing, and charger manufacturing; and more than 250
new or expanded facilities in the battery manufacturing and critical
mineral supply chain.  These investments are supporting historic growth
in clean energy deployment and adoption and creating good-paying jobs
across the country.  Altogether, since taking office, companies have
committed more than $400 billion in private-sector investment in
manufacturing and deployment of clean energy, electric vehicles, and
batteries.

For the first time in a long time, American workers are putting shovels
in the ground and leading our Nation’s greatest economic comeback. 
Thousands of cities and towns across the country are proving that we can
get big things done when we work together.  This Made in America Week,
let us celebrate America’s incredible workers who are restoring American
pride.  Let us honor the proud legacy and promising future of American
products.  And let us recommit to nurturing the spirit of innovation
that will continue to drive American prosperity for generations to come.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July 21 through
July 27, 2024, as Made in America Week.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this week by celebrating Made in America and supporting American
workers and domestic businesses that are the backbone of building a
future here in America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
