---
date: '2024-07-15'
modified_time: 2024-07-16 08:32:20-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-15 17:31:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/15/a-proclamation-on-national-atomic-veterans-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Atomic Veterans Day,\_2024"
---
 
Our military service members and veterans live by a code of duty,
putting their lives on the line to keep all of us safe.  Few exemplify
that creed better than Atomic Veterans.  These former members of our
Armed Forces not only courageously served our country but also
participated in the nuclear tests done between 1945 and 1962 or were
exposed to radioactive materials.  Today, we honor their service,
sacrifice, and dedication to our Nation and recommit to fulfilling the
great debt of gratitude we owe them.

     For five decades, the service members who suffered from the impact
of nuclear warfare here at home were forced to remain silent.  Many had
been present for nuclear testing, posted nearby as atomic bombs
detonated.  They suffered the consequences for their entire lives,
including serious health problems and cancers.  For some, the mental
scars of what they endured never fully went away.  Forbidden from
telling anyone, they could never fully disclose their past to their
doctors, which delayed diagnoses, while their families struggled to get
the benefits they were entitled to.  Thousands of Atomic Veterans died
before telling their stories. 

     I have often said that our Nation has many obligations, but only
one is truly sacred:  to prepare those we send into harm’s way and care
for them and their families when they return.  For Atomic Veterans, that
began with finally being able to share their stories.  The 1996 repeal
of the Nuclear Radiation and Secrecy Agreements Act allowed them to tell
people what they had experienced so they could receive the benefits they
deserved from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  But there is still so
much more to do.  That is why I signed the PACT Act, one of the most
significant laws ever to help millions of veterans who were exposed to
toxins and other hazards, including radiation and burn pits during their
military service.  Further, I have signed laws that support individuals
who developed cancer and other medical conditions due to their work
related to the World War II nuclear program.  And in 2022, the
Department of Defense began recognizing Atomic Veterans’ service and
sacrifice through the Atomic Veterans Commemorative Service Medal.

     Today, on behalf of a grateful Nation, we honor the service of our
Atomic Veterans.  May we not only tell the truth of their history but
also build a future worthy of their highest hopes for our country — one
that is peaceful and stable and where all veterans are cared for.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
16, 2024, as National Atomic Veterans Day.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor
our Nation’s Atomic Veterans, whose brave service and sacrifice played
an important role in the defense of our Nation.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
