---
date: '2024-07-31'
modified_time: 2024-07-31 10:08:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-31 09:50:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/07/31/memorandum-on-prioritizing-the-strategic-disruption-of-the-supply-chain-for-illicit-fentanyl-and-synthetic-opioids-through-a-coordinated-whole-of-government-information-driven-effort/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Memorandum on Prioritizing the Strategic Disruption of the Supply Chain for
  Illicit Fentanyl and Synthetic Opioids Through a Coordinated, Whole-of-Government,
  Information-Driven Effort
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/NSM-24

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY  
THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE  
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE  
THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES  
THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION  
THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY  
THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY  
THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE  
THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE  
AGENCY  
THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AFFAIRS  
THE DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF  
INVESTIGATION  
THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE DRUG ENFORCEMENT  
ADMINISTRATION  
THE COMMISSIONER OF U.S. CUSTOMS AND BORDER  
PROTECTION  
THE DIRECTOR OF HOMELAND SECURITY  
INVESTIGATIONS  
THE POSTMASTER GENERAL AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE  
OFFICER OF THE UNITED STATES POSTAL  
SERVICE

SUBJECT: Prioritizing the Strategic Disruption of the  
Supply Chain for Illicit Fentanyl and Synthetic  
Opioids Through a Coordinated, Whole-of-  
Government, Information-Driven Effort

Tackling the deadly scourge of fentanyl and other synthetic opioids
(hereinafter “fentanyl” or “synthetic opioids”) has been a top priority
since my first day in office.  I have made combatting this deadly
epidemic and saving American lives a centerpiece of my Unity Agenda.  I
have directed the establishment of a Trilateral Fentanyl Committee with
the Governments of Mexico and Canada to advance joint disruption,
interdiction, and enforcement efforts; negotiated the resumption of
bilateral cooperation on counternarcotics with the People’s Republic of
China; launched a global coalition to tackle the scourge of synthetic
drugs; and prioritized investment in law enforcement initiatives and new
detection technologies in ways that have yielded significant results.
 Border officials have stopped more fentanyl on its way into the United
States in the last 2 years than in the last 5 years combined.  I also
have made naloxone — the life-saving medication that reverses the
effects of opioids — available over the counter and widely available to
first responders, saving tens of thousands of lives. 

On December 15, 2021, I issued Executive Order 14059 (Imposing Sanctions
on Foreign Persons Involved in the Global Illicit Drug Trade),
authorizing the imposition of sanctions on foreign persons engaged in
the global illicit drug trade, which expanded the authority to impose
sanctions on foreign persons engaged in the illicit synthetic drug
trade, regardless of whether they are linked to a kingpin or cartel.
 Since then, the Department of the Treasury has imposed sanctions on
some 290 individuals and entities using this authority.

Due to these efforts, the number of fentanyl-related deaths has started
to decline for the first time in 5 years.  Nevertheless, there is much
more work to be done to build on this progress.  The number of
fentanyl-related deaths in the United States remain too high, posing a
national security threat.  In light of this reality, this memorandum
conveys my direction to the Department of State, the Department of the
Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of Justice, the
Department of Commerce, the Department of Health and Human Services, the
Department of Transportation, the Department of Energy, the Department
of Homeland Security, and the Intelligence Community, in coordination
with the United States Postal Service, (collectively “departments and
agencies”) to redouble their efforts through a coordinated, strategic,
and information-driven focus on disrupting the supply chain of illicit
fentanyl and other synthetic opioids.  Specifically, departments and
agencies are instructed to engage collectively and collaboratively,
employing all available tools, in support of the shared goal of
materially and sustainably disrupting the illicit fentanyl supply
chain.  This will require departments and agencies to work in a
coordinated way to prioritize and deconflict enforcement and other
efforts in the manner that will have the most enduring and impactful
strategic effect.

This effort will be overseen by the National Security Council in
accordance with National Security Memorandum-2 of February 4, 2021, and
shall:  break down information sharing barriers between and among law
enforcement entities and the Intelligence Community; maximize the
disruptive effect of United States Government actions on the illicit
fentanyl and other synthetic opioids supply chain using the full range
of available tools to do so; and ensure departments and agencies are
operating pursuant to a shared assessment as to the nature of the threat
posed.

     Section 1.  Policy.  To achieve this strategic priority of
disrupting the illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids supply
chain, it is the policy of the United States to:

     (a)  work collectively across departments and agencies to maintain
a shared, up-to-date operating understanding of the threat posed by the
producers, distributors, and suppliers of synthetic opioids; the key
nodes in the supply chain; and the most pernicious drug trafficking
networks;

     (b)  engage in the active sharing of information among different
law enforcement entities and between law enforcement entities and the
Intelligence Community, and break down barriers that impede such
sharing, in order to support the development of a common operating
picture and strategic disruption goals;

     (c)  identify and prioritize the most strategically effective
actions to disrupt the illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids
supply chain, using the full range of tools available, including the
interdiction and seizure of illicit drugs, precursor chemicals, and
associated equipment; criminal, civil, and administrative forfeiture
actions; investigation, arrest, and prosecution of criminal networks;
targeting of the financial mechanisms used to fund the production,
distribution, and sale of deadly drugs; sanctions; visa restrictions and
watchlisting of criminal actors involved in the illicit drug trade; and
increased partnerships with State, local, territorial, Tribal, and
foreign law enforcement partners; and

     (d)  develop and sufficiently resource the institutional
structures, including the supporting technology, to further this
strategic priority in line with the efforts outlined above and below.

     Sec. 2.  Lines of Effort.  In support of the policy set forth in
section 1 of this memorandum, and informed by recommendations from the
President’s Intelligence Advisory Board and the review coordinated by
the Office of the Director of National Intelligence, departments and
agencies are directed to undertake the following mutually-reinforcing
lines of effort, consistent with applicable law, Presidential
directives, and Federal regulations, including those protecting privacy,
civil rights, and civil liberties:

     (a)  Establish and Maintain a Common Intelligence Picture.

\(i\)   Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of
National Intelligence shall produce an Intelligence Community Assessment
on the threat posed to the United States over the next year by illicit
fentanyl and other synthetic opioids that will be accompanied by an
unclassified summary of the key judgments, followed by annual
assessments on this priority issue.

(ii)  The Intelligence Community Assessment referenced in subsection
(a)(i) of this section shall leverage information on synthetic opioids
from the Intelligence Community, law enforcement agencies, and other
relevant departments and agencies; identify and assess the networks
involved in the production, distribution, and sale of synthetic opioids
and the precursor chemicals and equipment used to make these drugs, as
well as the networks’ modes of operation; identify and assess the
financing mechanisms and networks that support the production, sale, and
distribution of synthetic opioids; identify key nodes where disruptive
actions will have the greatest effect; and detail emerging trends.  The
Intelligence Community Assessment will be designed to ensure departments
and agencies, as well as other key partners, are working from a common
intelligence picture.

     (b)  Increase the Scale and Speed by Which Information is Shared
Across Intelligence, Law Enforcement, and Other Relevant Entities.

\(i\)    To support a coordinated, strategic, and information-driven
effort to combat illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids,
departments and agencies need to break down current information silos so
that they are working together more effectively, operating with shared
information, and making coordinated, strategic disruption decisions
accordingly.  This will require departments and agencies to update the
ways they operate to meet the evolving threat, similar to what was done
with respect to counterterrorism after the attacks on September 11,
2001.  Doing so is essential to our Nation’s ability to more effectively
combat the threat.

\(ii\)   The Secretary of the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security shall take immediate steps to ensure that
relevant information in their possession is appropriately shared, in
accordance with applicable authorities, across enforcement entities
leading the fight against illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids
(including the Drug Enforcement Administration, U.S. Customs and Border
Protection, Homeland Security Investigations, the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Internal Revenue Service, the Office of Foreign
Assets Control, the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, and State and
local law enforcement authorities) and with the Department of Defense
and the Intelligence Community, in order to maximize the collective
understanding of the threat and inform disruptive actions.

(iii)  Within 15 days of the date of this memorandum, the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security shall produce a report of the steps being taken pursuant to
subsection (b)(ii) of this section and identify any technical, legal,
practical, or resource obstacles to increased information sharing.

\(iv\)   The Director of National Intelligence shall take immediate
steps to increase information sharing by the Intelligence Community with
law enforcement, including automating the passing of information on
unclassified systems at an appropriate scale and ensuring information is
shared on a sufficiently timely basis for use by law enforcement
agencies in operational activities.

(v)    Within 15 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of
National Intelligence shall produce a report of the steps being taken
pursuant to subsection (b)(iv) of this section and identify any
technical or practical obstacles to doing so and, in consultation with
the Attorney General, shall identify any legal obstacles to doing so.

\(vi\)   The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director
of National Intelligence shall take immediate steps to ensure that any
individuals identified as involved in the transnational illicit fentanyl
and other synthetic opioids supply chain are nominated to the Terrorist
Screening Center’s Transnational Organized Crime Actor Detection Program
(TADP), in accordance with applicable nomination criteria; and shall,
within 30 days of the date of this memorandum: 

\(A\)  review and propose modifications to the TADP nominations criteria
to further support the inclusion of individuals involved in the
transnational illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids supply chain
into the TADP, including recommendations, as warranted, for the
inclusion of United States Citizens and Lawful Permanent Residents in
the TADP;

\(B\)  review and propose modifications, as warranted, to the process by
which individuals nominated to the TADP are appropriately deconflicted
before any adverse actions are taken based on their presence in the
TADP, so as to preserve applicable operational, investigative, or other
enforcement equities.

(vii)  The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the
Attorney General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director
of National Intelligence shall take immediate steps to ensure
that information (to include law enforcement or intelligence
information) about individuals and entities involved in the
transnational illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids supply chain
is shared with the Terrorist Screening Center’s Transnational Organized
Crime Identity Intelligence Platform (TIIP), upon the implementation of
TIIP in accordance with National Security Presidential Memorandum-7; and
develop and implement a plan to automate the downgrade of certain
classified TIIP identifying information for use in the TADP for the
purposes of screening, vetting, watchlisting, and other law enforcement
actions, as authorized.

     (c)  Engage in Strategic Prioritization and Effective Deconfliction
in Support of Common Goals.

\(i\)    It is critical to ensure that departments and agencies work
collaboratively to support strategic disruption efforts, employing all
available tools in support of these efforts.  This requires active
collaboration, coordinated planning, and effective and timely
deconfliction measures.  It also requires strategic use of task forces,
fusion cells, and other interagency bodies to support priority
enforcement — in a manner that is effectively resourced by talent from
relevant departments and agencies and minimizes duplication of efforts.

\(ii\)   Within 5 days of the date of this memorandum, the head of each
department and agency shall designate a senior official to participate
in a National Security Council Fentanyl Disruption Steering Group,
chaired by the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
or his or her designee, to support and oversee implementation of the
policy priorities and directives outlined in this memorandum; identify
and set strategic disruption goals; assist in ensuring that all of the
available resources and tools are brought to these efforts in accordance
with strategic priorities; oversee updates to and implementation of the
Strategic Implementation Plan to Commercially Disrupt the Illicit
Fentanyl Supply Chain; and surface disagreements and challenges for
further Deputy and Principal level review.

(iii)  Within 15 days of the date of this memorandum, all departments
and agencies shall produce a map and detailed description of existing
and planned fusion cells, joint task forces, mission centers, and
similar multi-department initiatives, including an explanation of
purposes, goals, and composition, to be shared with the Chair of the
Fentanyl Disruption Steering Group, to support efforts to ensure
appropriate prioritization and resourcing and minimize duplication of
efforts.

     (d)  Increase Intelligence Collection, Exploitation, and
Dissemination.

(i)  Departments and agencies are directed to take the following actions
to help ensure a common picture and continued development of strategic
and actionable intelligence to support a redoubling of collective
disruption efforts:

(A)  During the upcoming review of the President’s Intelligence
Priorities, which were last issued in 2022, the National Security
Council staff, in consultation with the Director of National
Intelligence, shall make counternarcotics, with a particular focus on
illicit fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, a standalone priority.

(B)  In the interim, the Director of National Intelligence shall take
steps immediately to prioritize collection within the existing
prioritization framework and as consistent with existing authorities,
including by increasing collection, exploitation, and dissemination of
intelligence reporting on:

\(1\)  international actors and networks associated with the production,
distribution, and sale of chemical precursors and associated equipment,
such as pill presses, die molds, and encapsulating machines, used to
produce illicit synthetic opioids;

\(2\)  the mechanisms for transporting illicit fentanyl and other
synthetic opioids into the United States, including key facilitators,
transit routes, locations, and timing for entry; and

\(3\)  the financial activities of drug cartels and facilitators that
support them with wealth-management services, shell and front companies,
and money laundering tactics and techniques, including use of virtual
currency and underground banking systems.

(C)  To support these efforts, the Director of National Intelligence
shall, within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, conduct a review
of how relevant Intelligence Community elements are structured to
collect on this threat and provide recommendations as to how to
prioritize collection within existing resources.

(D)  The Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence
shall pursue, as appropriate and in accordance with applicable
authorities, additional surveillance of non-United States persons
outside the United States engaged in the production, distribution, or
financing of illicit synthetic drugs, pursuant to section 702 of the
Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act, as amended.

     (e)  Further Prioritize These Efforts Across Departments and
Agencies.

(i)    Departments and agencies shall undertake an immediate review of
their internal structures, strategic plans, operational directives,
training programs, and workforce performance mechanisms (i.e., awards,
promotions, career development) to ensure that efforts to strategically
disrupt the production, distribution, and sale of illicit fentanyl and
other synthetic opioids are prioritized, recognized, and incentivized,
in accordance with the direction of this memorandum.

\(ii\)   Departments and agencies shall make any adjustments necessary,
based on this memorandum, to ensure prioritization of these efforts.

(iii)  Departments and agencies shall, within 30 days of the date of
this memorandum, identify additional authorities and resources needed in
order to further the efforts outlined in this memorandum, including
technical and logistical (including space) requirements to effectively
further these efforts, and prioritize efforts to meet these needs.

     (f)  Enhance Coordination with Private Sector Actors.

(i)    Services provided by private actors — including shipping
companies, freight forwarding companies, e-commerce entities, social
media companies, and other technology companies — are regularly used by
drug traffickers to support the distribution and sale of illicit
fentanyl and other synthetic opioids, as well as the precursor chemicals
and equipment used to produce these drugs.  These private sector actors
have access to a wealth of data and other information that can, if
shared in a timely and appropriate way, support enforcement actions.

\(ii\)   Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, departments and
agencies shall review and report the public-private partnerships already
underway, including an assessment of the partnerships, their
effectiveness, and key gaps.

(iii)  The reports described in subsection (f)(ii) of this section shall
include recommendations as to how to increase and improve such
coordination, including recommendations for legislative and
administrative actions.

This memorandum and the lines of effort outlined shall set the Nation’s
primary strategy for disrupting the supply chain for illicit fentanyl
and other synthetic opioids.  Consistent with and pursuant to the
National Security Memorandum-2 process, the results of all audits,
reports, and reviews described herein shall be promptly shared with the
National Security Council staff.  The National Security Council staff,
via the Fentanyl Disruption Steering Group, will hold regular
interagency meetings to ensure full implementation of the policy
direction provided in this memorandum, monitor progress, and oversee the
coordination, information-sharing, and deconfliction processes.  

     Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall
be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
