---
tags: blog
date: '2022-01-21'
modified_time: 2022-01-21 09:53:35-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/01/21/one-year-anniversary/
published_time: 2022-01-21 09:53:34-05:00
title: One Year Anniversary
---
 
One year ago, President Biden and Vice President Harris took office,
facing a divided country, a global pandemic and an economy under severe
stress. The Administration moved quickly to deliver results for working
families and has kept women and families at the center of our agenda.  

On International Women’s Day in March, President Biden signed an
Executive Order formally establishing [the first White House Gender
Policy
Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/),
charged with leading a whole-of-government approach to advance gender
equity and equality and with developing [the first-ever national gender
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/National-Strategy-on-Gender-Equity-and-Equality.pdf). 
To spearhead the Administration’s efforts to promote equal opportunity
for all people, the President has made equity, diversity, inclusion, and
accessibility a priority in appointments to the Cabinet and across the
federal government, appointing a record number of women and people of
color – including the first woman to serve as Treasury Secretary, the
first woman to serve as Director of National Intelligence, and the first
Indigenous woman to serve in the Cabinet.  More of President Biden’s
lower-court judicial nominees were confirmed in his first year than any
president since Kennedy – and he has appointed more Black women on the
Court of Appeals than any President ever. 

In first year, President Biden added 6.4 million jobs – the most ever in
one year – and has managed the fastest growing economy in decades,
turning the tide on women’s labor force participation, which had hit a
33-year low.  Through [the American Rescue
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/American-Rescue-Plan-Fact-Sheet.pdf)
and pandemic response efforts, the Biden-Harris Administration brought
relief to so many women who have borne the brunt of the pandemic,
particularly women of color, and has taken strides to strengthen the
economic security of women and their families: standing up a historic
vaccination program that resulted in more than 200 million Americans
fully vaccinated this year; reopening schools; providing direct payments
to individuals; and helping child care providers keep their doors open. 
And it expanded [the Child Tax
Credit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-whole-of-government-effort-to-ensure-child-tax-credit-reaches-all-eligible-families/),
which has contributed to what experts estimate will be the lowest child
poverty rate on record.

Through [the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/06/fact-sheet-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal/)
which the President signed into law in November, we are supporting
equitable access to the good-paying jobs created through the
legislation’s implementation, including in the sectors where women have
historically been underrepresented.  We are also using our role as the
Nation’s largest employer to [advance diversity, equity, inclusion, and
accessibility across the federal
government](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/),
including by closing gender and racial wage gaps and addressing
workplace harassment, including sexual harassment. 

The President has also taken action to prevent and respond to
gender-based violence wherever it occurs, one of his longstanding
priorities. * *The American Rescue Plan directed [$1 billion in
supplemental
funding](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/10/25/hhs-announces-nearly-800-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-support-domestic-violence-sexual-assault-survivors-their-children.html)
for domestic violence and sexual assault prevention and services,
including [$49.5 million for culturally-specific community-based
organizations](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/fysb/grant-funding/2021-fvpsa-american-rescue-plan-culturally-specific-program-instruction-guidance)
that help survivors from marginalized communities access the services
and support they need.  And the President has championed [the
reauthorization and strengthening of the Violence Against Women
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/HR-1620-Final-3.17.pdf),
which passed the House in March and is now being advanced in the Senate
with bipartisan support. 

He has kept his promise to address the scourge of sexual assault in our
armed forces, signing into law the [National Defense Authorization
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/27/statement-by-the-president-on-s-1605-the-national-defense-authorization-act-for-fiscal-year-2022/),
which included sweeping reforms to the military justice system – the
most significant since the Uniform Code of Military Justice was
established more than seventy years ago.  This bipartisan, historic law
adopts core recommendations of [the Independent Review Commission on
Sexual
Assault](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/02/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-results-of-the-independent-review-commission-on-military-sexual-assault/),
as called for by President Biden. These reforms will fundamentally alter
how the military prosecutes and investigates sexual assault, domestic
violence, sexual harassment, and other serious crimes, and establishes
specialized, independent prosecution units in each military department. 

The Biden-Harris Administration has also taken critical steps to advance
access to comprehensive health care, including reproductive health care,
and defend reproductive rights across the country.  President Biden
issued [a Presidential Memorandum to protect and expand access to
comprehensive reproductive health
care](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/28/memorandum-on-protecting-womens-health-at-home-and-abroad/)
and to revoke the Mexico City policy – the “global gag” rule – that
prohibited federal funding for organizations providing abortion
counseling or referrals.  And the President’s FY 2022 budget removes the
Hyde Amendment restriction from government spending bills, reflecting
the Administration’s support for expanding access to reproductive health
care, through Medicaid and other federally-funded programs.

The Department of Health and Human Services has also issued a final rule
to [strengthen the Title X family planning
program](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/10/04/hhs-issues-final-regulation-aimed-at-ensuring-access-to-equitable-affordable-client-centered-quality-family-planning-services.html)
to ensure that low-income people can access family planning and other
preventive health care, while the Biden-Harris Administration as a whole
has [taken steps to eliminate racial disparities in maternal
health](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/07/fact-sheet-vice-president-kamala-harris-announces-call-to-action-to-reduce-maternal-mortality-and-morbidity/),
including through efforts to reduce complications and mortality in the
year following birth, which disproportionately impact Black and
Indigenous women.  

In addition to efforts to advance gender equity and equality in the
United States, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken action to
protect the rights of women and girls around the world.  At [the United
Nations’ Generation Equality
Forum,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/fact-sheet-united-states-to-announce-commitments-to-the-generation-equality-forum/)
Vice President Harris announced bold commitments to advance women’s
economic security, gender-based violence prevention and response, and
sexual and reproductive health and rights at home and abroad, including
a new Gender Equity and Equality Action Fund focused on women’s economic
security.  And, at [the Summit for
Democracy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/08/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-is-taking-action-to-restore-and-strengthen-american-democracy/),
the Administration emphasized the importance of gender equality and
women’s political participation to democratic progress, launching the
Advancing Women’s and Girls’ Civic and Political Leadership Initiative. 
The United States also committed to lead the Global Partnership for
Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse to improve the
response to technology-facilitated gender-based violence, which
undermines women’s participation in public life.

As we turn to the work ahead, the White House Gender Policy Council is
committed to breaking down the barriers that have long held back women
and girls, especially women and girls of color – and we will continue to
work towards the President’s vision for advancing gender equity and
equality: a world where every person has equal opportunity; where their
safety and security are guaranteed; and where they are treated equitably
and fairly at home and in their schools, workplaces, and communities.
