---
date: '2024-04-25'
modified_time: 2024-04-25 06:08:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-25 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/04/25/following-up-on-the-four-priorities-of-president-bidens-workforce-strategy/
tags: blog
title: "Following Up on the Four Priorities of President\_Biden\u2019s Workforce\_\
  Strategy"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Introduction

The President’s Investing in America agenda delivers historic public
investments to American communities through legislation like the
American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and
Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act. These investments are
[crowding-in](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/08/16/the-economics-of-public-investment-crowding-in-private-investment/)
private investment into critical industries—to date, private companies
have announced $825 billion in investments in growing industries like
semiconductors, clean energy, and electric vehicles—and [creating
hundreds of thousands of
jobs.](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/10/23/bidenomics-in-action-clean-energy-jobs-and-investments-taking-hold-across-america/)

Creation of high-quality jobs for American workers is central to the
President’s economic growth agenda. Already, since President Biden took
office, the economy has added 15 million jobs while the unemployment
rate fell to its lowest level in half of a century, remaining below 4
percent for a record 26 months. But as the President’s agenda brings
clean energy and manufacturing back to America after decades of
offshoring, the Biden-Harris Administration recognizes that this
transition won’t be fully achieved if we don’t build the workforce we
need. Expanded commitments to workforce development are necessary to
successfully create durable, lasting industries through the Investing in
America agenda.

As described in the Administration’s [Roadmap to Support Good
Jobs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-roadmap-to-support-good-jobs/),
the Biden-Harris Administration’s workforce strategy has four central
priorities. First, it is designed to **connect people to good jobs**,
including through evidence-backed training solutions like registered
apprenticeships and other high-quality “earn and learn” pathways, and
supportive services like child care that expand opportunity for American
workers. Second, it is focused on ensuring that we have a **skilled,
diverse** **workforce for our transformational investments**, with
targeted workforce programs that align with growing sectors like clean
energy and manufacturing that President Biden’s agenda has focused on.
Third it ensures every community can **meet its foundational labor
needs**, with policies designed to support short- and long-term labor
supply in critical sectors like health care and transportation that
often struggle to recruit and retain talented workers**.** Fourth, it
prioritizes the **creation of good-paying jobs** with benefits, safety,
stability, and worker voice to ensure that American families and
businesses thrive.

This blog provides additional detail on the economic context for the
President’s workforce strategy along with, for each of these priorities,
recent actions taken, and recent progress in enacting them. 

## **The economics of the President’s workforce strategy**

President Biden took office in the midst of a global pandemic with
staggering economic consequences. In January 2021, the unemployment rate
was 6.4 percent and the labor force participation rate was 61.3
percent—two percentage points below the rate only a year earlier.
However, the workforce problems did not begin with the 2020 pandemic.
The United States had seen a multi-decade-long decline in the [labor
force participation
rate](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/04/Chapter-1.pdf)
for workers between the ages of 25 to 54, falling behind many of its
peer countries. In manufacturing communities, the
[offshoring](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w21906/w21906.pdf)
of domestic manufacturing in the 1990s and early 2000s led to the loss,
by 2011, of one million U.S. manufacturing jobs and 2.4 million jobs
overall.

President Biden came into office determined to address these challenges.
His American Rescue Plan enabled the strongest recovery in decades. And
moving forward,
[external](https://energyfuturesinitiative.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2023/01/NDC-Report-January-17-1.pdf)
[estimates](https://energyinnovation.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Updated-Inflation-Reduction-Act-Modeling-Using-the-Energy-Policy-Simulator.pdf)
predict that over the next decade, the Administration’s Investing in
America agenda will create more than a million jobs in industries like
construction and manufacturing. In addition to making bold investments
in 21<sup>st</sup> century infrastructure and industries, President
Biden has an evidence-backed workforce strategy designed to ensure that
all Americans have the opportunity to get a good, well-paid job in their
community.

The Administration has made investments in evidence-backed training
programs that ensure employers and counselors can play an active role in
providing workers with the skills they actually need in industries with
actual demand for labor.
[Research](https://www.yearup.org/sites/default/files/2020-06/emc-report-2-sustained-gains.pdf)
[shows](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/documents/opre/year-up-report-april-2021.pdf)
[that](https://www.aspeninstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/TuningIntoLocalLaborMarkets-ExecSum.pdf)
demand-driven, sector-focused employment programs can not only increase
employment in targeted sectors, but also have
[positive](https://www.illinoisworknet.com/partners/Documents/Revised%20Final%20ATIM%20Impact%20Report%204.17.pdf)
effects on earnings—especially for
[underserved](https://www.mdrc.org/sites/default/files/WorkAdvance_3-Year_Brief.pdf)
workers entering these programs. These initiatives do not require
students or workers to know on their own what skills the future job
market requires. Instead, programs that produce the
[largest](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/717932) and
most persistent earnings gains make strong connections to employers to
determine in-demand jobs and skills. These programs also tend to provide
larger investments per participant, upfront screening of participants on
basic skills and motivation, and wraparound support services for
participants.

[Registered
Apprenticeship](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ETA/publications/ETAOP_2023_17_ERAI_Literature_Review_Final.pdf)
programs have been shown to be particularly effective at increasing
workers’ earning potential. A
[study](https://www.mathematica.org/publications/an-effectiveness-assessment-and-costbenefit-analysis-of-registered-apprenticeship-in-10-states)
of apprenticeships in 10 states finds that, over their lifetime,
individuals who completed their training earned an average of $240,037
more than nonparticipants, with net social benefits of $49,000 over the
course of the apprentice’s career. Apprenticeships also benefit
employers; one
[study](https://www.abtassociates.com/files/insights/reports/2022/aai-roi-final-report-508c_9-16-22.pdf)
found that, on average, for every $1.00 invested, employers receive
$1.44 in direct and indirect benefits in the years during and after
training an apprentice.

The Biden-Harris Administration invests holistically in places across
the United States, so that workers can get jobs in their communities.
Job programs that are targeted towards regions that have been
underinvested in can have
[particularly](https://www.brookings.edu/bpea-articles/saving-the-heartland-place-based-policies-in-21st-century-america/)
strong payoffs. One recent
[study](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.34.3.99) found
that the economic benefits of policies that add jobs in a given place
(such as government-funded infrastructure projects) are at least 60
percent greater in “distressed” regions than in “booming” ones.

The President’s investments to empower and educate workers are already
paying off. After Georgia received over $37 billion in private
investments for clean energy technology, the city of Augusta has
[partnered](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/)
with five major regional employers to develop their workforce and meet
this increased demand through an Investing in America Workforce Hub.
[Terrence
Tillman](https://www.energy.gov/em/articles/first-joint-cohort-srs-apprentices-graduate-aiken-tech-program),
a recent graduate of a newly expanded apprenticeship program, said “This
is going to change my lifestyle. \[…\] Knowing what the job entails and
what its purpose is, I feel like I’m helping the country and the
community.” Augusta is emblematic of how the Investing in America agenda
can deliver good paying jobs and prepare the workforce for the future.

The President’s workforce strategy prioritizes job quality. An extensive
economic
[literature](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/09/29/good-jobs-and-unions-will-help-build-our-workforce/)
lays out the benefits of improved job quality for workers, households,
and businesses. By improving [job
quality](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/04/06/blocking-the-low-road-and-paving-the-high-road-management-practices-to-improve-productivity/),
employers can more easily attract and retain workers—benefitting their
bottom line. At the same time, improved job quality enables workers to
bring home the pay and benefits that provide an opportunity to reach the
middle class, which in turn supports economic growth.

Paying workers fair wages and providing benefits like paid leave
[can](https://www.princeton.edu/~amas/papers/policepay.pdf)
[increase](https://wpcarey.asu.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Minimum%20Wage%20and%20Individual%20Worker%20Productivity.pdf)
[productivity](https://ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlabec/v5y1987i4ps57-86.html),
[reduce ](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.0019-8676.2004.00375.x)[turnover](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/685449),
and
facilitate [hiring](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1816355) and [retention](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/nataliaemanuel/files/emanuel_jmp.pdf).
Providing childcare
lowers [turnover](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1026575709022) while
increasing the likelihood that parents
can [invest](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0272775711000495) in
training or additional education
and [work](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11150-016-9331-3) (especially [full-time](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10834-018-9582-7)).
Manufacturing firms that focus on [job
quality](https://www.commerce.gov/sites/default/files/migrated/reports/taking-the-high-road-new-data-show-higher-wages-may-increase-productivity-among-other-benefits.pdf),
like increasing pay and providing avenues for workers to have inputs
into the firms’ practices, are better able to attract skilled workers,
experience lower turnover, and generate higher productivity. Similarly,
unions are already playing
a [central](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Labor-Unions-And-The-Middle-Class.pdf) role
in developing and training the workforce for the President’s investments
in America.

## Conclusion

President Biden has prioritized the creation of high-quality jobs for
American workers in two ways—a strong and rapid labor market recovery
and a comprehensive workforce strategy that prepares workers for the
21<sup>st</sup> century economy. As a result, while forecasters
predicted that in 2023 the economy would fall into a recession, the US
economy grew at a healthy 3.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2023,
added over 15 million jobs, saw the unemployment rate fall below 4
percent for a record 26 months, and hit a record low gap between the
highest and lowest state unemployment rates. Further, employment growth
remains solid in specific industries where growth has been catalyzed by
the Investing in America agenda—since January 2021, the economy has
added 848,000 jobs in construction, 768,000 jobs in manufacturing, and
27,500 jobs in clean energy employment.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to making the necessary
investments to connect Americans to good jobs, prepare them for our
transformation investments, ensure every community can meet its
foundational labor needs, and boost job quality. Case in point:
President Biden’s FY25 Budget proposes a new $8 billion Career Training
Fund that would provide approximately 750,000 workers with training and
wrap-around supports, as well as funds to expand public-private
partnerships to offer high-quality training in growing industries.
Investments like these lay the foundation for a thriving U.S. economy
and strong, shared, and stable economic growth.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
