---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-11'
modified_time: 2021-02-12 16:08:25-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/11/a-letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-libya/
published_time: 2021-02-11 18:49:07-05:00
title: "A Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President\
  \ of the Senate\_on the Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to\_\
  Libya"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:) 

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days before the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566
of February 25, 2011, with respect to Libya is to continue in effect
beyond February 25, 2021.

Libyans confront ongoing instability originating from actions Colonel
Muammar Qadhafi, his government, and close associates took against the
people of Libya in 2011.  Civil conflict in Libya will continue until
Libyans resolve their political divisions and foreign military
intervention ends.  Because many of these divisions relate to access to
resources, a serious risk remains that, if not protected, Libyan state
assets will be misappropriated by parties determined to undermine the
ongoing United Nations’ peace process, including former members of the
Qadhafi government, members of the Qadhafi family, or Qadhafi’s close
associates.  The diversion of these resources could prolong and deepen
the current instability in Libya, which benefits ISIS and other
terrorist groups that pose a serious threat to the national security of
the United States and the security of regional partners.  We run the
risk of military escalation if sanctions do not remain in effect,
particularly since those who reject dialogue and obstruct and undermine
Libya’s democratic transition remain interested in exploiting the wealth
of the Libyan people to advance their narrow self-interest and
perpetuate conflict in the country.

The situation in Libya continues to pose an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States,
and we need to protect against the diversion of assets or other abuse by
persons hindering Libyan national reconciliation, including Qadhafi’s
family and associates.

Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 13566 with respect to
Libya.                

Sincerely,

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
