---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-11'
modified_time: 2021-02-11 12:48:45-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-actions-in-response-to-the-coup-in-burma/
published_time: 2021-02-11 12:48:44-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Actions in Response to the Coup\
  \ in\_Burma"
---
 
*Today, President Biden is taking significant steps in response to the
military coup in Burma, and the unjust detention of President Win Myint,
State Counsellor Aung San Suu Kyi and other civilian officials, as well
as human rights defenders, journalists, and civil society leaders.*

*Together with allies, partners, and international organizations, we
will stand with the people of Burma as they reaffirm their support for
democracy through peaceful protest.*  

Today, President Biden is taking concrete actions to hold those
responsible for the February 1 coup to account, and to reaffirm the
United States’ support for the democratic aspirations of the people of
Burma.  
  
In a democracy, force should never overrule the will of the people or
erase the outcome of a credible election.  For almost a decade, the
people of Burma have been steadily working to establish credible
elections, civilian governance, and the peaceful transfer of power. That
progress must be respected.  
  
Today’s sanctions need not be permanent.  Burma’s military should
immediately restore power to the democratically elected government, end
the state of emergency, release all those unjustly detained, and ensure
peaceful protestors are not met with violence.  The results of Burma’s
November 8, 2021 elections must be respected, and Parliament should be
convened at the earliest opportunity.  
  
The United States will continue to work with our allies, partners, and
international organizations as we condemn the actions of the Burmese
military, and call for the immediate restoration of democracy.  We view
this coup as a direct assault on the country’s transition to
democracy.  
  
Today, and in the coming days, President Biden will issue directives and
sign actions:

**Holding Those Involved in the Coup to Account**  
Immediately after reports of the coup surfaced, the Administration made
clear that the United States opposes any attempt to alter the outcome of
Burma’s recent elections or impede the country’s democratic transition,
and that there will be consequences for those who fail to stand with the
people of Burma at this critical time.  
  
**Imposing new sanctions on military individuals and entities**: Today,
President Biden launched a new sanctions regime targeting the Burmese
military and its leaders, as well as their business interests. The U.S.
Department of the Treasury designated 10 individuals and three entities
for their association with the military apparatus responsible for the
coup.  Among these individuals are six members of the National Defense
and Security Council, including Commander-in-Chief of the Burmese
military forces Min Aung Hlaing and Deputy Commander-in-Chief of the
Burmese military forces Soe Win, as well as four members of the State
Administration Council.  Under the new Executive order signed by
President Biden, Treasury can also target the spouses and adult children
of these individuals.     
  
Three entities, including Myanmar Ruby Enterprise and Myanmar Imperial
Jade Co., LTD. which are wholly owned subsidiaries of a conglomerate
owned or controlled by the Burmese military, have also been
designated.  
  
**Imposing immediate export restrictions**: Also today, the Department
of Commerce is taking immediate action to limit exports of sensitive
goods to the Burmese military and other entities associated with the
recent coup. A series of immediate export restrictions is being imposed
on Burma’s Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Home Affairs, armed
forces, and security services in response to their recent activities. We
will continue to assess and develop additional regulatory amendments to
impose further export restrictions on the Burmese military to ensure
that entities involved in the dismantling of democratic norms and
institutions do not have access to U.S. technologies.   
  
**Restricting U.S. based assets:** As the President announced yesterday,
the U.S. government is taking steps to prevent the generals from
improperly accessing more than $1 billion in Burmese government funds
held in the United States.  
While the United States removed sanctions on Burma over the past decade
based on Burma’s progress toward democracy, today’s sanction actions
provide punitive measures against those who seek to thwart the will of
the Burmese people towards democracy.  
  
**Working with Allies, Partners and Like-Minded Institutions**  
  
**Building international support:** The United States will continue to
work with our partners throughout the region and the world to support
the restoration of democracy and the rule of law, as well as to hold
accountable those responsible for overturning Burma’s democratic
transition.  
  
The United States’ close coordination with allies, partners, and
like-minded institutions at every level has resulted in consistent and
strong messages on the coup as an affront to the Burmese people. Last
week, the United States helped bring together the UN Security Council,
which issued a strong statement of support for Burmese democracy. On
February 12, we will join a session of the UN Human Rights Council to
highlight the need for the military to end human rights abuses.  And
President Biden has also spoken about Burma directly with leaders in the
region, including Prime Minister Modi and President Xi. We remain in
close contact with like-minded nations, and welcome statements from the
G7, ASEAN and several of Burma’s neighbors that have strongly condemned
the actions of the Burmese military.  
  
**Prioritizing the People of Burma**

**Ensuring U.S. assistance directly supports the people of Burma:** In
addition, as the President said, through U.S. development and foreign
assistance agencies, we are freezing U.S. assistance that benefits the
Burmese government. We will, however, maintain our support for
healthcare, civil society groups, and other areas that benefit the
Burmese people directly. We will also continue our support for Rohingya
and other vulnerable populations.  
  
As part of today’s actions, USAID will redirect $42.4 million of
assistance away from work that benefits the Government of Burma,
including support for reforming economic policy, to programs that
support and strengthen civil society and the private sector.  
  
USAID will continue its support to the people of Burma with
approximately $69 million in bilateral programs that provide direct
benefits to sustain and improve the health of the people of Burma,
including efforts to maintain democratic space, foster food security,
support independent media, and promote peace and reconciliation in
conflict-affected regions.

\###
