---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-14'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/14/fact-sheet-president-biden-reestablishes-the-white-house-office-of-faith-based-and-neighborhood-partnerships/
published_time: 2021-02-14 10:17:16-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Reestablishes the White\_House Office of Faith-Based\
  \ and Neighborhood\_Partnerships"
---
 
*Biden-Harris administration commits to promoting partnerships with
faith-based and neighborhood organizations to help people in need;
announces Melissa Rogers as Executive Director and Josh Dickson as
Deputy Director*  

Today, President Biden is signing an executive order reestablishing the
White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, which
will promote partnerships with religious and secular organizations to
better serve people in need. As our country grapples with a global
pandemic, a severe economic downturn, the scourge of systemic racism, an
escalating climate crisis and profound polarization, President Biden
knows that civil society partnerships are essential to meeting such
challenges.

Twenty years ago, President George W. Bush established the first White
House Office of Faith-Based and Community Initiatives. As President Bush
said, government cannot be replaced by the efforts of religious and
other community organizations, but government “can and should welcome
\[such organizations\] as partners.” In 2009, the Obama-Biden
administration continued this initiative, while also putting its own
stamp on its name, practices, and policies. For example, this office
helped prevent foreclosure amidst the housing crisis by sharing
information with more than 50,000 faith-based and community stakeholders
on mortgage refinancing and scam prevention; increase the number of
summer meals served to kids for a total of more than 1.2 billion summer
meals served; assist communities in responding to and recovering from
disasters; and train diverse faith leaders on protecting their houses of
worship.  
  
At a time of great challenge and opportunity, the Biden-Harris
administration is re-launching this bipartisan initiative. The
Partnerships Office’s initial work will include collaborating with civil
society to: address the COVID-19 pandemic and boost economic recovery;
combat systemic racism; increase opportunity and mobility for
historically disadvantaged communities; and strengthen pluralism. The
office will also support agency partnerships that advance the United
States Government’s diplomatic, international development, and
humanitarian work around the world.  All of this work will be done in
ways that respect cherished constitutional guarantees.  
  
Leading the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships will be Melissa Rogers, who will serve as the office’s
Executive Director and as Senior Director for Faith and Public Policy in
the White House Domestic Policy Council. Melissa has been a leader on
these issues for decades, including serving from 2013-2017 as Executive
Director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships in the Obama-Biden Administration.

Josh Dickson, White House Senior Advisor for Public Engagement, will
serve as the office’s Deputy Director. He will be a key interlocutor
with faith communities and other stakeholders. Josh previously served as
National Faith Engagement Director for Biden for President, and was
Director of the Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships at
the Department of Commerce during the Obama-Biden Administration. Trey
Baker, who previously served as the National Director of African
American Engagement for Biden for President and is currently a White
House Senior Advisor for Public Engagement, will serve as the office’s
liaison to Black communities, including Black faith communities. The
Partnerships Office will work hand in hand with the wider White House
Office of Public Engagement’s constituency outreach initiatives to
engage and partner with stakeholders of all backgrounds and beliefs in
its efforts to serve individuals and communities in need. The team will
also work with closely with staff in agency Centers for Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships to execute the objectives outlined in today’s
executive order.

“There are not Democrats or Republicans dying from this pandemic, or
losing their jobs, going hungry and facing eviction in this economic
crisis, or facing the sting of systemic racism or the brunt of the
climate crisis,” said President Biden. “They are fellow human beings.
They are fellow Americans. And this is not a nation that can, or will,
simply stand by and watch the suffering around us. That is not who we
are. That is not what faith calls us to be. That is why I’m
reestablishing the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood
Partnerships to work with leaders of different faiths and backgrounds
who are the frontlines of their communities in crisis and who can help
us heal, unite, and rebuild. We still have many difficult nights to
endure. But we will get through them together and with faith guiding us
through the darkness and into the light.”  
  
The White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships will
be an essential part of the Biden-Harris administration’s plan to bring
people of all backgrounds and beliefs together to meet our challenges,
perfect our union, and restore the soul of our country. Specifically,
the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships will
work with civil society partners to:

**Address the Covid-19 Pandemic and Boost Economic Recovery**  
By working with diverse civil society organizations, the Partnerships
Office will help more Americans get facts about COVID-19 and
vaccinations, and support economic recovery efforts. Faith and community
leaders are frequently anchors of their neighborhoods due to the
services they provide and the trust and respect they command, enabling
them to effectively reach the most vulnerable.  
  
**Combat Systemic Racism**  
The Partnerships Office will work closely with organizations and
community leaders to tackle systemic racism and other forms of bias.
Whether it is health, education, economic opportunity, housing, or the
criminal justice system, racial and other disparities abound, and it
will take an all-hands-on-deck effort to fix these problems. The
Partnerships Office is committed to making equity a top priority and
working with stakeholders from all beliefs and backgrounds in pursuit of
a more just and equitable society.  
  
**Increase Opportunity and Mobility for Historically Disadvantaged
Communities**  
The Biden-Harris administration has made a firm commitment to serving
vulnerable communities and people in need, and the Partnerships Office
will play an important role in this work. From supporting immigrants and
welcoming refugees to addressing childhood hunger to helping
minority-owned and rural small businesses grow and thrive, the
Partnerships Office will focus much of its programmatic efforts on these
key administration priorities.  
  
**Advance International Development and Global Humanitarian Work**  
U.S. agencies’ partnerships will also serve people around the world.
Whether it is promoting child and maternal health or defusing conflicts,
these partnerships are vital for the success and effectiveness of the
United States’ diplomatic, international development, and global
humanitarian work.  
  
**Strengthen Pluralism and Respect Constitutional Guarantees**  
A key commitment of the Partnerships Office is embracing pluralism. At
its best, the United States is not only a country with remarkable peace
across our religious differences, it is a nation where people of diverse
faiths and beliefs regularly make common cause. When Methodists and
Muslims, Buddhists and Baptists, Sikhs and Secular Humanists serve
together, we strengthen one another and we strengthen America. As part
of this commitment, the Partnerships Office will work to protect the
right to practice faith without fear, implementing promises
President-elect Biden made about safeguarding faith communities that are
at risk of discrimination, harassment, and hate-based acts of violence
and vandalism.  
  
Fundamental to these goals is respecting our cherished guarantees of
church-state separation and freedom for people of all faiths and none,
as the executive order notes. The Partnerships Office, for example, will
not prefer one faith over another or favor religious over secular
organizations. Instead, it will work with every willing partner to
promote the common good, including those who have differences with the
Administration. As President Biden has repeatedly said, he will be
president for all Americans. In addition to advancing collaborative
efforts to serve people in need, the White House Partnerships Office
will develop and coordinate the Administration’s policy agenda regarding
faith-based and other community organizations.

\###
