---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-19'
modified_time: 2021-02-19 15:16:33-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/19/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-of-his-health-and-human-service-education-and-veteran-affairs-teams/
published_time: 2021-02-19 10:51:25-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Nominees of his Health and Human Service, Education,\
  \ and Veteran Affairs\_Teams"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden named several key nominees to
the Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Education,
and the Department of Veterans Affairs. Chiquita Brooks-LaSure is
nominated to serve as the Administrator for the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services (CMS), James Kvaal is nominated to serve as Under
Secretary of Education, and Richard Sauber is nominated to serve as
General Counsel for the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). As
tested and experienced leaders, these nominees will help advance
President Biden’s Build Back Better agenda and build a stronger, more
resilient, and more inclusive nation that delivers every American a fair
opportunity and an equal chance to get ahead.

**Chiquita Brooks-LaSure, Nominee for Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
Services Administrator**

Chiquita Brooks-LaSure is currently Managing Director at Manatt.
Brooks-LaSure is a former policy official who played a key role in
guiding the Affordable Care Act (ACA) through passage and
implementation, she also provides policy analysis and strategic advice
to healthcare stakeholders across the private and public sectors.
Brooks-LaSure has more than 20 years of experience in health policy. As
deputy director for policy at the Center for Consumer Information and
Insurance Oversight within the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services,
and earlier at the Department of Health & Human Services as director of
coverage policy, she led the agency’s implementation of ACA coverage and
insurance reform policy provisions.

**James Kvaal, Nominee for Under Secretary of Education**

James Kvaal is the president of the Institute for College Access &
Success. He previously served as the deputy domestic policy adviser at
the White House, where he worked on a range of issues related to
economic opportunity. His work on higher education included initiatives
to make college tuition more affordable, protect students from
unaffordable loans, and help many more students graduate from college.
Over the course of his career, he has also served in senior roles at the
U.S. Department of Education, the U.S. House of Representatives,  and
the U.S. Senate. Kvaal has taught at the University of Michigan’s Ford
School of Public Policy and attended Stanford University and Harvard Law
School.

**Richard Sauber, Nominee for Veteran Affairs General Counsel**

Dick Sauber is a skilled litigator who has tried dozens of criminal and
civil fraud cases. Before entering private practice, Sauber was a
federal prosecutor and was appointed by President Reagan to form and
lead the first multi-agency task force to concentrate on pursuing fraud
in government contracts.  In his career, Sauber has tried jury cases in
New York, Washington, California, Texas, Florida and Oklahoma, and his
appellate work includes arguing cases before the Supreme Court and ten
of the U.S. Courts of Appeals. Sauber was an adjunct professor at
Georgetown Law School and has served as general counsel for Freedom
House.

**\###**
