---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-07'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/07/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-former-secretary-george-shultz/
published_time: 2021-02-07 20:31:40-05:00
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden on the Passing of Former Secretary George\_\
  Shultz"
---
 
Few people did as much to shape the trajectory of American diplomacy and
American influence in the 20th century as George Shultz. He was a
gentleman of honor and ideas, dedicated to public service and respectful
debate, even into his 100th year on Earth. That’s why multiple
presidents, of both political parties, sought his counsel. I regret
that, as president, I will not be able to benefit from his wisdom, as
have so many of my predecessors.

For a man so inked into the pages of our history, his mind was always
keyed toward the future. He focused on the possibilities of what could
be, unhindered by the impasses or deadlocks of the past. That was the
vision and dedication that helped guide our nation through some of its
most dangerous periods and ultimately helped create the opening that led
to the end the Cold War. And, while he and I sometimes argued the
opposite sides of issues when I was a young senator, I was proud to
often find common ground on issues vital to the security and prosperity
of the American people.

As the driving force behind the Intermediate Range Nuclear Forces
treaty, Secretary Shultz made real the critical concept that we should
work to negotiate with our adversaries where possible in order to make
life better and safer for our people. I also admired Secretary Shultz’s
commitment to pressing for the rights and release of Refuseniks, raising
them directly with his counterparts in the Soviet Union.

He was a man of incredible courage. Whether it was donning the uniform
of the United States Marines to defend the cause of liberty in World War
II, or speaking out directly to the President of the United States when
he disagreed with a policy, George Shultz knew when to stand and fight.
For the young women and men whose minds he helped shape throughout his
career, there was no better role model for a life of integrity and
service than George Shultz.

Jill and I send our deepest condolences to the entire Shultz family—his
wife, children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren. Our nation
mourns his loss along with you even as we honor his lifetime of
patriotic service.

\###
