---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-09'
modified_time: 2021-02-09 12:36:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/09/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-community-health-centers-vaccination-program-to-launch-next-week-and-another-increase-in-states-tribes-territories-vaccine-supply/
published_time: 2021-02-09 12:36:20-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Community Health Centers Vaccination\
  \ Program to Launch Next Week and Another Increase in States, Tribes, & Territories\u2019\
  \ Vaccine\_Supply"
---
 
*Community Health Center Vaccination Program Will Provide Easier Access
to Vaccinations for Under-Served Communities*

As the U.S. surpasses 26 million COVID-19 infections, President Biden is
taking additional steps today to speed up vaccinations across the
country. The President announced the launch of the Federally Qualified
Health Center program that will provide more vaccines for Community
Health Centers that are reaching our underserved and most vulnerable
communities.  And, the administration will increase the vaccine supply
to states, Tribes, and territories by 5% over last week, for a total of
a 28% increase since President Biden came into office three weeks ago.

These new steps will help meet the President’s goal of administering 100
million shots in 100 days and ensure that vaccines are administered
equitably.

The President is taking the following actions today:

**Launching First Phase of the Federally Qualified Health Center Program
for COVID-19 Vaccination:** As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s
efforts to ensure that the nation’s hardest hit populations are
receiving the vaccine, starting the week of February 15, Federally
Qualified Community Health Centers (FQHCs) will begin directly receiving
vaccine supply. Many people know these as Community Health Centers.
Community Health Centers provide primary care services in underserved
communities across the country. There are more than 1,300 Community
Health Centers serving almost 30 million people across the country.
Two-thirds of the population that these centers serve are living at or
below the federal poverty line and 60% are racial and/or ethnic
minorities. The program will be phased in, with the first centers able
to start ordering vaccines as early as the week of February 15. The
initial phase will include at least one Community Health Center in each
state, expanding to 250 centers in the coming weeks.

This program is part of a broader effort to ensure all communities are
being reached in the national push to get people vaccinated. Community
Vaccination Centers in underserved areas, the retail pharmacy program,
mobile clinics, and efforts to increase vaccine confidence are also key
tools to help states and communities vaccinate their most vulnerable
populations. More information on this program is available at
www.hrsa.gov/coronavirus/health-center-program.

**Expanding Vaccine Supply:** Building on last week’s announcement, the
Biden-Harris Administration will increase overall, weekly vaccine supply
to states, Tribes, and territories to 11 million doses nationwide
beginning this week. This is a 28% increase since taking office on
January 20. The Administration is committing to maintaining this as the
minimum supply level for the next three weeks, and we will continue to
work with manufacturers in their efforts to ramp up supply.

\###
