---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-12'
modified_time: 2021-02-12 18:18:31-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/12/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-safely-reopening-schools/
published_time: 2021-02-12 18:18:30-05:00
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden on Safely Reopening\_Schools"
---
 
But we can do more. Shortly before taking office, I set an ambitious but
achievable goal of opening most K-8 schools by the end of my first 100
days. I’ve said all along that this is a national imperative — one that
can only be achieved if Congress provides states and communities with
the resources they need to get it done safely through the American
Rescue Plan.

It is also a goal we can meet if we follow the science. Today, the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the CDC, has provided the
best available scientific evidence on how to reopen schools safely.   

These scientific guidelines tell us that our schools are safer when we
have appropriate distancing in classrooms and on school buses, when
masks are worn consistently and properly, when handwashing occurs
regularly, and when we are able to effectively respond to cases through
testing and contact tracing, and when we follow other recommended steps.
To meet these guidelines, some schools will need more teachers and
support staff to ensure smaller class sizes, more buses and bus drivers
to transport our kids safely, more spaces to conduct in-person
instruction, and more protective equipment, school cleaning services,
and physical alterations to reduce the risk of spread of the virus.

These needs cost money. But the cost of keeping our children, families,
and educators safe is nothing when compared with the cost of inaction.
Today, an entire generation of young people is on the brink of being set
back up to a year or more in their learning. We are already seeing
rising mental health concerns due in part to isolation. Educational
disparities that have always existed grow wider each day that our
schools remain closed and remote learning isn’t the same for every
student. Our educators are frontline workers who are doing everything
they can to protect and educate our students, despite a lack of
resources and as districts face budget crises that risk education jobs.
Moms — and dads — are exiting the workforce in astonishing numbers in
order to care for and manage the school experience for their children at
home, hindering their own opportunities and further undermining the
health of our economy.

We have sacrificed so much in the last year. But science tells us that
if we support our children, educators, and communities with the
resources they need, we can get kids back to school safely in more parts
of the country sooner.

When my Secretary of Education is confirmed, I will task him with
working alongside school administrators, educators, and parents to
safely accelerate the process of school reopenings. As many states
continue to follow the CDC’s recommendation to prioritize teachers for
vaccination, I urge all states to follow suit.

And given the irreversible costs of inaction, Congress needs to pass the
American Rescue Plan right away — for our children, our families, our
community, and our country.

We know what we need to do.

We need to move fast.

\###

------------------------------------------------------------------------
