---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-24'
modified_time: 2021-02-27 11:37:09-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/24/president-biden-announces-nominees-for-the-united-states-postal-service-board-of-governors-2/
published_time: 2021-02-24 09:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Nominees for the United States Postal Service Board
  of Governors
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced three nominees for the
United States Postal Service (USPS) Board of Governors: Anton Hajjar,
Amber McReynolds, and Ron Stroman. President Biden is committed to the
USPS’ success, and these experienced and tested leaders will ensure the
USPS is running at the highest of service standards and that it can
effectively and efficiently serve all communities in our country.

**Anton Hajjar, Nominee for the United States Postal Service Board**

Anton Hajjar is the former general counsel of the American Postal
Workers Union, AFL-CIO, and has significant experience representing
unions and union workers. Hajjar has also served as an advisor and pro
bono attorney in employment discrimination cases, including those of
Arab- and Muslim-Americans following the September 11, 2001, terrorist
attacks, and continues to serve as a legal adviser to the American-Arab
Anti-Discrimination Committee. In 2002, he was elected to membership in
the American Law Institute and currently serves on its governing board.
Hajjar received his Bachelor’s degree from Fordham University, graduated
with honors from Tulane University Law School, and clerked for Judge
John Minor Wisdom of the Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

**Amber McReynolds, Nominee** **for the United States Postal Service
Board**

Amber McReynolds is a leading expert on election administration and
policy. She is currently the CEO of the National Vote at Home Institute,
a non-partisan non-profit dedicated to expanding and improving
vote-by-mail systems in all fifty states, and former Director of
Elections for the City and County of Denver, Colorado, where her team
implemented a first-in-the-nation ballot tracking, reporting, and
communication program that increased accountability and enhanced
security for mail ballots. McReynolds received her Bachelor’s Degree
from the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana and her Master’s
Degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science.

**Ron Stroman, Nominee** **for the United States Postal Service Board**

Ron Stroman recently served as Deputy Postmaster General and Chief
Governmental Relations Officer for the United States Postal Service.
Stroman previously served in multiple roles in the House of
Representatives including Staff Director and Minority Staff Director for
the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, staff member on the
Committee on Government Operations, and counsel for the House Judiciary
Committee. Stroman has also previously worked in an executive role at
the U.S. Department of Transportation and as an attorney with the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development. He received his Bachelor’s
Degree from Manhattan College and his J.D. from Rutgers University Law
Center.

\###
