---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-02'
modified_time: 2021-02-01 22:07:24-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-outlines-steps-to-reform-our-immigration-system-by-keeping-families-together-addressing-the-root-causes-of-irregular-migration-and-streamlining-the-legal-immigration-syst/
published_time: 2021-02-02 05:10:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Outlines Steps to Reform Our Immigration System\
  \ by Keeping Families Together, Addressing the Root Causes of Irregular Migration,\
  \ and Streamlining the Legal Immigration\_System"
---
 
*Biden-Harris Administration Forms Family Reunification Task Force and
Issues Executive Orders on Regional Migration and Legal Immigration*

On January 20th, the Biden Harris Administration took the first steps in
a broad, whole of government effort to finally reform our immigration
system, including sending to Congress legislation that creates a pathway
to citizenship for the nearly 11 million undocumented immigrants living
in and contributing to our country. Today, the Administration is
announcing a series of additional actions it is taking to rebuild and
strengthen our immigration system.

Today’s actions build on executive actions the President took his first
day in office, including steps to preserve and fortify protections for
Dreamers, end the Muslim and Africa ban, halt border wall construction
and protect Liberian nationals living and working in our country. On day
1, the President also sent the United States Citizenship Act to
Congress, which seeks to modernize our immigration system and smartly
manage our borders, while addressing the root causes of migration.

President Biden’s strategy is centered on the basic premise that our
country is **safer**, **stronger**, and **more prosperous** with a fair,
safe and orderly immigration system that welcomes immigrants, keeps
families together, and allows people—both newly arrived immigrants and
people who have lived here for generations—to more fully contribute to
our country. President Biden knows that new Americans fuel our economy,
as innovators and job creators, working in every American industry, and
contributing to our arts, culture, and government.

Today’s executive actions will:

**Create a Task Force to Reunify Families. **President Biden believes
that families belong together. He has made clear that reversing the
Trump Administration’s immigration policies that separated thousands of
families at the border is a top priority. A key part of this effort is
the creation of a task force to reunite families that remain separated.
This task force will work across the U.S. government, with key
stakeholders and representatives of impacted families, and with partners
across the hemisphere to find parents and children separated by the
Trump Administration. The task force will make recommendations to the
President and federal agencies regarding steps that they can take to
reunify families. Further, the task force will report regularly to the
President and recommend steps to prevent such tragedies from occurring
again. This Order also revokes the Trump Administration’s Executive
Order that sought to justify separating children from their parents.  
  
**Develop a Strategy to Address Irregular Migration Across the Southern
Border and Create a Humane Asylum System.** The Trump Administration’s
policies at the border have caused chaos, cruelty and confusion. Those
policies have undermined the safety of our communities, penalized asylum
seekers fleeing violence, and destabilized security across the Western
hemisphere. Today, the Biden Harris Administration will begin to roll
back the most damaging policies adopted by the prior administration,
while taking effective action to manage migration across the region.

Specifically, the Biden Harris Administration will begin implementing a
comprehensive three-part plan for safe, lawful, and orderly migration in
the region. First, the Administration will address the underlying causes
of migration through a strategy to confront the instability, violence,
and economic insecurity that currently drives migrants from their homes.
Second, the Administration will collaborate with regional partners,
including foreign governments, international organizations, and
nonprofits to shore up other countries’ capacity to provide protection
and opportunities to asylum seekers and migrants closer to home.
Finally, the Administration will ensure that Central American refugees
and asylum seekers have access to legal avenues to the United States.
The Secretary of Homeland Security is also directed to review the
Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) program. The situation at the border
will not transform overnight, due in large part to the damage done over
the last four years. But the President is committed to an approach that
keeps our country safe, strong, and prosperous and that also aligns with
our values. This Executive Order also directs a series of actions to
restore the U.S. asylum system, including by rescinding and directing
agency review of a host of Trump Administration proclamations, rules,
and guidance documents that have effectively closed the U.S. border to
asylum seekers.  
  
**Restore Faith in Our Legal Immigration System and Promote Integration
of New Americans.** President Biden believes that immigrants are
essential to who we are as a nation and critical to our aspirations for
the future. The prior administration enacted hundreds of policies that
run counter to our history and undermine America’s character as a land
of opportunity that is open and welcoming to all who come here seeking
protection and opportunity. This Executive Order elevates the role of
the White House in coordinating the federal government’s strategy to
promote immigrant integration and inclusion, including re-establishing a
Task Force on New Americans, and ensuring that our legal immigration
system operates fairly and efficiently. The order requires agencies to
conduct a top-to-bottom review of recent regulations, policies, and
guidance that have set up barriers to our legal immigration system. It
also rescinds President Trump’s memorandum requiring family sponsors to
repay the government if relatives receive public benefits, instructs the
agencies to review the public charge rule and related policies, and
streamline the naturalization process.

\###
