---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-11'
modified_time: 2021-02-11 09:36:33-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/11/a-letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate/
published_time: 2021-02-11 09:36:32-05:00
title: "A Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President\
  \ of the\_Senate"
---
 
February 10, 2021

Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:)

Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), I hereby report that I have issued an Executive
Order (the “order”) declaring a national emergency with respect to the
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign
policy of the United States posed by the situation in Burma.  The order
responds to the February 1, 2021, coup in Burma by targeting the
military and its leaders, their business interests, and their close
family members.  The order holds to account those responsible for
unjustly arresting and detaining government leaders, politicians, human
rights defenders, journalists, and religious leaders; rejecting the will
of the people of Burma as expressed in elections held in November 2020;
and undermining the country’s democratic transition and the rule of law.

The order would authorize the blocking of property and interests in
property of any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State:

-   to operate in the defense sector of the Burmese economy or any other
    sector of the Burmese economy as may be determined by the Secretary
    of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State;

<!-- -->

-   to be responsible for or complicit in, or to have directly or
    indirectly engaged or attempted to engage in, any of the following:

<!-- -->

-   actions or policies that undermine democratic processes or
    institutions in Burma;

<!-- -->

-   actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or stability
    of Burma;

<!-- -->

-   actions or policies that prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise
    of freedom of expression or assembly by people in Burma, or that
    limit access to print, online, or broadcast media in Burma; or

<!-- -->

-   the arbitrary detention or torture of any person in Burma or other
    serious human rights abuse in Burma;

<!-- -->

-   to be or have been a leader or official of:

<!-- -->

-   the military or security forces of Burma, or any successor entity to
    any of the foregoing;

<!-- -->

-   the Government of Burma on or after February 2, 2021;

<!-- -->

-   an entity that has, or whose members have, engaged in any activity
    described in subsection (a)(ii) of the order relating to the
    leader’s or official’s tenure; or

<!-- -->

-   an entity whose property and interests in property are blocked
    pursuant to the order as a result of activities related to the
    leader’s or official’s tenure;

<!-- -->

-   to be a political subdivision, agency, or instrumentality of the
    Government of Burma;

<!-- -->

-   to be a spouse or adult child of any person whose property and
    interests in property are blocked pursuant to the order;

<!-- -->

-   to have materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial,
    material, or technological support for, or goods or services to or
    in support of any person whose property and interests in property
    are blocked pursuant to the order; or

<!-- -->

-   to be owned or controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act
    for or on behalf of, directly or indirectly, the military or
    security forces of Burma or any person whose property and interests
    in property are blocked pursuant to the order.

In addition, the order suspends entry into the United States of any
noncitizen determined to meet one or more of the above criteria.

I have delegated to the Secretary of the Treasury the authority, in
consultation with the Secretary of State, to take such actions,
including the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all
powers granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry
out the purposes of the order.  I have delegated to the Secretary of
State, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
authority to implement the order as it applies to visas.  I have
delegated to the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with
the Secretary of State, the authority to implement the order as it
applies to the entry into the United States of noncitizens.  All
executive departments and agencies are directed to take all appropriate
measures within their authority to carry out the provisions of the
order.

I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.

                             Sincerely,

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
