---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-10'
modified_time: 2021-02-10 12:37:02-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/10/president-biden-announces-additional-members-of-his-energy-and-jobs-team/
published_time: 2021-02-10 12:37:01-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Additional Members of His Energy and Jobs\_Team"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced two additional members of his
energy and jobs team: David Turk, Deputy Secretary of Energy and Julie
Su, Deputy Secretary of Labor. These tested and experienced leaders will
support the work of Secretary of Energy Nominee Jennifer Granholm and
Secretary of Labor Nominee Marty Walsh in their efforts to address the
worst energy and jobs crisis in nearly a century.

Turk and Su will help advance President Biden’s Build Back Better agenda
by rebuilding America’s middle class and creating an equitable clean
energy future we can depend on.  They will be partners to the President
in building a stronger, more resilient, and more inclusive economy that
delivers every American a fair return for their work and an equal chance
to get ahead.

The following White House announcements were made today:

#### **David Turk, Deputy Secretary of Energy**

Dave Turk is currently the Deputy Executive Director of the
International Energy Agency (IEA). Throughout his tenure at the IEA,
Turk has focused on helping countries around the world on their clean
energy transitions. He has also directed analysis focused on
digitalization and energy, hydrogen, and tracking progress on a wide
range of clean energy technologies. 

Turk also served as the Deputy on the Energy Agency Review Team during
the transition to the Biden-Harris Administration, which provided
recommendations across the full range of Department of Energy (DOE)
issues and offices.

During the Obama-Biden Administration, Turk worked in DOE coordinating
international technology and clean energy efforts. During this time, he
helped spearhead the launch of Mission Innovation, a global effort to
enhance clean energy innovation.

Turk has also served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior
Director at the U.S. National Security Council, where he coordinated
interagency legislative affairs efforts by the full range of national
security Agencies and provided legislative advice to National Security
Council decision-making. He also previously worked at the U.S.
Department of State, including as Deputy Special Envoy for Climate
Change and helping to coordinate New Start Treaty ratification efforts
in the U.S. Senate.  

Earlier in his career, Turk worked in both the U.S. Senate, primarily on
national security issues, and as the Staff Director of the National
Security Subcommittee of the House Oversight Committee.

Turk was born in Quito, Ecuador, and grew up in a small Midwestern town.
He is married to Emily Turk, a registered architect and sustainability
professional, and they have three children.

#### **Julie Su, Deputy Secretary of Labor**

Julie A. Su is currently the Secretary of the California Labor and
Workforce Development Agency. Governor Gavin Newsom appointed Su in
January of 2019 to serve as his cabinet advisor on labor issues and
employment programs for workers and businesses throughout California.

Secretary Su oversees the state departments and boards that enforce
labor laws, including minimum wage and occupational safety standards,
provide state disability and unemployment insurance benefits, fund
workforce training and apprenticeship programs, combat wage theft,
protect injured workers, and arbitrate public sector contract disputes.

Su is a nationally recognized expert on workers’ rights and civil rights
who has dedicated her distinguished legal career to advancing justice on
behalf of poor and disenfranchised communities, and is a past recipient
of a MacArthur Foundation “Genius” grant.

As California Labor Commissioner from 2011 through 2018, Su enforced the
state’s labor laws to ensure a fair and just workplace for both
employees and employers. A report on her tenure released in May 2013
found that her leadership has resulted in a renaissance in enforcement
activity and record-setting results. In 2014, she launched the first
“Wage Theft is a Crime” multi-media, multilingual statewide campaign to
reach out to low-wage workers and their employers to help them
understand their rights and feel safe speaking up about labor law
abuses.

Prior to her appointment as California Labor Commissioner, Su was the
Litigation Director at Asian Americans Advancing Justice-Los Angeles,
the nation’s largest non-profit civil rights organization devoted to
issues affecting the Asian American community. In her 17 years as a
civil rights lawyer, Su brought landmark lawsuits resulting in millions
of dollars for low-wage workers and policy changes in California and the
United States protecting immigrant victims of crime and human
trafficking. In 1995, she was the lead attorney for Thai garment workers
who were trafficked into the United States and forced to sew behind
barbed wire and under armed guard in an apartment complex in El Monte,
California. Su is known for pioneering a multi-strategy approach that
combines successful impact litigation with multiracial organizing,
community education, policy reform, coalition building, and media work.

Su has taught at UCLA Law School and Northeastern Law School. She is a
graduate of Stanford University and Harvard Law School and began her
career with a Skadden Fellowship. Su is the daughter of Chinese
immigrants and speaks Mandarin and Spanish.

\###
