---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-18'
modified_time: 2021-02-18 17:58:49-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/18/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-take-action-on-global-health-through-support-of-covax-and-calling-for-health-security-financing/
published_time: 2021-02-18 17:58:48-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden to Take Action on Global Health through Support\
  \ of COVAX and Calling for Health Security\_Financing"
---
 
As the virus continues to spread throughout the world, and with new
variants emerging, the facts are clear that it is critical that we
vaccinate as many people as possible, as quickly as possible. Tomorrow
at the G7, the President will announce that he is taking concrete steps
to improve the health and the safety of Americans by protecting
vulnerable populations worldwide. He will also call on G7 partners to
prioritize a sustainable health security financing mechanism aimed at
catalyzing countries to build the needed capacity to end this pandemic
and prevent the next one.   
  
COVID has shown us that no nation can act alone in the face of a
pandemic. Today, President Biden is taking action to support the world’s
most vulnerable and protect Americans from COVID-19.  
  
Using money appropriated by a bipartisan Congressional vote in December
2020, the United States will provide an initial $2 billion contribution
to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance for the COVAX Advance Market Commitment,
the innovative financing instrument of the COVAX Facility, which
supports access to safe and effective vaccines for 92 low- and
middle-income economies.  
  
The United States will also take a leadership role in galvanizing
further global contributions to COVAX by releasing an additional $2
billion through 2021 and 2022, of which the first $500 million will be
made available when existing donor pledges are fulfilled and initial
doses are delivered to AMC countries. In close cooperation with Gavi,
this additional $2 billion in funding will serve to expand COVAX’s
reach.  We also call on our G7 and other partners to work alongside
Gavi, to bring in billions more in resources to support global COVID-19
vaccination, and to target urgent vaccine manufacturing, supply, and
delivery needs.  
  
Finally, at the G7 President Biden will reaffirm the U.S. commitment to
global health security and advancing the Global Health Security Agenda. 
All countries should have the capability to prevent, detect, and respond
to outbreaks.  The COVID-19 pandemic and ongoing outbreaks of Ebola in
the Democratic Republic of the Congo and Guinea highlight the need for
sustainable health security financing to catalyze country capacity to
prevent biological catastrophes.  
  
Today, the President is announcing that he will:  
  
**Protect the most vulnerable, protecting America:** The United States’
contribution is designated to help Gavi prevent, prepare for, and
respond to coronavirus through vaccine procurement and delivery for the
world’s most vulnerable. In partnership with Gavi, the bulk of these
funds will be targeted to support direct vaccine procurement, and a
portion will also support broader country readiness and vaccine service
delivery.   
  
**Encourage the global community to action:** Under President Biden, the
United States will take a leadership role in galvanizing new donor
commitments toward the COVAX Facility. The next $2 billion of support
from the US government, which will be additional to today’s initial $2
billion contribution, will be released as we work with other donors to
elevate pledge commitments. The goal is clear: vaccinate vulnerable
populations, and reach those without other options. This funding from
the Administration will enable Gavi to address urgent needs, while also
supporting efforts to diversify and increase contributions from other
donors in 2021.

 ###
