---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-16'
modified_time: 2021-02-15 19:38:07-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/16/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-extension-of-covid-19-forbearance-and-foreclosure-protections-for-homeowners/
published_time: 2021-02-16 04:20:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Announces Extension of COVID-\u206019 Forbearance\
  \ and Foreclosure Protections for\_Homeowners"
---
 
As millions of Americans face continued hardship from the COVID-19
pandemic, President Biden is continuing to take action to help keep
individuals and families in their homes. The COVID-19 pandemic has
triggered a housing affordability crisis. Today, [1 in 5
renters](https://www.cbpp.org/research/poverty-and-inequality/tracking-the-covid-19-recessions-effects-on-food-housing-and)
is behind on rent and just over 10 million homeowners are behind on
 mortgage payments. People of color face even greater hardship and are
[more likely to have deferred or missed
payments](https://www.urban.org/urban-wire/new-data-suggest-covid-19-widening-housing-disparities-race-and-income),
putting them at greater risk of eviction and foreclosure.  

Today, as part of the President’s commitment to deliver immediate relief
for American families bearing the brunt of this crisis, the Department
of Housing and Urban Development, Department of Veterans Affairs, and
Department of Agriculture announced a coordinated extension and
expansion of forbearance and foreclosure relief programs. These critical
protections were due to expire in March, leaving many at risk of falling
further into debt and losing their homes. Now, homeowners will receive
urgently needed relief as we face this unprecedented national emergency.
Today’s action builds on steps the President took on Day One to extend
foreclosure moratoriums for federally guaranteed mortgages.

The actions announced today will:

-   Extend the foreclosure moratorium for homeowners through June 30,
    2021;
-   Extend the mortgage payment forbearance enrollment window until June
    30, 2021 for borrowers who wish to request forbearance;
-   Provide up to six months of additional mortgage payment forbearance,
    in three-month increments, for borrowers who entered forbearance on
    or before June 30, 2020.

The Department of Housing and Urban Development, Department of Veterans
Affairs, and Department of Agriculture worked in lock-step to make sure
that the above actions will reach the greatest number of Americans. Last
week, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, the independent agency that
oversees Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, extended forbearance by three
months for borrowers coming to the end of their forbearance period.
These coordinated actions will cover 70 percent of existing
single-family home mortgages.

President Biden is committed to protecting homeownership and housing
stability as America begins to turn a painful crisis into a robust
recovery. Today’s extended forbearance and foreclosure programs are an
important step towards building stronger and more equitable communities.

To bolster these efforts, it is critical that Congress pass the American
Rescue Plan to deliver more aid to struggling homeowners. The rescue
plan creates a Homeowners Assistance Fund which will provide states with
$10 billion to help struggling homeowners catch up on their mortgage
payments and utility costs. This relief is critical for homeowners with
mortgages in the private market who are not able to take advantage of
today’s actions and may face longer term challenges.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s priorities in extending these
protections are to:

**Provide immediate relief to homeowners across America.** Today’s
actions directly benefit the 2.7 million homeowners currently in COVID
forbearance and extend the availability of forbearance options for
nearly 11 million government-backed mortgages nationwide. Communities
large and small need this assistance. That is why the Department of
Housing and Urban Development, Department of Veterans Affairs, and
Department of Agriculture worked in concert to deliver across-the-board
relief for urban, suburban, rural, and military homeowners, including
seniors with reverse mortgages

**Support hard-hit communities of color.** The health and economic costs
of this crisis have not been evenly felt, a pattern repeated over the
course of the pandemic.Extending forbearance policies will provide
critical support to homeowners of color, who make up a disproportionate
share of borrowers with delinquent loans and loans in forbearance due to
COVID-related hardship. On the first day of his Administration,
President Biden committed to advancing racial equity across all
government programs and policies. Today, agencies are stepping up with
housing relief that will strengthen communities of color and build the
foundation for an equitable recovery.

**Provide a centralized resource for housing assistance.** Homeowners
and renters can visit
[consumerfinance.gov/housing](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/coronavirus/mortgage-and-housing-assistance/)
for up-to-date information on their relief options, protections, and key
deadlines. As federal agencies continue working to implement housing
assistance for American families, the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau offers this website as a one-stop shop for both homeowners and
renters to learn about programs and resources that can help them stay in
their homes by reducing the risk of eviction and foreclosure.

\###
