---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-23'
modified_time: 2021-02-23 08:07:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/23/fact-sheet-the-united-states-canada-partnership/
published_time: 2021-02-23 05:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States-Canada\_Partnership"
---
 
*The United States and Canada share a unique bond. As friends,
neighbors, NATO Allies and partners, this relationship is deeply rooted
in our shared values, our shared history and our shared vision for the
future.*

From national security to global affairs to environmental protection to
free trade, our two countries work closely together. Our bilateral trade
totals nearly $2 billion every day in goods and services, and our
people-to-people ties in education, small business, the arts and culture
are unparalleled.

**Today, President Biden will jointly unveil a new initiative with our
Canadian partners and friends: The U.S.-Canada Partnership Roadmap.**

The Roadmap is a blueprint for our whole-of-government relationship,
based on our shared values and commitment to work in partnership on
areas of mutual concern, such as the recovery from COVID-19 and global
health security, efforts to combat climate change and shared priorities
in defense and security. Through the Roadmap, we will also advance our
shared vision of prosperity, diversity, equity, and justice for all our
citizens.

**Today, President Biden will outline the Roadmap, which will
prioritize:**

**Combating COVID-19**: The President and the Prime Minister’s top
priority is to end the COVID-19 pandemic. The Roadmap will highlight our
nations’ support for the multilateral institutions that are on the front
lines of COVID-19 response, including the World Health Organization
(WHO) and UN development agencies.

**Building Back Better**: The President and Prime Minister share a
vision for a sustainable and inclusive economic recovery that
strengthens the middle class and creates more opportunities for hard
working people to join it, and ensuring people have good jobs and
careers on both sides of the border. The Roadmap highlights cooperation
to strengthen supply chain resilience as well as clean growth driven by
workers, communities, and businesses in both the United States and
Canada.

**Accelerating Climate Ambitions**: Through the Roadmap, President Biden
and Prime Minister Trudeau will launch a High Level Climate Ministerial
to align our policies and our goals to increase ambition to tackle the
climate crisis. They will commit to strengthened implementation of the
Paris Agreement by working jointly and with others to increase the scale
and speed of action toward the goal of net-zero emissions by 2050.

**Advancing Diversity and Inclusion**: The President and the Prime
Minister share a commitment for each of their countries to address
systemic racism, gender-based discrimination, barriers for persons with
disabilities, and all other forms of discrimination and exclusion. The
Roadmap highlights our shared determination to implement more effective,
equitable, and inclusive approaches to community safety, criminal
justice, and law enforcement.

**Bolstering Security and Defense**: As NATO Allies, and with a deep
bilateral defense relationship, the United States and Canada have a
shared interest in Transatlantic security. Our collective security is
underpinned by investments in modern, ready, and capable forces in line
with each Ally’s NATO commitments under the 2014 Wales Defense
Investment Pledge. The Roadmap also underscores the importance of
continued contributions to security in the context of the United Nations
and other global missions. Through the framework of the Roadmap, the
President and the Prime Minister will agree to expand cooperation on
continental defense and in the Arctic, including by modernizing the
North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD), as well as enhancing
law enforcement collaboration by reestablishing the Cross-Border Crime
Forum.

**Building Global Alliances**: The President and Prime Minister will
affirm their shared commitment to addressing global challenges through
the Roadmap through multilateral institutions, including the United
Nations, G7 and G20, the WTO, NATO, and the Five Eyes community.
Finally, the leaders will agree to work towards reviving the North
American Leaders’ Summit as a recommitment of solidarity among the
United States, Canada, and Mexico.

\###
