---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-04'
modified_time: 2021-02-05 11:56:46-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/04/memorandum-renewing-the-national-security-council-system/
published_time: 2021-02-04 20:22:38-05:00
title: Memorandum on Renewing the National Security Council System
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/nSM-2

SUBJECT: Renewing the National Security Council System

To assist the President in carrying out his responsibilities in the area
of national security, I hereby direct that the National Security Council
system be organized as follows.

A.  The National Security Council

The National Security Council (NSC) shall be the principal forum for
consideration of national security policy issues requiring Presidential
determination.  The functions, membership, and responsibilities of the
NSC shall be as set forth in the National Security Act of 1947, as
amended, and this National Security Memorandum.

The NSC shall advise and assist the President in integrating all aspects
of national security policy.  Along with its subordinate committees, the
NSC shall be the President’s principal means for coordinating executive
departments and agencies in the development and implementation of
national security policy, and in long-term strategic planning.

The NSC shall have as its members the President, Vice President,
Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, Secretary of Defense, and
Secretary of Energy, as prescribed by statute.  In addition, the
membership of the NSC shall include the Attorney General, the Secretary
of Homeland Security, the Representative of the United States of America
to the United Nations, the Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff
(Chief of Staff to the President), the Assistant to the President for
National Security Affairs (National Security Advisor), the Assistant
to the President and Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy (OSTP Director), and the Administrator of the United States
Agency for International Development.  The Director of National
Intelligence and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, as
designated by statute, and the Director of the Central Intelligence
Agency, shall attend NSC meetings in an advisory capacity.  The Counsel
to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President and NSC Legal
Advisor (NSC Legal Advisor) shall be invited to attend every NSC
meeting.  The Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security
Advisor (Principal Deputy National Security Advisor) shall attend every
NSC meeting, and serve as Secretary.

Given the cross-cutting nature of a number of critical national security
issues — such as homeland security, global public health, international
economics, climate, science and technology, cybersecurity, migration,
and others — the NSC’s regular attendees will include, as appropriate: 
the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
the United States Trade Representative, the National Cyber Director, the
Assistant to the President for Economic Policy, the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy, the Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and
Deputy National Security Advisor (Homeland Security Advisor), the Deputy
Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor for
Cybersecurity and Emerging Technologies (Deputy National Security
Advisor for Cybersecurity), the Deputy Assistant to the President and
Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics (Deputy
National Security Advisor for International Economics), the COVID-19
Response Coordinator, or the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate. 
The heads of other executive departments and agencies, and other senior
officials, shall be invited to attend meetings of the NSC as
appropriate.

The NSC shall meet regularly and as required.  The National Security
Advisor, at the President’s direction and in consultation with other
members of the NSC, shall be responsible for determining the agenda,
ensuring that necessary papers are prepared in advance, and recording
and communicating NSC actions and Presidential decisions in a timely
manner.

B.  The Principals Committee

The Principals Committee (PC) will be the senior interagency forum for
consideration of policy issues affecting national security.  The
National Security Advisor shall serve as Chair, and its regular members
will be the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the Treasury, the
Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Energy, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, the Representative of the United States of America to the
United Nations, the Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, and the Chief of Staff to the President.  The
Director of National Intelligence, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall attend
in an advisory capacity.  The Principal Deputy National Security
Advisor, the Counsel to the President, the NSC Legal Advisor, and the
National Security Advisor to the Vice President shall be invited to
attend every meeting of the PC.

Additional regular attendees will be added to the PC when cross-cutting
national security issues are on the agenda.  Depending on the issue,
those attendees will include:  the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Commerce, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Administrator
of the Environmental Protection Agency, the United States Trade
Representative, the National Cyber Director, the Assistant to the
President for Economic Policy, the Chairman of the Council of Economic
Advisers, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, the OSTP
Director, the Deputy National Security Advisor for Cybersecurity, the
Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics, the
COVID-19 Response Coordinator, or the Special Presidential Envoy for
Climate.  When homeland security-related issues are on the agenda,
regular attendees will include the Homeland Security Advisor, who, at
the discretion of the National Security Advisor, may serve as Chair.
 The heads of other executive departments and agencies, along with
additional senior officials, shall be invited as appropriate.

The PC shall meet regularly, and as called by the National Security
Advisor.  The National Security Advisor shall determine the agenda in
consultation with the other committee members, and shall ensure that
necessary papers are prepared in advance and that conclusions and
decisions are recorded and communicated in a timely manner.  In
reporting to the President, the National Security Advisor will represent
attendee views and differences faithfully.

C.  The Deputies Committee

The Deputies Committee (DC) shall review and monitor the work of the NSC
interagency process (including Interagency Policy Committees established
pursuant to section D below) and consider and, where appropriate,
resolve policy issues affecting national security.  The DC shall also
help ensure that issues being brought before the PC or the NSC have been
properly analyzed and prepared for decision.  The DC shall also focus
significant attention on policy implementation and strategic planning.
 Periodic reviews of my Administration’s major foreign policy
initiatives shall be scheduled to ensure that they are being implemented
in a strategic, coordinated, timely, and effective manner.  Such reviews
should consider whether existing policy directives should be adjusted,
refreshed, or rescinded.

The Principal Deputy National Security Advisor shall chair the DC.  Its
members are the Deputy Secretary of State, the Deputy Secretary of the
Treasury, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Attorney General,
the Deputy Secretary of Energy, the Deputy Secretary of Homeland
Security, the Deputy Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United
Nations, the Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, the NSC Legal Advisor, and the National
Security Advisor to the Vice President.  The Deputy Director of National
Intelligence, the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the
Deputy Director of the Central Intelligence Agency shall attend as
advisors.

Additional regular attendees will be added to the DC when cross-cutting
national security issues are on the agenda.  Depending on the issue,
those attendees will include:  the Deputy Secretary of Labor, the Deputy
Secretary of Commerce, the Deputy Secretary of Health and Human
Services, Assistant Administrators of the Environmental Protection
Agency, Deputy United States Trade Representatives, the Deputy National
Cyber Directors, Deputy Directors of the National Economic Council,
Deputy Directors of the Domestic Policy Council, Associate Directors of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy, the Deputy COVID-19
Response Coordinator, or the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate. 
The Homeland Security Advisor, the Deputy National Security Advisor for
Cybersecurity, and the Deputy National Security Advisor for
International Economics shall attend the DC when issues relevant to
their positions are on the agenda and, at the discretion of the
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor, may chair the DC.  The Chair
may also invite representatives of other executive departments and
agencies, and other senior officials, to attend meetings of the DC as
appropriate.

The DC shall meet regularly, as called by the Principal Deputy National
Security Advisor — or, at the discretion of the Principal Deputy
National Security Advisor, by a Deputy National Security Advisor — in
consultation with the members of the DC.  A Deputy National Security
Advisor will be responsible for determining the agenda, ensuring that
the necessary papers are prepared in advance, and preparing and
circulating conclusions and decisions in a timely manner.  The DC shall
ensure that all papers to be discussed by the NSC or the PC fully
analyze the issues, fairly and adequately set out the facts, consider a
full range of views and options for decision, and fully assess the
prospects, risks, and implications of each.

D.  Interagency Policy Committees

Management of the development and implementation of national security
policies by multiple agencies of the United States Government shall be
accomplished by Interagency Policy Committees (IPCs).  The IPCs shall be
the main day-to-day fora for interagency coordination of national
security policy.  They shall provide policy analysis for consideration
by the more senior committees of the NSC system and ensure timely
responses to decisions made by the President.  The IPCs shall be
established at the direction of the National Security Advisor, and be
chaired by his or her designees.

The IPCs shall convene on a regular basis to review and coordinate the
implementation of Presidential decisions in their policy areas, and
consider and where appropriate resolve policy issues affecting national
security.  Guidelines shall be established governing the operation of
the IPCs, including participation and scope, mandate, and time frames
for decision making.

An early meeting of the DC will be devoted to setting up the IPCs and
providing their mandates for reviewing policies and developing options
in their respective areas, and the DC will meet annually thereafter to
review the list of existing IPCs and modify it, as necessary.  The IPCs
will replace the existing system of Policy Coordination Committees.

E.  General

The Vice President and I may attend any and all meetings of any entity
established by or under this memorandum.

This document is one in a series of National Security Memoranda that,
along with National Security Study Memoranda, shall replace National
Security Presidential Memoranda and Space Policy Directives as
instruments for communicating Presidential decisions about national
security policies of the United States.  This memorandum shall supersede
all other existing Presidential guidance on the organization of the
National Security Council system.  With regard to its application to
economic matters, this memorandum shall be interpreted in concert with
any Executive Order governing the National Economic Council and with
Presidential documents signed hereafter that implement either this
memorandum or that Executive Order.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
