---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-02-04'
modified_time: 2021-02-05 13:29:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/04/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-executive-actions-restoring-americas-place-in-the-world/
published_time: 2021-02-04 17:36:07-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden to Sign Executive Actions Restoring America\u2019\
  s Place in the\_World"
---
 
*The Biden-Harris Administration is placing diplomacy back* *at the
center of United States’ foreign policy.*

*U.S. international engagement to be grounded in American values,
working in partnership with allies and focused on strengthening
international institutions.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Today, President Biden is sending a message loud and clear to the rest
of the world: America is back. 

Since taking office, President Biden has already undertaken a number of
steps to strengthen our nation at home and restore our standing in the
world. The United States has begun the process of rejoining the Paris
Climate Agreement, re-engaged the World Health Organization, and pledged
to join COVAX. President Biden has signed executive actions to combat
climate change, and reversed both the xenophobic and bigoted so-called
“Muslim Ban” and the ban on transgender individuals serving in our
military. He signed an Executive Order strengthening Buy American
provisions to help the American middle class succeed in a global
economy, and has surged resources to combating COVID-19. And earlier
this week, the President has taken additional actions to rebuild and
strengthen our immigration system, centered on the basic premise that
America is safer, stronger, and more prosperous with a fair, orderly and
humane immigration system that welcomes immigrants, keeps families
together, and allows people—both newly arrived immigrants and people who
have lived here for generations—to more fully contribute to our country.
Through early outreach to friends and partners, we are rebuilding
crucial alliances that will help us face the challenges of the
21<sup>st</sup> century in harmony with like-minded nations.

Today, President Biden is taking additional action to reassert our
values on the world stage, to restore clarity and leadership to how
America makes its foreign policy, and to support and empower the
national security professionals who execute our policies, building a
modern national security force that looks like the nation it serves.

### Leading with Our Values: Presidential Memorandum on Advancing the Rights of LGBTQI+ Persons Around the World

Restoring our historic, bipartisan policy of generous support to
refugees is central to a values-based foreign policy that demonstrates
American moral leadership on the world stage. Today President Biden
approved executive actions to:

**Restore one of America’s most deeply valued programs: the United
States’ refugee admissions program.** Today’s Executive Order will
launch administrative reforms efforts to allow us to reach our goal of
increasing refugee admissions to 125,000 in the first full fiscal year
of the Biden-Harris Administration.  This Executive Order will 1)
rescind policies from the previous administration that limited refugee
resettlement and required excessive vetting of applicants, 2) improve
USRAP’s efficacy, integrity, security, and transparency, 3) expand
refugee adjudication capacity, 4) enhance access for the most vulnerable
refugees, including women, children, and those at risk of persecution
because of their gender, gender identity, or sexual orientation, and 5)
review the current Special Immigrant Visa (SIV) Program for Iraqis and
Syrians, including considering whether to pursue legislation for a SIV
program for individuals who serve the United States in conflict areas.
President Biden also intends to propose a raise in refugee admissions
for this fiscal year, after appropriate consultation with Congress.

**Protect and Promote Human Rights of LGBTQI+ persons around the
world.** President Biden strongly believes all people should be treated
with respect and dignity, and be able to live without fear no matter who
they are or whom they love. Today, he will sign aPresidential Memorandum
to protect and promote the human rights of LGBTQI+ persons around the
world. This Memorandum builds on guidance first issued by President
Obama in 2011, and directs relevant federal agencies to engage
constructively to advance protections for the human rights of LGBTQI+
persons abroad. We demonstrate leadership on human rights by reinforcing
protections for the most vulnerable, including LGBTQI+ persons. This
Memorandum restores clarity to the U.S. position by directing all
departments and agencies engaged abroad to ensure that our diplomacy and
foreign assistance promotes and protects the rights of LGBTQI+ persons,
including combating the criminalization of LGBTQI+ status or conduct,
enhancing our range of diplomatic responses to protect human rights
abuses of LGBTQI+ persons, building coalitions with civil society and
international organizations, requiring annual reporting by the State
Department on human rights abuses experienced by LGBTQI+ persons
globally, and rescinding inconsistent policies within 100 days of
signing.

### Revitalizing America’s National Security Workforce, Institutions, and Partnerships

To reclaim our place in the world, the Biden-Harris administration will
undertake a bold and sustained effort to revitalize and modernize the
national security workforce, ensuring that it reflects the full
diversity of the United States, and renewing and modernizing our
national security institutions and partnerships.

In all of today’s actions, President Biden is centering the integrity
and judgment of America’s public servants. Their oath is to the
Constitution of the United States, and these career officials have the
responsibility and obligation to serve the public interest by offering
their expert views and judgments without regard to the political
preferences of the Administration and without fear of reprisal or
retribution.

President Biden will sign a National Security Memorandum to:

**Modernize how the national security community recruits, retains, and
empowers its workforce to lead on new and emerging national security
challenges**. This NSM will also ensure that our national security
workforce reflects the unparalleled talent and diversity of our nation.
It will establish an interagency working group to develop proposals to
recruit, retain, and support national security professions, including
creating additional pathways for Americans with skills in critical areas
such as cyber, technology, and science, technology, engineering, and
math to engage in public service. It also organizes the national
security community to better work with outside partners, including state
and local governments, colleges and universities, and civil society.

### Organizing and Strengthening the National Security Council (NSC)

President Biden will sign a National Security Memorandum to:

**Outline the structure of the National Security Council and the manner
in which the Biden administration will pursue our most important
objective: the safety, security, and prosperity of the American
people. **Today’s interlocking challenges require a new and broader
understanding of national security, one that recognizes that traditional
national security, economic security, health security, and environmental
security are all linked. The Biden NSC structure will reflect the
cross-cutting nature of our most critical national challenges by more
regularly integrating cabinet officials from domestically-focused
agencies into national security decision-making. President Biden has
also made clear that his National Security Council will bring
professionalism, respect, transparency, inclusivity, collaboration,
collegiality, and accountability to its work. Above all, the Biden
administration will respect the rule of law and act consistently with
our values.

\###
