---
date: '2022-07-15'
published_time: 2022-07-15 07:44:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/15/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-president-abbas-of-the-palestinian-authority/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Abbas of the Palestinian\_\
  Authority"
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met with Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas. President Biden reaffirmed the enduring ties
between the Palestinian and American peoples and underscored his
commitment to a two-state solution on the 1967 lines with land swaps
mutually agreed by the Israelis and Palestinians. He also highlighted
the importance of direct negotiations leading to an independent,
sovereign, viable, and contiguous Palestinian state alongside the State
of Israel, both enjoying secure and recognized borders, allowing the two
peoples to live side-by-side in peace and security.

In the meeting, President Biden highlighted a number of initiatives the
United States is undertaking to support the Palestinian people.
President Biden also discussed encouraging regional governments and the
international community to assist the Palestinian people.

The leaders reaffirmed that both Palestinians and Israelis deserve to
enjoy equal measures of freedom, security, prosperity, and democracy.
President Biden emphasized his belief that the Palestinian people
deserve to live lives of dignity and opportunity; to move and travel
freely; to feel secure in their communities; and to give hope to their
children that they will one day enjoy the same freedom and
self-determination of their neighbors.

President Biden reiterated the importance of fostering a political
horizon, and noted the United States stands ready to work with Israelis,
Palestinians, and regional stakeholders toward that goal. As he had
relayed to Israeli leaders, President Biden conveyed to President Abbas
that in order to create the conditions for negotiations, it was
important for both parties to avoid unilateral measures.

President Biden reiterated the U.S. position that Jerusalem is the
capital of Israel, and that it continues to be the policy of the United
States that the specific boundaries of sovereignty in Jerusalem must be
resolved through final status negotiations between Israelis and
Palestinians. He further reaffirmed the need to preserve the historic
status quo at the holy sites in Jerusalem, recognizing the Hashemite
Kingdom of Jordanâ€™s crucial role as custodian.
