---
date: '2022-07-29'
published_time: 2022-07-29 11:38:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/29/readout-of-white-house-meeting-on-wildfire-prevention/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting on Wildfire\_Prevention"
---
 
Homeland Security Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall and Secretary of Energy
Jennifer Granholm convened a meeting yesterday with CEOs from the
American electricity sector and senior leaders from the U.S. Department
of Agriculture, the U.S. Forest Service, the Department
of the Interior, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the
Federal Aviation Administration to identify opportunities to further
strengthen public-private cooperation to protect our communities from
the accelerating threat of devastating wildfires, which is being
exacerbated by the climate crisis.

The total number of acres burned this year is 72% above the 10-year
average. Homeland Security Advisor Sherwood-Randall emphasized [the
President’s direction to rapidly improve our collective prevention,
preparedness, and response
capabilities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/28/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-continues-efforts-to-address-growing-wildfire-threat/)through
close partnerships with State, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments and the private sector. She also recognized that the
Inflation Reduction Act, if enacted, will bolster national resilience by
investing in clean energy and strengthening our grid, in response to the
devastating convergence of extreme heat, drought, and wildfires that are
being experienced across our Nation. 

Secretary Granholm emphasized the urgent need to evolve the national
approach to wildfires and highlighted numerous steps the Department of
Energy is taking to address the evolving threat, including making $5
billion of Bipartisan Infrastructure Law grant funding available
to increase grid resilience, including reducing the impacts of wildfires
and extreme weather events on American communities, and bringing to bear
the science and technology expertise of the DOE National Laboratory
network to develop innovative capabilities for prediction, detection and
fire suppression.

Utility CEOs talked about their efforts to prepare for peak wildfire
season and proposed streamlining processes for enabling critical
wildfire risk reduction activities, expediting the deployment of new
technologies, and improving communication between government and the
private sector.  They also voiced their strong support for additional
resources for Federal departments and agencies to enable urgently needed
additional support to wildfire prevention, forest management, and
frontline firefighters.

\###
