---
date: '2022-07-16'
modified_time: 2022-07-16 18:56:41-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-16 18:48:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/16/fact-sheet-the-united-states-strengthens-cooperation-with-middle-east-partners-to-address-21st-century-challenges/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States Strengthens Cooperation with Middle East Partners\
  \ to Address 21st Century\_Challenges"
---
 
Today, President Biden met in Jeddah with the leaders of the Gulf
Cooperation Council (GCC) – Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia,
and the United Arab Emirates – the Republic of Egypt, the Republic of
Iraq, and the Kingdom of Jordan (together known as the GCC+3). Named the
“Jeddah Security and Development Summit,” this was the first summit of
its kind among these nine countries. Throughout, the leaders reaffirmed
their commitment to a prosperous, peaceful, and integrated Middle East
region, and in working together to address global challenges, such as
confronting new diseases, ensuring food and energy security, and
addressing the climate crisis through partnerships.  

At the Summit, President Biden reiterated the importance the United
States places on its decades-long strategic partnerships in the Middle
East region, affirmed the United States’ enduring commitment to the
security and territorial defense of U.S. partners, and recognized the
region’s increasingly important role as a trade and
technology crossroads between hemispheres.  He also strongly affirmed
the centrality of the Middle East region to the long-term security and
prosperity of the United States and the American people. 

**America’s Commitment to the Middle East Region **

President Biden set forth five declaratory principles – partnership,
deterrence, diplomacy, integration, and values – to guide U.S.
engagement in the Middle East over the coming decades:

1. **Partnerships**: The United States will support and
strengthen partnerships with countries that subscribe to the rules-based
international order, and we will make sure those countries can defend
themselves against foreign threats.

2. **Deterrence: **The United States will not allow foreign or regional
powers to jeopardize freedom of navigation through the Middle East’s
waterways, including the Strait of Hormuz and the Bab al Mandab, nor
tolerate efforts by any country to dominate another – or the region –
through military buildups, incursions, or threats.  

3. **Diplomacy: **The United States will not just aim to deter threats
to regional stability, we will work to reduce tensions, de-escalate, and
end conflicts wherever possible through diplomacy. 

4. **Integration: **The United States will build political, economic,
and security connections between U.S. partners wherever possible, while
respecting each country’s sovereignty and independent choices. 

5. **Values: **The United States will always promote human rights and
the values enshrined in the UN Charter.  

This address by President Biden frames U.S. engagement going forward in
a manner that harnesses unique American capabilities, in concert with
long-standing U.S. partners. 

In addition, the leaders around the table agreed to:

**Ensure Food Security for the Middle East’s Most Vulnerable
Populations**

• President Biden announced the United States has committed $1 billion
in new acute near to long term food security assistance for the Middle
East and North Africa (MENA) region.  Recognizing that the impacts of
and capacity to respond to global food insecurity are unevenly
distributed across countries, leaders of the Gulf Cooperation Council
underscored their commitment to supporting vulnerable populations in the
MENA region through the Arab Coordination Group (ACG)’s
recently-announced $10 billion food security package.  Together, the
United States and the GCC countries will leverage their collective
assistance funds to address immediate humanitarian needs and
disruptions, including guaranteeing full, safe, and unhindered
humanitarian access to populations in need across the region. 

• The United States, the GCC members, Egypt, Iraq, and Jordan signed
the *Roadmap for Global Food Security – Call to Action*, which was
unveiled in May 2022 at the Ministerial Meeting of the United Nations.
 At the GCC+3 Summit, leaders affirmed their collective commitment to
act with urgency, at scale, and in concert to respond to the urgent food
security and nutrition needs of millions of people in vulnerable
situations the world.  They committed to provide immediate humanitarian
assistance, build resilience of those in vulnerable situations, near-to
medium food security assistance to strengthen social protection and
safety nets, and strengthen sustainable, resilient, and inclusive food
systems in line with the objectives of the United Nations 2030 Agenda
for Sustainable Development and its Sustainable Development Goals, and
the objectives of the 2021 UN Food Systems Summit. 

**Enhance Strategic Investment Cooperation**

• GCC partners plan to invest a total of $3 billion in projects that
align with U.S. Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
(PGII) goals to deliver quality, sustainable infrastructure that makes a
difference in people’s lives around the world, strengthens and
diversifies our supply chains, creates new opportunities for American
workers and businesses, and advances our national security.  

• The Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, which the
President and G7 leaders unveiled at the June 26, 2022, G7 Summit, will
be executed across four priority pillars that will define the second
half of the 21<sup>st</sup> century.  This includes:

o Tackling the climate crisis and bolstering global energy security
through investments in climate resilient infrastructure,
transformational energy technologies, and developing clean energy supply
chains across the full integrated lifecycle, from the responsible mining
of metals and critical minerals; to low-emissions transportation and
hard infrastructure; to investing in new global refining, processing,
and battery manufacturing sites; to deploying proven, as well as
innovative, scalable technologies in places that do not yet have access
to clean energy.

o Developing, expanding, and deploying secure information and
communications technology (ICT) networks and infrastructure to power
economic growth and facilitate open digital societies—from working with
trusted vendors to provide 5G and 6G digital connectivity, to supporting
access to platforms and services that depend upon an open,
interoperable, secure, and reliable internet and mobile networks with
sound cybersecurity.

o Advancing gender equality and equity—from care infrastructure that
increases opportunities for economic participation by women, to improved
water and sanitation infrastructure that addresses gender gaps in unpaid
work and time use – in order to boost the global economic recovery by
ensuring that half the population is not forced to sit on the sidelines.

o Developing and upgrading the infrastructure of health systems and
contributing to global health security through investments in
patient-centered health services and the health workforce; vaccine and
other essential medical product manufacturing; and disease surveillance
and early warning systems, including safe and secure labs. Addressing
the current pandemic and preventing and preparing for the next one is
crucial to U.S. economic and national security.

**Improve Patient Care for Palestinians**

• Following President Biden’s July 15 announcement of a U.S.
contribution of $100 million for the East Jerusalem Hospital Network,
Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE pledged $25 million each for a
matching total of $100 million.  Our combined $200 million assistance
package will help the East Jerusalem Hospital Network upgrade its
infrastructure and improve patient care for thousands of Palestinians in
the West Bank, East Jerusalem, and Gaza who rely on the network for
life-saving treatment.    

**Further Iraq’s Energy Integration with the GCC and Jordan**

• President Biden welcomed Iraq concluding agreements with Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait, and Jordan to bring affordable energy to Iraq and diversify its
supply and ensure energy resiliency to meet the growing needs of its
people.  The landmark agreement signed today between Iraq and the GCC
Interconnection Authority (GCCIA) will link Iraq’s electricity grid to
the grids in the GCC thereby providing the Iraqi people with new and
diversified sources of electricity over the coming decade. 

**Address Global Economic Security **

• President Biden spoke with Middle East leaders about the importance
of addressing current global energy insecurities and managing energy
price pressures by ensuring a steadily increasing supply by producing
countries through 2022 and 2023, including through increasing
investments in refining capacity.  President Biden welcomed the recent
announcement by OPEC+ to increase supply over the course of July and
August.  President Biden anticipates additional supply increases over
the coming months, depending on market conditions and analysis,
including record-setting domestic production from the United States.

**Integrated Air and Martine Defense Cooperation**

• President Biden affirmed the United States’ commitment to accelerate
ongoing work with its allies and partners in the Middle East to
integrate and enhance security cooperation.  In particular, the United
States is committed to advancing a more integrated and
regionally-networked air and missile defense architecture and countering
the proliferation of unmanned aerial systems and missiles to non-state
actors that threaten the peace and security of the region. 

• President Biden also reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to preserving the
free flow of commerce through strategic international waterways like the
Bab al-Mandab and the Strait of Hormuz, through which 40 percent of the
world’s energy passes every day, via multiple joint naval task forces,
in partnership with longstanding U.S. partners integrated through U.S.
Central Command. 
