---
date: '2022-07-11'
modified_time: 2022-07-12 09:55:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-11 21:55:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/11/background-press-call-on-president-bidens-upcoming-meeting-with-president-lopez-obrador-of-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call on President\_Biden\u2019s Upcoming Meeting with President\
  \ L\xF3pez Obrador of\_Mexico"
---
 
5:30 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, William.  And thank you, everyone, for
joining us today and for your patience as we had to push this back due
to a long-running meeting.  Appreciate you all joining our background
press call to preview President Biden’s upcoming meeting with President
López Obrador.

As a reminder of the ground rules, this briefing will be on background,
attributable to “senior administration officials,” and is embargoed
until 5:00 a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow, Tuesday, July 12.

For your awareness but not for reporting purposes, our speakers tonight
will be \[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].

With that, I’ll kick it over to \[senior administration official\] to do
our opening remarks.  And after that, we’ll open it up for Q&A.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you, everybody, for
joining the phone call and for accommodating the last-minute changes. 

So, getting right to it, the President has invited President López
Obrador to the White House with an objective of building on the
significant progress made at the Summit of the Americas this past June
and to discuss our broad and deep partnership.

This is the second — this will be the second time that the two leaders
will meet at the White House, though they also had a virtual meeting
during the pandemic.  And we’ve had a number of calls, as well as the
Vice President making her first international trip to Mexico and also
maintaining an active engagement with the Mexican leader.  And then, of
course, the wife of President López Obrador was hosted here by Dr. Biden
for a Cinco de Mayo celebration.

So we’ve maintained a very active pace of bilateral engagement with
Mexico.

So this — this just builds on the first virtual bilateral meeting that
was held in March of last year, their bilateral at the North American
Leaders Summit last November, and as I mentioned, several calls. 

At the summit, you saw that Mexico supported the Americas Partnership
for Economic Prosperity, which is a marquee economic initiative for the
Biden administration.  Mexico also joined the United States — a total of
21 countries if you include the United States — in adopting the Los
Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, a framework to share
responsibility and economic support for countries most impacted by
refugee and migration flows.

Key is that it recognizes that the migration challenge is a hemispheric
challenge.  That is not just the migration challenge, it is also an
economic and security challenge that all of us need to work together to
address.  We expect the two leaders to discuss their common vision for
North America and efforts to address global challenges such as the
impact of Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, which has affected working
families in both countries as well as the rest of the hemisphere.

And following the meeting, we expect to announce joint actions to
improve border infrastructure and address irregular migration; enhance
law enforcement cooperation to disrupt the flow of fentanyl to both our
countries; and promote clean energy, economic innovation, and
prosperity.

Now, for example, we will commit to completing a multi-year joint
U.S.-Mexico border infrastructure modernization effort for projects
along the 2,000-mile border.  The joint effort seeks to align
priorities, unite border communities, and make the flow of commerce and
people more secure and efficient.

I’ll put a finer point on this.  The point of entry at San Ysidro is the
most — is the busiest land border crossing in the entire world.  And
that is a place where in — during the Obama administration, we made
significant investments to make sure that it was functioning
effectively. 

Similarly, we’re looking at other similar ports of entry like, for
example, Otay Mesa II, which is — our objective ultimately is — a part
of the — a joint venture is to create a 21st century border crossing for
the San Diego/Baja California mega-region that will really enhance
regional mobility and fuel economic growth and binational trade at the
same time that we are, of course, working on very important migration
issues.

We will also commit to deepen our cooperation to combat transnational
criminal organizations that foment violence in both countries.  To that
end, we will establish a U.S.-Mexico operational task force under the
bilateral Bicentennial Partnership on Security that was launched last
October to ensure that we are accelerating our joint efforts to disrupt
the flow of fentanyl into our countries. 

And as the United States and Mexico will also launch a bilateral working
group on labor migration pathways and worker protections, as well as
expand our diplomatic coordination on migration issues throughout the
region.  And first and foremost as well is just our economic agenda, as
I had mentioned, under the Americas Partnership, and as well as the
High-Level Economic Dialogue, which will meet in September of this year.

So, more to come on this tomorrow.

President Biden and his administration firmly believe our relationship
with Mexico is a priority and critical to delivering for the American
people and people in the hemisphere.  And you will see that action on
Tuesday. 

I think it’s also important to mention that the Vice President is going
to host the Mexican President in a small breakfast tomorrow to also
follow up on what has been really an active pace of engagement by the
Vice President on our Root Causes Strategy, on our bilateral engagement
with Mexico to make sure that we’re following up on a lot of the
conversations that they’ve had since her visit to Mexico last year.

So I will now turn it back to the moderators and my other colleague. 
Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, William.  If you could please remind everyone on
how to raise their hand to submit a question.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you, guys, for doing this call.  I wanted to ask
if the U.S. is going to make specific demands on Mexico to stop migrants
from reaching the border, and specifically what.  And also, if you guys
have seen an increase in immigration enforcement from Mexico in recent
weeks.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, I can take that question.  This is
\[senior administration official\].  You know, migration cooperation is
a top priority for both President López Obrador and President Biden.  I
think this will be a top subject of conversation tomorrow.  
  
You know, I think we view each other as equal partners in this — two
countries that have been significantly impacted by migration and refugee
flows. 

You know, as \[senior administration official\] mentioned, I think we
expect the focus to be a lot on how we can expand legal pathways to both
countries, with a particular focus on labor pathways from Central
America but also from other parts of the region; how we can continue to
cooperate to combat the multibillion-dollar smuggling industry. 

And I think we saw with the tragedy in San Antonio just the incredible
impact of these smuggling networks and the need to, with great urgency,
address that.  Both countries are — continue to work to expand their
asylum systems and also to repatriate those that don’t qualify. 

So all of these are themes that are encapsulated in the Los Angeles
Declaration that both countries championed.  So, you know, I think that,
just to sum it up, migration will be certainly a central focus of the
discussion.  
  
Thanks.

Q    Hi, thanks for doing that.  To piggyback off of that question, can
you elaborate more on what you mean by diplomatic coordination on
migration and expanding legal pathways?  For example, does that mean
Mexico opening up more visas? 

And then, also, is human smuggling and any efforts on tackling human
smuggling networks expected to be part of the conversation, given the
incident in San Antonio?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, Priscilla.  I think you might
have seen with the Los Angeles Declaration that Mexico made some
concrete commitments related to expanding labor pathways to Mexico, and
the U.S. did as well.  
  
I think we both are recognizing that if we want to address irregular
migration to our countries, we have to open up additional legal
pathways.  And legal migration can fuel economic growth.  So this is an
area of real common interest from both countries. 

And so, you know, as \[senior administration official\] mentioned, there
will be — we will be announcing a  binational labor pathways working
group.  And I think the hope is that the U.S. and Mexico can champion
this and bring other countries to the table, because we see this as a
real important way that we can combat irregular migration.

And then I think we will be looking at other legal pathways like refugee
resettlement and family reunification.  So this is an area where we’re
really grateful to have Mexico as a partner and a leader.

And certainly, I think the tragedy in San Antonio is top of mind for
both the U.S. and Mexico.  We know many of those who perished in the
incident were Mexican nationals.  So we are already doing a lot to
expand our cooperation on addressing these human smuggling networks. 
And so I think tomorrow will be really important in order to make sure
that we’re able to advance together on that.

Q    Hi, can you hear me? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We can hear you. 

Q    Hello? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, we can hear you. 

Q    Ah, sorry.  Sorry about that.  I wanted to ask about, like, the
comments that President Obrador made a couple of weeks ago regarding the
pardon for Julian Assange.  It’s something that he has been insisting
on, and he said that he was going to bring it up during his meeting with
President Biden.  And he even made some comments about the Statue of
Liberty. 

So I wanted to know how the White House (inaudible), and if you expect
this to be addressed during the meeting that both leaders are going to
have.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  So I guess the way that I
would answer is that presidents will raise what they want to raise.  And
for us, any issue is on the table.  The President will be prepared to
discuss whatever the President of Mexico raises.  So I’m not going to
speculate on exactly whether or not it’ll be raised. 

I mean, our focus certainly remains on what is a broad and, I think,
deep agenda with Mexico that goes from — as you’ll see from the joint
statement, that includes everything from — everything my colleagues said
on migration, and also our joint efforts that — advancing economic
cooperation; issues related to energy and climate; issues related to
food security, accelerating our efforts on security cooperation, border
infrastructure, regional and global issues.

So there is a significant set of topics that we are focused on that
represent, really, the core of the U.S.-Mexico relationship; the core of
what really is — are some of the challenges facing the people of the
United States, the people of Mexico, and the people of the Americas. 

But again, the two presidents will discuss whatever is on their mind.  
  
Over.

Q    Hello there.  Thanks so much for having the call, \[senior
administration official\] and \[senior administration official\]. 
Appreciate it. 

Understanding that — what you just said about not wanting to speculate
in the meeting, I am hoping, just since we’ve covered some other topics
that are likely to come up in this meeting tomorrow, if you can say
whether or not — just how much of a priority it is for the
administration to also communicate any concerns around any of the
criticism that’s been lodged against President López Obrador for his
criticism against journalists and the free press at a time where we’re
now seeing an increasing number of journalists go missing as well.  How
much that sense of sort of accountability, when it comes to democratic
norms, will be brought to this meeting tomorrow?  
  
And then, also, just to follow up on the legal pathways question, just
hoping to kind of get a direct answer on whether or not the
administration is prepared to announce any sort of expansion of work
visas tomorrow.  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  On the first, what I’ll say is
that the issue of combating corruption, the issue of democracy and
governance, the issue of the importance of a free press are issues that
have been discussed between both leaders in the past.  
  
We don’t always telegraph those issues publicly, but they’re generally
the subject of a wide-ranging discussion between the two leaders as they
think about, really, the importance of North America and, frankly, just
how — as the President and Vice President really are thinking about the
economic prosperity, security of the United States and the working
families here — how, really, collaboration with Mexico is really central
to that.  
  
So these are topics that certainly may come up tomorrow, as they have
come up in the past.  
  
We have been very clear that this administration’s priority, not just as
it relates to the relationship with Mexico but around the world,
combating corruption is at the center of everything that we’re going to
be doing internationally and, certainly, as you saw — may have seen at
the Summit of the Americas — initiatives to really support independent
journalism everywhere.  
  
Because for us, I think an independent and free press is really the
backbone of a functioning democracy, which is something the President
cares deeply about, the — I think the global competition that we are
seeing between autocracies and democracies.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  On the legal pathways, you know, just
last month, President Biden did announce some specific numerical
commitments: the 11,500 in H-2Bs, non-agricultural seasonal worker visas
for North and Central America and Haiti.  
  
He also announced our new fair recruitment practice guidelines, as well
as the $65 million pilot project that the U.S. Agricultural Department
will be launching to help U.S. farmers recruit workers from the
region.  
  
So, you know, Mexico also made very concrete commitments related to
labor pathways and protection at the Summit of the Americas.  So
tomorrow, I think, will be much more focused on implementation and
making sure that both of our countries lead by example.  
  
As I mentioned before, we want to bring other countries on board to do
similar things, to also make concrete commitments.  We really think if
we want to truly reduce irregular migration, it can’t just be the U.S.
and Mexico; we need lots of other countries to come forward and offer a
legal pathway.  
  
So tomorrow will be much more about cooperation and implementation and
not so much about specific numerical commitments.

Q    Hi.  Jorge Ramos here from Univision.  Two questions.  One
practical one: At what time are they going to be meeting?  And is there
going to be access to the press?  
  
And the second question: Again, let me go back with — about the visas. 
As you know, the Mexican press has reported that López Obrador is going
to be asking for another 300,000 visas, so half of them for Mexicans and
half of them for people from Central America.  Is the White House
willing to — is the White House open to that possibility?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, thank you, Jorge.  It’s really
great to hear your voice.  I don’t know if the meeting time has been
noticed, but it was — right now it is tentatively scheduled for the
morning, so around 11 o’clock, though I think we’ll commit to just
following up with you on the exact timings, as I know they’ll notice to
press the call time.   
  
I’ll leave it there.  And maybe we can follow up via press channels
because I don’t want to get out ahead of them.  
  
And then I’ll turn to my colleague for the other.  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, and just to jump in on the on the guidance of the
timing, we’ll have a press guidance out later tonight to all of you with
specific details that we can make reportable at that time.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  And on visas, you know, I think
we were all really pleased to see over 300,000 H-2 visas issued to
Mexican nationals in FY21.  I believe that was a record.  And it’s good
for Mexico, it’s good for the United States.  It certainly fuels our
economy.  And as you know, the H-2A program is uncapped, and so there,
the sky is the limit.  
  
H-2B is capped, but we’ve seen, you know, multiple times, under the
Biden-Harris administration, efforts to expand access to that program to
address labor shortages in our tourism industry and other key industries
where we can utilize the H-2B program.  
  
So, you know, I think that, again, this is an area where the two
countries are very much aligned.  And so we expect that this will be —
to be a subject of conversation between our two leaders tomorrow.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And thank you, everyone, for joining our background
call today.  Unfortunately, we are out of time, but we appreciate
everyone’s flexibility tonight and you all joining us to preview this
exciting visit tomorrow.  
  
As a reminder of the ground rules, this call was held on background with
the contents attributable to “senior administration officials,” and it
is embargoed until 5:00 a.m.  Eastern tomorrow morning.  
  
Thank you all, and I hope everyone has a great evening.  
  
5:50 P.M. EDT
