---
date: '2022-07-15'
published_time: 2022-07-15 19:24:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/15/the-jeddah-communique-a-joint-statement-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-kingdom-of-saudi-arabia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Jeddah Communique:  A Joint Statement Between the United\_States of America\
  \ and the Kingdom of Saudi\_Arabia"
---
 
**Jeddah, Saudi Arabia**

At the invitation of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman
Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, President Joseph R. Biden conducted an official
visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia July 15-16, 2022.  Following the
meeting with King Salman, President Biden and Crown Prince Mohammed bin
Salman held an official meeting, attended by senior officials from both
sides. The two sides reviewed in detail the many shared priorities that
contribute to the partnership between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and
the United States.

At the end of this meeting, the two sides issued this communique
outlining the strategic partnership between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
and the United States over the coming decades with the aim of advancing
their mutual interests and advancing a common vision for a more
peaceful, secure, prosperous, and stable Middle East.

**<u>Strategic Partnership</u>**

The two sides reviewed the historical relations and partnership between
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States of America that was
established nearly eight decades ago with the meeting between King
Abdulaziz Al-Saud and President Franklin D. Roosevelt on board the USS
Quincy. They underscored the importance of continuing to strengthen
their strategic partnership to serve the interests of the governments
and peoples of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States. The
two sides also emphasized the pivotal role this historic partnership has
played in promoting regional stability and prosperity. They stressed
that the U.S.-Saudi partnership has been a cornerstone of regional
security over decades, and affirmed that the two countries share a
vision of a more secure, stable, and prosperous region, interconnected
with the world.

The two sides affirmed the importance of resolving international
disputes through peaceful and diplomatic means, and alleviating
humanitarian crises through economic and financial support to the
region’s countries most in need. They affirmed the importance of the
principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. They stressed the
need for supporting governments in the region facing threats from
terrorists or proxy groups backed by outside powers.

The two sides noted the historic ties between the peoples of the Kingdom
of Saudi Arabia and the United Stated. They welcomed, in this regard,
extending the validity of business and tourism visas to 10 years to
facilitate closer people-to-people ties and economic cooperation. 

The two sides then reviewed cooperation and achievements in the
following areas:

**Energy Security and Climate Cooperation**

The two sides underscored the importance of strategic economic and
investment cooperation, particularly in light of the current crisis in
Ukraine and its consequences, and reaffirmed their commitment to a
stable global energy market.  The U.S. welcomed Saudi Arabia’s
commitment to support global oil markets balancing for sustained
economic growth.  Both sides decided to consult regularly on global
energy markets in the near- and long-term, as well as work together as
strategic partners in climate and energy transition initiatives,
recognizing Saudi Arabia’s leading role in the future of energy.

The U.S. side commended the Saudi Green Initiative and Middle East Green
Initiative, and welcomed Saudi Arabia’s participation at the recent
Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate, joining of the Global
Methane Pledge, its status as a founding member of the Net-Zero
Producers Forum, and the Kingdom’s announcement to meet fifty percent of
its electricity generation from renewables by 2030.

The two sides welcomed the finalization of a Partnership Framework for
Advancing Clean Energy, with substantial investments in clean energy
transition and addressing climate change, with particular focus on
renewable energy, clean hydrogen, human capacity-building in the nuclear
energy field, and cooperation in nuclear-regulatory aspects, carbon
capture utilization and sequestration, development of sustainable
materials, and other initiatives under the Circular Carbon Economy
Framework, where Saudi Arabia aims to be a global leader..

**Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII)**

The two sides emphasized that the energy transition and the national
security of both countries require stable and diversified supply chains,
and in this regard, the United States welcomed Saudi Arabia’s support
for the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, which
President Biden announced at the G7 Summit on June 26, 2022. Through
this historic partnership, the United States and Saudi Arabia aim to
strategically invest in projects that support digital connectivity,
supply chain sustainability, and climate and energy security focused on
low- and middle-income countries.

**Security and Defense**

President Biden strongly affirmed the United States’ continued
commitment to supporting Saudi Arabia’s security and territorial
defense, and facilitating the Kingdom’s ability to obtain necessary
capabilities to defend its people and territory against external
threats.

The two sides underscored the need to further deter Iran’s interference
in the internal affairs of other countries, its support for terrorism
through its armed proxies, and its efforts to destabilize the security
and stability of the region.  The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United
States stressed the importance of preventing Iran from acquiring a
nuclear weapon.

Both sides stressed the importance of preserving the free flow of
commerce through strategic international waterways like the Bab
al-Mandab and the Strait of Hormuz.  They welcomed the newly-established
Combined Task Force 153 with a focus on the Red Sea’s Bab al-Mandab
passageway and further deterring illicit smuggling into Yemen.  They
also welcomed Saudi Arabia’s assumption of command of Combined Task
Force 150, which reinforces shared maritime security objectives in the
Gulf of Oman and North Arabian Sea. 

To improve and streamline the exchange of information in the maritime
domain, cooperation between the Royal Saudi Naval Forces and Combined
Task Force 153 will be enhanced in the regionally-networked coordination
center led out of the U.S. Fifth Fleet Headquarters in Bahrain.  The
United States also emphasized the growing cooperation between the Royal
Saudi Naval Forces and U.S. Fifth Fleet’s Task Force 59, which leads an
expanding fleet of cutting edge, integrated unmanned surface vessels
using artificial intelligence to improve maritime security and domain
awareness in support of regional security.

**5G/6G Open-RAN Cooperation**

The two sides welcomed a new Memorandum of Cooperation that will connect
U.S. and Saudi technology companies in the advancement and deployment of
5G using open radio access networks, enable the development of 6G
through similar technologies, an advance partnerships in
cloud infrastructure and related technologies. The partnerships built
under the MOU confirms Saudi Arabia’s leadership as a regional hub for
5G deployments and 6G future developments.

**Cybersecurity**

The two sides emphasized their mutual cooperation in the field of
cybersecurity and its importance to protect the vital interests and
national security of both countries.   The United States and Saudi
Arabia welcomed the recent signing of memoranda of understanding on
cybersecurity cooperation and decided to continue strengthening
real-time information sharing, building human and technical
capabilities, and cybersecurity industry development.

**Space Exploration**

The two sides further welcomed the enhancement of cooperation in all
fields of space exploration, including human spaceflight, earth
observation, commercial and regulatory development, and responsible
behavior in outer space.  President Biden welcomed the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia signing the Artemis Accords and applauded the Kingdom for
affirming its commitment to the responsible, peaceful, and sustainable
exploration and use of outer space.

**Development of Tiran Island**

President Biden welcomed the arrangements by Saudi Arabia to remove the
Multinational Force and Observers (MFO) from the Island of Tiran,
including the removal of U.S. troops there as part of the MFO mission,
while preserving and continuing all existing commitments and procedures
in the area.  This area of the Red Sea will now be developed for tourism
and economic purposes, contributing to a more secure, peaceful, and
prosperous region. 

**Expanding Overflights**

Within the framework of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s keenness to
fulfill its obligations under the Chicago Convention of 1944, which
stipulates non-discrimination between civil aircraft used in
international air navigation, the Saudi General Authority for Civil
Aviation (GACA) announced its decision to open the Kingdom’s airspace
for all air carriers that meet the requirements of GACA to fly over the
Kingdom’s airspace.  The United States welcomed this announcement, which
will enhance global air connectivity and help cement the Kingdom’s
position as a global hub connecting Africa, Asia, and Europe. 

**Vision 2030**

The U.S. welcomed the Kingdom’s Vision 2030, its blueprint for
transformative economic and social reforms, and its efforts to increase
women’s economic participation and promote interfaith dialogue.  Saudi
Arabia welcomed greater U.S. private sector investment in the Kingdom,
as well as increasing Saudi investments in the American private sector
for the benefit of both countries.

The U.S. side welcomed Saudi Arabia’s bid to host World Expo in 2030,
and other events to be held over the course of that milestone year, the
culmination of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 reform program.  The Saudi
side noted the importance for the region of the World Cup being hosted
by Qatar later this year and welcomed the United States serving as host
for the World Cup in 2026. 

**<u>Regional Cooperation</u>**

The two sides then addressed particular regional and global issues,
including:

**Yemen**

Both sides affirmed their strong support for the UN-brokered truce in
Yemen and stressed the importance of extending the truce and making
progress to transform the truce into a lasting peace agreement.
President Biden expressed his appreciation for the role King Salman and
Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman have played in achieving and renewing
the truce.  The two sides stressed their long-stated goal to end the war
in Yemen, and called on the international community to take a unified
position calling on the Houthis to return to peace talks under the
auspices of the United Nations based on the three references, including
UN Security Council Resolution 2216 (2015).  Only a political agreement
between the Yemeni parties can durably resolve the conflict and reverse
the dire humanitarian crisis.

The two sides also affirmed their support for Yemen’s Presidential
Leadership Council and thanked the Council for its commitment to the
truce and steps that have improved the lives of Yemenis across the
country, including facilitating fuel imports and restarting flights from
Sana’a. 

They also stressed the need to remove all impediments to the flow of
essential goods and delivery of aid inside Yemen, and the importance of
the Houthis opening the main roads to Taiz – Yemen’s third largest city
which has been under siege conditions since 2015. 

Saudi Arabia and the United States encouraged all regional actors to
fully support the truce, which has resulted in the longest period of
peace in Yemen in six years. Saudi Arabia welcomed the United States’
support of the truce and its contribution to the efforts to advance the
political process in Yemen.

**Iraq**

President Biden welcomed the leading role played by the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia in strengthening relations with Republic of Iraq, and the
historic agreements to be signed on the margins of the Jeddah Security
and Development Summit on July 16, 2022, to link the electricity
networks of Saudi Arabia and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries to
the Iraqi grid, in order to provide Iraq and its people with new and
diversified electricity sources.

**Israel-Palestinian Issues**

Regarding Israel-Palestinian issues, the two sides underscored their
enduring commitment to a two-state solution, wherein a sovereign and
contiguous Palestinian state lives side-by-side in peace and security
with Israel, as the only way to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
in accordance with the internationally-recognized parameters and the
Arab Peace Initiative.  The leaders noted their determination to remain
closely coordinated on efforts to encourage the parties to demonstrate –
through policies and actions – their commitment to a two-state solution.
The United States and Saudi Arabia welcomed all efforts that contribute
to reaching a just and comprehensive peace in the region.

**Syria**

The two sides reiterated their commitment to preserving the unity,
stability, and territorial integrity of Syria and expressed their
support for the efforts of the Special Envoy of the Secretary-General of
the United Nations to reach a political solution to the conflict
consistent with the formula outlined in the UN Security Council
Resolution 2254 (2015), stressing at the same time the need to prevent
renewed of violence, to maintain established ceasefires, and to allow
the unhindered delivery of humanitarian aid to all Syrians in need. 

**Lebanon**

The two sides affirmed their continued support for Lebanon’s
sovereignty, security and stability, and their support for the Lebanese
Armed Forces that protect its borders and resist the threats of violent
extremist and terrorist groups. They also noted the importance of
forming a Lebanese government and implementing comprehensive structural
political and economic reforms to ensure that Lebanon overcomes its
political and economic crisis, and that it does not become a launching
point for terrorists, drug smuggling, or other criminal activities that
threatens the stability and security of the region.

They emphasized the importance of the control of the government of
Lebanon over all Lebanese territory, including with reference to
fulfilling the provisions of the relevant UN Security Council
resolutions and the Taif Accord, and for it to exercise full
sovereignty, so there will be no weapons without the consent of the
government of Lebanon or authority other than that of the government of
Lebanon.

**Ukraine**

The two sides underscored that a rules-based order lies at the heart of
international security, emphasizing the importance of the respect for
international law, territorial integrity, and national sovereignty. 
They reaffirmed the principles as set forth in the March 2, 2022, UN
General Assembly Resolution ES-11/1, endorsed by all GCC members. 

The leaders reaffirmed their commitment to providing critical assistance
to the Ukrainian people, and to ensure the unhindered export of grain
and wheat products to alleviate the global food crises, which threatens
to acutely impact a number of Middle Eastern and African states.

**Sudan**

The two sides underscored the importance of the dialogue between
Sudanese parties and reviving the political process.  They commended the
efforts made by the United Nations Mission to support the return to the
foundations of a political solution in Sudan, and expressed their
satisfaction with the active role of the Quad for Sudan, wishing Sudan
and its people peace and prosperity.

**Libya**

Both sides affirmed their support for the Libyan people as they engage
in the UN-brokered political process to prepare for presidential and
parliamentary elections as soon as possible.  They expressed their full
support for the Libyan ceasefire agreement concluded on October 23, 2020
and the Libyan call for the complete departure of foreign forces,
foreign fighters, and mercenaries without further delay, in accordance
with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2570 (2021). 

**Afghanistan**

The two sides stressed the need to support Afghanistan’s security and to
address the threat posed by Afghanistan-based terrorists. They also
underscored the importance of continuing to support humanitarian
assistance to Afghanistan.  They expressed support for addressing the
needs and promoting the rights of the Afghan people including the rights
of women and girls to education and enjoyment of the highest attainable
standard of health and, for women, the right to work.

**Counter-Terrorism**

The two sides underscored the importance of confronting terrorism and
violent extremism. They expressed their continued commitment to
countering al-Qaeda and ISIS, stemming the flow of foreign fighters,
countering violent extremist propaganda, and cutting off terrorist
financing streams. 

The two sides highlighted the joint efforts through the Terrorist
Financing Targeting Center, which is based in the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia.  They reviewed and commended the exceptional success of the
Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, established in Jeddah in 2014, and
stressed the need for this coalition to continue, and to make long-term
and multi-year efforts to return both detained ISIS fighters and the
tens of thousands of ISIS family members from northeastern Syria to
their home countries.  They welcomed the next Global Coalition to Defeat
ISIS ministerial meeting to be held in Saudi Arabia in early 2023.

**Conclusion**

The two sides decided to expand and strengthen bilateral cooperation in
all areas discussed in this meeting, prior to the next annual Strategic
Dialogue between Saudi Arabia and the United States to be held in the
Kingdom later this year.  This Jeddah Communique should form the basis
of work going forward to consolidate and enhance the strategic
partnership between the two countries. 

\###
