---
date: '2022-07-11'
modified_time: 2022-07-11 18:29:57-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-11 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/11/fact-sheet-the-biden-administrations-21-executive-actions-to-reduce-gun-violence/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden Administration\u2019s 21 Executive Actions to Reduce\
  \ Gun\_Violence"
---
 
President Biden has made historic progress on actions to reduce gun
violence. To implement his
comprehensive [strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/) to
reduce gun crime, the Biden Administration has taken more executive
action to reduce gun violence than any other president’s at this point
in their Administration. Today, the President is celebrating the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the most significant gun violence
reduction legislation to pass Congress in 30 years.

The Biden Administration will continue to use all of the tools
at its disposal to address the epidemic of gun violence. The President’s
FY 2023 budget proposes $32 billion in additional funding to fight
crime, including $20.6 billion in discretionary funding for federal law
enforcement and state and local law enforcement and crime prevention
programs, an increase of 11% over FY22 enacted ($18.6 billion) and 18%
over FY21 enacted ($17.5 billion). 

But there is so much more that can and must be done to save lives. The
President will continue to urge Congress to take further legislative
action to keep dangerous guns out of dangerous hands, including a ban on
assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, strengthening background
checks, and enacting safe storage laws.

Below are 21 ways the Biden Administration has already used executive
action to make our communities safer:

**Keeping Especially Dangerous Weapons and Repeat Shooters Off Our
Streets**

1. The Justice Department issued a [final
rule](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-new-rule-modernize-firearm-definitions) to
rein in the proliferation of ghost guns, which are unserialized,
privately made firearms that are increasingly being recovered at crime
scenes.

2. The Attorney General [directed every U.S. Attorney’s
Office](https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1468291/download) nationwide
to increase resources dedicated to district specific violent crime
strategies. 

3. The Justice Department issued a [proposed
rule](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-issues-proposed-rule-and-model-legislation-reduce-gun-violence) to
better regulate when devices marketed as firearm stabilizing braces
effectively turn pistols into short-barreled rifles subject to the
National Firearms Act.

**Keeping Guns Out of the Wrong Hands**

4. The Justice Department published [model extreme risk protection order
legislation](https://www.justice.gov/doj/reducing-gun-violence/commentary-extreme-risk-protection-order-model-legislation) to
make it easier for states that want to adopt these red flag laws to do
so. 

5\. The Justice Department issued [the first
volume](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-publication-first-volume-national-firearms-commerce-and) of
its new, comprehensive report on firearms commerce and trafficking.

6. The Justice Department announced a new policy to [underscore zero
tolerance](https://www.justice.gov/opa/speech/attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-delivers-remarks-biden-administration-s-gun-crime) for
willful violations of the law by federally licensed firearms dealers
that put public safety at risk.

7. The Justice Department launched five [new law enforcement strike
forces](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-launches-firearms-trafficking-strike-forces-address-violent-crime-crack) focused
on addressing significant firearms trafficking corridors that have
diverted guns to New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the Bay Area, and
Washington, D.C. 

8. The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) launched a new paid
media [campaign](https://www.keepitsecure.net/) featuring a series of
public service announcements to reinforce the key message that a simple
gun lock can save lives. 

9. The Departments of Defense (DOD), Health and Human Services (HHS),
Homeland Security (DHS), Justice (DOJ), and Veterans Affairs (VA), as
well as the Office of Emergency Medical Services within the Department
of Transportation (DOT), announced that they will jointly create a
plan for addressing [lethal means safety
awareness](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf),
education, training, and program evaluation. 

10. ATF [issued](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/01/04/2021-28398/secure-gun-storage-and-definition-of-antique-firearm) a [final
rule](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-new-rule-help-enhance-safe-and-secure-storage-firearms-publishes) clarifying
firearms dealers’ statutory obligations to make available for purchase
compatible secure gun storage or safety devices. 

**Making Additional Progress to Reduce Community Violence**

11. The President called for cities and states to use American Rescue
Plan funding to reduce gun crime and other violent crime, including by
investing in community violence interventions and prevention. Through
May 2022, [$10
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/13/fact-sheet-president-biden-issues-call-for-state-and-local-leaders-to-dedicate-more-american-rescue-plan-funding-to-make-our-communities-safer-and-deploy-these-dollars-quickly/) in
American Rescue Plan funds had been committed to public safety and
violence prevention – including at least $6.5 billion in State and Local
funds committed by more than half of states and more than 300
communities across the country

12. Five federal agencies made changes to 26 different programs to
direct vital support to community violence intervention programs as
quickly as possible. For example

• The National Institutes of Health announced funding through its
Firearm Injury and Mortality Prevention Research grants for [four
community violence
programs](https://obssr.od.nih.gov/news-and-events/news/director-voice/nih-awards-10-grants-addressing-firearm-violence-prevention) –
including a place-based strategy involving repurposing vacant lots in
Detroit, an evaluation of READI Chicago, a burnout prevention program
for violence interrupters in Chicago, and a hospital-based violence
intervention program focused on youth in Virginia.   

• The Justice Department announced [$187
million](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-awards-nearly-187-million-support-community-safety)
for states and $85 million for localities through the Byrne JAG Program
to support coordinated violence prevention and intervention; the
Department explicitly encouraged the use of these funds for CVI.   

• The Department of Housing and Urban Development published
a [guide](https://www.hudexchange.info/resource/6477/cdbg-cv-community-violence-intervention-quick-guide/) explaining
to localities how Community Development Block Grants – a $3.4 billion
annual funding stream –can be used to fund CVI strategies. 

• The Department of Education released
a [letter](https://oese.ed.gov/files/2021/10/21-007415-OESE-CVI-DCL-os-approved.pdf) to
state school associations on how 21<sup>st</sup> Century Learning
Centers funds and Student Support and Academic enrichment programs –
both billion-dollar formula grant funding streams – can be used to fund
CVI strategies in schools.

13. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services [hosted a webinar
and published
information to](https://www.medicaid.gov/state-resource-center/downloads/allstatecall-20210427.pdf)
educate states on how they can use Medicaid to reimburse certain
community violence intervention programs, like Hospital-Based Violence
Interventions. Last year, Connecticut and Illinois enacted legislation
that allows Medicaid to reimburse providers for hospital-based violence
prevention services – the first two states in the country to pursue this
approach. According to reporting by [USA
Today](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2021/09/17/medicaid-funds-tapped-combat-rise-crime-gun-debate-stalls/8326102002/),
“\[t\]he idea has been in the works for years, advocates say, but not
until the Biden administration signaled that states could – and should –
use Medicaid dollars to support these violence prevention programs have
state lawmakers stepped up.”

14.  Senior White House staff established The [White House Community
Violence Intervention
Collaborative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-comprehensive-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gun-crime-and-ensure-public-safety/),
a 16-jurisdiction cohort of mayors, law enforcement, CVI experts, and
philanthropic leaders committed to using American Rescue Plan funding or
other public funding to increase investment in their community violence
intervention infrastructure. 

**Providing Law Enforcement with the Tools and Resources They Need to
Reduce Gun Violence**

15. The Justice
Department [announced](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-139-million-law-enforcement-hiring-advance-community-policing) $139
million in grants to local law enforcement that will put over 1,000
police officers on the beat through the COPS Office Hiring Program.

16. The Justice Department’s Office on Violence Against Women
(OVW) [expanded
the](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-announces-expansion-firearms-technical-assistance-project-strengthen) Domestic
Violence Homicide Prevention Firearms Technical Assistance Project
(FTAP). 

**Addressing the Root Causes of Gun Violence**

17. The Department of
Labor [awarded](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210610-0) $89
million through its YouthBuild program to provide pre-apprenticeship
opportunities for young people ages 16-24.

18. The Department of Labor [awarded $20
million](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210610-1)
through its Workforce Pathways for Youth program to expand workforce
development activities that serve youth ages 14-21 during “out of
school” time (non-school hours).

19. The Department of
Labor [awarded](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210621) $85.5
million to help formerly incarcerated adults and young people in 28
communities transition out of the criminal justice system and connect
with quality jobs.

20. The Department of Labor awarded $25.5 million in [Young Adult
Reentry
Partnership](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210317-1) grants
to organizations that will help provide education and training services
to young adults between 18-24 who were previously involved with the
justice system or who left high school before graduation. 

21. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), through the
Family Violence Prevention and Services Program, awarded [nearly $1
billion](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/10/25/hhs-announces-nearly-800-million-american-rescue-plan-funds-support-domestic-violence-sexual-assault-survivors-their-children.html) in
American Rescue Plan (ARP) supplemental funding to support services for
survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault and their children.

 ###
