---
date: '2022-07-24'
published_time: 2022-07-24 13:43:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/24/icymi-treasury-secretary-yellen-says-us-economy-not-in-recession/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: Treasury Secretary Yellen Says US Economy Not in\_Recession"
---
 
*Debunks misperception that it is exclusively based on GDP, points to
historically strong labor market and solid consumer spending*

Appearing on NBC’s Meet the Press with Chuck Todd, Treasury Secretary
Janet Yellen explained the state of the economy, including its historic
strengths, efforts to bring down inflation, and how to interpret the
initial reading of second quarter GDP being announced this week. As she
explains, the technical and actual definition of a recession takes into
account “a broad range of data” and states “this is not an economy
that’s in recession.”

TODD: “If the technical definition is two quarters of contraction,
you’re saying that’s not a recession?”

YELLEN: “That’s not the technical definition. There is an organization
called the National Bureau of Economic Research that looks at a broad
range of data in deciding whether or not there is a recession. And most
of the data that they look at right now continues to be strong. I would
be amazed if they would declare this period to be a recession, even if
it happens to have two quarters of negative growth. We have a very
strong labor market. when you are creating almost 400,000 jobs a month,
that is not a recession.”

Secretary Yellen also went further in-depth, explaining that some
economic slow-down is healthy right now with such a strong labor market,
as the Federal Reserve addresses inflation and we transition to steady
and sustainable growth, and discussed the actions the Biden
Administration has been taking to lower prices for the American people.

YELLEN: “Well, look, the economy is slowing down. Last year it grew very
rapidly at about 5.5%, and that succeeded in putting people back to work
who had lost their jobs during the pandemic. The labor market is now
extremely strong. Even just during the last three months, job gains
averaged 375,000. This is not an economy that’s in recession. But we’re
in a period of transition in which growth is slowing and that’s
necessary and appropriate and we need to be growing at a steady and
sustainable pace. So there is a slowdown and businesses can see that and
that’s appropriate, given that people now have jobs and we have a strong
labor market.

“But you don’t see any of the signs now — a recession is a broad-based
contraction that affects many sectors of the economy—we just don’t have
that. Consumer spending remains solid. It’s continuing to grow. Output,
industrial output has grown in five of the six most recent months.
Credit quality remains very strong. household balance sheets are
generally in good shape.

“But inflation is way too high. And, you know, the Fed is charged with
putting in place policies that will bring inflation down and I expect
them to be successful. The Administration, for its part, is
supplementing those Fed policies with things we can do. We’ve cut the
deficit by a record one-and-a-half trillion dollars this year, releases
of gas from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve are putting some downward
pressure on gas prices. we have seen gas prices just in recent weeks
come down by about 50 cents, and there should be more in the pipeline.
And hopefully we will pass a bill that will lower prescription drug
costs and maintain current levels of health care costs.”

\###
