---
date: '2022-07-13'
modified_time: 2022-07-13 17:22:23-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-13 17:20:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/13/fact-sheet-president-biden-appoints-cancer-panel-members-and-cancer-cabinet-unveils-priority-actions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Appoints Cancer Panel Members and Cancer Cabinet\
  \ Unveils Priority\_Actions"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint Dr. Mitchel
Berger, Dr. Carol Brown, and Dr. Elizabeth Jaffee to the President’s
Cancer Panel. The three are distinguished members of the scientific,
research, and public health communities appointed by the President to
advise him on barriers to and opportunities for progress in reducing the
burden of cancer.

In addition, First Lady Jill Biden, Cabinet Members, and Biden-Harris
Administration leadership are holding a Cancer Cabinet meeting today to
unveil priority actions and new members, advancing the President’s
vision for ending cancer as we know it. The Cancer Cabinet has
identified priorities to: (1) close the screening gap, (2) understand
and address environmental exposure, (3) decrease the impact of
preventable cancers, (4) bring cutting edge research through the
pipeline to patients and communities, and (5) support patients and
caregivers. This Cancer Cabinet also added the Departments of Commerce
and Labor, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and the
White House Gender Policy Council.

Since the Cancer Cabinet’s prior meeting, additional steps that mark
progress for the millions of Americans facing a cancer diagnosis have
been announced by the Biden-Harris Administration including: the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) issuing more than $200 million
in grants to advance national cancer prevention and control through
cancer screening programs reaching every state, U.S. territories, and
tribal organizations; the Centers for Medicaid & Medicare Services (CMS)
launching a new model to deliver patient-centered care that improves
outcomes and reduces the cost of cancer care; the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office (USPTO) announcing the extension of a program to
fast-track cancer immunotherapy applications; the Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) pursuing steps to significantly reduce
tobacco-related morbidity and mortality in the United States as part of
cancer prevention efforts, and announcing that for the first time in
over 50 years, the White House will host a Conference on Hunger,
Nutrition, and Health and release a national, whole-of-government
strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-release disease (which includes
some cancers) this September.  

In February, President Biden reignited the Cancer Moonshot with renewed
White House leadership and new ambitious goals: to reduce the death rate
from cancer by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years, and improve
the experience of people and their families living with and surviving
cancer – and, by doing this and more, [end cancer as we know it
today](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-reignites-cancer-moonshot-to-end-cancer-as-we-know-it/).
In March, in his first State of the Union Address, President Biden
highlighted the Cancer Moonshot as part of his Unity Agenda for the
nation. The White House convened the Cancer Cabinet to establish a
prioritized agenda across government including the development of new
interagency programs and collaborations and announced [initial steps for
the Cancer
Moonshot](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/03/17/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-initial-steps-for-reignited-cancer-moonshot/).

To add your story, ideas, or new actions and collaborations, engage with
us at: whitehouse.gov/cancermoonshot.

**<u>Appointment of President’s Cancer Panel</u>**

President Bidenselected **new members of the President’s Cancer Panel**,
a volunteer panel of experts who advise the President on how to use the
resources of the federal government, particularly through the cancer
research program, to make progress for people facing a cancer diagnosis
and to reduce the burden of cancer on the American population:

-   **Dr. Elizabeth M. Jaffee,** to serve as Chair, is an
    internationally recognized expert in cancer immunology and
    pancreatic cancer. She is the Deputy Director of the Sidney Kimmel
    Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins, Co-Director of the
    Skip Viragh Pancreatic Cancer Center, and Associate Director of the
    Bloomberg Kimmel Institute for Cancer Immunotherapy. Jaffee is a
    Past President of the American Association for Cancer Research. She
    has served on a number of committees at the National Cancer
    Institute, including co-chair of the Blue Ribbon Panel that provided
    scientific advice to then-Vice President Biden’s Moonshot Initiative
    and as Past Chair of the National Cancer Advisory Board. She is the
    inaugural Director of the new Convergence Institute at Johns
    Hopkins. She was recently elected to the National Academy of
    Medicine and is a Fellow of the Academy of Immuno-Oncology, a Fellow
    of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, a Fellow
    of the American Association of Cancer Research, and a Fellow of the
    American College of Physicians.

<!-- -->

-   **Dr. Mitchel Berger** is a Neurological Surgeon who has spent his
    entire career taking care of and operating on patients with brain
    tumors. In addition, he has been funded by the National Institutes
    of Health and National Cancer Institute (NCI) to conduct basic
    science research in brain tumor biology including the molecular
    markers that determine the growth and treatment patterns of these
    tumors. For 20 years, Berger has been the Principal Investigator for
    Brain SPORE (Specialized Program of Research Excellence), funded by
    NCI, and he directs the University of California San Francisco
    (UCSF) Brain Tumor Center, composed of its NeuroOncology Clinical
    Trials Program and Brain Tumor Research Center. Previously, he
    served as Chair of the Department of Neurological Surgery at UCSF
    and following 23 years of service in this capacity remains a full
    time Professor of Neurological Surgery at UCSF. Berger also served
    as the President of two leading national organizations, the American
    Association of Neurological Surgeons and the Society of
    NeuroOncology. He served as a member of the Blue Ribbon Panel for
    the Cancer Moonshot Initiative led by then-Vice President Biden
    under the direction of President Obama.

<!-- -->

-   **Dr. Carol Brown** is a board-certified gynecologic oncologist who
    is the Senior Vice President and Chief Health Equity Officer at
    Memorial Sloan Kettering (MSK) Cancer Center and the incumbent of
    the Nicholls-Biondi Chair for Health Equity. Brown’s career is
    focused on three areas: providing high-quality and compassionate
    surgical care to women with gynecologic cancer; eliminating cancer
    health disparities; and promoting public policy to increase
    awareness, improve care, and increase research funding for
    gynecologic and other cancers. As MSK’s Chief Health Equity Officer,
    Brown addresses cancer disparities that exist due to racial, ethnic,
    cultural, or socioeconomic barriers, and is responsible for
    center-wide initiatives to achieve health equity for medically
    underserved populations. This includes efforts to increase
    participation in clinical trials such as the Cancer Health Equities
    Research Program, a unique partnership between MSK investigators and
    community oncologists to bring MSK clinical trials to underserved
    patients at their local institutions. Brown’s national leadership
    positions include serving as the 50<sup>th</sup> President of the
    Society of Gynecologic Oncology (SGO), former Co-Chair of the NRG
    Oncology Health Disparities Committee, and as a member of the
    American College of Surgeons Board of Regents. Brown was the first
    Black female to lead the SGO, an organization whose 2,000 members
    are dedicated to caring for women with gynecologic cancers and
    advancing research in the field.

**<u>Priority Actions for the Cancer Cabinet</u>**

When President Biden re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot, he announced seven
pillars that define how we know cancer today to provide a shared agenda
on which to make progress. This includes possibilities for progress in
cancer early detection, prevention, equity, precision medicine, rare and
childhood cancer, supporting patients and caregivers, and learning from
patients. The Cancer Cabinet outlined the following priority actions on
which agencies are working together and through their own programming to
make progress on this vision for ending cancer as we know it. 

1.  **Close the Screening Gap:** Americans missed nearly 10 million
    cancer screenings as compared to prior years due to the COVID-19
    pandemic. Through targeted and coordinated programs, we should cut
    that deficit by providing access to more cancer screening
    opportunities and expand equitable access to cancer early detection.

-   **Understand and Address Environmental and Toxic Exposures:**
    Studies have shownthat exposure to some environmental contaminants
    and toxic chemicals can lead to a higher risk of certain types of
    cancer. Through a robust scientific research and regulatory agenda,
    the United States can do more to understand the impact of
    environmental exposure in an effort to better regulate and eliminate
    exposures related to cancer.

<!-- -->

-   **Decrease the Impact of Preventable Cancers:** Thanks to scientific
    advancements, there are more tools today than ever before to prevent
    cancer. There are also healthy lifestyle choices like nutrition,
    tobacco cessation, others as well as tools such as the HPV vaccine
    and Hepatitis C antivirals that can prevent cervical, head and neck,
    and liver cancer, respectively. Additionally, advances in
    colonoscopy technology enable detection and removal of pre-cancerous
    growths to prevent the development of colon cancer in more
    individuals. Additional efforts are needed to expand access to these
    cancer-prevention approaches along with public health campaigns and
    community health efforts to ensure these preventative tools are
    reaching all populations. In doing so, there is opportunity to
    nearly or wholly eliminate certain cancer types.

<!-- -->

-   **Bring Cutting Edge Research Through the Pipeline to Patients and
    Communities:** The development and deployment of new ways to
    prevent, detect, and treat cancer will be necessary to increase
    cancer survival rates. In order to reach the goal of better
    targeting treatments to the right patients and designing new
    approaches to drive progress for some of the deadliest and rare
    cancers, including childhood cancers, investment and innovation in
    cancer research programs is essential.  In addition, we must support
    the pipeline from discovery to clinical research that involves more
    populations, and ensure treatment innovations reach patients in
    communities across the United States.

**5) Support Patients and Caregivers:** Cancer can be overwhelming to
any person or family and gaps in support can lead to gaps in quality
care. The Biden-Harris Administration seeks to make the experience
around cancer – from screening, to getting a diagnosis, to treatment,
care and survivorship – easier on those living with cancer and their
caregivers. That means supporting people as they navigate through these
steps, making it easier for people to access screening and diagnostics,
bringing trials and quality care closer to home, providing patients and
caregivers with the data and knowledge they need to make informed care
decisions, and giving people with cancer and the people who care for
them a seat at the table to improve our oncology system.

**<u>Expanded Cancer Cabinet Delivers on Cancer Moonshot Goals</u>**

Today, President Biden’s vision for an all-of-government response to the
goals of the Cancer Moonshot expands to include **the U.S. Departments
of Labor and Commerce, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
(NASA), and the White House Gender Policy Council**. This new leadership
brings new capacity from, for example, the Department of Labor to
support patients and caregivers with knowledge and resources regarding
their rights to take time related to a cancer diagnosis as well as
advancing a regulatory agenda to further protect workers in different
settings. The Department of Commerce brings new perspectives and
capabilities to speed innovation through the U.S. Patent and Trademark
Office (USPTO) and the advanced manufacturing and research capabilities
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). NASA’s
expertise in radiation and extreme environment provides the ability to
support ground-breaking research, including on the International Space
Station, expanding the tools we have to find new approaches to prevent,
detect, and treat cancer. 

Additional Cancer Cabinet announcements to support progress as part of
the Cancer Moonshot include:

-   **Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) Improves Access to
    Colon Cancer Screening**

To reduce barriers to getting a colonoscopy, [CMS is
proposing](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/cms-proposes-physician-payment-rule-expand-access-high-quality-care)
that a follow-up colonoscopy to an at-home test be considered, for
coverage purposes, a “preventive service,” which means that cost sharing
would be waived for people with Medicare. Additionally, Medicare is
proposing to cover the service for individuals 45 years of age and
above, in line with the newly-lowered age recommendation (down from age
50) from the United States Preventative Services Task Force. Colon and
rectal cancer were the second-leading cause of cancer deaths in the
United States in 2020, with higher colorectal cancer death rates for
Black and American Indian and Alaskan Native individuals.

-   **CMS Launches New Model to Improve Patient Care and Outcomes,
    Reduce Costs:** Last week, [CMS launched a new, voluntary Enhancing
    Oncology Model
    (EOM)](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/fact-sheets/enhancing-oncology-model)
    designed to test how to best place cancer patients at the center of
    the care team that provides high-value, equitable, evidence-based
    care. The EOM aims to improve care coordination, quality, and health
    outcomes for patients, while also holding oncology practices
    accountable for total costs of care to make cancer care more
    affordable and accessible for beneficiaries and Medicare. This model
    incorporates many lessons learned from the Oncology Care Model (OCM)
    – which launched as part of the Cancer Moonshot in 2016 – in
    addition to feedback from the oncology community, including OCM
    participants, patient advocacy groups, oncology professional
    associations, and others.

<!-- -->

-   **USPTO Announced Further Extending the Fast-Track Program for
    Cancer Products:** The [USPTO announced a further
    extension](https://www.uspto.gov/subscription-center/2022/uspto-extends-cancer-immunotherapy-pilot-program-until-september-30-2022)
    of its *Patents for Patients* or *Cancer Immunotherapy Pilot
    Program,* which provides special status to high-priority innovations
    in cancer treatment. The USPTO first implemented the program in June
    2016, in support of the Cancer Moonshot initiative. This program
    provides a fast-track review for cancer immunotherapy-related patent
    applications without the need for applicants to pay a petition fee.
    Under this program, patent applications pertaining to cancer
    immunotherapy are advanced out of turn for examination, resulting in
    their accelerated review, cutting in half the time it takes to
    review patent applications pertaining to cancer immunotherapy.

<!-- -->

-   **Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) Provides More
    Than $200M for Evidence-Based Cancer Screening Programs:** In June,
    the CDC [announced first-year funding awards of $215
    million](https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2022/p0608-cancer-award.html)
    in a 5-year, $1.1 billion investment into three national programs to
    prevent and control cancer. Eighty-six unique recipients from state,
    local, tribal, and territorial public health organizations and
    academic institutions received funding, representing all states, the
    District of Columbia, 18 tribal organizations, five U.S.
    territories, and three freely-associated states. Funded programs
    will demonstrate how proven strategies advance health equity and
    build capacity in cancer prevention and control. Outcomes include
    improving the provision of clinical preventive services;
    facilitating planning among partners to promote evidence-based
    strategies in communities; and improving cancer surveillance.

**<u>About the Cancer Cabinet</u>**

When President Biden re-ignited the Cancer Moonshot in February 2022, he
announced a whole- of-government response, including the formation of a
Cancer Cabinet to be convened by the White House, bringing together
departments, agencies, and other White House components across
government to address cancer on multiple fronts. Initially, these
included the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), Department
of Veterans Affairs (VA), Department of Defense (DOD), Department of
Energy (DOE), Department of Agriculture (USDA), Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), National Institutes of Health (NIH), National Cancer
Institute (NCI), Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers for
Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS), Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention (CDC), Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP),
Domestic Policy Council (DPC), Office of the First Lady (OFL), Office of
the Vice President (OVP), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office
of Legislative Affairs (OLA), Office of Public Engagement (OPE), along
with additional members, as needed, to help establish and make progress
on Cancer Moonshot goals.

\###
