---
date: '2022-07-06'
modified_time: 2022-07-06 16:56:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-06 16:56:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/06/kate-bedingfield-to-depart-the-white-house-after-over-3-years-leading-the-presidents-communications-operation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Kate Bedingfield to Depart the White\_House after Over 3 Years Leading the\
  \ President\u2019s Communications\_Operation"
---
 
Kate Bedingfield, a longtime trusted aide to President Biden and a
senior strategist both in the administration and on his winning
campaign, will leave the White House in late July to spend more time
with her husband and young children after more than 3 straight years of
leading his communications team. She first worked for the President as
his communications director during his time as Vice President.  
  
Bedingfield previously served as the Deputy Campaign Manager and
Communications Director on the President’s 2020 presidential campaign,
playing a leading role advising him on messaging, building his
communications and press operations, preparing him for debates and
interviews, and devising and executing on strategy as he secured the
Democratic nomination faster than any candidate since 2004 and became
the first nominee to defeat an incumbent president in almost 30 years.
She also represented the campaign on television at key moments,
including before and after debates.  
  
In the White House, Bedingfield continued as the President’s top
communications aide and was similarly integral to every major public
relations effort while leading the White House Communications
Department, ensuring that each part of the team was working to deliver
the President’s message and advocate for his agenda.  
  
“Without Kate Bedingfield’s talent and tenacity, Donald Trump might
still be in the White House, the Rescue Plan and the Infrastructure Law
might still be unrealized goals, and Ketanji Brown Jackson might not be
sitting on the Supreme Court,” **said White House Chief of Staff Ron
Klain.** “She has played a huge role in everything the President has
achieved – from his second term as Vice President, through the campaign,
and since coming to the White House.  Her strategic acumen, intense
devotion to the President’s agenda, and fierce work on his behalf are
unmatched.  She will continue to remain a critical player in moving the
Biden agenda forward from the outside.”  
  
“From long before we launched the campaign, Kate Bedingfield was a
fierce defender of the President and ensured that our message in 2020
and in the White House was consistent with his voice and principles,”
**said White House Senior Adviser Anita Dunn.** “Her leadership helped
us tell the story about the fight Joe Biden is making for the working
families of America.  She’ll always be a core member of this family,
even as she takes a little time to put her own family first.  We will
miss her intelligence, her talent, her sense of humor, and her
commitment to the values President Biden fought for as a candidate and
fights for every day as president.”

\###
