---
date: '2022-07-20'
modified_time: 2022-07-20 13:18:22-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-20 14:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/20/fact-sheetpresident-bidens-executive-actions-on-climate-to-address-extreme-heat-and-boost-offshore-wind/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden\u2019s Executive Actions on Climate to Address\
  \ Extreme Heat and Boost Offshore\_Wind"
---
 
*New Actions to Accelerate Clean Energy, Create Jobs, and Lower Costs*

Today, President Biden will reiterate that climate change is a clear and
present danger to the United States. Since Congress is not acting on
this emergency, President Biden will. In the coming weeks, President
Biden will announce additional executive actions to combat this
emergency. 

Today, President Biden is announcing his latest set of executive actions
to turn the climate crisis into an opportunity, by creating good-paying
jobs in clean energy and lowering costs for families. His actions will
protect communities from climate impacts already here, including extreme
heat conditions impacting more than 100 million Americans this week, and
expand offshore wind opportunities and jobs in the United States.

The President will make the announcements at a former coal-fired power
plant in Brayton Point, Massachusetts that will host a cable
manufacturing facility to support the flourishing offshore wind industry
– representing how the President’s leadership is accelerating the
nation’s transition away from the pollution, environmental injustice,
and volatile price swings of the past toward the good-paying jobs and
energy security of the future.

President Biden’s new executive actions will:

-   **Protect Communities from Extreme Heat and Dangerous Climate
    Impacts:** The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is
    announcing $2.3 billion in funding for its Building Resilient
    Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) program for Fiscal Year 2022—
    the largest BRIC investment in history, boosted by the President’s
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. This funding will help communities
    increase resilience to heat waves, drought, wildfires, flood,
    hurricanes, and other hazards by preparing before disaster strikes.
    BRIC is among hundreds of federal programs that the Biden-Harris
    Administration is transforming to support the Justice40 Initiative
    and prioritize delivering benefits to disadvantaged communities.  
      
-   **Lower Cooling Costs for Communities Suffering from Extreme Heat:**
    Today, the Department of Health and Human Services is issuing
    [guidance](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ocs/policy-guidance/liheap-im-2022-06-heat-stress-flexibilities-and-resources-fy2022)
    that for the first time expands how the Low Income Home Energy
    Assistance Program (LIHEAP) can promote the delivery of efficient
    air conditioning equipment, community cooling centers, and more. In
    April, the Biden-Harris Administration released $385 million through
    LIHEAP to help families with their household energy costs, including
    summer cooling—part of a record $8 billion that the Administration
    has provided, boosted by the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law.

<!-- -->

-   **Expand Offshore Wind Opportunities and Jobs:** The Department of
    the Interior is proposing the first Wind Energy Areas in the Gulf of
    Mexico, a historic step toward expanding offshore wind opportunities
    to another region of the United States. These areas cover 700,000
    acres and have the potential to power over three million homes.
    President Biden is also directing the Secretary of the Interior to
    advance wind energy development in the waters off the mid- and
    southern Atlantic Coast and Florida’s Gulf Coast —alleviating
    uncertainty cast by the prior Administration. These actions follow
    the President’s launch of a new [Federal-State Offshore Wind
    Implementation
    Partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-launches-new-federal-state-offshore-wind-partnership-to-grow-american-made-clean-energy/)
    that brought together Governors to deliver more clean, affordable
    energy and new jobs.  
      

Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, power goes down, homes are destroyed by wildfires,
or schools get flooded. Last year alone, the United States faced 20
extreme weather and climate related disaster events with losses
exceeding $1 billion each – a cumulative price tag of more than $145
billion. People of color and underserved communities are
disproportionately vulnerable to the climate crisis and are more likely
to experience the negative health and environmental effects of
climate-related and extreme weather events. Further, the country’s
critical infrastructure is at risk from climate and extreme weather.

President Biden will not back down from addressing this emergency. Since
taking office, he has [mobilized his entire Administration to tackle the
climate crisis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/climate/) and secured
historic clean energy and climate resilience investments in his
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. He will continue taking bold action to
secure a safe, healthy, clean energy future—all while saving families
money, delivering clean air and water, advancing environmental justice,
and boosting American manufacturing and competitiveness.

**<u>PROTECTING COMMUNITIES FROM EXTREME HEAT</u>**

This summer, millions of Americans are navigating the challenges and
dangers that come with extreme heat advisories and record-breaking
temperatures exceeding 100 degrees Fahrenheit. The climate crisis is
making heat waves more intense and frequent, taking a toll on health
across the country—sending tens of thousands of Americans to the
emergency room, increasing risks of heart and respiratory problems, and
especially endangering our workers, children, seniors, historically
underserved and overburdened communities, and people with underlying
health conditions.

To respond, last year the Biden-Harris Administration launched a [broad
set of new
initiatives](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/20/fact-sheet-biden-administration-mobilizes-to-protect-workers-and-communities-from-extreme-heat/)
to  advance workplace safety, build local resilience, and address the
disproportionate impacts of extreme heat. Today, the Administration is
announcing additional steps and progress on:

-   **Providing Record Funding to Increase Community Resilience:** Last
    year, President Biden doubled the funding available through FEMA’s
    Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) program.
    This year, he is doubling it again, to a historic level of $2.3
    billion available for states, local communities, Tribes, and
    territories to proactively reduce their vulnerability to heat waves,
    drought, wildfires, flood, hurricanes, and other hazards boosted by
    the President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. As part of the
    President’s Justice40 Initiative, which set a goal of delivering 40%
    of the overall benefits of Federal investments in climate and clean
    energy to disadvantaged communities, FEMA is prioritizing
    communities that have long been marginalized, overburdened, and
    underserved.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Access to Home Air Conditioners and Community Cooling
    Centers:** In April, the Department of Health and Human Services
    (HHS) released $385 million through LIHEAP to help families with
    their household energy costs, including summer cooling—part of a
    record $8 billion that the Administration has provided, boosted by
    the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, to reduce cooling and heating
    costs for low-income Americans. Today, HHS is issuing
    [guidance](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ocs/policy-guidance/liheap-im-2022-06-heat-stress-flexibilities-and-resources-fy2022)
    that will help states, Tribes, and territories expand how they
    respond to extreme heat and support vulnerable communities through
    LIHEAP. The guidance provides for a range of flexible options
    including increasing funding for cooling assistance through the
    American Rescue Plan; establishing community cooling centers; and
    purchasing, distributing, or loaning efficient air conditioning
    equipment, evaporative coolers and electric heat pumps—a more
    energy-efficient alternative for providing cooling services—to
    vulnerable households and individuals. HHS has also developed a
    [LIHEAP and Extreme
    Heat](https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ocs/liheap-and-extreme-heat) website
    to provide online resources including the Heat Stress Geographic
    Information (GIS) Dashboard to help grant recipients and
    stakeholders track, visualize, and respond to heat stress trends and
    needs across the country.

<!-- -->

-   **Enforcing Workplace Safety:** Heat is a growing threat to
    workplace safety, especially in high-risk sectors like agriculture
    and construction. In April, Vice President Harris and Secretary of
    Labor Walsh launched the first-ever National Emphasis Program to
    protect millions of workers from heat illness and injuries. Since
    then, the Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health
    Administration (OSHA) has **already conducted** **564 heat-related
    inspections, which are focused on over 70 high-risk industries
    across 43 states.** On days when the heat index is 80°F or higher,
    OSHA inspectors and compliance assistance specialists are engaging
    in proactive outreach and technical assistance to help stakeholders
    keep workers safe on the job.  
      

Through the Extreme Heat Interagency Working Group under the National
Climate Task Force, the Administration is advancing a wide range of
additional efforts, including a [historic OSHA rulemaking
process](https://www.osha.gov/heat-exposure/rulemaking) toward the first
federal heat standard to protect workers, EPA support for community
[communication
strategies](https://www.epa.gov/innovation/lets-talk-about-heat-challenge)
to help people keep safe on the hottest days, a DHS [Cooling Solutions
Challenge](https://www.dhs.gov/science-and-technology/news/2022/07/05/dhs-prize-winners-announced-challenge-counter-extreme-temperatures)
to fund innovative extreme heat responses,  NOAA’s community-led [urban
heat island mapping
campaign](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/noaa-and-communities-to-map-heat-inequities-in-14-us-cities-and-counties),
a USDA [urban and community forestry
program](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/urban-forests/ucf) to
equitably improve heat resilience, and a new [HHS Climate and Health
Outlook](https://www.hhs.gov/climate-change-health-equity-environmental-justice/climate-change-health-equity/climate-health-outlook/index.html)
to inform health professionals about extreme heat and other
climate-related health hazards. 

**<u>BOOSTING THE OFFSHORE WIND INDUSTRY AND CREATING JOBS</u>**

Since President Biden set a bold goal of deploying 30 gigawatts of
offshore wind by 2030, the Administration has approved the first
large-scale projects and new wind energy areas, held record-breaking
wind auctions, and issued an action plan to accelerate permitting. The
private sector is following suit with investments to expand an
American-made wind energy supply chain. In 2021 alone, investors
announced $2.2 billion in new supply chain funding, including
commitments to develop nine major manufacturing facilities to produce
the foundations, towers, cables, and blades of offshore wind turbines.
Historic project labor agreements are helping to grow a diverse union
workforce, create good-paying jobs, and support training programs.

To further expand these opportunities, today President Biden is:

-   **Kickstarting Potential for Offshore Wind in Gulf of Mexico:**
    Today, the Department of the Interior is announcing draft Wind
    Energy Areas and an accompanying draft Environmental Assessment to
    consider potential offshore wind power in the Gulf of Mexico. The
    Administration will seek public input on two potential Wind Energy
    Areas—one off the coast of Galveston, Texas and another off the
    coast of Lake Charles, Louisiana. The area for review covers over
    700,000 acres, with the potential to power over three million homes
    with clean energy. As with prior proposals, the Administration is
    committed to working in partnership with stakeholders to advance
    offshore wind development while protecting biodiversity and
    promoting ocean co-use.  
      
-   **Promoting Offshore Wind Opportunities in the Southeast:** The
    prior Administration cast uncertainty over the future of offshore
    wind and other clean energy development off the coasts of Florida,
    Georgia, South Carolina, and North Carolina. Today, President Biden
    is directing the Secretary of the Interior to advance clean energy
    development in these federal waters—ensuring that these southeast
    states will be able to benefit from good-paying jobs in the
    burgeoning offshore wind industry. 

These actions follow the President’s announcement last month of a new
[Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation
Partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-launches-new-federal-state-offshore-wind-partnership-to-grow-american-made-clean-energy/),
joining with Governors to ensure that federal and state officials are
working together to build a U.S.-based supply chain, including
manufacturing and shipbuilding, for the rapidly-growing offshore wind
industry. 

\###
