---
date: '2022-07-05'
modified_time: 2022-07-05 09:04:13-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-05 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-national-effort-to-support-student-success/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches National Effort to\
  \ Support Student Success"
---
 
*President Biden calls on schools to leverage American Rescue Plan funds
to expand programming and services to help students make up for lost
learning time and succeed*

America’s students are on average two to four months behind in reading
and math because of the COVID-19 pandemic. President Biden understands
the pain and loss our nation’s students, families, and educators are
experiencing, and is committed to supporting our nation’s children.
That’s why President Biden’s American Rescue Plan (ARP) provided an
historic $122 billion in funding to help schools safely reopen and stay
open, combat learning loss, and address student mental health and other
needs.  
  
Today, President Biden is calling on schools to use the $122 billion in
ARP funds to provide high-quality tutoring, summer learning and
enrichment, and afterschool programs that are proven pathways to helping
students make up for lost learning time and succeed in school and in
life, including by supporting their mental health. Building on President
Biden’s call to action in the State of the Union, the Biden-Harris
Administration is also joining with leading organizations to launch the
[National Partnership for Student Success
(NPSS)](https://nationalpartnershipforstudentsuccess.formstack.com/forms/request_information_about_service_opportunities)
to provide students with an additional 250,000 tutors and mentors over
the next three years.  
  
We know what works: fully staffed schools, and personalized support for
students through high-quality tutoring, summer learning and enrichment,
and afterschool programs that help students not only make academic
gains, but also stay connected to school and one another. The steps
announced today will further help ensure America’s children have what
they need to thrive.  
  
**Use American Rescue Plan Funds to Provide Additional Instruction So
Students Can Make Up for Learning Time Lost During the Pandemic**  
  
Thanks to the ARP, states and schools have the funds they need to help
students recover from the pandemic. A majority of schools are already
using these resources or have developed their plans to provide tutoring,
mentoring, summer learning and afterschool programs, and to support
staffing. Independent experts at [Georgetown
University](https://www.future-ed.org/financial-trends-in-local-schools-covid-aid-spending/)
have found school districts plan to spend over half of the $122 billion
in ARP Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief funding for
these purposes.  
  
To ensure students are set up for success, the President is calling on
states and school districts to continue using American Rescue Plan funds
to fully staff schools and provide high-quality tutoring, summer
learning and enrichment, and afterschool programs to support, on
average, an additional four months of learning gains in reading and
math. These programs are most successful when paired with initiatives
that support student well-being and mental health, like arts and music,
and the programs like those supported by the National Partnership for
Student Success.  

-   **High-quality summer learning and enrichment:**
    [Multiple](https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR2836.html)
    [studies](https://www.rand.org/pubs/research_reports/RR1557.html.)
    indicate that high-quality summer learning and enrichment programs
    lasting five weeks, with at least three hours of academic
    instruction per day, can help students gain roughly an additional
    two months of learning in math and one month in reading.
-   **High-quality tutoring programs:** Research has consistently shown
    that [high-quality tutoring
    programs](https://www.nber.org/papers/w27476) of a range of
    durations can produce about five months of additional learning. The
    best programs provide tutoring three times per week, for 30 minutes
    each day, and use teachers and well-trained volunteers.  
-   **High-quality afterschool programs:** High-quality afterschool
    programs are associated with academic gains of roughly the
    equivalent of four months of learning, with positive impacts on
    attendance and student behavior as well. These high-quality programs
    include a concrete focus on skill development, including personal
    and social skills, and provide opportunities for students to
    practice new skills.

To help parents and schools ensure these critical supports are available
in every district, the Administration is taking the following actions:

-   **Tracking Progress in Providing Additional Learning
    Opportunities:** The Institute for Education Sciences, the
    Department of Education’s statistics, research and evaluation arm,
    will use monthly surveys to track schools’ continued progress in
    providing summer learning and enrichment, tutoring, and afterschool
    supports.  
-   **Empowering Parents:** Most decisions about how schools invest ARP
    funds are made at the local level and districts are required to
    engage families, educators and other stakeholders as they create
    their plans for using these historic funds. The Department of
    Education recently launched its National Parents and Families
    Engagement Council, and has created a new tool to help families and
    communities engage with district leaders around ensuring recovery
    funds are meeting students’ needs. Using this [interactive
    map](https://bestpracticesclearinghouse.ed.gov/interactive-map.aspx),
    families and communities can review how their state and district
    plans to spend their ARP funds. Parents and families should engage
    their local leaders if plans do not adequately address the needs of
    their students.  
-   **Highlighting Schools Effectively Supporting Student Success**:
    Today, the Department of Education is launching a campaign through
    the [Best Practices
    Clearinghouse](https://bestpracticesclearinghouse.ed.gov/) to
    highlight states and schools using ARP funds to support learning
    recovery and student mental health in evidence-based ways. The
    Department is calling on education leaders to nominate work for
    national recognition through the Clearinghouse.  
-   **Highlighting How States, Cities and Counties Can Help:** Ensuring
    our students have the supports they need to succeed cannot fall on
    education leaders alone. States, cities and counties can use the
    American Rescue Plan’s $350 billion in State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Funds (SLFRF) to support student success. As outlined in a
    new White House
    [toolkit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/SLFRF-Learning-Loss-and-Mental-Health-Toolkit-v0630-CLEAN.pdf),
    SLFRF can be used to hire and retain school-based staff; build the
    educator pipeline; and invest in other ways to support our students,
    including academic and mental health supports.

**Recruit 250,000 New Tutors and Mentors to Help Students Succeed**  
  
Research shows that high quality tutors and mentors positively impact
student achievement, well-being, and overall success. In fact, [the CDC
released analyses in
March](https://www.cdc.gov/media/releases/2022/p0331-youth-mental-health-covid-19.html)
finding that students who are connected to adults and peers at school –
the kinds of connections that tutoring and mentoring programs can foster
— reported better mental health outcomes than those without such
connections. However, many schools need help recruiting and training the
caring adults who are essential to implementing these high-quality,
evidence-based programs.  
  
**Today, the Biden-Harris Administration, led by AmeriCorps and the
Department of Education, is joining forces with leading national
education, youth development, and service organizations and the**
**Johns Hopkins** **Everyone Graduates Center** **to launch the**
[**National Partnership for Student Success
(NPSS).**](https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org/) NPSS will help
expand high-impact tutoring, mentoring, and other evidence-based support
programs that help students succeed. The NPSS will bring together school
districts, non-profits and higher education institutions to recruit,
train and place screened adults in high impact roles as tutors, mentors,
student success coaches, integrated student supports coordinators, and
post-secondary education transition coaches, with the goal of ensuring
an additional 250,000 adults serve in these roles over the next three
years. This will also help build the pipeline of educators. As more
Americans gain experience working in our schools, more will seek out
roles as teachers and student support professionals.  
  
To support this effort, AmeriCorps will prioritize the American Rescue
Plan’s $20 million in Volunteer Generation Funds to assist non-profit
organizations in recruiting and managing up to 200,000 additional
volunteers in these critical positions in schools. The Department of
Education has also [made it
clear](https://www2.ed.gov/policy/fund/guid/americorps-matching-letter.pdf?src=grants-page)
that schools can use federal education funds as matching funds for
AmeriCorps programs, making it easier for schools to partner with
AmeriCorps grantees to support students.   
  
President Biden is calling on Americans to come together to support our
students in a number of different ways:

-   **Individuals,** from young adults to retirees, can learn more about
    supporting youth through a range of volunteer and national service
    opportunities, through
    [AmeriCorps](https://www.americorps.gov/serve) and the
    [NPSS](https://nationalpartnershipforstudentsuccess.formstack.com/forms/request_information_about_service_opportunities).  
-   **Community-based organizations and school districts** can expand or
    improve tutoring, mentoring and other programs through the
    [NPSS](https://nationalpartnershipforstudentsuccess.formstack.com/forms/technical_assistance)
    or through
    [AmeriCorps](https://www.americorps.gov/partner/funding-opportunities)
       
-   **Employers** across the country can pledge to support their
    employees in serving as volunteers, amplify these opportunities to
    serve, and [get help in supporting these volunteer efforts.  
    ](https://nationalpartnershipforstudentsuccess.formstack.com/forms/more_info_employer)
-   **Colleges and universities** can learn more about and [sign
    up](/nationalpartnershipforstudentsuccess.formstack.com/forms/more_info_ihe%3c)
    to partner with K-12 schools and community-based organizations,
    providing their post-secondary students with meaningful
    opportunities to support K-12 students’ success. 

Organizations participating in NPSS include Accelerate, Afterschool
Alliance, American Federation of Teachers, American School Counselor
Association, Boys and Girls Clubs of America, Big Brothers Big Sisters
of America, City Year, Communities in Schools, COVID Collaborative,
MENTOR, National 4-H Council, National College Attainment Network,
National Education Association, National Student Support Accelerator,
National Summer Learning Association, AASA: the School Superintendents
Association, and Voices for National Service. For a full list of
participating organizations, visit
[https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org/.](https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org/)

\###
