---
date: '2022-07-31'
modified_time: 2022-07-31 07:59:36-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-31 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/31/readout-of-aukus-joint-steering-group-meetings-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of AUKUS Joint Steering Group\_Meetings"
---
 
Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America recently
held meetings of the AUKUS Joint Steering Groups, which were established
as part of the governance structure of the AUKUS partnership in
September 2021. The delegations discussed the intensive work under way
and the progress that has been made since the announcement of AUKUS.
Both meetings were held at the Pentagon, with additional sessions at the
White House where the delegations met with National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan.

The Joint Steering Group for Australia’s Nuclear-Powered Submarine
Program met on July 25-28, continuing its progress on defining the
optimal pathway to provide Australia with conventionally-armed,
nuclear-powered submarines at the earliest possible date while ensuring
the highest standards of nuclear stewardship, including the responsible
planning, operation, application and management of nuclear material,
technology and facilities.

The participants took stock of ongoing progress to deliver on our
leaders’ commitment to set the highest possible non-proliferation
standards, including through continued close consultation with the
International Atomic Energy Agency. [They welcomed the publication of
the working paper on ‘Cooperation under the AUKUS
partnership’](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/07/npt_conf.2020_wp.66_advance.pdf) for
the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. The paper details our proposal to
provide complete power units to Australia, Australia’s commitment that
it will not conduct enrichment, reprocessing or fuel fabrication in
connection with its nuclear-powered submarine program, and our
engagement with the IAEA to find a suitable verification approach. [They
noted the introductory remarks of the IAEA Director General to the June
Board of Governors in which he
expressed](https://www.iaea.org/newscenter/statements/iaea-director-generals-introductory-statement-to-the-board-of-governors-6-june-2022) “satisfaction
with the engagement and transparency shown by the three countries thus
far” and noted that he plans to present a report on AUKUS to the
September Board.

The Joint Steering Group for Advanced Capabilities met on July 28-29,
reviewing progress across critical defense capabilities. The
participants decided to bolster combined military capabilities,
including by accelerating near-term capabilities in hypersonics and
counter-hypersonics, as well as cyber. They also recommitted to
deepening cooperation on information-sharing and other previously agreed
working groups. As work progresses on these and other critical defense
capabilities, we will seek opportunities to engage allies and close
partners.

\###
