---
date: '2022-07-18'
modified_time: 2022-07-18 14:43:45-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-18 14:39:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/18/fact-sheet-us-government-women-peace-and-securityreport-to-congress/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S. Government Women Peace and Security Report to\_Congress"
---
 
The Women, Peace, and Security Act of 2017 (P.L. 115-68) (WPS Act)
codified the United States Government’s decades-long, sustained
commitment to the principles of the Women, Peace, and Security Agenda. 
This Agenda stemmed from the historic 2000 United Nations Security
Council Resolution 1325, which has since been further supported by a
growing body of policies to affirm gender equity and equality in
security, peace-making, and peacekeeping, here in the United States and
globally.

Conflict has disastrous impacts on affected communities and devastating
economic costs globally. Women, as half the world’s population, must be
engaged as leaders and key participants in responding to the complex
challenges of global peace and security.  The world is more peaceful,
safe, and prosperous when women can fully participate in all facets of
economic, social, and political life—and their human rights are
respected.    For the Biden-Harris Administration, the WPS agenda is a
cornerstone of U.S. government efforts geared to averting and preventing
conflict, including bolstering the implementation of the [U.S. Strategy
to Prevent Conflict and Promote
Stability](https://www.state.gov/stability-strategy/) and the [U.S.
Strategy to Anticipate, Prevent and Respond to
Atrocities](https://www.state.gov/atrocity-prevention/).  WPS is also a
core theme throughout the National Strategy on Gender Equity and
Equality, which makes gender equity a strategic imperative across the
domestic and foreign policy of the Biden-Harris Administration. This
important lens is informing our work to avert and respond to crises,
from the conflict-related sexual violence we are witnessing in Ukraine
to the underrepresentation of women in civic participation in
Guatemala. 

The report issued today is the second report to Congress evaluating the
USG’s progress towards advancing the goals of  [2019 U.S. Women Peace
and Security
Strategy](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/WPS_Strategy_10_October2019.pdf)
and includes overviews of efforts undertaken by the four departments and
agencies involved in the Strategy: the Department of Defense (DoD),
Homeland Security (DHS), the Department of State (State), and the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID).   The reports summarize
progress made in the WPS Strategy’s four Lines of Effort (LOEs): 1)
Participation; 2) Protection; 3) Internal Capabilities; and 4)
Partnerships.

To review the report, please visit:  [U.S. Women Peace and Security
Congressional Report
2022](https://www.state.gov/us-women-peace-and-security-congressional-report-2022/). 
Below are highlights from each agency’s reports:

**<u>Department of State.</u> ** The Department continued its focus on
WPS implementation through monitoring, evaluation, and learning
exercises and strengthened engagement with key partners, such as civil
society leaders. During the Fiscal Year (FY) 2021 reporting period, the
Department continued engagement with civil society, non-governmental
organizations (NGOs), the private sector, and partner governments;
increased its training of personnel on WPS; and increased use of gender
analysis in projects and strategic frameworks by 25 percent compared to
FY 2020. Additionally, Department programs, training, and funding for
WPS increased from FY 2020 to FY 2021.  During the reporting period, the
Department invested approximately $110 million in assistance programming
to advance WPS. The Department also integrated WPS principles into its
internal processes, including 231 notice of funding requests (NOFOs) and
requests for proposals (RFPs) requiring a gender analysis – up from only
12 reported in FY 2020. As part of the Department’s ongoing internal
review of its WPS data call and to streamline the report, the Department
revised or removed some indicators for this reporting period (FY 2021).

**<u>U.S. Agency for International Development.</u>**  In accordance
with the commitments of USAID’s WPS Implementation Plan, USAID increased
its efforts to consult with local women leaders, civil society,
including faith-based organizations, as well as academia in countries
affected by crisis and conflict. In FY 2021, USAID supported the
participation of over 77,000 women in leadership, conflict mediation,
legal, political, and peacebuilding processes, and provided critical
health care, psychosocial support, legal aid, and economic services to
more than 5.3 million gender-based violence survivors. In FY 21, USAID
invested over $243 million in programming designed to empower and
protect women and girls in countries affected by crisis, conflict,
violent extremism, and natural disasters.

**<u>Department of Homeland Security.</u>**  In FY 2021, there were
significant accomplishments across the four DHS LOEs. The Federal Law
Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC) trained 8,458 women in both basic
and advanced law enforcement training programs; Initiative 2023 was
launched to increase the number of women in law enforcement by 30
percent no later than 2023; and the U.S. Secret Service celebrated its
50th anniversary of admitting female agents. DHS led the Unified
Coordination Group, a whole-of-government, whole-of-society effort to
resettle more than 76,000 vulnerable Afghans, including women leaders,
human rights activists, humanitarian workers, journalists, and other
at-risk individuals across the United States. Through this effort, and
Operation Allies Welcome (OAW), the Department also promoted the
protection of Afghan women and girls through such initiatives as
listening sessions with stakeholders on civil and human rights
considerations. In addition to Department-wide efforts, U.S. Immigration
and Customs Enforcement (ICE) conducted targeted trainings regarding the
global treatment of women and highlighted key issues such as Female
Genital Mutilation/Cutting (FGM/C).

**Department of Defense.**  The Department of Defense (DoD) WPS
Strategic Framework and Implementation Plan (SFIP) established three
Defense Objectives to support the WPS Strategy’s Lines of Effort (LOEs):
(1) modeling and employing women’s meaningful participation in the Joint
Force; (2) promoting partner nation women’s participation in all
occupations in the defense and security sectors; and (3) ensuring
partner nations protect women and girls, especially during conflict and
crisis.  In FY 2021, DoD spent $5.5 million to establish policies and
programs to advance implementation of the Women, Peace, and Security Act
of 2017 (Public Law 115-68), hire and train qualified personnel, and
integrate WPS into relevant training curriculum and professional
military education for the Armed Forces. In modeling women’s meaningful
participation, Air Force General Jacqueline Van Ovost took command of
U.S. Transportation Command and Army General Laura Richardson took
command of U.S. Southern Command. The Department initiated use of $3
million from the International Security Cooperation Programs (ISCP)
Account to conduct security cooperation (SC) programs that incorporate
gender analysis and advance women’s participation in defense
institutions and national security forces. This work was complemented by
the Department’s efforts to support an Independent Review Commission on
Sexual Assault in the Military, which prompted historic reforms to
preventing and addressing sexual and gender-based violence across the
force—reaffirming DoD’s commitment to advancing WPS goals within our
military.

\###
