---
date: '2022-07-13'
published_time: 2022-07-13 09:43:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/13/president-biden-statement-on-cpi-inflation-in-june/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Statement on CPI Inflation in\_June"
---
 
While today’s headline inflation reading is unacceptably high, it is
also out-of-date. Energy alone comprised nearly half of the monthly
increase in inflation. Today’s data does not reflect the full impact of
nearly 30 days of decreases in gas prices, that have reduced the price
at the pump by about 40 cents since mid-June. Those savings are
providing important breathing room for American families. And, other
commodities like wheat have fallen sharply since this report.

Importantly, today’s report shows that what economists call annual “core
inflation” came down for the third month in a row, and is the first
month since last year where the annual “core” inflation rate is below
six percent.  

Inflation is our most pressing economic challenge. It is hitting almost
every country in the world. It is little comfort to Americans to know
that inflation is also high in Europe, and higher in many countries
there than in America.  But it is a reminder that all major economies
are battling this COVID-related challenge, made worse by Putin’s
unconscionable aggression.

Tackling inflation is my top priority – we need to make more progress,
more quickly, in getting price increases under control. Here is what I
will do:

First, I will continue to do everything I can to bring down the price of
gas. I will continue my historic release of oil from our strategic
petroleum reserve. I will continue working with our European allies to
put a price cap on Russian oil – sapping Putin of oil revenue. And, I
will continue to work with the U.S. oil and gas industry to increase
production responsibly — already, the U.S. is producing 12.1 million
barrels of oil per day and is on track to break records.

But I will also continue to insist – as I have with urgency recently –
that reductions in the price of oil must produce lower gas prices for
consumers at the pump.  The price of oil is down about 20% since
mid-June, but the price of gas has so far only fallen half as much. Oil
and gas companies must not use this moment as an excuse for profiting by
not passing along savings at the pump.  

Second, I will urge Congress to act, this month, on legislation to
reduce the cost of everyday expenses that are hitting American families,
from prescription drugs to utility bills to health insurance premiums
and to make more in America.

Third, I will continue to oppose any efforts by Republicans – as they
have proposed during this campaign year — to make things worse by
raising taxes on working people, or putting Social Security and Medicare
on the chopping block every five years.

Finally, I will continue to give the Federal Reserve the room it needs
to help it combat inflation.

\###
