---
date: '2022-07-13'
modified_time: 2022-07-13 16:18:09-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-13 16:18:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/13/president-biden-names-twenty-second-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Twenty-Second Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing six new federal judicial nominees, all of
whom are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule
of law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.

For example, if confirmed, this slate would include:

-   The first Hispanic judge to serve on the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts
-   The first Hispanic judge to serve on the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of New York
-   The first openly LGBTQ Article III judge to serve in the state of
    Virginia

This is President Biden’s twenty-second round of nominees for federal
judicial positions and his ninth slate of nominations in 2022, bringing
the number of announced federal judicial nominees to 118.

President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move rapidly to fill judicial
vacancies. And he has won confirmation of the most lower court judges
for the first year of a presidency since the Kennedy Administration.

**<u>District Court Press Bios</u>**

1.  **<u>Judge Margaret R. Guzman: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the District of Massachusetts</u>**

Judge Margaret R. Guzman has served as a judge on the Ayer District
Court in Middlesex County, Massachusetts since 2017. From 2009 to 2017,
she served as a judge on the Massachusetts Trial Court. From 2005 to
2009, Judge Guzman was a solo practitioner. She previously served as a
public defender for the Massachusetts Committee for Public Counsel
Services from 1992 to 2005. Judge Guzman received her J.D. from Boston
University School of Law in 1992 and her B.A. from Clark University,
with honors, in 1989.

1.  **<u>Kymberly Evanson: Candidate for the United States District
    Court for the Western District of Washington</u>**

Kymberly Evanson is a partner at Pacifica Law Group in Seattle,
Washington, where she has worked since 2011. Ms. Evanson was an
associate attorney at K&L Gates in Seattle, Washington from 2009 to
2011. She served as a law clerk for Judge Emmet Sullivan on the United
States District Court for the District of  Columbia from 2007 to 2008.
Ms. Evanson received her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in
2007 and her B.A. from Seattle University in 1999.

1.  **<u>Jamal Whitehead: Candidate for the United States District Court
    for the Western District of Washington</u>**

Jamal Whitehead is a shareholder at Schroeter Goldmark & Bender in
Seattle, Washington, where he has worked since 2016.  From 2014 to 2016,
Mr. Whitehead was an Assistant United States Attorney for the Western
District of Washington. From 2010 to 2014, he was a Senior Trial
Attorney in the Seattle Field Office of the United States Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission.  From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Whitehead
worked as an associate at Garvey Schubert Barer (now Foster Garvey) in
Seattle, Washington. He received his J.D. from Seattle University School
of Law in 2007 and his B.A. from the University of Washington in 2004.

1.  **<u>Judge Robert Stewart Ballou: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the Western District of Virginia</u>**

Judge Robert Stewart Ballou has served as a United States Magistrate
Judge for the Western District of Virginia since 2011. Prior to joining
the bench, Judge Ballou was a partner at Johnson, Ayers & Matthews in
Roanoke, Virginia, where he worked from 1992 to 2011. From 1988 to 1991,
Judge Ballou was an associate at Christian, Barton, Epps, Brent &
Chappell in Richmond, Virginia. Judge Ballou served as a law clerk for
Judge Peter Beer on the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana from 1987 to 1988. Judge Ballou received his J.D.
in 1987 and his B.A in 1984, both from the University of Virginia.

1.  **<u>Jamar K. Walker: Candidate for the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of Virginia</u>**

Jamar K. Walker has served as an Assistant United States Attorney for
the United States Attorney’s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia
since 2015. From 2012 to 2015, Mr. Walker was an associate at Covington
& Burling in Washington, D.C.. He served as a law clerk for Judge
Raymond A. Jackson on the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Virginia from 2011 to 2012. Mr. Walker received his B.A.
from the University of Virginia in 2008 and his J.D. from the University
of Virginia School of Law in 2011.

1.  **<u>Jorge Alberto Rodriguez: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the Northern District of New York</u>**

Jorge Alberto Rodriguez has served as an Assistant Attorney General in
the Office of the Attorney General of New York since 2014. Mr. Rodriguez
was an associate at Deily & Glastetter in Albany from 2010 to 2014 and
at Mahoney & Keane in New York City from 2005 to 2010. He received his
J.D. in 2004 and B.A. in 2000, both from Vanderbilt University.
