---
date: '2022-07-16'
modified_time: 2022-07-16 05:44:54-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-16 05:44:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/16/joint-statement-following-meeting-between-president-biden-and-iraqi-prime-minister-kadhimi-in-jeddah/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement Following Meeting Between President\_Biden and Iraqi Prime\
  \ Minister Kadhimi in\_Jeddah"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met today with Prime Minister Mustafa
Al-Kadhimi of Iraq in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in a bilateral meeting
during the Summit of the United States and the Gulf Cooperation Council
and Egypt, Iraq, and Jordan.  During the meeting, the two leaders
reaffirmed their shared commitment to the strong bilateral partnership
between Iraq and the United States under the Strategic Framework
Agreement and their determination to continue security coordination to
ensure that ISIS can never resurge. 

President Biden and Prime Minister Al-Kadhimi also consulted on a range
of regional issues.  The leaders agreed that the relationship between
the U.S. and Iraq is based on a shared interest in Iraq’s sovereignty,
territorial integrity, security, and stability and committed to
bolstering the bilateral partnership for the benefit of their two
nations.

They also reaffirmed the importance of forming a new Iraqi government
responsive to the will of the Iraqi people and their respect for Iraq’s
democracy and independence.  President Biden underscored the importance
the United States places on a stable, united, sovereign, and prosperous
Iraq, to include Iraq’s Kurdistan region.

**<u>Strategic Framework Agreement</u>**

The President and Prime Minister renewed their commitment to the
Strategic Framework Agreement for a Relationship of Friendship and
Cooperation between the United States and the Republic of Iraq, which
guides the overall political, economic, cultural, and security
relationship between the two countries.  President Biden reiterated his
support to Iraq in its fight against terrorism and emphasized that a
strong Iraq capable of self-defense is essential for achieving stability
in the region.

The President and the Prime Minister also reinforced the importance of
strengthening Iraq’s democratic institutions, to include empowering
Iraqi security forces, to advance security and stability in Iraq and the
region.  President Biden expressed appreciation for Iraq’s efforts to
repatriate and rehabilitate Iraqi families and children as well as to
prosecute Iraqi ISIS fighters from Syria and welcomed further
cooperation to address this critical issue.  Both leaders agreed that
close cooperation on military and security issues and overall support
for Iraq against terrorism was critical to ensure the enduring defeat of
ISIS.

**<u>Promoting Stability</u>**

President Biden and Prime Minister Al-Kadhimi discussed the important
role of Iraq in the region, especially in facilitating communication and
building confidence among the countries of the region.  President Biden
particularly commended the significant diplomatic efforts led by Prime
Minister Al-Kadhimi to foster a more stable, prosperous, and
interconnected region.  The historic new agreements between Iraq and the
GCC Interconnection Authority will bring affordable energy to Iraq and
help meet the needs of the Iraqi people. 

President Biden reaffirmed the importance to the United States of
building a prosperous and diversified economy in Iraq that is integrated
in the regional and global economic system and capable of meeting the
essential needs of the Iraqi people.  The President and the Prime
Minister highlighted the importance of fighting corruption to both build
public trust in Iraqi institutions and to support economic growth.  

The President and Prime Minister discussed efforts to collectively
advance sustainable development of the region’s resources, to address
the impacts of climate change including water insecurity, and to expand
U.S.-Iraq coordination on energy modernization and economic reform.

President Biden also welcomed Prime Minister Al-Kadhimi’s initiative to
bring Saudi Arabia and Iran together for talks in Baghdad.  The
President expressed his appreciation for the Prime Minister’s
forward-thinking diplomacy in the interest of a safer, more stable
region.  He also commended the Baghdad Summit, and the unique
relationship between Iraq, Jordan, and Egypt, which the United States
stands ready to support.

Prime Minister Al-Kadhimi emphasized his commitment to pursuing
initiatives to bring together Iraq’s neighbors and friends to find
home-grown solutions for regional challenges and to achieve sustainable
stability.

\###
