---
date: '2022-07-26'
modified_time: 2022-07-26 11:35:59-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-26 11:17:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/26/fact-sheet-department-of-energy-releases-new-notice-of-sale-as-gasoline-prices-continue-to-fall/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Department of Energy Releases New Notice of Sale as Gasoline Prices\
  \ Continue to\_Fall"
---
 
*Treasury Department Estimates that Strategic Petroleum Reserve Releases
by President Biden and International Partners Reduced the Price of
Gasoline by up to 40 Cents Per Gallon*

Today, the Biden Administration announced that it is
[releasing](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-price-impact-of-the-strategic-petroleum-reserve-release)
the next Notice of Sale to supply additional barrels of crude oil from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) onto the global market, building
on the more than 125 million barrels of oil that have already been sold.
A new analysis from the Department of the Treasury
[estimates](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0887) that
these releases, along with coordinated releases from international
partners, have reduced gasoline prices by up to about 40 cents per
gallon compared to what they would have been absent these drawdowns.

The Administration is also [announcing
steps](https://www.energy.gov/node/4821238) to repurchase oil for the
SPR in future years, likely after FY2023, to help stabilize the market
and encourage near-term supply. These actions will enable the
Administration to continue the work of shoring up supply and bringing
prices down. 

**Continuing Unprecedented SPR Releases**

Since the President authorized the historic release of one million
barrels per day from the SPR earlier this spring, the Department of
Energy has already sold more than 125 million barrels into the market,
including nearly 70 million barrels that have already been delivered to
purchasers and additional barrels planned to be delivered to customers
in the weeks and months to come.

The President’s historic action is in addition to agreements with
International Energy Agency member countries for collective action to
address the market disruption caused by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.
The President and his team engaged in round-the-clock diplomacy
resulting in the release of 240 million barrels from the United States
as well as allies and partners globally to meet this moment.

With these releases, the President has executed a drawdown of
unprecedented size and scope to respond to the energy market disruptions
posed by Russia’s invasion, and his actions are having an impact. It is,
as one leading analyst noted at the time of announcement, “hard to
overstate the scale of this intervention.” And the Department of Energy
is delivering.

There is no precedent for this level of drawdown, and one major bank
estimated in March that the maximum drawdown capacity of the SPR was
only 500,000 barrels per day. Nonetheless, the SPR is executing at a
speed that is about twice that level.

And those actions are helping mitigate the Putin price hike. **In fact,
the Department of the Treasury estimates that as a result of these
drawdowns both domestically and internationally, the price at the pump
for Americans is up to about 40 cents per gallon lower than it otherwise
would have been.**

Today, as part of the President’s historic release, the Department of
Energy is issuing a notice to sell 20 million barrels from the Reserve.
This is the fifth sale that the President has authorized to shore up
crude oil supplies in response to Putin’s war in Ukraine by releasing
one million barrels per day into the market. The Administration expects
to continue to deliver barrels for several more months.   

**Using Repurchases to Promote Stability and Encourage Supply**

The Administration is also moving forward with a proposal to allow
fixed-price forward purchases of crude oil to replenish the SPR and
encourage short-term production. Relative to conventional purchase
contracts that expose producers to volatile crude prices, the
fixed-price contracts can give producers the assurance to make
investments today, knowing that the price they receive when they sell to
the SPR will be locked in place, providing them with some protection
against downward movements in the market. This proposal, if finalized as
proposed, would encourage near-term production, promote market
stability, and put the federal government in a better position to
respond to future market volatility.

The Department of Energy is proposing rulemaking this week that would
allow for these purchases. The new rule, if finalized as proposed, would
enable the Department to enter into purchase contracts for future
delivery at a fixed price. Under current regulations, the Department can
enter into contracts for future delivery, but the price paid reflects
prices at the time that product is delivered. By instead allowing for
the price to be fixed at the time the transaction is executed between
the parties, this regulatory change would provide greater certainty to
producers regarding the revenues they could expect to generate if they
produce more crude oil in the short-term, knowing that the Department
has contracted to purchase these barrels at a previously agreed-upon
price to replenish reserves.

Importantly, the actual delivery of these volumes back to the Reserve
will not take place until well into the future, likely after FY 2023.
This means that the repurchase agreements will encourage greater
near-term investment in supply but will not raise demand for barrels now
or in the near-future.   

**Update on Gasoline Prices**

Gasoline prices have fallen for six straight weeks, and are nearly 70
cents below where they were last month. According to an industry
analyst, more than 40,000 stations across the United States are selling
gasoline for less than $3.99 per gallon. As a result of this price
decline, Americans are collectively saving hundreds of millions of
dollars on gasoline every day compared with prices last month, and
prices continue to fall.

While energy markets are unpredictable and subject to further disruption
from Putin’s war in Ukraine, the Administration will continue to use
every lever available to address supply disruptions, bring prices down
and provide relief for Americans at the pump.      

\###
