---
date: '2022-07-15'
published_time: 2022-07-15 10:52:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/15/a-proclamation-on-national-atomic-veterans-day-2022/
tags: statements-releases
title: "A Proclamation on  National Atomic Veterans Day,\_2022"
---
 
On National Atomic Veterans Day, we recognize the brave service of
America’s Atomic Veterans.  We renew our commitment to supporting Atomic
Veterans and to preserving their stories, so that Americans will always
remember both their crucial role in our history and our aspiration for a
world without nuclear weapons. 

     The military personnel who participated in nuclear testing between
1945 and 1962, served in the Armed Forces in or around Hiroshima and
Nagasaki through mid-1946, or were held as prisoners of war in or near
Hiroshima or Nagasaki stand among our bravest heroes.  Many of these
veterans stepped forward to defend our democratic values and helped to
end the deadliest conflict in history.  Yet, despite their service in
uniform, Atomic Veterans were prevented from discussing the nature of
their service — including with their families.  Although many Atomic
Veterans developed serious health conditions due to radiation exposure,
they were unable to seek medical care or disability compensation from
the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for injuries and diseases
associated with their exposure. 

     Decades later, when the United States Congress repealed the Nuclear
Radiation and Secrecy Agreements Act, veterans exposed to radiation
through their service-related activities were finally able to break
their silence and qualify for select VA benefits and services. 
Tragically, many Atomic Veterans passed away without ever receiving the
health care they deserved and without their families knowing the true
extent of their service.

     Our Nation has many obligations, but only one sacred obligation:
 to prepare and equip the troops that we send into harm’s way and to
care for them when they return home, as well as their families,
caregivers, and survivors.  For far too long, our Nation failed in our
sacred obligation to our Atomic Veterans.  It is a mistake our country
must never repeat.  I am committed to ensuring that all of our Nation’s
veterans and their families, caregivers, and survivors have timely
access to the services, medical care, and benefits that they deserve —
including addressing the health effects of exposures to environmental
toxins and harmful substances, such as the toxic fumes from burn pits.
 Since taking office, we have made several improvements to how we
identify and address potential service-connected conditions, and the
First Lady and I are personally committed to ensuring that all our
veterans and their families, caregivers, and survivors receive the
benefits and services they have earned.

     On National Atomic Veterans Day, we honor the Atomic Veterans who
sacrificed on behalf our Nation.  Our Atomic Veterans are patriots, and
their bravery and service will always be remembered. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
16, 2022, as National Atomic Veterans Day.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor
our Nation’s Atomic Veterans whose brave service and sacrifice played an
important role in the defense of our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
