---
date: '2022-07-26'
modified_time: 2022-07-26 17:59:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-26 17:59:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/26/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-equity-and-economic-opportunity-through-federal-procurement-and-state-and-local-infrastructure-contracting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:  Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Equity And Economic\
  \ Opportunity Through Federal Procurement And State And Local Infrastructure\_Contracting"
---
 
***Administration Announces Record Contract Spending on Small
Disadvantaged Businesses and New Steps to Create Contracting
Opportunities for Disadvantaged Businesses through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law*** 

The Federal Government is the largest consumer of goods and services in
the world, spending roughly $600 billion each year. Thanks to President
Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law , states, territories, Tribes,
cities, and local authorities will spend hundreds of billions of dollars
to rebuild our communities in the coming years. The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to ensuring that federal investments build
wealth and opportunity for underserved entrepreneurs and small business
owners. On the centennial of the Tulsa Race Massacre, President Biden
announced [a number of
steps](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-build-black-wealth-and-narrow-the-racial-wealth-gap/)
to narrow the racial wealth gap, including setting a goal of increasing
the share of federal contracts going to small disadvantaged businesses
(SDBs) to 15 percent by 2025 – a 50 percent increase from most recent
spending levels.

Just over one year later, new data shows that the Biden-Harris
Administration is delivering. The U.S. Small Business Administration’s
(SBA) annual Small Business Procurement Scorecard for Fiscal Year 2021
shows a record level of Federal contracting dollars awarded SDBs, a
category under federal law for which economically disadvantaged
Black-owned, Hispanic-owned, and other minority-owned businesses can
compete for federal contracting opportunities.  In addition to advancing
more equitable federal procurement, today the Administration is
announcing new steps to expand contracting opportunities for
historically disadvantaged businesses, including those owned by women
and people of color, under Federal grants created through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.

Increasing Federal, State, and local contracting opportunities with
underserved businesses not only helps more Americans realize their
entrepreneurial dreams, but also narrows persistent wealth disparities
among groups that have long faced economic barriers. According to a
recent analysis from the White House Council of Economic Advisers,
closing the gap in small business ownership rates between Black and
white households and between Hispanic and white households could close
the gap in average net worth between these groups by 22 percent and 17
percent, respectively.

The following initiatives represent early steps by the Biden-Harris
Administration to ensure equitable procurement opportunities, both in
contracts awarded by the Federal Government and state and local
contracts awarded under federal grants.  In the months to come, the
Administration will take additional actions to expand access to capital,
help underserved businesses navigate the procurement process, and
support state and local government efforts to increase business
diversity. 

Today, the Administration is:

-   **Setting a New Record for Procurement Spending on Small Businesses,
    Including Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDBs) and Service-Disabled
    Veteran Owned Businesses**.  The SBA’s Small Business Procurement
    Scorecard shows that in Fiscal Year 2021, the Biden-Harris
    Administration awarded a record amount of contracting dollars to
    small businesses, including underserved small businesses. In total,
    $154.2 billion, or 27.2 percent of all contracting dollars, went to
    small businesses, an $8 billion increase from the previous fiscal
    year. This includes:
    -   $62.4 billion, totaling 11.01 percent of all contracting
        dollars, in contracts to SDBs, far exceeding the 5 percent
        statutory goal established in the Small Business Act; and
    -   $25 billion, or 4.41 percent of all contracting dollars, to
        Service-disabled Veteran-owned small businesses, compared to the
        3 percent statutory goal. 

SBA’s Small Business Procurement Scorecards can be reviewed at
https://www.sba.gov/scorecard. These record levels of contracting
followed a range of Administration actions, including an interagency
push for increased SDB spending in the 4<sup>th</sup> quarter of Fiscal
Year 2021 and the launching of [a new government-wide acquisition
contract that exclusively engaged information technology
SDBs](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/gsa-awards-the-8a-stars-iii-gwac-06172021). 
In December 2021, the administration [released a
strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-reforms-to-increase-equity-and-level-the-playing-field-for-underserved-small-business-owners/)
to further increase equity in federal procurement over the next several
years.

-   **Launching a government-wide Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**
    **technical resources assistance and engagement program to reach
    small and minority-owned businesses.** Beginning this summer and
    continuing throughout the year, federal agencies will host events
    aimed at supporting more equitable contracting opportunities under
    the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law:
    -   The Department of Transportation (DOT), in collaboration with
        the Minority Business Development Administration (MBDA), General
        Services Administration (GSA), Environmental Protection Agency
        (EPA), and SBA, will host regional outreach events to provide
        technical assistance to underserved businesses, and create
        opportunities for key stakeholders across the contracting
        landscape to connect, including federal and State DOT officials,
        prime contractors, and industry.
    -   The Department of the Interior (DOI) will [host Bipartisan
        Infrastructure Law -focused “Industry
        Days](http://www.doi.gov/OSDBU)” aimed at publicizing
        contracting and financial assistance opportunities and matching
        financial assistance awardees with capable small and
        disadvantaged businesses as potential subcontractors.

    <!-- -->

    -   DOT will provide small and underserved business owners with
        technical assistance and capacity building activities through
        its Connections MarketPlace platform, featuring roundtable
        sessions where small business owners can learn how to navigate
        the DOT contracting process, effectively market to large primes
        contractors for subcontract opportunities, and hear insights on
        the ins and outs of government contracting from industry
        leaders. These sessions are tailored to creating meaningful
        connections and will ultimately help small business owners build
        their federal contracting footprint. Since the program launched
        in February 2022, DOT has already hosted 11 sessions with over
        1,900 participants. 

<!-- -->

-   **Providing dedicated support at MBDA Business Centers to help
    businesses become “contract ready.”  **The Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law made the MBDA permanent. Now, MBDA is awarding nearly $3 million
    in funding to 26 of its Business Centers to support the hiring of
    federal contract specialists in each Center focused on assisting
    underserved businesses access contracting opportunities, including
    those stemming from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding.
    Specialists will provide wide-ranging technical assistance to help
    small businesses, including by facilitating access to capital and by
    coordinating targeted matchmaking between underserved businesses and
    both government acquisition offices and prime contractors.

<!-- -->

-   **Modernizing the DOT’s DBE rules**. Last week DOT issued a [Notice
    of Proposed
    Rulemaking](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/biden-harris-administration-usdot-propose-improvements-disadvantaged-business)
    (NPRM) to modernize the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) and
    Airport Concession DBE (ACDBE) program regulations, last updated in
    2014 and 2012 respectively. By modernizing the existing regulations,
    the proposed NPRM proposed would help further level the playing
    field for small, disadvantaged businesses seeking to compete for
    federally-assisted aviation, highway, and transit contracts as well
    as airport concession opportunities. Mandated by Congress, the DBE
    and ACDBE programs over their 40-year histories have been intended
    to prevent discrimination, and remedy the continuing effects of past
    discrimination against small businesses owned and controlled by
    disadvantaged individuals. DOT’s Departmental Office of Civil Rights
    (DOCR) and counterparts at the FAA, FHWA, and FTA developed the
    proposed updates based on stakeholder feedback and research
    following the most recent revisions. DOT is seeking additional
    public comment on the proposed updates to the program before issuing
    a Final Rule.   
-   **Expanding access to capital for Small Disadvantaged Business
    working on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law** **contracts.** Many SDBs
    report challenges in accessing the long-term, affordable financing
    options often required to successfully compete for and/or deliver on
    government contracts.  To help fill this gap, DOT and SBA are
    collaborating to connect SDBs pursuing or working on Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law contracts to licensed Small Business Investment
    Companies (SBICs). The SBIC program is a public-private partnership
    to increase the flow of patient capital and long-term loans to small
    businesses through SBA-certified private investment funds. SBA and
    DOT will co-convene a business forum to facilitate matchmaking
    between SDBs and SBICs and enable continued investment discussions
    between fund managers and firms. In advance of that convening, SBA
    will provide SBICs with a prospectus that lays out the benefits of
    investing in SDBs focused on Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    contracts. In the last year alone, these partnerships led to $7.1
    billion in financing to more than 1,000 U.S. small businesses across
    the country.  This new initiative builds upon the American Rescue
    Plan’s investment in the State Small Business Credit Initiative
    (SSBCI), which will lead to tens of billions in public and private
    capital to support low-cost loans, microloans for our smallest
    businesses, and venture capital focused on small businesses,
    including for businesses owned by underserved entrepreneurs.  As of
    early July 2022, Treasury has approved more than $1.7 billion in
    capital access programs proposed by 15 states, with more to follow
    in the coming weeks and months.  
-   **Supporting State, local government, transit agencies, and other
    grantees.** The Biden-Harris Administration is calling on
    prospective Bipartisan Infrastructure Law grantees to take action to
    ensure that SDBs have equitable access to contracting opportunities
    made available through Bipartisan Infrastructure Law -funded
    infrastructure grants. Already, states and local agencies are
    stepping up: through the [Equity in Infrastructure
    Project](https://equityininfrastructure.org/) Pledge, prospective
    grantees have committed to increase prime contracting opportunities
    for underserved businesses, streamline processes for obtaining
    necessary DBE certifications, improve payment time, and expand
    access to financing to help underserved businesses meet
    infrastructure contracts. The pledge has been signed by the Chicago
    Transit Authority, the Denver International Airport, the
    Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, the Port of Long
    Beach, the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority, the
    City of Denver, and the City of Philadelphia.  Interested states,
    cities, local and regional transportation and public works
    authorities, and private sector entities can sign on to the pledge
    [here](https://equityininfrastructure.org/pledge).

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing equity through direct federal procurement.** Billions of
    dollars in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding will be spent
    through direct federal procurement. Today’s steps build on ongoing
    efforts by the Biden-Harris Administration to leverage the
    government’s purchasing power to build wealth in underserved
    communities. In December the Administration adopted a bold set of
    reforms, including:
    -   A goal of ensuring that 15 percent of federal contract dollars
        go to small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs) by 2025, up from the
        current statutory goal of just 5 percent;
    -   Releasing, for the first time, disaggregated data of federal
        contracting spend by race/ethnicity of business owner, a
        powerful transparency and management tool; and

    <!-- -->

    -   Implementing major changes to the federal government’s use of
        “category management” – a procurement strategy that helps
        agencies buy goods and services as one organized purchasing
        entity as opposed to thousands of independent buyers – to ensure
        that underserved small businesses are not left behind.

Already, agencies are leveraging direct procurement to ensure
underserved small businesses can compete for contracting opportunities.
For example, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), which will award
up to $4 billion over the next four years has expanded its use of set
aside competitions–whereby contracting opportunities are open
exclusively for small businesses–that are targeted at SDBs, HUBZone,
Women-Owned Small Business, and Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned
Small Business. FAA has also updated its policy to provide more
opportunities for underserved small businesses by increasing the
threshold for making noncompetitive awards to SBA-certified 8(a) firms
for Bipartisan Infrastructure Law-funded acquisitions, from $4.5 million
to $10 million. 

These early actions build on important provisions in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to expand contracting opportunities for disadvantaged
businesses.  In addition to  making permanent the Minority Business
Development Administration (MBDA), the law strengthened its capacity to
support underserved businesses seeking access to federal, state and
local contracts.   The law also reauthorized the Department of
Transportation (DOT) Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) program to
ensure that small and disadvantaged businesses continue to have a level
playing field to compete for work on DOT-assisted contracts funded under
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, including billions of dollars that
will be awarded to Federal Highway Administration, Federal Transit
Administration, and Federal Aviation Administration recipients.

In the months to come, the Administration will highlight additional
actions to expand access to capital, help underserved businesses
navigate the federal procurement process, and support state and local
government efforts to increase business diversity. 

\###
