---
date: '2022-07-14'
modified_time: 2022-07-14 13:03:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-14 13:03:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/14/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-yair-lapid-of-the-state-of-israel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Yair Lapid of the State of\_\
  Israel"
---
 
Waldorf Astoria  
Jerusalem, Israel

2:34 P.M. IDT 

PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  Mr. President, in March, 1965, on Dr. Martin
Luther King’s famous march from Selma to Montgomery, walking beside him
in the front row was a Jewish rabbi — Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel. 
When he returned home this — that day, Rabbi Heschel wrote in his diary,
“Today, I felt my legs were praying.”  
  
In the State of Israel, Mr. President, our legs pray every single day. 
Nothing is — in our lives is taken for granted.  My father was a Jewish
child in the Budapest ghetto, hiding from those who tried to kill him.  
  
The fact that I am standing here today did not happen by itself.  We
learned the lesson, Mr. President: At all times, Israel must be strong,
free, and safe, with a powerful army that can defend our citizens.  
  
Be it Joshua crossing the Jordan River or Dr. King crossing the Alabama
River, the principle is the same: If you want your independence, your
hands must defend you and your legs must pray for you.  You must march
fearlessly towards the river.   
  
This past year, with Russia’s unjustified invasion of Ukraine, with the
Iranian nuclear threat becoming more dangerous, and with the threats of
terrorism worldwide, we were all reminded of something: In order to
protect freedom, sometimes force must be used.  Nobody wants that, but
neither can we shy away from it, on the side of terrorists and people
who will not hesitate to exploit any weakness, people who do not — who
do not play by the rules.  
  
Those of us who were fortunate enough to be born free people sometimes
do not understand the intensity of the hatred behind the attack on
democracy.  
  
What we — did we do to them?  What makes them crash planes into
skyscrapers in New York and fire rockets at kindergartens in the city of
Sderot?  The answer is fear.  
  
What scares them the most is that their citizens, their people can see
us, can see our quality of life — the dynamism and creativity of our
economy, the rights of women and the LGBTQ community, freedom of
religion, freedom of speech.   
  
Our way of life is what threatens them.  It’s what makes the Iranian
regime develop is — its nuclear program, Hezbollah aim its missiles at
us, and terrorist organizations worldwide send suicide bombers.  They
want to destroy the only Jewish state in the world.  That — we will
never let that happen.   
  
Words will not stop them, Mr. President.  Diplomacy will not stop them. 
The only thing that will stop Iran is knowing that the — if they
continue to develop their nuclear program, the free world will use
force.  The only way to stop them is to put a credible military threat
on the table.  
  
You have said many times, Mr. President, that big countries do not
bluff.  I completely agree.  It should not be a bluff but the real
thing.  The Iranian regime must know that if they continue to deceive
the world, they will pay a heavy price.   
  
Here in the Middle East, we have an alternative now.  It is growing and
gaining power.  We are creating an alliance of moderate countries that
believe in peace, that believe that our children deserve the opportunity
to live a better life.  
  
From here, from Jerusalem — the eternal capital of the State of Israel —
you will travel to Saudi Arabia.  Your visit to Saudi Arabia is
important for Israel and for the entire region, for our security and for
the future and prosp- — prosperity of the Middle East.

We send with you, to all the nations of the region — including, of
course, the Palestinians — a message of peace.   
  
Israel wants peace and believes in peace.  We will never yield an inch
of our security.  We are obligated to be cautious at every step.  But to
any country, any nation that wants peace and normalization with us, we
say, “*Ahlan wa sahlan*. *Shalom*.  Welcome.”  
  
Mr. President, you will meet with the leaders of Saudi Arabia, Qatar,
Kuwait, Oman, and Iraq.  I would like you to pass them all a message
from us:  
  
Our hand is outstretched for peace.  We are ready to share our
technology and experience, ready for our people to meet and learn about
one another, ready for our scientists to collaborate and our businesses
to cooperate.  
  
The Book of Psalms says all of this in one verse.  Chapter 29 reads,
“(Speaks Hebrew.)  The Lord will give strength to His people.  The Lord
will bless His people with peace.”  
  
If we are strong, if we are determined, if the world understands that we
will not hesitate to defend ourselves and our values, peace can come.  
  
Mr. President, our relationship runs deep.  It crosses party lines.  It
connects not only our governments but also our peoples.  
  
This friendship is one of the cornerstones of Israel’s national
security.  It is moving, and it is certainly not taken for granted.  
  
Throughout all your years in public service, you were one of the chief
architects of this relationship.  For that, you have the everlasting
gratitude of the people of Zion.  
  
Thank you, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you very much, Prime Minister.  An eloquent
statement.  
  
I’m honored to be back here in the capital of Israel.

As I said yesterday, I’ve met every Prime Minister

since Golda Meir, and it was a pleasure to be able to spend some time
with you today and to get to know you better.

Mr. Prime Minister, a deep love and respect for Israel has only taken a
deeper hold of my heart and my gut since I first visited here back in
1973 as a young senator.  
  

I’m returning for my 10th visit as Pres- — this time, as President of
the United States.  But I’ve never forgotten

what Prime Minister Meir told me when I was a brand new junior senator
from the state of Delaware.  It was just weeks before the Yom Kippur
War, and she could see on my face that I was worried. 

As we stood before the press taking questions and pictures, she looked
at me, and without press hearing, she said, “Don’t look so worried,
Senator.  Israel has a secret weapon.” 

And I looked at her as I turned my head, and she was tell- — I just
looked at her and she said, “We have nowhere else to go.”  I’ll never
forget what she told me.  That was nearly 50 years ago.  Fifty years
ago, the threats then were real.  And the threats to Israel remain real
today. 

The scourge of antisemitism still marches around the world, and we must
never forget the horrors which an unchecked hatred can lead.

And that’s why I immediately — when I returned, I wanted to visit Yad
Vashem — when I landed yesterday — to bear witness, to remember, to
renew our vow of: never — never again.

At the same time, the Israeli — the Israel of today is not the Israel of
50 years ago.

You’ve cultivated new resources, capabilities, new relationships,
including a growing integration with neighbors in the region.

You have new tools that keep Israel strong and secure.  You have an
ironclad commitment from the United States of America to Israel’s
security.  An ironclad commitment.  We’ll make sure that Israel can
defend itself by itself.

When I was Vice President under President Obama, we passed a
record-setting agreement for Israel’s security — $38 billion over a
10-year period.

And I was proud that, last year, we also provided an additional $1
billion to replenish Israel’s Iron Dome supplies, making 2022 the
largest single year of military assistance that Israel has ever
received.

Yesterday, I viewed some of Israel’s Iron Dome technology, as well as
the very promising new Iron Beam technology — a laser-enabled missile
defense system.  These technologies and advancements are critical. 
They’re critical because every rocket that is intercepted is a potential
life — perhaps more — that has been saved. 

And as we move forward together, partners in both security and in
innovation, the United States and Israel defense sectors will cooperate
in new high-energy laser weapons systems that can defend Israel —
Israeli lives, as well as the lives of American service members.

Israel and the United States also stand together to defend the
fundamental values and underwrite global security, prosperity, and
freedom, not just for us but for many around the world.

And Putin’s assault on Ukraine is a challenge to the peace and stability
everywhere in the world.  Putin’s war must be a strategic failure, and
the free world must sustain our resolve to help Ukraine defend its
democracy. 

The United States will continue to support Ukraine and the Ukrainian
people who have been devastated and displaced by the Russian violence.

Today, you and I also discussed America’s commitment to ensuring Iran
never obtains a nuclear weapon. 

This is a vital security interest to both Israel and the United States
and, I would add, for the rest of the world as well.

I continue to believe that diplomacy is the best way to achieve this
outcome.

And we’ll continue to work with Israel to counter other threats from
Iran throughout the region, including its support for terrorism and the
ballistic missile program that continues, and the proliferation of
weapons to terrorists and proxies like Hezbollah.

We’ll also continue building on the Abraham Accords, which I strongly
support, because they deepen — they deepen Israel’s integration into the
broader region and establish lasting ties for business, cooperation, and
tourism.

We’ve just completed the first leaders’ summit among Israel, India, the
United States, and the United Arab Emirates

to deepen the economic ties between the Middle East and the
Indo-Pacific, to create new partnerships to tackle global challenges,
like food insecurity and clean energy technology.

Regional integration is also the goal of the historic Negev Forum, which
took place here in Israel this past March.

Israel’s integration in the region, Israel’s peace with its neighbors —
these are essential goals.

Tomorrow I’ll be the first American President to fly from Israel
directly to Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.  That represents important progress.

And when I see the Saudi leadership tomorrow, I’ll be carrying a direct
message — a message of peace and extraordinary opportunities that a more
stable and integrated region could bring to the region and, quite
frankly, the whole world.

As we work together toward greater integration — greater integration,
we’ll also continue to work for — toward a lasting negotiated peace
between the State of Israel and the Palestinian people.

Israel must remain an independent, democratic, Jewish state — the
ultimate guarantee and guarantor of security of the Jewish people not
only in Israel but the entire world.  I believe that to my core.

And the best way to achieve that remains a two-state solution for two
people, both of whom have deep and ancient roots in this land, living
side-by-side in peace and security.  Both states fully respecting the
equal rights of their citizens; both people enjoying equal measures of
freedom.

And any more that takes us further from that outcome — I believe —
anything is detrimental to the long-term security of Israel.

Prime Minister Lapid, Israel and the United States are natural partners
because we share the same values.  Our people share the same innovative
spirit, the same determination to preserve and persevere through every
single challenge.

That’s why we’re launching a new High-Level Strategic Dialogue on
Technology that’s going to help Israel and the United States harness
critical and emerging technologies and apply them to issues that matter
most to our mutual futures.

So thank you, Mr. <s>President</s> \[Prime Minister\], for welcoming me
back, for fostering the enduring bonds, and continuing them, that link
the people of Israel and the United States. 

That’s what this visit is about: affirming those ties that stretch back
to just 11 minutes — 11 minutes after Israel declared statehood, when
the United States became the first country in the world to recognize
Israel.  And I assure you, it will be the last country in the world ever
to walk away from Israel.  
  
Ties that have grown deeper and broader with each passing year and now
encompass a 21st-century partnership, one grounded on ageless values and
looking squarely at the future.   
  
We’re here to stay, Mr. President — Mr. Prime Minister.  Like it or not,
we’re with you.  There’s no way out.  
  
I want to thank you very, very much for your hospitality.  And I mean it
from the bottom of my heart that your security, the security — the — is
going to determine the security of Jewish people around the world for
the rest of the world.  It’s critical.  And we’re in it with you.  Thank
you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, Mr. President.  And before we move on
to the — a question, there was a technical change on the stage.

(An adjustment is made to the onstage technical equipment.)

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  These guys work awful hard.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  Yes, we’re just standing here.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Laughs.)

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  We will now be taking questions from
the press.  The first one to ask a question to Ms. Gili Cohen from
Channel 11, Israeli television.

  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  I want to ask: Will you set a deadline
for the nuclear talks or define a certain stage when you will say there
is no more opportunity to revive the nuclear deal?  And what will happen
afterwards?  
  
And another question, sir.  You’ll visit, tomorrow, East Jerusalem, and
you won’t be accompanied by an Israeli official.  Does this represent a
change in your administration’s view regarding the recognition of
Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and if East Jerusalem is part of it? 
Thank you.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  The answer to your last question is no.  
  
With regard to your first question, we’ve laid out for the people — for
the leadership of Iran what we’re willing to accept in order to get back
in the JCPOA.  We’re waiting for their response.  When that recur- —
when that will come, I’m not certain.  But we are not going to wait
forever.

  
MODERATOR:  Mr. President, do you want to —  
  
PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  The question was for the President.  
  
MODERATOR:  Mr. President, do you want to call on the next question?  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Sure.  I was given a list here.  Steve Holland of
Reuters.

  
Q    Thank you, sir.  Thank you.  There is some opposition back home to
your meeting with Saudi leaders this week.  What will you say to Saudi
leaders, specifically to Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, about the
Khashoggi murder and other human rights practices?  
  
And if I may, Prime Minister Lapid, how close are you to an agreement
with Saudi Arabia to gain overflight rights?  And should we expect that
soon?  Thank you.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  With regard to the question you asked me, my views on
Khashoggi have — they’ve been absolutely, positively clear.  And I have
never been quiet about talking about human rights.  
  
The question that I’m — the reason I’m going to Saudi Arabia, though, is
much broader.  It’s to promote U.S. interests — promote U.S. interests
in a way that I think we have an opportunity to reassert what I think we
made a mistake of walking away from: our influence in the Middle East.  
  
I’m going to be meeting with nine other heads of state.  It’s not just —
it happens to be in Saudi Arabia.  And so, there are so many issues at
stake that I want to make clear that we can continue to lead in the
region and not create a vacuum, a vacuum that is filled by China and/or
Russia, against the interests of both Israel and the United States and
many other countries.  
  
And so the purpose of the visit is to — is to coordinate with nine heads
of state what are in U.S. interests and I believe in Israel’s interests
as well.

  
Q    So you don’t expect to bring up human rights?  
  
MODERATOR:  Well, let’s let the Prime Minister —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I will bring up — I always bring up human rights.  I
always bring up human rights.  But my position on Khashoggi has been so
clear.  If anyone doesn’t understand it in Saudi Arabia and everywhere
else, then they haven’t been around for a while.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  About the overflights of Saudi Arabia, of course,
as I was saying in my speech, we are all for promoting normalizations
with every country in the region that it is possible.  But since the
President is going to Saudi Arabia, and he — there will be a
finalization of the issues over there, I will let the President finalize
this when he’s in Jeddah.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you, Prime Minister.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’m optimistic.  (Laughter.)  
  
  

MODERATOR:  And the next question will come from Ms. Tal  Schneider from
Times of Israel.  
  
Q    Hi, hello.  Thank you for being in Jerusalem.  It’s good to see
you.  
  
Israelis have been waiting to hear developments on the Visa Waiver
Program.  We know that there are hurdles but — to get there.  But can
you set a deadline after which Israelis will be granted with a waiver to
enter the U.S.?  Will you bring this issue with the opposition leader,
Netanyahu, when you meet him today?  
  
And another question for our prime minister: There is a discussion about
regional defense cooperation that includes Israel and the Saudis, but we
hear that there are technical difficulties as well as other reservations
from the Saudis with respect to defense system, which means it’s mostly
about Israel sharing its intelligence, its intel.  How do you see the
cooperation moving along with those problems? 

Thank you.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  With regard to your question to me, we are working
very, very, very hard to eliminate the lack of precision in the
applications, many times, for the visa program.  It is my hope and
expectation that in the next several months, we’ll have it worked out.

  
PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  And jumping on the subject, and we urge the
Israeli opposition to become — to be more responsible and help with the
legislation needed to finalize this.  
  
As for your question, it is no secret that we’re doing our best, with
our American friends, to work on a regional security architecture.  So
this was no secret.  The details of this apparently are, so I’m not
going to go into details on this.   
  
But we are working with everybody we can in order to promote regional
security, especially facing Iran’s regime and the terror policy they
bring to the table.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  All right.  The next person to ask a question, I guess
— (laughs) — is Nadia.

  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Nadia Bilbassy of Al Arabiya
Television.  Allow me to press you a little bit on Iran, if I may.

  
You visited the —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Laughs.)  No, I’m not going to allow that. 
(Laughter.)  We got to — we got to walk off.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    (Laughs.)  You are — you are visiting the Middle East here in
Israel and then you go into Saudi Arabia where you meeting with King
Salman and other GCC leaders.  
  
You know in advance, before you come here, their position, their
concern, their fear about Iran nuclear program and Iran’s support for
proxies in the region.  
  
Tangibly, what are you offering them to assuage their fear and concern,
practically?  Is this anything that you’re offering them to make them
feel comfortable that the United States are on the same page with
them?  
  
And if I may, Mr. Prime Minister, what are the differences and the
similarities between you and President Biden regarding Iran?  Do you see
eye to eye on all the issues?  You alluded to some differences just
now.  
  
And, if I may, I wanted you to confirm to us today your position in
supporting the two-state solution as a caretaker Prime Minister and if
should you be elected as the next prime minister of Israel.  Thank you
so much.

  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  With regard to Iran and convincing the Saudis and
others that we’re — mean what we say is we mean what we say.  They have
an opportunity to accept this agreement that’s been laid down.  If they
don’t, we made it absolutely clear: We will not — let me say it again —
we will not allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon.

  
PRIME MINISTER LAPID:  Well, with regards to the question about Iran, we
have an open discussion about what is the best way to deal with it.  But
I don’t think there’s a light between us in terms of — these are all
means to an end.  
  
We cannot allow Iran to become nuclear.  Israel asserts the right to act
freely on the subject.  But we are, of course, discussing everything
with our greatest ally, which is the United States.  
  
About the two-state solution, I haven’t changed my position.  A
two-state solution is a guarantee for a strong democratic state of
Israel with a Jewish majority.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  This concludes the signing ceremony
and the press conference.  Please remain seated until the leaders have
left the room.  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you all so much.  
  
2:59 P.M. IDT
