---
date: '2022-07-25'
published_time: 2022-07-25 10:48:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/25/proclamation-on-the-anniversary-of-the-americans-with-disabilities-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Proclamation on the Anniversary Of The Americans With Disabilities\_Act"
---
 
     On July 26, 1990, with the signing into law of the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA), our Nation created the world’s first
comprehensive declaration of equality for people with disabilities. 
Since that time, this landmark legislation has been a driving force in
moving America closer to the promise of equal opportunity, full
participation, independent living, and economic self-sufficiency for the
61 million individuals with disabilities in our country.  The ADA
prohibits disability discrimination by State and local governments;
provides standards for access to places of public accommodation;
protects people with disabilities from discrimination in the workplace;
and ensures equal access to health care, social services,
transportation, and telecommunications.  But even more than that, it
enshrines the idea — central to the spirit of our Nation — that all of
us are deserving of equal dignity, respect, and opportunity.

     I was enormously proud to co-sponsor the ADA when I served in the
United States Senate, and over the past 32 years, I have seen firsthand
how it has improved the lives of countless Americans.  Because of the
ADA, generations of people with disabilities have grown up with the
assurance that they are accorded the same rights and chances as their
non-disabled peers — and our communities, our economy, and our country
are all stronger as a result. 

     Despite the progress we have made through the years, our work is
far from over.  Many individuals still face barriers to inclusion and
equitable access in our society.  That is why advancing equity and equal
opportunity for people with disabilities has been a priority of mine
since taking office.  My Administration has made sure that the
Department of Justice has the resources it needs to vigorously enforce
the Supreme Court’s decision in *Olmstead v. L.C*.  We are working to
expand access to the integrated, long-term services and supports that
make it possible for disabled individuals to live and thrive in their
communities, including significant funding from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law to improve accessibility for people with
disabilities.  We are connecting disabled Americans to affordable
accessible housing.  My Administration is also working to expand
opportunities for employment for people with disabilities and providing
resources so that employers can make their workplaces more inclusive. 

     I also remain committed to ensuring that all children and educators
have the resources they need to thrive in the classroom.  That is why
the American Rescue Plan provided $3 billion for disabled students to
receive equitable, high-quality, and inclusive services.  My
Administration has also developed guidance to help children with
disabilities who were disproportionately impacted by remote learning
return to school safely.  

     As my Administration continues its work to address the COVID-19
pandemic, we recognize the long-standing health disparities and systemic
discrimination faced by the disabled community.  The pandemic has had an
especially significant impact on the lives and independence of Americans
with disabilities and has also been the cause of disability for many
individuals.

     As we celebrate the legacy of the ADA, let us take this opportunity
to reflect on the progress we have made and renew our commitment to
achieving the ADA’s full promise of advancing disability equity,
dignity, access, and inclusion.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
26, 2022, the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  I
encourage Americans to celebrate the 32nd year of this defining moment
in Civil Rights law and the essential contributions of individuals with
disabilities for our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
