---
date: '2022-07-15'
modified_time: 2022-07-15 13:20:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-15 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/15/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Margaret Aitken Haggerty, Member and Chair, Commission on
    Presidential Scholars
-   Jennifer D. Bishop, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Kenneth Vernon Brittingham, Member, Commission on Presidential
    Scholars
-   Clifford K. Chiu, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Mary Quinn Delaney, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Ryan D. Easterly, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Peter Van D. Emerson, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Antonio Farias, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Neil J. Horgan, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Frank F. Islam, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Cynthia Jackson Hammond, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Dan J. Kessler, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Domenika Lynch, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Sarah McBride, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Rodin A. Mehrbani, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Brian O’Dwyer, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Stephanie Robinson, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Kurt Russell, Sr., Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Juan Antonio Sepúlveda, Jr., Member, Commission on Presidential
    Scholars
-   Terrance Blackman Stroud, Member, Commission on Presidential
    Scholars
-   Jason Sung Won Yoon, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars

The Commission on Presidential Scholars is a group of eminent private
citizens appointed by the President to select and honor the Presidential
Scholars. Commissioners are selected from across the country,
representing the fields of education, medicine, law, social services,
business, and other professions. The Commissioners make the final
selection of the 161 Presidential Scholars. The Scholars demonstrate
exceptional accomplishments in academics, the arts, career and technical
education and an outstanding commitment to public service.  
  
**Margaret Aitken Haggerty, Member and Chair, Commission on Presidential
Scholars**  
Margaret Aitken Haggerty is a seasoned communications professional who
works with local, national, and international businesses and nonprofit
organizations, providing them with strategic communication counsel,
crisis communication planning, messaging strategy, and media
intervention. Prior to founding her own firm, for more than a decade
Aitken served as the Spokesperson and Press Secretary for then-Senator,
now President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Throughout her career, she has
collaborated with and advised top government officials, political
candidates, and business executives and has served on the boards of
several philanthropic organizations.  
  
Aitken is a native Delawarean and resides in Wilmington with her husband
Chris, and sons Ronan and Cullen. She is a graduate of the University of
Delaware and holds a master’s degree in Communication and Media Studies
from Johns Hopkins University.  
  
**Jennifer D. Bishop, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Born in Chicago, Illinois and raised in Atlanta, Georgia, Dr. Jennifer
Bishop has wide-ranging experience as an entrepreneur, author, speaker,
philanthropist, and faith and community leader. In addition to serving
as Chief Executive Officer for the Savannah Communications Group,
BishopSpeaks, and Grace Academy Child Development Center, Bishop also
serves in the non-profit sector as Chief Executive Officer for RARE
Leaders and the APEX Institute. She is currently seated as the
Chairwoman for the City of Columbia Commercial Revolving Loan Fund
Committee. Bishop earned her Bachelor of Arts in History and Master of
Public Administration at Savannah State University and her Ph.D. in
Organizational Leadership from Columbia International University. Bishop
has committed herself to expanding educational opportunities through her
professional activity as well as working with organizations like the
Children’s Trust of South Carolina, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.,
and Jack & Jill of America. Making her home in Columbia, South Carolina,
Bishop is married to Dr. Aaron Bishop, and they are the proud parents of
one son, Peyton.  
  
**Kenneth Vernon Brittingham, Member, Commission on Presidential
Scholars**  
Ken Brittingham is a leader in learning whose working life has been
devoted to improving the quality of education for children, youth,
families, and adult learners. As a counselor, school psychologist,
principal, school superintendent, state education director, and
technical college board Vice Chairman and Board President, Brittingham
has provided leadership at the elementary, middle school, high school,
higher education, and state education department levels. His lifetime
work has centered on creating the conditions where all learners achieve
at high levels. At the Wisconsin Department of Public Instruction, he
served as the State Director of the Bureau of Exceptional Children and
co-authored a statewide distributed book on improving career development
programs in local schools. He has a bachelor’s degree in Industrial
Technology, a masters in school counseling, and a masters in school
psychology. His Doctorate of Philosophy was earned at the University of
Wisconsin, and he was invited to the American Association of Educational
Research annual convention to present his dissertation on improving
school community relationships.  
  
**Clifford K. Chiu, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Clifford K. Chiu serves as a senior adviser to Vista Equity Partners and
its executive committee. Chiu sits as a corporate director on the boards
of Aquia, Allvue Systems, Apptio, Finastra, Fusion Risk Management,
Logic Monitor, Securonix, and TIBCO, as well as a senior adviser to
Neuberger Berman in Hong Kong. He is a member of the National Committee
on United States-China Relations and a public appointee on the advisory
panel of Cyberport Hong Kong. With a career spanning over four decades,
Chiu was a partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. where he founded and
led capital raising and investor relations for the Asia Pacific region.
He was previously at JP Morgan Asset Management and at Salomon Smith
Barney/Citigroup and its predecessors based in New York, Hong Kong, and
Tokyo.  
  
Chiu is a director or trustee of the Seton Fund, Greater Austin Asian
Chamber of Commerce, Health Alliance for Austin Musicians, and St. James
Settlement. A lifelong champion of education and healthcare, Chiu has
served on the global advisory boards of the Weingarten Learning
Resources Center at the University of Pennsylvania and of the University
of Chicago Booth School of Business where in 2015 he was appointed the
first “distinguished executive-in-residence” at its Hong Kong campus.
Through the Clinton Global Initiative, Chiu launched a 2015 commitment
to action, “K-12 Learning Through Global Connectivity” in language arts
and STEM skills. Chiu also endowed annual scholarships at his alma
maters Chicago Booth and the University of Pennsylvania as well as the
Hong Kong University Medical School, Pomona College, and the Tuck School
of Business at Dartmouth. Chiu has partnered with Dell Seton and
Ascension Seton Medical Centers in student mental health, underinsured
COVID-19 pandemic patients, and maternal morbidity. Chiu proudly
underwrote Stop AAPI Hate’s first-ever impact report (“Turning a Moment
into a Movement”) that was released in January 2022.  
  
**Mary Quinn Delaney, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Quinn Delaney is the Founder and Board Chair of Akonadi Foundation,
located in Oakland, California, which supports the development of
powerful social change movements to eliminate structural racism and
create a racially just society. Delaney has spent over thirty-five years
working in social change philanthropy.  
  
In addition to Akonadi Foundation, she currently serves on the boards of
East Bay Community Foundation, the Oakland Museum of California, Planned
Parenthood Action Fund, Women Donors Network Action, and Smart Justice
California, which works on criminal justice reform. Over the years, she
has served on many other boards, including the ACLU of Northern
California, Community Change, the Democracy Alliance, Tides Foundation,
and Pitzer College. In 2019, Delaney was appointed to the California
Commission on the Status of Women and Girls where she continues to serve
as a Commissioner championing the power and strength of women and girls.
She is married to Wayne Jordan and has two adult sons and two
grandchildren.  
  
**Ryan D. Easterly, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Ryan Easterly serves as executive director of the WITH Foundation. An
experienced grantmaker, strategist, and advocate, Easterly lives and
works at the intersections of race, class, disability, and sexual
orientation and is driven by a desire to effect meaningful change.
Before joining WITH, he served on its Board of Directors, which advanced
his commitment to disability justice and the need for broader access to
comprehensive healthcare for adults with developmental disabilities.
Easterly has worked in the federal sector and within community outreach
and advocacy efforts. He is a co-founder and previous director of
Northern California Community Relations at MySupport, Inc. As manager of
the National Youth Transitions Initiative for The HSC Foundation, a
Washington, DC operating foundation of a health system for children and
young adults with complex medical needs, he provided funding and
programmatic support for a grantee and collaborative network serving
young people with disabilities and young veterans. Easterly also worked
at the U.S. Department of Labor’s Office of Disability Employment
Policy.  
  
Easterly regularly advises on issues such as community participatory
grantmaking, inclusive philanthropy, leadership development, employment,
and healthcare impacting communities of color, the foster care system,
and the LGBTQ+ community. He is a member of the Presidents’ Council on
Disability Inclusion in Philanthropy, the Disability & Philanthropy
Forum Steering Committee, and co-chairs Exponent Philanthropy’s
Disability Funders Peer Circle. Easterly hails from Alabama, and after
moving to the West Coast, often wonders when he will find his next glass
of sweet tea.  
  
**Peter Van D. Emerson, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Peter Van D. Emerson is an entrepreneur in business and public policy.
He is co-founder of KAPE International, LLC, a global strategic
communications firm, an Advisor on Policy for the Division on Addiction,
Cambridge Health Alliance, a teaching affiliate of Harvard Medical
School, and Chairman, College Task Force on College Gambling and Alcohol
Policies. As a teaching assistant at Harvard College, he was twice
awarded a Certificate of Distinction in Teaching. Emerson works with
students on the critical challenges of addiction and mental health.  
  
Emerson has served on the Board of Visitors for the University of North
Carolina-Wilmington. He was elected to the American Academy of
Underwater Sciences and The Explorers Club. Emerson served on the Ocean
Futures’ Board and the Advisory Committee for the NY Aquarium, part of
the Wildlife Conservation Society. His previous public service includes
the National Advisory Committee on Oceans and Atmosphere and the
President’s Commission on White House Fellowships. Emerson received a BA
from New York University, *magna cum laude,* and a MPA from the Harvard
Kennedy School.  
  
**Antonio Farias, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Antonio Farias serves as the Vice Chancellor for Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion responsible for driving and developing initiatives that build
on and advance CU Denver’s commitment to equity and justice. Farias
joined CU Denver from the University of Florida, where he served as its
inaugural Chief Diversity Officer and Senior Advisor to the President.
There he oversaw university-wide efforts to advance The Big I.D.E.A! –
Inclusion, Diversity, Equity, & Access. Farias worked closely with
cabinet members, deans, and a network of campus diversity liaisons
embedded in the leadership teams of each college and business unit, who
advanced I.D.E.A. within their respective micro cultures. Farias was
previously Vice President for Equity and Inclusion at Wesleyan
University and, before that, the inaugural Chief Diversity Officer for
the U.S. Coast Guard Academy. He has bachelor’s and master’s degrees
from the University of California, Berkeley and a Master of Fine Arts
from the University of California, Riverside. He worships his daughter,
reenergizes through a plant-based diet, runs ultra-marathons to test the
limits of WHY, fly fishes to commune with the divine, and believes
failure is the greatest teacher. He is currently failing to publish his
first novel.  
  
**Neil J. Horgan, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Horgan was born in Chester, Pennsylvania and raised in Wilmington,
Delaware, and is a graduate of Archmere Academy. He earned a Bachelor’s
of Science in Business Administration from Georgetown University with a
major in Accounting and a Master of Taxation from Villanova University.
Horgan is presently the Vice President for Finance and Chief Financial
Officer at Villanova University. He lives in Havertown, PA with his wife
Kathryn and their two children. Horgan previously served on the Board of
Directors of the Mercy Health System of Southeastern Pennsylvania.  
  
**Frank F. Islam, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Frank Islam is an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and civic leader with a
special commitment to civic, educational, and artistic causes. He
currently heads the FI Investment Group, a private investment holding
company that he founded after he sold his information technology firm,
the QSS Group, in 2007. Islam serves and has served on numerous boards
and advisory councils including the John F. Kennedy Center for the
Performing Arts, the U.N. Foundation, the U.S. Institute of Peace, and
the Woodrow Wilson Center. He has also served or serves on boards and
councils at several universities including John Hopkins, American
University, George Mason University, the University of Maryland, and
Harvard University.  
  
Islam has written two well-regarded books on the American condition:
*Working the Pivot Points: To Make America Work Again* and *Renewing the
American Dream: A Citizen’s Guide for Restoring Our Competitive
Advantage*. He blogs regularly on Medium and was a contributor to the
Huffington Post for nearly a decade. In 2018, Islam established the
Frank Islam Institute for 21<sup>st</sup> Century Citizenship which
maintains a website and publishes a monthly newsletter featuring
articles and other material directed at addressing the civic engagement
deficit and challenges to democracy in the U.S. and internationally.
Islam received his B.S. and M.S. in Computer Science from the University
of Colorado at Boulder.  
  
**Cynthia Jackson Hammond, Member, Commission on Presidential
Scholars**  
Dr. Cynthia Jackson Hammond is President of the Council for Higher
Education Accreditation (CHEA). As President, she has led several
initiatives including the development and adoption of CHEA’s value
statement on diversity, equity, and inclusion and an enhanced focus on
service to CHEA’s over 1,900 member institutions. Jackson Hammond has
been a member of the higher education community for more than 30 years.
Her professional career has included tenured and administrative
positions at universities throughout the United States, including the
University of Louisiana Monroe, California State University Dominguez
Hills, Delaware State University, the University of North Carolina
Charlotte, Winston-Salem State University, and Coppin State University.
Most recently, she completed her tenure as President of Central State
University in Ohio. She holds graduate degrees in Communications,
Counseling Education, Student Personnel Services, and Higher Education
Administration.  
  
Jackson Hammond has served on many national boards including the
Thurgood Marshall College Fund, NCAA Division II Presidents Council, the
American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education, and the Council
for Higher Education Accreditation. She has appeared several times on
Capitol Hill providing testimony regarding the status of 1890 Land-Grant
institutions. Throughout her career, Jackson Hammond has been committed
to advancing college success, equity, and integrity in higher education.
She is an ardent advocate for quality assurance and transparency in
higher education.  
  
**Dan J. Kessler, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Dan Kessler is the Co-Founder and Managing Partner of K2 Developers, a
company developing and repurposing existing buildings into dignified,
economical housing for essential workers in ski, sand, and entertainment
destinations across the United States. Working with K2, a public REIT
and an investment fund, Kessler has worked to close $4 billion and 10
million square feet of real estate transactions. Prior to co-founding K2
Developers, Kessler worked in hospitality in executive leadership
programs at Marriott International and MGM Resorts International in Las
Vegas.  
  
Kessler’s civic activity began with his days as a White House Intern for
President Obama. He is currently a Political Partner with the Truman
National Security Project and a New Leaders Council Fellow. Kessler has
received various awards and recognitions, including a 40Under40 Award
from both the Philadelphia Business Journal and City & State
Pennsylvania, and received a 30Under30 Award from Politics PA. Kessler
was invited by The Council of Europe and delivered a speech at the World
Forum for Democracy in Strasbourg, France, where his grassroots
engagement strategy placed second amongst thousands for the “Democracy
Innovation Award” and was published in MIT Sloan Experts. Kessler
graduated with his MBA from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s
Sloan School of Management and BBA*, summa cum laude*, from The George
Washington University School of Business.  
  
**Domenika Lynch, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Domenika Lynch is the Executive Director of the Aspen Institute Latinos
and Society Program, with the mission of empowering Latino communities
and promoting long-term economic growth and resiliency. Over the course
of two decades in leadership roles, Lynch has overseen strategic
planning, policy advocacy, and public affairs campaigns for nonprofits
and corporations, increasing donor and stakeholder support and raising
millions of dollars for organizational endowments.  
  
Prior to joining the Aspen Institute, Lynch served as president and CEO
of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute, the preeminent Latino
Leadership Institute founded by Hispanic members of Congress in
Washington, DC. She previously spent more than a decade as executive
director of the Latino Alumni Association at the University of Southern
California. Her professional breadth extends into the corporate sector,
with previous leadership positions at Bank of America and Univision.
Lynch currently serves on the Board of Directors of the Congressional
Management Foundation and serves on Bank of America’s National Community
Advisory Council, which advises the bank on community development,
environmental, and consumer policy issues. She also serves on the
Council on Underserved Communities, which provides the U.S. Small
Business Administration with input, advice, and recommendations on
strategies to help strengthen competitiveness and sustainability for
small businesses in underserved communities. A graduate of the USC Price
School of Public Policy, Lynch holds a master’s degree from the USC
Rossier School of Education. She is the proud parent of her son Jacob,
also a USC alumnus.  
  
**Sarah McBride, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Senator Sarah McBride represents the First Senate District in the
Delaware Senate. McBride serves as the chair of the Health and Social
Services Committee, where she has championed health care reforms that
lower costs, expand access, and improve quality. In just her first term,
McBride successfully passed paid family and medical leave in the First
State, marking the largest expansion of Delaware’s social safety net in
decades. Prior to her service in the state senate, McBride was a
national leader in the fight for LGBTQ equality and served as the
spokesperson for the Human Rights Campaign. When she was elected,
McBride became the first openly transgender state senator in American
history.  
  
**Rodin A. Mehrbani, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Rudy Mehrbani is the senior director of the Governance Program at
Democracy Fund, an independent foundation. Mehrbani is also a senior
practitioner fellow at the University of Chicago’s Center for Effective
Government. He was previously a senior fellow and senior counsel at the
Brennan Center for Justice, a nonpartisan law and policy center, where
he worked to protect voting rights and directed the National Task Force
on Rule of Law and Democracy. From 2016 to 2021, he was a member of the
J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, where he served as the
Board’s vice chair from 2019 to 2020.  
  
Mehrbani served in a variety of senior roles in the Obama-Biden
Administration. From 2016 to 2017, he was an Assistant to the President
and Director of the Presidential Personnel Office in the White House. In
that role, he was also a member of the White House Transition
Coordinating Council. He was the General Counsel of the Peace Corps from
2014 to 2016, serving as the principal legal officer and a senior
advisor to the Director of the Peace Corps. Before that, he served as an
Associate Counsel and Special Assistant to the President in the White
House Counsel’s Office. Earlier in his career, Mehrbani was a litigation
associate at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. He received a BA from Emory
University and a JD from the University of Virginia School of Law.  
  
**Brian O’Dwyer, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Brian O’Dwyer has distinguished himself in the law and education. He is
a founder of the Emerald Isle Immigration Center dedicated to providing
assistance to all immigrants. His work in promoting peace in Ireland was
acknowledged when he was named Grand Marshall of the New York Saint
Patrick’s Day Parade. A longtime advocate for equal access to higher
education, he has served as Chair of the CUNY Law School Foundation,
Chair of the Advisory Council of the George Washington University
Graduate School of Political Management, and Board Member of Dublin City
University Educational Trust.  
  
O’Dwyer has earned an AB and LLM from the George Washington University,
a JD from Georgetown University, and an MA from Middlebury College. He
is a member of Sigma Delta Pi national Spanish honorary and has been
awarded the honorary degrees of Doctor of Philosophy from Dublin City
University and Doctor of Humane Letters from Middlebury College.  
  
**Stephanie Robinson, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Stephanie Robinson is a Board Member and advisor to educational,
healthcare, and cultural organizations. She currently serves as a
publicly-elected Trustee for the Ross School District in California, a
position she has held since 2015, and as a Director and Vice Chair of
the MarinHealth Foundation. Previously, Robinson worked as a Vice
President in Health Care Investment Banking at Bankers Trust and as a
management consultant at the Boston Consulting Group. She is active in
local, state, and national politics as a fundraiser, community
organizer, and voter protection volunteer. She holds an MBA from Harvard
Business School, a JD from Harvard Law School, and a BA from UC Berkeley
in Economics.  
  
**Kurt Russell, Sr., Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Kurt Russell, the 2022 National Teacher of the Year, is a veteran
teacher at Oberlin High School in the Oberlin City Schools district who
believes education can transform students’ lives. For the past
twenty-five years, Russell has included cultural relevance in the
curriculum for the 9<sup>th</sup>-12<sup>th</sup> grade classes he
teaches: African American History, U.S. History, IB History of the
Americas, and Race, Gender, and Oppression. Russell received the teacher
of the year awards from the Oberlin Heritage Center and the Oberlin
Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People. In addition to teaching history classes, Russell also serves as
a lead teacher at Oberlin High School and advisor for the Black Student
Union, Student Council, and Junior Class.  
  
**Juan Antonio Sepúlveda, Jr., Member, Commission on Presidential
Scholars**  
Sepúlveda currently serves as the President’s Special Advisor for
Inclusive Excellence and the Ron Calgaard Distinguished Professor of
Practice in the Political Science Department at Trinity University in
San Antonio, Texas. Prior to Trinity, he was Senior Vice President of
Station Services at PBS, where he collaborated with more than 160 PBS
stations across the country to strengthen their connections to their
local communities and to each other as a national public media network.
Sepúlveda joined PBS from the Democratic National Committee, where he
was Senior Advisor for Hispanic Affairs helping re-elect President
Barack Obama with record-level Hispanic support. In 2008, Sepúlveda
served as the Texas State Director for the Obama for America campaign.

In the Obama-Biden Administration, Sepúlveda served as Executive
Director of the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for
Hispanics, where he designed and led the first-ever White House Hispanic
Policy Conference along with a series of White House Hispanic Community
Action Summits. His national strategy consulting organization, the
Common Enterprise, which grew out of a national Rockefeller Foundation
initiative, took him to more than 35 states where he worked with
communities in urban and rural settings. Sepúlveda was the third Latino
awarded a Rhodes Scholarship. He graduated from Harvard College with a
Bachelor of Arts in Government. He also holds a Master of Arts in
Politics, Philosophy & Economics from The Queen’s College, Oxford
University, a Juris Doctorate from Stanford Law School, and has been
admitted to the Texas Bar.  
  
**Terrance Blackman Stroud, Member, Commission on Presidential
Scholars**  
Terrance Blackman Stroud is a Deputy Commissioner at the New York City
Department of Social Services leading the Office of Training & Workforce
Development, which manages the development and implementation of the
agency’s learning strategy. Stroud serves on the National Staff
Development Training Association’s Executive Advisory Council and the
Public Sector Network’s Leadership Advisory Board. He is also one of the
Tri-chairs of the American Public Human Services Association’s Equity
Diversity and Inclusion Peer Community.  
  
Stroud is a fourth-generation educator whose focus is on the
intersection of academic institutions and the global workforce. He is a
New York-based adjunct faculty member at Indiana University Bloomington.
He is the inaugural Global Affairs Fellow at the Hamilton Lugar School
of Global and International Studies where he leads the Global Leaders
and Professionals Program. In addition, Stroud is an Adjunct Professor
of Law overseeing the Maurer School of Law’s New York Externship Program
and is the first Black recipient of the Adjunct Faculty Teaching Award.
Stroud is a graduate of Brooklyn Technical High School, Brooklyn
College, and Indiana Maurer School of Law.  
  
**Jason Sung Won Yoon, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Jason Yoon has dedicated much of his career to supporting the talent and
creativity of America’s young people. He has served as the executive
director of New Urban Arts, a nationally recognized nonprofit youth arts
studio (winner of a 2009 National Arts and Humanities Youth Program
Award); the Director of Education at the Queens Museum, a museum
renowned for its commitment to art, education, and social justice; and
the executive director of Atlas: DIY, a nonprofit that worked with
immigrant youth through legal services, educational programs, and
leadership development. For several years, he also taught art and social
change in Goucher College’s MA program in Cultural Sustainability.
Currently, Yoon is working on several personal creative writing projects
and as the interim development manager for Sakhi for South Asian Women,
a groundbreaking gender justice organization. Yoon has a Bachelor of
Fine Arts from the Rhode Island School of Design and a Masters in Public
Administration from NYU’s Wagner School of Public Service.

\###
