---
date: '2022-07-10'
published_time: 2022-07-10 15:44:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/10/icymi-commerce-secretary-raimondo-exposes-sen-mcconnells-blockade-against-lower-prices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI: Commerce Secretary Raimondo Exposes Sen. McConnell\u2019s Blockade\
  \ Against Lower\_Prices"
---
 
*McConnell is “Playing Politics with our National Security”*

Speaking with George Stephanopoulos on ABC’s *This Week*, Secretary of
Commerce Gina Raimondo pointed to legislation in Congress to build
domestic manufacturing of semiconductor chips as a concrete step that
needs to be taken to bring down prices for the American people. This
legislation would create thousands of good-paying jobs and address the
chips shortage that has driven prices higher on cars and countless other
products. As the Secretary noted, Senator McConnell is now attempting to
hold that legislation hostage to block another crucial effort to lower
prices on prescription drugs for the American people.  
  
The Secretary also noted that there are profound national security
implications in not addressing the chips shortage, saying “He’s playing
politics with our national security and it’s time for Congress to do its
job on both of those dimensions.”  
  
**Watch the
clip: **<https://twitter.com/abcpolitics/status/1546127074058031105?s=21&t=S6SP7ACmRsV2YnOLwiulVQ>  
  
STEPHANOPOULOS: …Is there anything more the President can do to combat
inflation that he’s not doing now?

RAIMONDO: Well, one of the things that Ro Khanna pointed out in that
piece is that Congress needs to pass the CHIPS Act. There’s a bill right
now before Congress which Ro Khanna supports, President Biden supports,
which would increase the domestic supply of semiconductors and also
start a supply chain office in the Department of Commerce. That has to
pass. Has to pass now. Not in six months from now, now. It’s bipartisan.

Mitch McConnell just threw a wrench in that about a week ago, saying
that he wasn’t going to allow Republicans to move on that unless we move
down reconciliation. That’s a perfect example, George, of increasing
supply. We have inflation now because of lack of supply. And let’s
increase supply.

STEPHANOPOULOS: But as you point out, Madam Secretary, Mitch McConnell
said it’s not going anywhere as long as the President continues to push
a budget reconciliation bill. So doesn’t that mean the CHIPS bill is
dead?

RAIMONDO: It shouldn’t be dead. Why can’t we do both? What’s in that
reconciliation bill? Allowing Medicare to negotiate for drug prices.
What will that do? Bring down the prices of medicine for the average
American consumer.

So the — again, the President wakes up every day pushing us and his team
and Congress, what more can we do to bring down prices? So let’s bring
down prescription drug prices, so that people feel that when they go to
the drugstore and also let’s pass the CHIPS Act to bring down the prices
of chips, which will bring down the price of pretty much everything you
buy, because everything includes chips.

It’s a false choice. He’s playing politics with our national security
and it’s time for Congress to do its job on both of those dimensions.

\###
