---
date: '2022-07-13'
modified_time: 2022-07-13 19:06:08-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-13 19:06:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/13/nec-director-deese-statement-on-panasonic-energy-announcement-in-kansas/
tags: statements-releases
title: "NEC Director Deese Statement on Panasonic Energy Announcement in\_Kansas"
---
 
Today’s announcement that Panasonic Energy plans to invest $4 billion
and create 4,000 jobs in a lithium-ion battery factory in De Soto,
Kansas, is the latest example that the Biden-Harris economic strategy to
bring manufacturing jobs back home is working. Over the last year,
construction of new manufacturing facilities has increased by 116
percent. Industrial production is at a record high. And since President
Biden took office, we’ve added 574,000 manufacturing jobs, including
more manufacturing jobs created in 2021 than in any year in nearly 30
years. America is making things again.

The announcement is also another proof point of the success of the
Administration’s efforts to create more resilient and secure supply
chains and outcompete the rest of the world in the technologies of the
future. Executive Order 14017,*America’s Supply Chains*, signed in
February 2021, initiated a whole-of-government strategy to secure
critical supply chains, including electric vehicle batteries and the
critical minerals that go into them. This announcement by Panasonic
builds on more than a year of progress building an end-to-end American
supply chain for lithium-ion batteries, a market currently dominated by
China. Just last month, Stellantis and Samsung announced a $2.5 billion
joint venture to manufacture batteries in Kokomo, Indiana. The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provided nearly $7 billion to strengthen
the battery supply chain, including $6 billion through the Department of
Energy for battery material processing, battery manufacturing, and
recycling. These funds will support good jobs in leading edge industries
in communities across the country.

Earlier this year, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to
authorize investment in the sustainable extraction, processing, and
recycling of critical battery minerals—lithium, cobalt, nickel,
graphite, and manganese. In April, the Department of Energy Loan Program
Office issued its first conditional loan commitment through the Advanced
Technology Vehicle Manufacturing program in more than a decade—$107
million to Syrah Technologies to produce graphite for electric vehicle
batteries.

And as President Biden has said, any company investing in the United
States would benefit greatly from entering into partnerships with some
of the most highly skilled, dedicated, and engaged workers in the
world—American union workers.

The future of transportation is electric. President Biden’s industrial
strategy is ensuring that future is built here in America by all of
America’s workers.
