---
date: '2022-07-01'
modified_time: 2022-07-01 10:47:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-01 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/01/president-biden-announces-recipients-of-the-presidential-medal-of-freedom/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Recipients of the Presidential Medal of\_Freedom"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden named seventeen recipients of the
Presidential Medal of Freedom.

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the Nation’s highest civilian
honor, presented to individuals who have made exemplary contributions to
the prosperity, values, or security of the United States, world peace,
or other significant societal, public or private endeavors.

President Biden has long said that America can be defined by one word:
possibilities. These seventeen Americans demonstrate the power of
possibilities and embody the soul of the nation – hard work,
perseverance, and faith. They have overcome significant obstacles to
achieve impressive accomplishments in the arts and sciences, dedicated
their lives to advocating for the most vulnerable among us, and acted
with bravery to drive change in their communities – and across the world
– while blazing trails for generations to come.

The awards will be presented at the White House on July 7, 2022.

The following individuals will be awarded the Presidential Medal of
Freedom:

**<u>Simone Biles</u>**

Simone Biles is the most decorated American gymnast in history, with a
combined total of 32 Olympic and World Championship medals. Biles is
also a prominent advocate for athletes’ mental health and safety,
children in the foster care system, and victims of sexual assault.

**<u>Sister Simone Campbell</u>**

Sister Simone Campbellis a member of the Sisters of Social Service and
former Executive Director of NETWORK, a Catholic social justice
organization. She is also a prominent advocate for economic justice,
immigration reform, and healthcare policy.

**<u>Julieta García</u>**

Dr. Julieta García is the former president of The University of Texas at
Brownsville, where she was named one of *Time* magazine’s best college
presidents. Dr. García was the first Hispanic woman to serve as a
college president and dedicated her career to serving students from the
Southwest Border region.

**<u>Gabrielle Giffords</u>**

Former Congresswoman Gabby Giffords was the youngest woman ever elected
to the Arizona State Senate, serving first in the Arizona legislature
and later in the U.S. Congress. A survivor of gun violence, she
co-founded Giffords, a nonprofit organization dedicated to gun violence
prevention.

**<u>Fred Gray</u>**

Fred Gray was one of the first black members of the Alabama State
legislature since Reconstruction. As an attorney, he represented Rosa
Parks, the NAACP, and Martin Luther King, who called him “the chief
counsel for the protest movement.”

**<u>Steve Jobs</u>** (posthumous)

Steve Jobs (d. 2011) was the co-founder, chief executive, and chair of
Apple, Inc., CEO of Pixar and held a leading role at the Walt Disney
Company. His vision, imagination and creativity led to inventions that
have, and continue to, change the way the world communicates, as well as
transforming the computer, music, film and wireless industries.

**<u>Father Alexander Karloutsos</u>**

Father Alexander Karloutsos is the former Vicar General of the Greek
Orthodox Archdiocese of America. After over 50 years as a priest,
providing counsel to several U.S. presidents, he was named by His All
Holiness Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew as a Protopresbyter of the
Ecumenical Patriarchate.

**<u>Khizr Khan</u>**

Khizr Khanis a Gold Star father and founder of the Constitution Literacy
and National Unity Center. He is a prominent advocate for the rule of
law and religious freedom and served on the United States Commission on
International Religious Freedom under President Biden.

**<u>Sandra Lindsay</u>**

Sandra Lindsayis a New York critical care nurse who served on the front
lines of the COVID-19 pandemic response. She was the first American to
receive a COVID-19 vaccine outside of clinical trials and is a prominent
advocate for vaccines and mental health for health care workers.

**<u>John McCain</u>** (posthumous)

John McCain (d. 2018) was a public servant who was awarded a Purple
Heart with one gold star for his service in the U.S. Navy in Vietnam. He
also served the people of Arizona for decades in the U.S. House of
Representatives and U.S. Senate and was the Republican nominee for
president in 2008.

**<u>Diane Nash</u>**

Diane Nash is a founding member of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating
Committee who organized some of the most important civil rights
campaigns of the 20<sup>th</sup> century. Nash worked closely with
Martin Luther King, who described her as the “driving spirit in the
nonviolent assault on segregation at lunch counters.”

**<u>Megan Rapinoe</u>**

Megan Rapinoeis an Olympic gold medalist and two-time Women’s World Cup
champion. She also captains OL Reign in the National Women’s Soccer
League. She is a prominent advocate for gender pay equality, racial
justice, and LGBTQI+ rights.

**<u>Alan Simpson</u>**

Alan Simpson served as a U.S. Senator from Wyoming for 18 years. During
his public service, he has been a prominent advocate on issues including
campaign finance reform, responsible governance, and marriage
equality.  

**<u>Richard Trumka</u>** (posthumous)

Richard Trumka (d. 2021)was president of the 12.5-million-member AFL-CIO
for more than a decade, president of the United Mine Workers, and
secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO. Throughout his career, he was an
outspoken advocate for social and economic justice.

**<u>Wilma Vaught</u>**

Brigadier General Wilma Vaughtis one of the most decorated women in the
history of the U.S. military, repeatedly breaking gender barriers as she
rose through the ranks. When she retired in 1985, she was one of only
seven women generals in the Armed Forces.

**<u>Denzel Washington</u>**

Denzel Washington is an actor, director, and producer who has won two
Academy Awards, a Tony Award, two Golden Globes, and the 2016 Cecil B.
DeMille Lifetime Achievement Award. He has also served as National
Spokesman for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America for over 25 years.

**<u>Raúl Yzaguirre</u>**

Raúl Yzaguirre is a civil rights advocate who served as CEO and
president of National Council of La Raza for thirty years. He also
served as U.S. Ambassador to the Dominican Republic under President
Barack Obama.

\###
