---
date: '2022-07-28'
published_time: 2022-07-28 14:08:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/28/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-continues-efforts-to-address-growing-wildfire-threat/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Continues Efforts to Address\
  \ Growing Wildfire\_Threat"
---
 
Early season wildfires have already created a path of destruction across
our country, with the total number of acres burned so far this year 72%
above the 10-year average.  Forecasters are predicting higher than
normal fire potential for much of the West this year, in large part
driven by the climate crisis which has exacerbated historic drought
conditions, above average temperatures, and below normal precipitation
throughout the West, the Plains, and Texas. To address the escalating
wildfire challenge, the Biden-Harris Administration has launched
multiple simultaneous initiatives to enhance prevention, preparedness,
and response by strengthening our wildfire response capabilities,
increasing pay and support for our wildland firefighting workforce,
providing historic levels of funding through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law (BIL) to reduce wildfire risk, increasing community
resilience to wildfires, and leveraging new technologies and scientific
research to keep Americans safe.

President Biden has directed his Cabinet officials, White House Homeland
Security team, and the National Climate Task Force to build on [his 2021
wildfire
initiatives](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-acts-to-address-the-growing-wildfire-threat/)
this year by ensuring wildfire prevention, preparedness, and response is
a top priority, and bringing a whole-of-government approach to
increasing our Nation’s resilience to catastrophic wildfires. 

As part of those efforts, today Homeland Security Advisor Liz
Sherwood-Randall and Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm convened a
meeting with CEOs from the electricity sector and administration
officials from the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Department
of Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Forest Service and
the Federal Aviation Administration to discuss actions being taken to
protect communities from wildfires, as well as opportunities for
additional public-private collaboration.  Here is a summary of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s recent actions:

**Helping Communities Across America Prepare For and Respond to
Wildfires**

**Strengthening our Wildfire Response Capacity**

**Provide robust response through a record 16,700 Federal firefighters
and additional surge capacity: ** Federal firefighters, working
alongside their state, Tribal, and local counterparts, support a robust,
multi-agency effort to combat wildfires.  Since 2021, the U.S. Forest
Service (USFS) and the Department of the Interior (DOI) have worked to
increase their target capacity to 16,700 Federal firefighters, with the
ability to activate an additional 13,000 employees across their agencies
to support wildfire response efforts across the Nation.  USFS and DOI
can surge an additional 11,000 administration personnel, mostly retired
agency personnel, from outside of their agencies to support incident
management teams and other firefighting functions.  DOI Bureau of Indian
Affairs is able to coordinate with Tribes to add an additional 500
Tribal firefighters to support firefighting response as needed.

**Increase pay and support for wildland firefighters:**  Earlier this
month, the Biden-Harris Administration announced $600 million through
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law (BIL) to increase pay, create new
programs to support mental wellness and healthcare, and establish a new
category of jobs in the Federal government for wildland Federal
firefighters.  These unprecedented actions on behalf of the wildland
firefighter workforce, many of which have already begun, are significant
steps forward that are delivering an immediate, temporary pay raise to
Federal wildland firefighters across the Nation, and setting Federal
agencies on a path to continue working with stakeholders towards an
updated, competitive, and equitable pay structure.  These measures also
create a support system that will address the many challenges that have
plagued our wildland firefighter workforce for decades.

**Accelerate transition to a more permanent firefighting workforce:** 
With wildfire activity now continuing year-round, having a permanent,
professional firefighting workforce is essential to addressing the
threat.  Thanks to the BIL, USFS and DOI are authorized to convert 1,000
employees from seasonal to permanent appointments, which can expand the
permanent workforce capacity and adds to the 1,000 Federal employees who
were converted over the past few years. Additionally, USFS will work to
increase the size of their Hot Shot Crews—the most experienced and
advanced firefighters in the wildland system—from 20 to 25 people per
crew, enabling staff to better manage work-life balance, mental health,
and wellness, while ensuring adequate capacity is available to meet the
increasing demands for the fire year. 

**Increase training to State, Local, Tribal, and Territorial (SLTT)
Partners: **The National Fire Academy is increasing its training
capacity by bolstering the number of personnel dedicated to delivering
wildland-urban interface (WUI) awareness and command training for SLTT
partners. The National Fire Academy (NFA) curriculum incorporates
training and education for the full spectrum of community risk reduction
for the WUI, and delivered training to over 96,000 students in Fiscal
Year 2021. The [NFA offers these trainings in multiple
mediums](https://www.usfa.fema.gov/training/nfa/index.html) to ensure
access to the broadest possible audience.

**Provide robust aviation capacity to support immediate
response:  **Aviation assets are critical in the management of wildfires
to slow or decrease the intensity of the fire and enable safe operations
for firefighters on the ground.  USFS and DOI share aviation resources,
which this year will include dozens of fixed wing firefighting aircraft
and over 200 helicopters to support our Nation’s wildfire response
capabilities.

**Provide trained and equipped military personnel and aviation assets to
support firefighting operations as needed:**  The Department of Defense
(DoD) is providing aircraft and personnel for wildland fire detection,
monitoring, and high technology mapping to assist incident commanders
with firefighting operations.  DoD is prepared to provide eight C-130
aircraft and crews capable of using Modular Airborne Firefighting
Systems (MAFFS) to conduct wildfire suppression missions.  Additionally,
if requested by the National Interagency Fire Center, DoD can provide
firefighting support to the wildland fire management agencies, including
one military unit with 200 personnel to receive training and specialized
equipment to support firefighting operations as required.

**Reducing Risk and Increasing Resilience Via Historic Investments and
Long-term Planning**  
**Invest in wildfire mitigation programs:**  The BIL made a critical
down payment on wildfire risk reduction efforts, providing over $8
billion to augment forest and land management investments, including
more than $5 billion to the Department of Agriculture (USDA) and DOI for
hazardous fuels reduction and other wildfire mitigation programs.  USDA
has already announced $131 million this year to mitigate hazardous fuels
in their top ten priority forest landscapes and high risk firesheds. 
DOI has announced BIL funding totaling $81 million to address hazardous
fuels and reduce wildfire risk in priority areas across the Nation.  In
addition, as part of the [Building a Better Grid
Initiative](https://www.energy.gov/oe/articles/doe-launches-new-initiative-president-bidens-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-modernize),
the Department of Energy (DOE) will make $2.5 billion in matching grants
for industry and $2.5 billion in formula grants for States and Tribes
available to reduce impacts to the electric grid due to extreme weather,
wildfires, and natural disasters.  Additionally, the President’s Fiscal
Year 2023 budget request proposes a nearly 60% increase in USDA’s and
DOI’s hazardous fuels treatment funding.

**Treat hazardous fuels effectively:**  The Secretaries of Agriculture
and the Interior jointly released comprehensive wildfire risk mitigation
plans that mark a new emphasis on the strategic development of fuel and
forest health treatments at scale, using the best available science as
the guide.  The USFS’s plan, [Confronting the Wildfire
Crisis](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/wildfire-crisis), lays out
its 10-year strategy to work with DOI and other partners to treat up to
an additional 20 million acres on National Forest System lands and up to
an additional 30 million acres of other Federal, State, Tribal, and
private lands.  DOI released a companion Five-Year [Wildfire Monitoring,
Maintenance, and Treatment
Plan](https://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/bil-5-year-wildfire-risk-mmt-plan.04.2022.owf_.final_.pdf)
that roadmaps its strategy to reduce severe fire risk on 10 million
acres of Federal land, Tribal forest lands, and rangeland that pose a
high wildfire hazard.   

**Support communities in reducing catastrophic wildfire risk:**  The BIL
established the [Community Wildfire Defense
Grants](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/fire/grants) (CWDG), a new
USDA program with $1 billion in funding over five years that will
provide communities and Tribes grants to better plan and reduce the risk
of wildfire.  Priority funding will flow to communities that have been
underserved by other resilience programs and are at the greatest risk of
wildfire.  Used in conjunction with other hazard mitigation programs,
the CWDG Program will greatly increase the scale of wildfire reduction
activities and make communities more resilient in the face of increased
risk.

The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) recently announced the
largest investment in its Building Resilient Infrastructure and
Communities (BRIC) program in history, boosted by the President’s BIL. 
This funding will help communities increase resilience to wildfires,
heat waves, drought, floods, hurricanes, and other hazards by preparing
before disaster strikes.

Additionally, USFS is initiating emergency fuels reduction treatments to
provide for the long-term survival of giant sequoia groves against
immediate wildfire threats.  These actions make use of the agency’s
existing authorities under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA)
to conduct emergency fuels treatments as expeditiously as possible in 12
giant sequoia groves.  With the emergency action, giant sequoias could
receive accelerated protection by as much as 9 to 12 months in most
groves and years earlier in other groves.  Wildfires have destroyed
nearly one-fifth of all giant sequoias in the last two years alone.

**Support communities in preparing and planning for wildfires: **The
United States Fire Administration (USFA), in collaboration with DOI and
USFS, published the [Wildland Urban Interface: A Look at Issues and
Resolutions](https://www.usfa.fema.gov/stories/wui-report/index.html#:~:text=Wildland%20Urban%20Interface%20(WUI)%3A,challenges%20identified%20in%20the%20WUI.)
report in June 2022 to raise awareness and inform future activities with
Federal and SLTT partners to curb the impact of wildfire in the United
States. FEMA recently launched a National Exercise Program Climate
Adaptation Exercise Series to empower SLTT emergency management partners
to better understand how climate change is intensifying natural
disasters, including wildfires, and identify opportunities to mitigate
future impacts.

**Develop clean air shelters and cooling centers:** The Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA) is [piloting a project in Western
states](https://www.epa.gov/arp/schools-community-cleaner-air-and-cooling-centers)
to use schools as clean air shelters and cooling centers during heat and
smoke events and will provide grant support to States, Tribes, public
pre-schools and local education agencies, and nonprofit organizations
for wildfire smoke preparedness and abatement in community buildings.
 In addition, the EPA has developed a [Wildfire Incident Action
Checklist](https://www.epa.gov/waterutilityresponse/build-wildfire-resilience)
and other tools to assist local water utilities with information on
actions to take to prepare for and recover from wildfires.

**Form the Wildland Fire Mitigation and Management Commission:**  USDA,
DOI, and FEMA also [announced the formation and membership of the
Wildland Fire Mitigation and Management
Commission](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/07/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-members-wildfire-commission),
which is tasked with forming Federal policy recommendations and
strategies on ways to better prevent, manage, suppress, and recover from
wildfires.  Appointments to the Commission were recently announced and
the first meeting is scheduled for this Fall. As required in the BIL,
the commission represents Federal agencies, State, local, and Tribal
governments, and the private sector.

**Expand preparedness information for individuals and families:**  EPA
and USFS continue to improve the [AirNow Fire and Smoke
Map](https://fire.airnow.gov/), which provides smoke-related air quality
information and actions to reduce exposure.  EPA and USFS recently
expanded accessibility by including a ColorVision Assist function.  EPA
also recently released the [“Why is Coco
Red?”](https://www.airnow.gov/sites/default/files/2022-04/why-is-coco-red.pdf)
picture book to help children learn about wildfire smoke and air
quality, which is available online in English and Spanish.  Wildfires
can also create cascading impacts when heavy rains in severely burned
areas cause soil erosion, flooding, and debris flows that impact both
natural resources and communities. FEMA is expanding its [Flood After
Fire
Campaign](https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/documents/fema_flood-after-fire_factsheet_nov20.pdf#:~:text=FEMA%20Fact%20Sheet%20Flood%20After%20Fire%20Flood%20Risks,creating%20conditions%20ripe%20for%20flash%20flooding%20and%20mudflow.)
to help families in wildfire impacted areas better understand their
risks.

**Provide financial support for wildfire response and hazard
mitigation:**  The Biden-Harris Administration stands ready to assist
communities in need with critical Fire Management Assistance Grants
(FMAGs).  FMAGs assist SLTT governments with the hazard mitigation,
management, and control of fires that threaten such destruction as would
constitute a major disaster.  FEMA has approved 22 FMAGs since the start
of calendar year 2022 alone.   

**Leveraging Technology and Research to Keep Americans Safe**  
**Increase Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) support to wildfire
response: **This year USFS has doubled its Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS)
fleet to 31 aircraft with 35 additional aircraft on order from U.S.
manufacturers.  Nearly 200 new USFS and DOI UAS pilots have been trained
to utilize UAS for wildfire monitoring and prescribed fire activities.  
Additionally, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has
developed prototype, mobile UAS Pilot kits to allow wildfire incident
commanders to better monitor UAS assets and enable more synergistic
operations with piloted aircraft.  

**Expand the capacity for prediction to support wildfire response: **
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is refreshing
Incident Meteorologist (IMET) equipment and increasing the overall
capacity of the program.  [NOAA is also establishing a new Wildfire
Testbed](https://www.noaa.gov/noaa-wildfire/fire-research), which will
expedite the deployment of new technologies for the fire weather
community, allowing on-site IMETs to access and analyze information more
quickly.  NOAA has 86 certified IMETs to support on-scene weather
forecasting at incidents across the country, with 32 newly trained IMETs
to supplement deployments and increase future capacity.

**Enhance fire detection capabilities:**  Recent and continued updates
in satellite technology, the most recent being the launch of NOAA’s
Geostationary Operational Environmental Satellite – T Series (GOES-T) on
March 1, will provide high resolution fire detection and monitoring
information that can sense fires as small as a house, as frequently as
every minute.  Additionally, the President’s Fiscal Year 2023 budget
request proposes permanently sustaining a capability demonstration that
leverages DoD satellite imagery to rapidly detect wildfires in their
early stages, often in remote areas, so firefighters can initiate a
speedy initial attack and enhance the probability of successful
suppression before the spread to wildland-urban interfaces.  The
President’s proposal would ensure the continued availability of this
important program by transferring the process of analyzing the satellite
information from DOD personnel to USDA and DOI staff specially trained
for this mission.  DoD would continue to provide analytical personnel
until the transfer has been successfully effectuated and will provide
satellite imagery to USDA and DOI after the transition is complete.

**Expand National Laboratory and partner research: ** DOE’s Pacific
Northwest National Laboratory is expanding its Rapid Analytics for
Disaster Response (RADR) image analytics and modeling suite to help
mitigate damage to key energy infrastructure.  Using a combination of
advanced imagery, artificial intelligence, and cloud computing, the
platform will assess and predict damage, which can allow first
responders and utilities to take measures to mitigate potential impacts
and expedite infrastructure restoration.  
DOE’s SLAC National Accelerator Laboratory is utilizing artificial
intelligence to identify locations where the electric grid is
susceptible to disruption so that those areas can be reinforced in
advance to enable greater resilience.  Additionally, DOE’s Oak Ridge
National Laboratory (ORNL) is utilizing new sensor and autonomous
vehicle technologies to enhance the remote inspection of electrical grid
transmission lines.  Finally, ORNL is also evaluating high-fidelity
sensors that can be used as early indicators of electrical arcing to
identify and mitigate fire risk.  DOE is partnering with multiple
electrical utilities and Federal agencies to advance each of these
initiatives.

**Advance modeling capabilities to support fire management: ** The
United States Geological Survey (USGS) is partnering with fire science
and management organizations to better understand changing fire behavior
and its effects on society and ecosystems.  USGS is collaborating with
DOE’s Los Alamos National Laboratory to combine their fire and land
management research with the lab’s advanced fire-atmospheric modeling
capabilities.  USGS has also partnered with the National Science
Foundation-funded [WIFIRE Commons](https://wifire.ucsd.edu/commons),
which enables the convergence of artificial intelligence and fire
science communities, to address the interacting effects of wildfire with
climate change, drought, invasive species, development in wildlands, and
fuel accumulation. 

**Inform future wildfire initiatives through research: **The National
Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) is investigating the
California Camp Fire from 2018 to better understand the causes of the
fire’s spread as well as aspects of the emergency response.  The case
study will be complete by mid-2024, and will help inform emergency
managers’ efforts to plan for future wildfires.  NIST is also
undertaking a multi-year experimental study of fire spread from the
wildlands to WUI communities, providing data on the risk to buildings as
part of a collaborative effort with the USFS, USFA, and the California
Department of Forestry and Fire Protection.  In addition, the BIL
provides USFS and DOI $10 million each to invest in the Joint Fire
Science Program (JFSP), which both agencies fund in support of
scientific research on wildland fire management.  Current priority areas
of research for JFSP include firefighters’ mental health, smoke
emissions, carbon storage, resilience to climate change, and the effects
of fire on different populations.

\###
