---
date: '2022-07-12'
modified_time: 2022-07-14 20:03:39-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-12 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/12/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-over-40-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-investments-in-our-workforce-with-more-coming/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Announces over $40 Billion in American Rescue Plan\
  \ Investments in Our Workforce \u2013 With More\_Coming"
---
 
*Vice President Kamala Harris to deliver remarks at White House Summit
and reinforce call for state and local leaders to invest American Rescue
Plan funds to help more Americans secure good-paying jobs*

On Wednesday, the White House will announce that **<u>over $40 Billion
in American Rescue Plan funds have been committed to strengthening and
expanding our workforce</u>**. White House officials will highlight top
American Rescue Plan workforce best practices from Governors, Mayors,
and County Leaders across the country, and call on more government
officials and private sector leaders to expand investments in our
workforce. Vice President Kamala Harris will deliver remarks kicking off
a half-day White House Summit. Since passage of the law, states,
localities, community colleges, and local organizations have leveraged
American Rescue Plan resources to deliver training, expand career paths,
encourage more Registered Apprenticeships, provide retention and hiring
bonuses in critical industries, and power efforts to help underserved
Americans and those who face barriers to employment secure good jobs.
These investments in the workforce – along with the American Rescue
Plan’s direct payroll support that has saved or restored jobs across a
broad set of industries – have contributed to a record 9 Million jobs
added since President Biden took office in the fastest and strongest
jobs recovery in American history.

The half-day White House Summit on the American Rescue Plan and the
Workforce will feature remarks by Vice President Harris and Secretary of
Labor Marty Walsh, a session on state American Rescue Plan workforce
investments with North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper and Pennsylvania
Governor Tom Wolf, as well as panels with Mayors, County Leaders, and
Labor and Community Leaders on their model American Rescue Plan
workforce programs. The Summit will focus on three major areas of
American Rescue Plan investment:

**1. Building a Diverse and Skilled Infrastructure Workforce:**
President Biden and Vice President Harris have launched the
Administration’s [Infrastructure Talent Pipeline
Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-launches-the-talent-pipeline-challenge-supporting-employer-investments-in-equitable-workforce-development-for-infrastructure-jobs/)
to encourage immediate partnerships by the public and private sectors to
ensure we have the diverse and strong workforce needed to help rebuild
our infrastructure and supply chains here at home with the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law. Today’s session will focus on innovative programs to
meet this challenge like the DC Infrastructure Academy, with a special
focus on Pre-Apprenticeship programs funded by the American Rescue Plan.
Pre-Apprenticeship programs play a critical role in diversifying the
talent pipeline by training, placing, and retaining workers through
Registered Apprenticeships – which the North America’s Building Trades
Unions (NABTU) has cited as having a return on investment for employers
of as much as $3 for every $1 invested. The session will feature:

-   *Washington (DC) Mayor Muriel Bowser*
-   *Louisville (KY) Mayor Greg Fischer*
-   *Los Angeles County (CA) Supervisor Holly Mitchell*
-   *Franklin County (OH) Commissioner John O’Grady*
-   *NABTU Special Assistant to the President Melissa Wells*

**2. Strengthening Our Care and Public Health Workforce:** The pandemic
exposed the fragility and importance of our care economy. As part of an
unprecedented commitment to a stronger care workforce, the American
Rescue Plan contains significant investments in public health and the
care economy that will help provide better pay and career opportunities
for care workers and make it easier for workers with child and elder
care responsibilities to join and stay in the workforce. U.S. prime-age
labor force participation has fallen behind that of its competitors, in
part due to lack of family friendly policies. Studies show that access
to care can be an important determinant of whether workers are able to
join or remain in the labor force. Millions of families rely on paid
child and elder care to work, while millions more struggle to afford or
find available care. The demand for child and elder care remains high
and will only grow, with a projected need for over a million additional
home health care workers over the next decade. Studies have shown that
quality pathways for nursing aides leads to better outcomes for patients
and workers. The American Rescue Plan is helping deliver supports for
quality pathways for these essential jobs.The session will feature:  

-   *Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration
    Carole Johnson*
-   *Erie (NY) County Executive Mark Poloncarz*
-   *Ramsey County (MN) Commissioner Mary Jo McGuire*
-   *Manchester (NH) Mayor Joyce Craig*
-   *Director of the Communities RISE Together Initiative at the Public
    Health Institute, Dr. Somava Saha*
-   *SEIU Secretary-Treasurer April Verrett*

**3. Expanding Access to the Workforce for Underserved Populations:**
American Rescue Plan funds are being used to recruit more Americans
facing barriers to employment – homelessness, disability, prior criminal
justice involvement – and giving them pathways into the workforce. More
than 600,000 people leave prison every year and confront significant
challenges in accessing and sustaining stable, meaningful employment – a
2018 study estimated that formerly incarcerated individuals experience
an unemployment rate of over 27 percent, exponentially higher than the
overall national unemployment rate. Investments in expanding access to
the workforce strengthen our economy by increasing labor force
participation and tapping into the potential of more Americans, and
research shows that certain programs – such as comprehensive reentry
programs and summer youth employment programs – can significantly reduce
crime. The session will feature:

-   *Harris County (TX) Commissioner Adrian Garcia*
-   *Memphis (TN) Mayor Jim Strickland*
-   *Employ Milwaukee CEO Chytania Brown*
-   *WRTP Big Step President Lindsay Blumer*

**To date, the Administration has worked with states, localities, and
other American Rescue Plan recipients to identify over $40 Billion in**
**American Rescue Plan** **funds being utilized to strengthen and expand
our workforce:**

**<u>Over $13 Billion in American Rescue Plan Workforce Investments
Committed or Proposed by Over 1,000+ State, Local, Tribal, and
Territorial Governments.</u>**

-   **<u>Over $9 Billion in State and Local Fiscal Recovery Funds
    committed or proposed investments in workforce programs.</u>** This
    includes hundreds of new workforce development and retention
    programs, including innovative partnerships with labor groups and
    other organizations to train and support a diverse workforce for
    good-paying jobs as well as premium pay programs for essential
    workers.
-   **<u>Over $2 Billion in Child Care Stabilization state grants used
    to increase compensation for child care workers, strengthening
    workforce development and retention.</u>** States have directed or
    incentivized a commitment of at least $2 Billion from Child Care
    Stabilization program grants delivered to child care workers in the
    form of higher pay, hiring or retention bonuses, or other expanded
    benefits to date — reducing turnover, attracting new workers, and
    improving the quality, affordability, and availability of care
    options that enable parents to work.
-   **<u>$2 Billion in Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
    grants to fund the public health workforce.</u>** Emergency funding
    for public health departments is expected to add thousands of new
    positions, including 2,400 new school health staff. 

**<u>Over $16 Billion in Medicaid and Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) Funds for the Care and Healthcare Workforce.</u>**

-   **<u>Over $9 Billion of Home and Community Based Services (HCBS)
    funds proposed for workforce.</u>** These include state plans to
    increase the pay and benefits of direct support professionals, train
    workers, and recruit, retain, and expand the workforce to meet the
    needs of Americans on HCBS waitlists and family caregivers.
-   **<u>Over $7 Billion in health workforce investments funded by HHS
    programs.</u>** These funds support staffing needs to respond to the
    COVID-19 pandemic, as well as longer-term investments to strengthen
    the health workforce and build capacity. These historic investments
    are recruiting, training, and retaining tens of thousands of
    additional public health workers over the next several years,
    including the first-ever Public Health AmeriCorps program which will
    train a new generation of public health leaders and includes 3,000
    corps members in its first year.

**<u>Over $12 Billion in American Rescue Plan Education Funds to
Strengthen the K-12 Educator Workforce and Expand Workforce
Credentials.</u>**

-   **<u>Over $7 Billion in Elementary and Secondary School Emergency
    Relief Funding to keep schools open safely, combat learning loss,
    and address mental health are planned to be spent on recruiting,
    retaining, and training school staff</u>**. Districts are expected
    to spend other funds on workforce efforts, including career and
    technical education that will help students succeed in the
    workforce. States across the country are also using a portion of
    funds to build the pipeline of education workers and provide career
    and technical education. Additional funds are supporting the hiring
    and the avoiding of lay-offs of school staff.
-   **<u>At least $5 Billion to help students stay on track to graduate
    college and enter the workforce with additional credentials.</u>**
    The American Rescue Plan’s Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund
    provided nearly $40 Billion to colleges and their students,
    including to support learning and career training. Community
    colleges received $10 Billion, with roughly $5 Billion of these
    funds provided directly to students, allowing them to stay on track
    to graduate and enter the workforce with additional qualifications.

In addition to investments outlined above, **<u>over $3 billion in
additional, competitively awarded American Rescue Plan funding will be
invested in the coming months</u>**, including:

-   In 2022, CDC will award $3 billion through a new, first of its kind
    American Rescue Plan-funded grant program to strengthen the future
    public health workforce, including offering community health workers
    and others hired for COVID-19 response support in continuing their
    careers as public health professionals beyond the pandemic.
-   The Economic Development Administration will announce 25-50 grants
    through the $500 million Good Jobs Challenge to build and strengthen
    workforce systems that bring together employers and other key
    entities to train workers with in-demand skills that lead to
    good-paying jobs.

\_\_

**Summaries of American Rescue Plan Best Practices in Workforce
Investments Highlighted by State and Local Leaders at White House
Summit**

**1. North Carolina is committing American Rescue Plan funds to address
the barriers holding back workers and expand opportunities for careers
in high-growth fields offering good wages.** Governor Roy Cooper will
explain that North Carolina is leading the way with innovative
investments to increase compensation for care economy workers and
establish and expand work-based learning opportunities in critical
sectors. To improve recruitment and retention in care fields, the state
is leveraging American Rescue Plan Child Care Stabilization program
grants to incentivize and fund increased compensation for tens of
thousands of child care workers in the state – reducing turnover and
increasing the strength of the workforce – and investing over $200
Million annually utilizing American Rescue Plan-enhanced Home and
Community Based Services funding to increase wages for direct care
workers. North Carolina is also using American Rescue Plan resources to
establish a new Direct Care Jobs Innovation Fund that will support
initiatives that improve recruitment and retention among the direct care
workforce, including training opportunities and workforce supports.
Further, the state is investing American Rescue Plan funds in key
workforce efforts, including establishing work-based learning programs
supporting small businesses, helping individuals who are
justice-involved or in substance use recovery enter the workforce, as
well as filling critical infrastructure and supply chain jobs by
investing in expanding truck driver training, apprenticeships in
high-demand fields, and a work-based learning program in the
construction trades across the NC Community College System.

**2. Pennsylvania is delivering historic support to its care and
healthcare workforce with American Rescue Plan funds.** Governor Tom
Wolf will discuss how the state is investing in expanded training and
credentialing opportunities for direct care workers across the state,
improving retention and quality of care. Using American Rescue
Plan-enhanced Home and Community Based Services funds, these initiatives
include increasing behavioral health provider rates to support state
staff training, education, and recruitment, as well as creating an
online education and training portal to strengthen supports to nursing
professionals. The state is also delivering $225 Million statewide for
healthcare retention and recruitment efforts, including payments to
direct care staff as well as expanding a high-demand nurse loan
forgiveness program. In addition, the state is providing nearly $190
Million through the American Rescue Plan to support retention bonuses,
personnel development, and recruitment efforts for its child care
workforce.****

**<u>Building a Diverse and Skilled Infrastructure Workforce</u>**

**1. Washington, DC is expanding its DC Infrastructure Academy to fill
growing DC infrastructure jobs**. Mayor Muriel Bowser will describe the
DC Infrastructure Academy, which is a key initiative of her
administration, launched in 2018 to meet the need for skilled
infrastructure professionals in the District. The school coordinates,
trains, screens, and recruits residents to fulfill the needs of the DC
infrastructure industry, matching graduates to infrastructure jobs with
leading companies in this high-demand field. The city is investing over
$4 Million to expand the program in preparation for the coming demand
for infrastructure workers as a result of the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law.  
  

**2. Los Angeles County, CA is investing $10 Million to bolster High
Road Training Partnerships (HRTP) and its Worker Equity
Fund. **Supervisor Holly Mitchell will describe LA County’s American
Rescue Plan investment to enhance training programs in high-demand
sectors such as construction, transportation and warehousing,
manufacturing, technology, and more with an American Rescue Plan
investment in High Road Training Partnerships. Bringing together
industry, education and training providers, labor, and community groups,
HRTPs focus on building long-term career pathways utilizing
pre-apprenticeships and apprenticeships, provide family-sustaining
wages, and require deep collaboration between employers, workers,
education partners, and the workforce system. The pre-apprenticeship
program deploys the Los Angeles-Orange County Building Trades Council’s
Multi-Craft Core Curriculum and spans 8-10 weeks, and aims to enroll at
least 480 individuals in all HRTPs with at least 350 individuals hired
in permanent employment. This is part of Los Angeles County’s larger
workforce development plan, which includes reducing workforce barriers
for youth, enhancing job placement programming for justice-involved
individuals and those experiencing homelessness, rapid re-employment, as
well as a Worker Equity Fund that provides supportive services and
flexible cash assistance for participants in the county’s workforce
programs to mitigate barriers to successful participation.

**3. Franklin County, OH is committing over $11 Million in State and
Local funds to support a number of job training assistance programs,
including over $2 Million toward the Building Futures Pre-Apprenticeship
Program.** Commissioner John O’Grady will explain the county’s
investment in Building Futures, a 12-week program designed to help
low-income Franklin County residents pursue careers in the skilled
construction trades, including electrical work, iron work, carpentry,
painting, plumbing, and more, with a focus on recruiting populations
that have been historically underrepresented in the trades. More than
half of program graduates were TANF-eligible when they first enrolled.
Most graduates have gone on to become apprentices and are earning an
average wage of over $22 per hour plus benefits – with some earning as
much as $30 and $40 an hour. The program, which was developed in
partnership with the Columbus/Central Ohio Building and Construction
Trades Council, Columbus NAACP, and the Columbus Urban League, provides
both “hard skills” training, including safety certification and
trade-specific instruction, as well as “soft skills” training, including
interpersonal skills and financial literacy, as well as a weekly $250
stipend. Participants are also eligible to receive supportive services
offered through Building Futures in average amounts of $1,500-$2,500,
depending on a person’s individual needs, to help address barriers like
transportation, housing, childcare, and more. At the end of each cohort,
participants complete an entrance assessment to progress directly into a
Building Trades apprenticeship program. The county also runs an American
Rescue Plan-funded Driving Futures program, which fills critically
needed positions as licensed drivers in Central Ohio’s construction
industry.

**4. Louisville, KY is proposing an expansion of its successful
Kentuckiana Builds construction program.** Mayor Greg Fischer will
explain how he is answering the President’s call to action on the Talent
Pipeline Challenge by proposing American Rescue Plan funds be deployed
to expand the city’s pre-apprenticeship program, Kentuckiana Builds. The
program is run by the Louisville Urban League in partnership with the
Carpenters Union. The program helps diverse residents successfully
complete a 6-week construction training program, which then provides
them access to union apprenticeships in partnership with the
International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and the Carpenters
Union, as well as other basic construction roles. Since its inception,
over 350 individuals have graduated from the program into good
construction jobs. The proposed American Rescue Plan investment would
enable the Kentuckiana Builds pre-apprenticeship program to serve
additional participants. Beyond this proposed investment, Louisville has
made a number of American Rescue Plan-funded investments in workforce,
including a comprehensive reentry program for formerly incarcerated
individuals.

**5. North America’s Building Trades Unions (NABTU) is working with
state and local leaders to promote American Rescue Plan-funded
Pre-Apprenticeship Programs as a critical pathway to Registered
Apprenticeship Programs that will help fill the increased workforce
needs of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.** NABTU Special Assistant to
the President Melissa Wells will describe how NABTU has closely
partnered with state and local governments, construction industry
employers, and non-profit organizations to invest American Rescue Plan
funds in their Pre-Apprenticeship programs known as Apprenticeship
Readiness Programs. This builds on NABTU’s work to create over 190
Apprenticeship Readiness Programs across the country in the last fifteen
years, which are a pipeline to multi-year Registered Apprenticeship
programs. These programs specifically focus on recruiting and training
women, people of color, transitioning veterans, and the formerly
incarcerated. NABTU operates over 1,600 Registered Apprenticeship
training centers in the United States and graduates at least 50,000
apprentices each year — with over 80,000 graduated in 2019 alone.  
  

**<u>Strengthening Our Care and Public Health Workforce  
  
</u>**

**1. Ramsey County, MN is supporting its care workforce through a $1
Million Public Health Career Pathways program and addressing a shortage
of quality child care programs by offering new incentives and
supports.** Commissioner Mary Jo McGuire will describe Ramsey County’s
Public Health Career Pathways program, which will increase the public
health workforce and lift up low wage earners by offering careers as a
registered nurse or community health worker. Selection priority is given
to those who live in Ramsey County, are single parents, receiving public
assistance, and/or are a member of an underrepresented group in the
public health workforce. The program provides: college preparatory
coaching and mentoring; reimbursement of tuition, expenses for
transportation and/or child care, and other related academic costs;
wages to allow participants to enroll full-time; and paid work time to
complete coursework. To bolster the child care workforce, Ramsey County
is providing bonuses of $1,000 per year and free professional
development training to help providers remain open. Additionally, the
county is recruiting additional child care educators in the
neighborhoods most affected by the child care shortages, offering the
training required to achieve a Child Development Associate credential at
no cost. Participants will also receive mentoring support provided by
experienced child care educators who currently operate high-quality
programs and other necessary support for early childhood educators
looking to open child care programs.

**2. Erie County, NY used $1.6 Million in American Rescue Plan funds to
launch a Healthcare Careers Program.** County Executive Mark Poloncarz
will explain that the county is providing educational grants for
training in high-demand healthcare occupations, such of up to $10,000
per student. Students must be enrolled in an approved occupational
program, meet certain income requirements, and must currently earn less
than $25 per hour. Students enrolled in the program also receive a
transportation allowance, child care assistance, and access to an
emergency fund of up to $500 for emergencies. Since the program began in
October 2021, more than 320 residents have already enrolled in programs
offered by the County’s training partners (including Erie 1 BOCES,
Trocaire College, D’Youville University, SUNY Erie and Villa Maria
College). Given the program’s success so far, the county has dedicated
additional funding to sustain and expand the program.

**3. Manchester, NH is investing $6 Million in a Community Health Worker
(CHW) Program**. Mayor Joyce Craig will discuss the city’s investment in
the CHW program. The new team is multicultural and collectively speaks
11 languages, in addition to English (Spanish, French, Nepali, Hindi,
Swahili, Kinyarwanda, Kurundi, Mandinka, Fula, Wolof, and Yoruba). CHW
staff are participating in a CHW Certificate program hosted by the
Southern New Hampshire Area Health Education Center. The program will
also be working closely with the Harvard School of Public Health to
provide occupational health and safety training and technical
assistance. CHW staff are proactively working with local community
groups and organizations in their assigned neighborhood areas in the
City to best serve neighborhood concerns and needs. As this Program is a
joint effort between the Manchester Health Department and Manchester
Police Department, the two Departments will be creating a structure to
support linkages and coordination of efforts across public health and
public safety.

**4. The Communities RISE Together initiative, supported by WE in the
World and the Public Health Institute, is using American Rescue Plan
funding to recruit, hire, and train Community Health Workers to work
with Black, Native American, Latinx, Asian American/Pacific Islander,
immigrant/migrant, and low-income older adult populations in 200+
counties across the country.** Director of the Communities RISE Together
Initiative at the Public Health Institute Dr. Somava Saha will describe
how RISE partners train and engage vaccine ambassadors and promotoras to
serve as trusted messengers and connect community members with vaccines
and well-being needs, while working to address underlying drivers of
health inequities.  Together, they have reached over 44 Million people
through trusted, often nontraditional, messengers and channels and
connected 200,000+ Americans to vaccines and supports like food, rental
assistance, and social connection.

**5. Service Employees International Union (SEIU) is mobilizing workers
across the country to ensure American Rescue Plan funding for HCBS
continues to improve conditions for care workers – who are 90 percent
women and disproportionately women of color – and to stabilize and grow
the care workforce and expand access to high-quality affordable home and
community-based care.** SEIU Secretary-Treasurer April Verrett will
describe how SEIU and its partners are working together to ensure states
are using funds to transform care work into good, union jobs that
provide benefits and pay enough to support a family. This will help to
create a sustainable care workforce and lift entire families and
communities who are supported by care work.  SEIU and its partners are
also working with states to expand training opportunities to both help
existing caregivers build additional skills and develop a pipeline of
new workers.

**<u>Expanding the Workforce by Helping Americans Overcome
Barriers</u>**

**1. Memphis, TN is investing over $20 Million in workforce programs,
with a focus on youth employment – particularly for disconnected youth
and youth with disabilities.** Mayor Jim Strickland will describe the
Opportunity R3 (Rethinking, Rebuilding, Rebranding) initiative,
established with American Rescue Plan funds, which provides workforce
readiness training for disconnected youth ages 16-24. According to one
report, the Memphis metropolitan area has among the highest number of
disconnected youth in the country, with over one in five youth neither
working or in school. The R3 program helps participants develop a career
and education plan, and guides participants on issues including job
applications and resume work, communication and other soft skills, and
financial management. The program also provides broader support to
participants, including assisting with opening banking accounts, and has
currently seen over 80 percent of graduates stay on track on their
career or educational path. Additionally, the city is using American
Rescue Plan funds to pilot “I Am Included,” a program for youth with
disabilities. The program helps youth between ages of 14-18 with
specific disabilities – including those who are deaf and hard of hearing
or visually impaired, or with specific learning disabilities and
intellectual disorders – develop soft and hard skills to prepare for
gainful employment and other post-high school options. Topics discussed
in the program include financial literacy, personal/professional
development, conflict resolution, self-advocacy, goal setting, and
mental health awareness. These programs are part of Memphis’ broader
investment in workforce development, which includes several other youth
employment training programs.  

**2. Harris County, TX is committing over $2 Million in** **American
Rescue Plan** **funds toward Employ2Empower (E2E), a workforce program
that employs unhoused individuals living in encampments.** Commissioner
Adrian Garcia will explain how American Rescue Plan funds have enabled
the E2E program to expand from a one-precinct pilot into an expanded
county-wide program, which is estimated to serve 160 individuals in four
separate cohorts over 12 months. The initial precinct-level pilot
compensated participants at $10 per hour, and the expanded E2E program
employs these individuals for up to 32 hours a week, at a pay rate of
$15 per hour, while providing access to resources to meet their basic
needs. The work includes graffiti removal, illegal dumping abatement,
and upkeep of public properties. Participants will also work alongside
previously unhoused individuals who will serve as their Peer Mentors to
provide motivation and support. E2E provides steady income and workforce
development training, and connects participants to a pathway to a
permanent housing solution, wrap-around services, and additional
benefits, including ID services. The program implementation and
management utilize inputs from Career and Recovery Resources (CRR),
partner organizations, and the Harris County Sheriff’s Office. By
utilizing lessons learned from the pilot program, the goal is to provide
a consistent stabilizing experience for program participants, who
require time and intensive support to alleviate the effects of
experiencing homelessness. The program is a pre-employment program
intended to support individuals in graduating into higher-skilled
programs and addresses racial disparities in homelessness and
unemployment by reaching out to marginalized groups with 48% of
participants being African American.

**3. Employ Milwaukee and WRTP|Big Step are deploying American Rescue
Plan-funded worker development programs by targeting underserved
communities in Wisconsin.** Employ Milwaukee CEO Chytania Brown will
explain how the local workforce development board, with a $5 Million
American Rescue Plan grant from Wisconsin, launched a new Skillful
Transitions program aimed at connecting traditionally underserved groups
to jobs. The program provides an individualized assessment of skills,
experience, and job readiness, and provides job readiness training,
skills training, and paid work experience across a variety of sectors,
including construction, manufacturing, financial services, healthcare,
and more. The program conducts targeted, specialized outreach to at-risk
populations, including justice-involved individuals (pre- and
post-release), veterans, individuals with disabilities, and human
trafficking survivors. Employ Milwaukee also provides wraparound
supports and targets high-unemployment and dislocated city residents for
its other American Rescue Plan-funded programs, such as a $3 Million
investment by Milwaukee into lead abatement certification training –
where there is an overall goal of serving a majority of people of color
with a special emphasis on opportunity youth.  
  
President Lindsay Blumer of WRTP | BIG STEP, a non-profit workforce
intermediary in Wisconsin, will describe how her organization has used
American Rescue Plan funds to expand the workforce in construction,
manufacturing, and adjacent emerging sectors. In three programs funded
by Milwaukee and Wisconsin’s American Rescue Plan dollars – which
include a manufacturing high school equivalency degree joint
pre-apprenticeship, after-school youth construction career exploration
and hands-on training, and a community resource navigator program – the
organization focuses on recruiting those who are underserved or not
traditionally represented in these occupations, such as those
individuals who are justice-involved, veterans and/or identify as
differently abled. Critically, once enrolled, the organization provides
a variety of barrier remediation and supportive services, such as food
share and child care vouchers, focused mentoring and tutoring, as well
as legal support, such as driver’s license recovery. The organization
directly connects participants with employers for access to
family-sustaining waged careers. Close to 100 percent of its
participants are considered underserved or traditionally unrepresented,
with about 70 percent identifying as people of color and a majority as
low-income.  
  

**APPENDIX: Additional Examples of States, Cities, Counties, and
Community-Based Organizations Using American Rescue Plan Funding to
Invest in Our Workforce**

**<u>Building a Diverse and Skilled Infrastructure Workforce  
  
</u>**

1.  **Syracuse, NY is expanding access to union job opportunities to
    prepare the local workforce for infrastructure and other jobs.** The
    City is investing in the Syracuse Build Pathways to Apprenticeship
    Program to help residents gain access to pre-apprenticeship programs
    and credentials in high-demand sectors, including construction,
    electrical mechanics, HVAC, advanced/high-tech manufacturing,
    commercial driving, and software development. The program will help
    ensure the local workforce is ready for the I-81 viaduct project and
    other construction projects. The program is a collaboration of the
    Central and Northern New York Building Trades Council, CenterState
    CEO, and Syracuse Build, and teaches the nationally recognized North
    America’s Building Trades Unions (NABTU) Multi-Craft Core
    Curriculum. The comprehensive apprenticeship readiness training
    program focuses on women, people of color and veterans, and helps
    them gain access to the Building Trades’ registered apprenticeship
    programs.

-   **Gallatin County, MT is committing $2 million to start or expand up
    to seven new workforce training and education programs in the
    high-demand trades of construction, welding and fabrication,
    manufacturing, and healthcare.** The program, which is operated
    through Gallatin College Montana State University, has a goal of
    enrolling over 450 additional students by 2024. As an example, the
    construction trades program includes concrete, framing, electrical,
    earthwork, equipment maintenance, and HVAC-R, with the aim of
    meeting new project demands due to the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law. The program will recruit locally affected residents and place
    students into local jobs once trained, partnering with local
    industry partners for development, partnerships, and placements.
    Further, the program will provide training that will allow students
    to continue working in apprenticeships or provide certificates and
    degrees in an accelerated approach. The program will also provide
    evening childcare to students while they attend classes.
-   **Vermont is building a broadband workforce. **The state is
    leveraging a portion of their $150 million Vermont Connectivity
    Broadband Fund to create a training program in partnership with the
    Vermont Technical College and a broadband installer apprenticeship
    program. The program, which has already graduated three classes of
    early participants, is aimed at helping people with insufficient- or
    low-income jobs transition into higher-paying fiber-optic technician
    careers. The program pays students while they attend training and
    offers wraparound services like childcare. In addition, Vermont is
    making other critical investments in workforce, including through
    practical nurse training and providing scholarships and wraparound
    supports for residents economically affected by the pandemic.
-   **Maine is leveraging American Rescue Plan funds toward its goal of
    30,000 clean energy jobs by 2030, including through an
    apprenticeship program.** The state is investing $5.5 million in a
    Clean Energy Partnership to provide career training opportunities,
    including apprenticeships, in Maine’s growing clean energy sector.
    This is part of Maine’s goal of 30,000 clean energy jobs in the
    state by 2030. The funding will expand existing and develop new
    apprenticeship opportunities for in-demand clean energy fields, with
    a focus on increasing apprenticeships among under-represented
    communities, and convene state agencies, private-sector partners,
    Maine’s community colleges, and labor organizations to develop
    programs and tools to grow the clean energy workforce in the state.
    This investment is part of Maine’s overall comprehensive investment
    into workforce through American Rescue Plan-funded Maine Jobs &
    Recovery Plan, which includes a general expansion of high-quality
    pre-apprenticeships and apprenticeships in high-priority areas,
    including infrastructure (construction, broadband, logistics,
    trades) and manufacturing. This expansion is done in collaboration
    with Maine’s businesses and industry associations, unions, education
    and training providers, and community-based organizations.
-   **Wilmington, DE is expanding its high school construction training
    program.** The city is leveraging American Rescue Plan funds to
    expand their Howard High School of Technology workforce development
    program, which includes funding high school and adult training in
    construction, plumbing, HVAC, and more. The city is connecting
    graduates from the Howard High School training program to jobs with
    local employers working on local revitalization projects, and soon
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law-funded infrastructure projects –
    helping residents train for better jobs and helping employers access
    the talent they need to successfully complete these government
    projects. The city has also committed to using their local workforce
    for American Rescue Plan-funded neighborhood revitalization
    projects.
-   **Nassau County, NY is committing $10 million in workforce
    development initiatives, including through apprenticeship programs
    for various key skilled workers needed in the construction and
    building trades.** The initiatives will also provide entrepreneurial
    skills training to support new women- and minority-owned businesses,
    and retraining and upskilling programs through Nassau’s local
    colleges and universities. These programs provide both job training
    and job placement, and will prioritize reaching residents in
    communities facing higher rates of unemployment.
-   **San Francisco, CA is doubling their CityBuild construction
    pre-apprenticeship program,** administered through a partnership
    between the San Francisco Office of Economic and Workforce
    Development, City College of San Francisco, North America’s Building
    Trades Unions (NABTU), local building trade apprenticeship programs,
    community non-profit organizations, and industry employers. In 2021,
    Mayor Breed announced the expansion of CityBuild, an effort to
    coordinate citywide construction training and employment programs,
    to train and provide construction jobs to 600 additional San
    Franciscans over the next two years, doubling the program’s
    capacity. The city’s investment will expand workforce development,
    paid training, and job placement for adults and youth in San
    Francisco, and will include targeted resources to address the
    disproportionate Black unemployment rate and provide opportunities
    for disadvantaged residents on infrastructure projects covered by
    the city’s local hiring policy. 
-   **The Mescalero Apache Tribe** is investing in a workforce
    development program that will focus on vocational education by
    providing scholarships to both Tribal citizens and current employees
    to obtain certificates and further education in welding, carpentry,
    plumbing, and electrical – all jobs critical to carry out the
    Tribe’s COVID-19 recovery plan.

**<u>Strengthening Our Care and Public Health Workforce</u>**

**A. HOME AND COMMUNITY BASED CARE**

1.  **Colorado is developing a standardized curriculum and training
    program for home care workers** to establish quality standards and
    increase specialized qualifications tied to wage increases. The
    state also plans to establish a training fund that will target high
    demand jobs and support specialization and advancement
    opportunities, including in behavioral health. Separately, Colorado
    is spending funds for training and improving employment outcomes to
    support reskilling, upskilling, or next-skilling, including
    providing access to short-term training to obtain in-demand
    industry-recognized credentials. The funding will also support
    grants that promote innovation to improve employment outcomes for
    workers and outreach to underserved and disproportionately impacted
    populations.
2.  **California will expand training opportunities for its HCBS
    workforce.** One-time training opportunities will include learning
    pathways in the areas of general health and safety and caring for
    recipients with specific needs. Training and stipends will also be
    available in order to both improve care quality, address worker
    shortages, and prevent unnecessary institutionalization.
3.  **West Virginia is increasing pay to home and community-based care
    workers**, including through incentives such as retention bonuses,
    hiring bonuses, and increased benefit packages. West Virginia also
    plans to provide specific training for respite providers on how to
    assist family members with their children’s behavioral health needs
    and competency-based training opportunities for the state’s
    direct-care in-home workforce.
4.  **Georgia will increase compensation for home and community-based
    care workers and expand training opportunities.** The stateplans to
    use American Rescue Plan funds to strengthen existing HCBS services
    by increasing rates, conducting a rate study for services provided
    in 1915(c) waivers, and engaging in workforce development and
    training.  Georgia will also expand HCBS training and workforce
    development programs, including collaborating with GA’s Technical
    College System to strengthen the Certified Nursing Assistant
    training program and expand provider capacity.

**B. HEALTHCARE**

1.  **Chicago, IL is getting people back to work and building a
    healthcare career ladder.** The city invested $56 million to hire
    local vaccine ambassadors/contact tracers/ supervisors and provide
    them with broader healthcare training. The ‘Earn and Learn’ program
    is building a community-based health workforce, building the skills
    of residents in communities most experiencing economic hardship in
    the healthcare jobs we need tomorrow, while supporting critical
    health needs in the community today.  More than 800 individuals have
    been hired through this program, with 90 percent of individuals
    residing in community areas of high or medium economic hardship.
2.  **New York City, NY is building a corps of community health workers
    across the city,** investing $50 million in expanding their Public
    Health Corps of Community Health Workers. These individuals will
    educate New Yorkers on health matters, connecting them to essential
    healthcare services and enabling them to meet their health goals.
    The Health Corps is supporting New Yorkers at the community level in
    clinics and organizations serving the neighborhoods most affected by
    COVID-19, helping fight against the health disparities exacerbated
    by COVID-19.
3.  **San Diego County, CA has committed almost $30 million since the
    start of the pandemic, utilizing an estimated $8 million in American
    Rescue Plan funds to develop and deploy a new comprehensive
    Community Health Worker (CHW) model.** During the COVID-19 pandemic,
    the County quickly mobilized CHWs to provide tailored outreach and
    education to residents who have been traditionally hard to reach due
    to factors such as linguistic and cultural differences, geographic
    isolation, or historic distrust of government. As trusted
    messengers, CHWs are connecting communities impacted by
    long-standing health disparities to needed services and systems of
    care. Over 250 CHWs have been deployed, who speak 26 languages, and
    serve all six regions of San Diego County. They focused on
    underserved and under-immunized communities, including Black and
    African American, Latino, refugee, and Asian and Pacific Islander
    communities.

-   **Rochester, NY is launching a Healthcare Workforce Resiliency
    Program.** The city is launching a Healthcare Workforce Resiliency
    Program, which provides entry level healthcare workers with
    employment skills training and career pathway navigation to achieve
    licensure and/or certification. Academic assessment services and
    case management, including stipends and wraparound services, will be
    provided throughout the program.
-   **Kansas is retaining and recruiting healthcare workers.** The state
    is investing $50mm in hospitals across the state to help retain
    dwindling workforce. Each of the 118 hospitals receiving the funding
    can individually decide to use the funding for either premium pay or
    for funding a custom program designed by the facility to improve the
    retention of nurses and other support personnel. 
-   **Connecticut** **is creating new public health career opportunities
    for both students and existing workers.** These include:
    establishing new paid public health research assistant and
    internship opportunities for students pursuing a public health
    master’s degree; providing staff that can support workforce
    development and training needs within local health offices; and
    offering training opportunities and curriculum to expose high school
    and undergraduate students to public health practice careers.
-   **Family Scholar House in Kentucky plans to hire 200 part-time
    AmeriCorps members to provide healthcare support and services to
    seniors and disabled individuals in healthcare facilities across
    Kentucky.** These AmeriCorps members will develop healthcare
    knowledge and complete credentialing coursework, enabling them to
    work in memory care, skilled nursing, assisted living, and other
    healthcare-related environments.
-   **DeKalb County plans to hire 16 full-time AmeriCorps members to
    manage and operate programs across the county.** The AmeriCorps
    members will provide capacity, support, and increased awareness of
    COVID-19 testing and vaccinations to support equitable health
    outcomes and COVID-19 recovery in underserved communities.
-   **The Association of Asian/Pacific Community Health Organizations
    used American Rescue Plan funds to establish the Community Health
    Worker Workforce Collaborative.** The Collaborative has since hired,
    trained, and deployed more than 250 Community Health Workers who
    speak over 36 Asian, Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander languages
    in 12 continental U.S. states and Hawai’i.
-   **Vermont Trauma, Resilience, and Equity Education (VT-TREE)
    Initiative at University of Vermont** **is developing and expanding
    Vermont’s behavioral health workforce**. These efforts are focused
    on children, adolescents, and transitional age youth. VT-TREE is
    recruiting social workers and counselors from historically
    underrepresented communities to obtain a Certificate of Graduate
    Study in Trauma Informed and Resiliency Based Practices.
-   **Loma Linda University** **is using American Rescue Plan funding
    for trainees to develop integrated behavioral health and child
    clinical skills.** The training program teaches pediatric residents
    and behavioral health students to collaboratively offer mental
    health access.
-   **Hudson Headwaters Health Network in Queensbury, NY is a community
    health center that has used American Rescue Plan funds to strengthen
    its workforce.** These efforts include recruitment and retention
    bonuses to maintain the existing healthcare workforce, and to
    recruit new providers in specialty areas like rheumatology and
    endocrinology. The health center has also used this funding for
    training in a variety of areas including customer service and
    de-escalation, wellness, and change management and leadership. 

**C. HISTORIC SUPPORT FOR CHILD CARE WORKERS**

1.  **Maine is providing $2,400 for child care workers through monthly
    bonuses over the course of twelve months.** Maine is requiring child
    care programs benefiting from American Rescue Plan Child Care
    Stabilization grant funds to provide at least $200 per month bonuses
    to an estimated 6,000 staff who directly care for children. As a
    result of investments of American Rescue Plan funds and other
    resources, including in strengthening its child care workforce,
    Maine has seen an increase in its licensed child care capacity since
    the start of the pandemic. 
2.  **Michigan is delivering bonuses to more than 38,000 full- and
    part-time child care staff.** Michigan is using American Rescue Plan
    funds to pay two rounds of $1,000 bonuses to full time staff members
    and $500 bonuses to part time staff members as part of its Child
    Care Stabilization program.
3.  **Delaware is supporting the construction of an Early Childhood
    Innovation Center and expanded supports for child care
    professionals.** Utilizing American Rescue Plan funds, Delaware is
    investing in the construction and launch of an Early Childhood
    Innovation Center at Delaware State University—a historically black,
    public university—that will provide career advancement opportunities
    for the child care workforce and expand financial support to help
    professionals pursue careers in early childhood education.
4.  **Deschutes County, Oregon is investing in efforts to increase the
    supply of licensed child care workers as part of an effort to make
    child care more readily available.** Deschutes County is leveraging
    American Rescue Plan funds to support efforts to quickly build up
    the supply of child care by training 275 new workers in the field
    while investing in the development of new and expanded child care
    facilities—aiming to create an additional 500 child care spots
    regionally. The county is investing in a program to fast-track
    workers through training programs at the local community college and
    university, as well as efforts to make it easier for interns
    pursuing credentials to qualify as head teachers upon completion of
    their programs, and supporting the annual recruitment, advising,
    education and supervision of teacher candidates.
5.  **The State of Alabama** **is awarding bonus payments to over 10,000
    child care workers**. With Child Care Stabilization Grant funds
    provided in the American Rescue Plan, Alabama is providing quarterly
    payments of $1,500 for full-time staff and $750 for part-time staff
    for up to two years.
6.  **The State of Kansas is providing more than 22,000 child care
    workers with bonus payments of up to $2,500.** Kansas is committing
    $53 million in American Rescue Plan funds to supporting one-time
    bonuses of between $750 and $2,500 to an estimated 22,650 early
    childhood care staff members across the state.

**<u>Expanding Access to the Workforce for Underserved Populations</u>**

1.  **Wisconsin is funding a comprehensive worker development program,
    including for incarcerated individuals.** The state is investing in
    a $125 million comprehensive workforce program to help address the
    state’s post-pandemic workforce needs through a competitive grant
    program. Awards include up to $5.7 million to deliver
    workforce-ready curriculum through the University of Wisconsin
    Prison Education Initiative (PEI) to teach employable skills to
    students while incarcerated and continue supporting them
    post-release through program completion and career placement.
    Further, the state is investing up to $5.6 million through Gateway
    Technical College to offer a 4-week pre-HSED (High School
    Equivalency Diploma) program, followed by a 16-week Work Ready (WR)
    HSED program. This program encourages a collaborative approach to
    addressing the biggest regional workforce challenges, training
    workers in high-demand fields such as healthcare and manufacturing,
    providing innovative credentialing options, expanding childcare, and
    building the entrepreneurs of tomorrow. Additionally, Wisconsin is
    investing in the Worker Connection Program, which helps individuals
    overcome systemic barriers, navigate the workforce system, and match
    them with employers that ultimately leads to careers with growth
    potential, as well as the Worker Advancement Initiative, which uses
    the state’s workforce development boards to help unemployed
    individuals find subsidized opportunities through collaborations
    with local employers.
2.  **Detroit, Michigan is establishing a Skills For Life program:** The
    city is committing up to $75 million toward Skills for Life, which
    is a training, career readiness and education program potentially
    targeting thousands of unemployed or underemployed Detroit
    residents, specifically those experiencing housing insecurity, those
    lacking high school diplomas and/or post-secondary credentials,
    returning citizens, and other populations that face barriers to
    employment. Skills for Life combines education and training with
    wrap-around support services (e.g., childcare subsidies,
    transportation, construction tools) to help Detroiters rebound from
    the COVID-19 economic shutdown. The education side of the program
    assists participants with measurable skills gains, high school
    completion/GED attainment, an industry-recognized credential, an
    increase in functional reading or math competency levels, and other
    skill- and career-building activities. The work side of the program
    provides direct employment, job training, and other skill- and
    career-building activities, assists in removing barriers to
    employment and advancement, and provides disconnected workers with
    labor market on-ramps so they may earn income while building
    critical skills to improve prospects for long-term employment and
    job retention.
3.  **King County, WA is connecting individuals experiencing
    homelessness with jobs and housing support.** The County is
    investing over $30 million in American Rescue Plan funds to
    establish a program to promote economic recovery by connecting
    shelter residents with County or County-supported jobs for 6-12
    months, as well as providing training for private sector jobs
    through County partnerships. The County also connects these
    participants with rapid rehousing providers and career services in
    an effort to navigate participants toward housing and employment
    stability. The program is intended to support several hundreds of
    individuals experiencing homelessness with these services, and will
    undergo a quantitative program evaluation.
4.  **Bridgeport, CT is investing in job training and other wraparound
    support for returning citizens.** The city is providing over $4
    million for a Second Chance Re-Entry Employment Program, working
    with returning citizens and formerly incarcerated individuals to
    provide a continuum of care. This includes providing participants
    with workforce development, job training and placement, housing
    support, medical health services, mental health services, substance
    abuse treatment, education services, and more. As an example, the
    city has partnered with Women Against Mass Incarceration, which
    focuses re-entry services on women who are formerly incarcerated, an
    often underserved community in re-entry. The city is also working
    with the University of Bridgeport to provide free tuition for
    formerly incarcerated individuals as part of an advanced
    manufacturing certificate program.
5.  **Seattle, WA is connecting youth with opportunities in the Port of
    Seattle.** The city is providing youth and young adults (ages
    16-24), particularly those who are Black, Indigenous, people of
    color (BIPOC) with employment or paid internship opportunities at
    the Port. To reach this population, the Port subcontracts with
    community-based organizations embedded in and serving Seattle’s
    BIPOC community. In total, Seattle is investing over $6 million in
    workforce development initiatives to support child care workers,
    connect residents in economically distressed communities with
    construction work, and provide career navigation services and
    wraparound support.
6.  **Baltimore, MD is expanding many workforce efforts, including
    critical transitional jobs program and a re-entry program.** The
    city is investing $30 million in workforce programs, including $5.2
    million to expand Hire Up, a transitional jobs program that will
    create at least 220 six-month positions for low-income residents
    paying $15 per hour. The city is also investing $8.4 million in
    Youth Works, allowing the program to offer jobs to young people ages
    14 to 21 year-round, $8.9 million in Train Up, offering job training
    in the fields of biotechnology, IT, health care and business
    services, and $2.9 million to provide various supports (such as
    legal services, adult education, and financial counseling) to
    residents participating in Hire Up or Train Up as well as supplement
    wages at small, minority- and women-owned businesses that hire
    residents. The city iscommitting over $17 million through the
    Mayor’s Office of Neighborhood Safety and Engagement toward job
    training assistance for violence prevention, including over $12
    million for re-entry services. This impact will be tracked by the
    number of individuals participating in the program and the number of
    individuals transitioned into employment upon release.
7.  **Portland, OR is connecting vulnerable populations to work.** The
    city is committing $7 million of American Rescue Plan funds toward
    providing paid work opportunities and rapid re-careering services
    for Portlanders who are houseless, at risk of eviction, affected by
    increased violence or crime, or otherwise negatively impacted by the
    pandemic. Services will address the disproportionate economic
    impacts COVID-19 has had on people of color and other vulnerable
    populations currently disconnected from the workforce. The rapid
    re-careering training program, which is 12 weeks or less in
    duration, focuses on providing industry-specific trainings with
    employer partners who hire program graduates, in areas such as
    construction, waste and recycling hauling, entry-level clerical
    positions within hospitals and clinics, entry level IT careers, and
    banking customer service. For example, a new program to train
    residents as drivers for recycling and waste hauling companies
    serving the city has had success training and placing a high
    proportion of people with prior justice system involvement. The
    majority of these trainees are placed in jobs earning annual incomes
    of $60,000 or more. The city also operates a paid work and stipend
    program with local partners. Overall, the city has partnered with 11
    service providing partners and 31 employer partners for these
    programs.
8.  **Buffalo, NY is expanding the city’s youth employment effort**,
    including broadening the Mayor’s youth employment program to accept
    more students, be available year round and compensate students for
    summer school in addition to summer employment opportunities. The
    city will also invest $3.5 million to establish a skills-based job
    readiness program that matches low- to moderate- income residents
    with specific employers and provides residents with the training to
    secure a career path. In combination with the subsidized employment
    programs and the scholarship program for the Northland Workforce
    Training Center, the City aspires to transform the talent
    development pipeline for employers while also giving residents real
    opportunities to secure long-term employment which pays a livable
    wage.
9.  **Salt Lake County, UT is investing $10 million in** **American
    Rescue Plan** **funds toward a new job training program** called
    Workforce Inclusion & Successful Employment (WISE) to help thousands
    of low-income and diverse residents access training that launches
    them into high-paying jobs. The program focuses on outreach and
    connecting students with wraparound services such as mental health
    support, mentorship, childcare, and other needs that are often key
    to success. The county expects to show that the increased upfront
    expenses pay for themselves through long-term increases in income
    and reduced need for benefits.
10. **Cook County, IL is accelerating workforce development for youth,
    individuals who were formerly incarcerated, and people with
    disabilities.** The County is investing $15 million to launch and
    expand programs to address the urgent hiring needs of employers,
    scale programs to connect young adults to sector-focused training
    and internships, provide employment programming to people who have
    been incarcerated and increase outreach and service navigation for
    people with disabilities and other barriers to employment. This
    includes the Opportunity Works program, which provides an 8-week,
    year-round paid internship program in high-demand, high-growth
    industries for out-of-work or out-of-school Cook County young
    adults, as well as Opportunity Summer, which is a 7-week paid summer
    internship program that provides a foundation for future full-time
    employment. The Opportunity Summer program was able to double its
    capacity due to American Rescue Plan funds. Further, the American
    Rescue Plan will allow for the Road Home program, which currently
    serves residents while they are incarcerated, to expand and serve
    those who have returned to the community but continue to face
    barriers to employment. In addition, the American Rescue Plan funds
    will also fund work to assist residents with a disability who face
    workforce development barriers. In concert with the Cook County
    Bureau of Economic Development, the Chicago Cook Workforce
    Partnership will administer this suite of programs and estimates
    that they will impact 500 businesses and 13,960 residents of Cook
    County.
11. **Gloucester, NJ is developing a transition to work program for
    students with disabilities.** Project SEARCH is a transition to work
    program that takes place entirely within a host business, enabling
    participants to experience total workplace immersion and learn
    relevant, transferrable, and marketable skills geared towards their
    individualized employment goals. The project provides role models
    and mentors for students with disabilities while also creating more
    awareness in the county for workforce opportunities for individuals
    with disabilities.
12. **Maine is developing a peer workforce navigator pilot program to
    increase access to employment opportunities for communities most
    impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic.** The COVID-19 pandemic suddenly
    and dramatically impacted the ability of many Mainers to support
    themselves and their families, particularly people in low- and
    moderate-income jobs, workers of color, workers with dependent care
    responsibilities, and workers with lower levels of educational
    attainment. Through a collaborative partnership with five
    organizations, including ethnic-based community organizations,
    worker groups, labor unions, and other community partners, the Peer
    Workforce Navigator program will assist individuals in communities
    hit hardest by the pandemic with addressing basic needs and finding
    employment. In this two-year pilot, peers employed by local
    community organizations will help a projected 3,000 individuals
    connect with employment, job training programs, and basic needs
    supports necessary to persist in work or education, such as child
    care, transportation, unemployment insurance, and other concrete
    resources.
13. **Los Angeles County, CA has committed $5 million to increase
    capacity for the Youth@Work program,** which offers youth in
    priority populations, including but not limited to foster,
    probation, and LGBTQI+ youth, paid enrichment training and work
    experience in public, non-profit, and private organizations in
    high-growth industry sectors. The county is also dedicating over $2
    million for job placement programming for individuals returning from
    serving sentences in jail or prison, with a focus on women and the
    LGBTQI+ community.
14. **Boston, MA is providing wraparound supports, including employment
    opportunities, to high-risk individuals in communities with highest
    rates of gun and gang violence in the city.** The Office of Public
    Safety is directing funding to bolster services and programs for
    high risk, system-involved individuals that are underserved in
    communities with highest rates of gun and gang violence in the city.
    Specifically, the city is awarding grants to Boston nonprofits to
    increase or scale up programs that improve economic, education and
    health outcomes for participants by providing training, case
    management, mental health services, and employment opportunities,
    among other support services. Further, the city is also supporting
    SOAR Boston, the city’s gang intervention program, through workforce
    development and training.
15. **Iowa is committing $10 million for the Homes for Iowa program,
    where inmates at the Newton Correction Facility receive building
    trades skills training while constructing modular homes**. The
    program is a public-private partnership that aims to reduce
    recidivism while helping solve Iowa’s housing shortage. The inmates
    participate in skills training, including an apprenticeship
    curriculum. They receive portable training certificates and are
    connected to Iowa employers upon release. The Homes for Iowa
    organization works closely with the state to develop wraparound
    services for participants of the program.

\###  
  
