---
date: '2022-07-12'
modified_time: 2022-07-12 18:53:06-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-12 18:53:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/12/president-biden-and-president-lopez-obrador-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden and President Lopez Obrador Joint\_Statement"
---
 
The United States and Mexico affirm our broad and deep cooperation and
commitment to building a more prosperous and secure future for the
people of North America.  As we face unprecedented global and regional
challenges that require the concerted efforts of both our nations, we
uphold democracy, inclusive growth, transparency, rule of law, and human
rights as core values that underpin our shared security and prosperity. 

The United States and Mexico, together with Canada, represent an
economic powerhouse.  The foundation of North American competitiveness
is the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement and we reaffirm our
commitment to its full implementation for the benefit of working
families, including by fully upholding its labor provisions and actively
collaborating with stakeholders in the private sector and civil
society.  Through active coordination of our economic policies, we will
make our supply chains more resilient and expand production in North
America.  We look forward to working on this and other relevant issues
at the 10<sup>th</sup> North American Leaders Summit (NALS), which will
take place in Mexico at the end of the year.

Increasing inflation impacts the wellbeing of families in both our
countries, and requires strong, immediate, and concerted action.  That
is why we have committed to jointly combat inflation by accelerating the
facilitation of bilateral trade and reducing trade costs.  The United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement enhances the free flow of goods without
barriers, which promotes innovation that boosts productivity and
increases resilience, helping both countries fight inflation and
supporting families.  As part of joint efforts to improve food security,
Mexico plans to purchase up to 20,000 tons of milk powder from the
United States to assist Mexican families in rural and urban
communities.  In addition, Mexico will buy up to one million tons of
fertilizer (ammonium sulfate) from the United States to distribute to
subsistence farmers and continue to buy animal feed to assist small
producers.

Borders that are more resilient, more efficient, and safer, will enhance
our shared commerce.  We are committed like never before to completing a
multi-year joint U.S.-Mexico border infrastructure modernization effort
for projects along the 2,000-mile border.  The joint effort seeks to
align priorities, unite border communities, and make the flow of
commerce and people more secure and efficient.  President Biden’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes $3.4 billion to undertake 26
major construction and modernization projects at land ports of entry on
the northern and southern border.  These land port modernization
projects will create good-paying local jobs, bolster safety and
security, and make the economy more resilient to supply chain challenges
– all while serving as models for sustainability and innovation.  Mexico
has committed to invest $1.5 billion on border infrastructure between
2022 and 2024. 

The next U.S.-Mexico High Level Economic Dialogue (HLED) in September
will focus on strengthening mechanisms to create more secure and
efficient corridors for trade and commerce, foster an environment that
encourages investment to help generate more and better jobs for our
people in both countries.  We confirm our efforts to create a more
inclusive workforce that is better educated, more competitive, and
better trained to meet the needs of the 21<sup>st</sup> Century economy.
We reiterate our commitment to conduct outreach to understand
stakeholder considerations to increase investment and bolster supply
chain resilience, specifically on strategic sectors like semiconductors
and information and communication technologies.  We will focus our
development efforts on climate solutions and the development of southern
Mexico, with its vast human potential and important opportunities for
commerce, conservation, and clean energy. 

Facing the shared challenges of climate change, we resolve to promote a
business environment that advances a greener, cleaner North America,
acknowledging the importance of investing in and promoting renewable
sources of energy.  We commit to tackle methane emissions from oil and
gas and other sectors, accelerate the transition to zero-emission
vehicles, and deepen our efforts to seek nature-based solutions,
enabling our two countries to become global leaders in clean energies
and actions to combat climate change.  In support of the Global Methane
Pledge and Global Methane Pledge Energy Pathway, Mexico and Pemex, in
cooperation with the U.S., will develop an implementation plan to
eliminate routine flaring and venting across onshore and offshore oil
and gas operations and identify priority projects for investment.    

Through the Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe
Communities, we reaffirmed our commitment to work together to address
major security issues affecting our nations, including the challenges of
fentanyl, arms trafficking, and human smuggling, and to reduce levels of
drug abuse and addiction.  We committed to deepen our cooperation to
combat transnational criminal organizations that foment violence in both
our countries.  We reaffirmed the robust operational efforts between law
enforcement agencies to address these paramount security efforts.  We
pledged to establish a U.S.-Mexico operational task force to disrupt the
flow of fentanyl into our countries.

Building on the commitments at the Summit of the Americas made by
twenty-one countries in the hemisphere pursuant to the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration and Protection, we are taking immediate and
coordinated steps to manage the flows of migrants arriving into our
countries.  We have joined efforts to address the underlying economic
and security drivers of migration and, recognizing that development must
be at the center of all migration policies, we will accelerate and
expand international cooperation programs focused on the most
marginalized communities. At the same time, we will maintain strong
border enforcement policies while ensuring full protection of human
rights. 

The United States and Mexico reaffirmed our commitment to launch a
bilateral working group on labor migration pathways and worker
protections.  We will work to promote greater worker protections as part
of a labor mobility strategy for migrant workers who seek access to
legal pathways. Mexico and the United States will also convene a working
group to strengthen our cross-border response to child migration, a
phenomenon that has significantly impacted both of our countries and
puts youth in unnecessary peril.  We also reaffirm our pledge to improve
economic and social conditions throughout the region, creating dignified
job opportunities as viable alternatives for potential migrants, and
helping tackle the root causes of migration across the Americas.   

The tragic deaths of migrants at the hands of human smugglers in San
Antonio further strengthens our determination to go after the
multi-billion-dollar criminal smuggling industry preying on migrants and
increase our efforts to address the root causes of migration.  The
Departments of Justice and Homeland Security and Mexico’s Attorney
General’s Office have coordinated to arrest and prosecute those who
endanger the lives of vulnerable migrants, including through the work of
Joint Task Force Alpha and its Mexican partners.   This year our
countries will celebrate 200 years of formal diplomatic relations.  As
neighbors, friends, and family, we are united as two nations that share
one future. 

\###
