---
date: '2022-07-16'
modified_time: 2022-07-16 11:40:08-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-16 11:40:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/16/joint-statement-following-meeting-between-president-biden-and-president-of-the-uae-sheikh-mohammed-bin-zayed-in-jeddah/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement Following Meeting Between President\_Biden and President of\
  \ the UAE Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed in\_Jeddah"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met today with President His Highness
Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United Arab
Emirates (UAE), in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, in a bilateral meeting during
the Summit of the United States and the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC)
and Egypt, Iraq, and Jordan.

President Biden offered his personal condolences to President Sheikh
Mohamed bin Zayed and all Emiratis on the loss of His Highness Sheikh
Khalifa bin Zayed al Nahyan. President Sheikh Mohamed thanked President
Biden and the American people for their expressions of sympathy and for
the visit of Vice President Kamala Harris and her delegation to Abu
Dhabi in May.

President Biden offered his congratulations to President Sheikh Mohamed
bin Zayed on his recent election as UAE President and conveyed an
invitation for him to visit the United States later this year. The two
leaders discussed a range of regional and global opportunities and
challenges, which require close coordination between the United States
and the United Arab Emirates as strategic partners.

In the realm of regional diplomacy, President Biden expressed
appreciation for President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed’s personal
leadership in breaking down barriers and forging diplomatic relations
with Israel, as well as deepening cooperation with other countries in
the region. The leaders discussed the U.S. role in helping to forge new
economic, trade, and people-to-people relations among Israel, the UAE,
Bahrain, and Morocco, as well as in deepening the ties among these
states and Egypt and Jordan through new frameworks of cooperation.

In the defense realm, the two leaders affirmed their commitment to
deepening the extensive security cooperation that has made both
countries safer and been a major contributor to regional peace and
stability. President Biden noted that the UAE is the only country in the
Middle East to have deployed its military forces alongside the U.S.
military in every international security coalition involving the United
States since Desert Shield/Desert Storm in 1990-1991. The two leaders
acknowledged the close and decades-long cooperation in their nations’
shared mission to counter terrorism and violent extremism.

President Biden recommitted to supporting the defense of the UAE against
terrorist and other hostile acts such as the attacks targeting civilian
sites in the UAE in January 2022. President Biden emphasized the
centrality of the UAE as a strategic partner, and as a critical part of
the security partnership among the states of the GCC, Egypt, Iraq, and
Jordan. President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed confirmed that the United
States is the primary security partner for the UAE, and the two leaders
intend to accelerate and intensify discussions to further enhance these
historic ties.

The leaders committed to continue the close cooperation that led to a
truce in Yemen, now entering its fifteenth week. They expressed their
appreciation for the effective work of the GCC, the U.S. Special Envoy,
and the United Nations in achieving the truce, and committed their full
efforts toward guiding the parties forward in a political process that
can realize a lasting settlement to the conflict. President Biden
emphasized the threats still emanating from Yemen and elsewhere and the
importance of ensuring that the UAE has the best and most effective
means to defend its homeland and people.

The leaders committed to continue to use their collective diplomatic
standing to de-escalate and end conflicts elsewhere in the region. They
discussed the importance of protecting the prospects of a two-state
solution and of assuring that the benefits of the Abraham Accords also
accrue to Palestinians. The leaders reaffirmed their support for Iraq
and welcomed the landmark agreements to connect Iraq’s electricity grid
to those of the GCC member states, as well as other projects further
integrating Iraq into the greater region.

On economics, commerce, and trade relations, President Biden noted that
the UAE is one of the fastest growing U.S. economic partnerships
globally, the largest U.S. trading partner in the Middle East, and a
significant investor in the U.S. economy. He welcomed the UAE’s economic
initiatives throughout the Middle East and beyond, including its recent
Free Trade Agreements signed with Israel, India, and Indonesia as well
as new investments in Jordan and Egypt. The leaders tasked their teams
with finding areas in which to deepen and expand commercial
partnerships, as well as the negotiation of a broader strategic
framework agreement between the UAE and the United States. President
Biden recognized the UAE’s efforts to strengthen its policies and
enforcement mechanisms in the fight against financial crimes and illicit
money flows. Both leaders highlighted the extensive and enduring
educational, cultural, and health partnerships between the two
countries.

President Biden welcomed the UAE’s long-time commitment to global energy
security as a reliable and responsible supplier, and recognized its
leading role in advancing climate action, the energy transition and in
developing clean energy technologies. President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed
extended President Biden an invitation to attend the COP28 to be
convened in the UAE in November 2023. Both leaders noted the important
launch of the water and solar energy arrangement between Israel and
Jordan with Emirati and American backing and investment as a model for
future partnerships in the region. They asked their respective climate
envoys, John Kerry and Sultan al-Jaber, to explore new opportunities in
the climate and clean energy sphere to drive economic growth and
sustainable development. They noted the UAE’s successful Dubai Expo
2020, which showcased the UAE as a convener of global events that
promote sustainability, innovation, and dialogue.

President Biden also recognized the importance of the UAE as a force for
change and global citizenship. He acknowledged the UAE’s leadership in
promoting religious co-existence and challenging religious hatred
through such initiatives as the Abrahamic Family House and the Hedayah
Center. He expressed appreciation for the role the UAE has played in
delivering thousands of tons of medical supplies to nations around the
world during the COVID-19 pandemic and its response to calls for
humanitarian assistance during natural disasters and conflicts around
the region. The two leaders also noted the exceptional position of the
UAE as a tolerant home to more than 200 nationalities and faiths
coexisting in peace.

\###
