---
date: '2022-07-08'
published_time: 2022-07-08 20:53:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/08/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-protect-access-to-reproductive-healthcare-services/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Signs Executive Order to Protect Access\
  \ to Reproductive Healthcare\_Services"
---
 
Two weeks ago, the Supreme Court issued a decision that overturned *Roe
v. Wade *and eliminated a woman’s Constitutional right to choose.  This
decision expressly took away a right from the American people that it
had recognized for nearly 50 years – a woman’s right to make her own
reproductive health care decisions, free from government interference.
Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order Protecting Access to
Reproductive Health Care Services.  
  
This Executive Order builds on the actions his Administration has
already taken to defend reproductive rights by:

-   Safeguarding access to reproductive health care services, including
    abortion and contraception;
-   Protecting the privacy of patients and their access to accurate
    information;
-   Promoting the safety and security of patients, providers, and
    clinics; and
-   Coordinating the implementation of Federal efforts to protect
    reproductive rights and access to health care.

*See below for what they are saying:*  
  
***<u>Elected Officials</u>***  
  
***Members of Congress – Senators***  
  
**Sen. Debbie Stabenow:** “Thank you @POTUS for using your executive
powers to do everything you can to protect our freedom to make our own
reproductive health decisions. Ultimately, protecting our freedom will
be decided at the ballot box. Until then, we need to do everything we
can to limit the harm the Supreme Court decision is causing for women
and families across our country. This Executive Order will: – Safeguard
access to reproductive health care – Protect patient privacy & access to
accurate information – Promote patients, providers, & clinics safety &
security – Coordinate Federal efforts to protect reproductive rights &
access to health care”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenStabenow/status/1545450223685828609),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Patty Murray:** “After leading the charge in urging @POTUS to act
boldly to protect abortion access, I’m glad to see him take further
action today even with limited executive authority. These steps are good
& important, but the post-Roe health care crisis is urgent. This fight
is far from over.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PattyMurray/status/1545444536163368960),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Tom Carper:** “In the wake of a disastrous SCOTUS decision, we
need an all-of-government approach to protect women’s access to
reproductive health care. @POTUS’s action will help women get the care
they need. But we in Congress need to do more—far more—to protect this
constitutional right.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCarper/status/1545501000978649089),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Chris Coons:** “Glad to see decisive action from @POTUS to
protect access to reproductive health care. The American people have a
right to privacy and bodily autonomy, and these steps will help
safeguard women’s health from gov’t overreach. The fight continues to
protect the right to choose.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisCoons/status/1545443195286323200),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Elizabeth Warren:** “@POTUS’ executive order will help Americans
receive the reproductive health care they need. I urged the Biden
administration to expand access to medication abortion, protect patient
privacy, and safeguard interstate travel for care. Today’s actions are
important first steps. The Administration should continue to explore
every available option to protect access to abortion care. The
overwhelming majority of Americans oppose this extremist Supreme Court’s
decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, and we must use every tool possible to
address this emergency.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1545448006946029574),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Cortez Masto:** “Today, @POTUS heeded my call to take executive
action to safeguard access to reproductive care and protect women’s data
privacy. While these steps are important, more needs to be done to
protect reproductive freedom, and I’ll keep fighting for women and their
families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1545415758192054272),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Cory Booker**: “This is an important step for safeguarding
reproductive rights. We need to deploy every tool available to ensure
Americans can continue to access the health care they need.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBooker/status/1545470413840449544),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Tammy Baldwin**: “The Executive Order from @POTUS takes positive
and important steps to protect access to reproductive health care
services. Now, we all need to keep pushing forward to take back the
rights and freedoms Republicans have taken away from women.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorBaldwin/status/1545461075470082049),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Tammy Duckworth:** “Since the Supreme Court cruelly overturned
Roe, people across the country have been crying out for action. I’m glad
@POTUS answered my call for an EO and took this first step to reaffirm
the right to choose for every American. Now it’s time Congress acts to
codify this right.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenDuckworth/status/1545473050099032064),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Diane Feinstein:** “I’m glad President Biden has heeded the call
of Senate Democrats to issue an executive order to help protect access
to abortion. Now Congress must take decisive action to codify
reproductive rights by passing the Women’s Health Protection Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenFeinstein/status/1545445167787827201),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Maggie Hassan:** “By overturning Roe, the Supreme Court took away
a woman’s autonomy and ability to make her own health care decisions.
The administration’s actions announced today are welcome steps to
mitigate the impact of this decision. We also know that in the aftermath
of the decision, Mitch McConnell and anti-choice extremists’ ultimate
objective is to ban abortion nationwide — we must hold the line against
this and keep fighting to protect a woman’s fundamental freedom.”
\[[Statement](https://www.hassan.senate.gov/news/press-releases/senator-hassan-statement-on-administrations-executive-order-following-the-supreme-courts-roe-decision),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. John Hickenlooper:** “Thank you @POTUS for taking steps to
protect women and their doctors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorHick/status/1545466663771901954),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Senator Ben Ray Lujan:** “I’m grateful that @POTUS has taken federal
action to protect women’s healthcare decisions post Roe overturn. But
the Senate still needs to take action to codify Roe into law. And that
means abolishing the filibuster. We have to act now.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorLujan/status/1545471811441369088),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Ed Markey:** “.@POTUS’s actions, including directing the FTC to
safeguard the privacy of individuals seeking an abortion, are an
important step in the fight to protect essential abortion rights. Now,
Congress must go further to abolish the filibuster and codify Roe.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenMarkey/status/1545464010719563785),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Alex Padilla:** “This is a necessary step toward protecting
reproductive rights across the country. The fight is far from over —
I’ll continue to work with the Biden administration to ensure people
have access to safe abortion care nationwide.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1545490690435678209),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Gary Peters:** “This is welcome action from @POTUS – but there’s
no question the fight to protect critical health care for women is far
from over. It’s clear Republicans want to impose further bans to
abortion access and more cruel restrictions at every level of
government—even in cases of rape, incest and when the life of the mother
is at risk. Congress must step up – and I will always fight in the
Senate to ensure access to vital health care and to keep the government
from interfering in a woman’s right to make health care decisions with
her doctor.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenGaryPeters/status/1545458472036274176),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Jacky Rosen:** “In the wake of Roe v. Wade being overturned, a
group of my colleagues and I urged @POTUS to take action to protect a
woman’s right to choose. Today’s Executive Order is welcome news, and we
will keep pushing for action in every way we can to protect reproductive
rights.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackyRosen/status/1545460431686455300),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Jeanne Shaheen:** “These are important steps to help preserve
access to abortion & repro services in the wake of the devastating Roe
reversal. Decisions around health & bodily autonomy belong to patients –
not jurists or politicians. I’ll keep fighting to secure access to
life-saving health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorShaheen/status/1545457683360370690?s=20&t=sduMHttlkjVMC2AKgtoHmA),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Sen. Tina Smith:** “Let’s be clear: extremist Republicans gutted
Americans’ reproductive freedoms, but Democrats are fighting to restore
them. These are critical steps that will help protect abortion access.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenTinaSmith/status/1545464600505860096),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Reverend Raphael Warnock:** “After pushing the @WhiteHouse to
protect women’s reproductive health, I’m glad @POTUS is listening to the
American people & taking much-needed action. But we have more to do.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorWarnock/status/1545485322968088576),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Sen. Sheldon Whitehouse:** “I’m glad to see President Biden sign an
executive order to bolster reproductive rights as women face the
dangerous consequences of the Supreme Court’s extreme decision to
overturn Roe. We must keep fighting by every means we can.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWhitehouse/status/1545449997101039617),
7.8.22\]  
  
***Members of Congress – House Members***  
  
**Speaker Nancy Pelosi**: “President Biden’s executive order today helps
advance Democrats’ fight to defend Americans’ health freedom from
all-out assault by right-wing extremists.  This action will take steps
to uphold a woman’s right to make her own health decisions: protecting
access to FDA-approved medication abortion, strengthening enforcement of
the Affordable Care Act’s contraceptive protections and defending the
legal rights of both patients and providers. “Our pro-choice Democratic
House Majority continues to prepare additional legislative action to
respond to the Supreme Court’s appalling decision to rip away women’s
reproductive rights.  Next week, we will again pass the Women’s Health
Protection Act: landmark legislation enshrining the protections of Roe
v. Wade into federal law.  We will also pass legislation addressing the
GOP’s disturbing threats to restrict Americans’ freedom to travel —
reaffirming the Constitutional right to seek care freely and voluntarily
throughout the country. “We have a sacred, fundamental duty to expand
freedom in America, not to roll back fundamental rights.  While
Republicans seek to criminalize reproductive health care nationwide,
House Democrats will never relent in our fight to defend freedom for
women and for every American.”
\[[Statement](https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/7822-1), 7.8.22\]  
  
**House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer**: “Today’s executive order shows
that the American people have a President who takes swift action to
protect women’s reproductive choice.  While this executive order is
important and will help women access reproductive health care where they
need it and maintain privacy, in truth there is very little that the
President can do on his own to address the dangers posed by the Supreme
Court’s ruling in *Dobbs v. Jackson*.  It is up to Congress to take
meaningful action by enacting laws that guarantee reproductive freedom
in all states and territories of our union.  That’s what the House did
when we passed the Women’s Health Protection Act last year – and we will
do so again next week with an updated version of that bill. I will also
bring to the House Floor next week the Ensuring Access to Abortion Act,
to make it possible and safe for women needing abortion care to travel
to states where it is accessible.  I urge the Senate to act without
delay and join the House in taking action to protect women’s
reproductive choice in the wake of the extremist and
precedent-ignoring *Dobbs v. Jackson* ruling.”
\[[Statement](https://www.majorityleader.gov/content/hoyer-statement-president-bidens-executive-order-protecting-reproductive-freedom#:~:text=Hoyer%20(MD)%20released%20the%20following,to%20protect%20women's%20reproductive%20choice.),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Katherine Clark**: “As Congress works to protect abortion
long-term, @POTUS is protecting patients right now. Today’s EO will:
-Safeguard access to reproductive health care -Protect the safety &
privacy of patients, providers & clinics -Coordinate federal efforts to
protect abortion” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKClark/status/1545435403012157441),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Carolyn B.  Maloney**: “In this critical moment, I applaud
President Biden for issuing today’s Executive Order, which protects
abortion access and underscores Democrats’ commitment to fighting back
against the anti-abortion and anti-freedom agenda being pursued by
Republican-appointed members of the Supreme Court.  I am proud that the
Executive Order advances efforts that the Oversight Committee has
championed, including expanding access to medication abortion and
protecting access to contraceptives. “Next week, my Committee is holding
a hearing to tell the story of what overturning Roe means for people
across America—especially the most vulnerable among us.  I’ve spent
years in Congress advocating for equitable access to reproductive health
care, and the Oversight Committee will not stop fighting until everyone
can access the care they need when they need it.” 
\[[Statement](https://oversight.house.gov/news/press-releases/chairwoman-maloney-applauds-president-biden-s-executive-order-protecting-access),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Jerry Nadler:** “We must do everything in our power to ensure
that all Americans can safely access abortion care. I applaud @POTUS for
taking crucial steps to protect abortion access, ensure patient privacy,
and defend those providing abortion services.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJerryNadler/status/1545466065332969472),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Mark Takano**: “By signing this executive order, President Biden
has taken a significant step in defending reproductive rights and
protecting access to safe and legal abortion, but this is only the
beginning. Congress must codify Roe.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1545499099599818752)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Pete Aguilar**: “President Biden’s Executive Order will:
✅Protect access to medication abortion ✅Ensure emergency medical care
✅Protect access to birth control I support @POTUS’s efforts to protect
reproductive rights. It’s time for the Senate to do their job and codify
Roe v. Wade into law.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPeteAguilar/status/1545449893921267714),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Adam Smith:** “Today @POTUS announced actions he’s taking to
protect access to reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme
Court’s dangerous decision to overturn Roe v. Wade. The President
directed @SecBecerra to protect access to medication abortion, ensure
emergency medical care, protect access to contraception, and unite
lawyers across the country to defend the rights of people seeking
reproductive health care in areas that have banned abortion. The
Executive Order will also protect consumer privacy, personal data, and
sensitive health information and importantly will advance the safety of
providers and clinics who are courageously providing essential
reproductive health care services in the face of heightened risk. These
actions are a step in the right direction, but they are not enough on
their own. We must codify Roe v. Wade into law, and to do so, we must be
willing to scrap the filibuster – our freedoms are so much more
important than Senate procedure.” 
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSmith/status/1545465464410853376)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Kathy Castor**: “Thank you @POTUS for taking action today to
protect reproductive decisions through executive action since Senate
Republicans refuse to act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/USRepKCastor/status/1545499252939423744),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Raul M. Grijalva:** “I support this executive order and once
again call on my Senate colleagues to stand with the majority of
Americans in protecting abortion rights now!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaulGrijalva/status/1545460997426651136),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Judy Chu**: “This is a step forward as we continue to navigate a
post-Roe world—however, with Republicans working endlessly to pave a way
for a federal abortion ban, this is not enough. Congress must take
immediate action to enshrine abortion rights into law.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu/status/1545457261564379139),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Lois Frankel:** “In the face of the biggest dismantling of
women’s rights in half a century, I commend and thank President Biden
for his commitment to protecting reproductive freedom and access to
abortion,” said Rep. Frankel. “The President’s order will protect the
right to travel freely, safeguard patients’ privacy, promote the safety
and security of patients, providers, and clinics, and the ability to
obtain approved medication. It is a critical step in fighting back to
ensure everyone has the freedom to make decisions about their own
reproductive health, regardless of their income or zip code.” 
\[[Statement](https://frankel.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=3504),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Colin Allred**: “We must do all we can to protect abortion access
for Texas women. @POTUS’ executive order directing @HHSGov to protect
reproductive health services is a good step, and I’ll keep fighting in
Congress to ensure Texas women can get the health care they need.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepColinAllred/status/1545475684272848898),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Cindy Axne**: “While I’m pleased to see @POTUS taking action to
protect access to abortion and other reproductive health care services,
there’s much more to be done. We need to meet this moment and codify Roe
v. Wade.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCindyAxne/status/1545455989297713154),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Ami Bera**: “The actions taken today by @POTUS are an important
step in defending reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme
Court’s decision to overturn Roe. Now, the Senate must pass the Women’s
Health Protection Act to codify reproductive rights.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBera/status/1545467589387747330),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester**: “@POTUS is right –  the extremist Supreme
Court does not know the power American women hold. We will turn out and
we will continue to fight back against attacks on women’s reproductive
rights.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLBR/status/1545445351070597121),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Shontel Brown**: “Now more than ever, it is essential that we
support and protect women’s safety and privacy— especially those coming
from our most vulnerable communities —with access to safe resources and
reliable information. This executive order from @POTUS is crucial.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepShontelBrown/status/1545455922184593410),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Cori Bush**: “I’m glad @POTUS heeded our call for executive
action to protect reproductive freedom, including expanding access to
medication abortion, family planning, emergency care, and contraception,
and a commitment to protecting the right to travel. These are important
first steps. There is so much more that the President and Congress can
and must do right now, starting with declaring a public health
emergency, preempting state law to protect access to FDA-approved
medication abortion pills, and eliminating the filibuster to codify
Roe.” \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCori/status/1545491650964750336),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Cheri Bustos**: “Everyone should have the freedom to decide what
is best for themselves and their families. I applaud @POTUS for taking
this step in safeguarding access to reproductive care services to
protect ALL Americans.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCheri/status/1545500722438995968),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Salud Carbajal**: “Thank you @POTUS for taking action today to
protect access to reproductive health care. I will continue fighting in
Congress to \#CodifyRoe and protect women’s fundamental and
Constitutional rights, including patient privacy & safe access to
contraception.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCarbajal/status/1545496385038041088),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Sean Casten**: “Thank you, @POTUS, for signing an executive order
to protect access to reproductive health care. This will give immediate
relief to women who are disproportionately harmed by the SCOTUS
decision. Now, the Senate must legislatively enshrine abortion rights.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCasten/status/1545497956207534080),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Yvette Clarke**: “Thank you, Mr. President. And now, we must
codify Roe — so no woman ever knows these awful fears again.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepYvetteClarke/status/1545442398368571392),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Emanuel Cleaver:** “Recent polling shows that the majority of
Americans disapprove of the overturning of Roe v. Wade. I am proud to
see @POTUS take necessary action to protect reproductive freedom and the
fundamental right to bodily autonomy. The days following SCOTUS’
harrowing decision not only turned back the clock on women’s rights, it
set us on a trajectory that has monumental implications for many
Americans. POTUS’ executive action aims to protect access to critical
aspects of healthcare and privacy. Reproductive rights are human rights
that we must fight to protect and preserve, which is why we must codify
Roe v. Wade into federal law.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repcleaver/status/1545484791008661505),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Steve Cohen:** “President Biden is signing an Executive Order
designed to safeguard access to abortion and protect women from states
trying to criminalize their health care. It’s an important step, but the
Senate must end the filibuster to protect the right to abortion.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCohen/status/1545443554717306880),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Diana DeGette:** “These are important steps to help millions of
women, but there is still so much more that needs to be done. We need
the Senate to act. They need to end the filibuster and make Roe v. Wade
the law of our land once again. And they need to do it today!” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDianaDeGette/status/1545446377513259015),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Mark DeSaulnier:** “Thank you @POTUS for taking these critical
first steps to protect abortion access. Now we need a Senate that will
act to protect reproductive freedom the way Democrats in the House
already have.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDeSaulnier/status/1545491815855431690),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Mike Doyle**: “I support @POTUS’s executive order directing
@HHSGov to protect women’s access to contraception, patient privacy, &
emergency care. These steps support a woman’s right to choose & fight
against extreme abortion restrictions.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/USRepMikeDoyle/status/1545419897467019265),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Veronica Escobar:** “Abortion is healthcare. This executive order
is a step toward a future where everyone—no matter who they are and
where they’re from—is free to make the personal health decisions that
are best for themselves, their lives, and their families, without
political interference.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepEscobar/status/1545457417798012928),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Adriano Espaillat:** “I commend @POTUS for taking action to
protect abortion & contraception access which @CongresswomanSC, & I
called for in H.Res.1218 along with more than 50 colleagues. We must
continue to fight for reproductive freedom in the U.S.
\#AbortionIsHealthcare \#ReproductiveRights” 
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepEspaillat/status/1545439515073994752)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Bill Foster**: “I applaud @potus for taking aggressive action to
protect access to reproductive health care and abortion rights. Now, the
Senate needs to take up the House-passed Women’s Health Protection
Act.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBillFoster/status/1545455840391569410),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Ruben Gallego**: “Today @POTUS announced an Executive Order to
protect the rights of women. The Order: 💊Protects access to medication
abortion and contraception 🏥Protects the right to emergency care
⚕️Protects privacy and health information Now the Senate must act to
codify Roe v. Wade.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRubenGallego/status/1545473189890990081),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Sylvia Garcia:** “While Republicans want to control women and
their personal decisions with a draconian nationwide ban on abortion,
@POTUS is fighting to expand and protect access to reproductive health
care with his executive order. Thank you for standing alongside women,
President Biden.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSylviaGarcia/status/1545447876549033985),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Brian Higgins**: “Today @POTUS will sign an Executive Order that
protects safe & secure reproductive care for millions of people in our
country. After SCOTUS dismantled the important precedent set by Roe v
Wade, we must continue fighting to defend reproductive rights for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBrianHiggins/status/1545427439316254722),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Jared Huffman:** “I’m happy to see this announcement from @POTUS,
but our work is far from over. Reproductive health care—and countless
other rights—are under attack from the alt-right SCOTUS, and we must do
everything in our power to fight back.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1545455907517202435)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Sara Jacobs:** I’m encouraged by @POTUS’ Executive Order to
protect reproductive privacy. Now it’s time for Congress to act. We MUST
pass legislation that protects access to reproductive health care
without putting our most personal and sensitive data at risk. We must
pass the \#MyBodyMyDataAct
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepSaraJacobs/status/1545454975484153856)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Pramila Jayapal:** “Thank you @POTUS for working to protect the
rights of pregnant people across this country. Now it’s time for the
Senate to step up and act to codify Roe.” 
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1545456428693032961)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Mondaire Jones**: “In the wake of this rogue Supreme Court waging
war on the right to an abortion, I’m proud to see @POTUS tap into the
fight to protect abortion care. Congress must take action. We need to
codify Roe.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMondaire/status/1545450353503752193),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Ro Khanna**: “.@POTUS’s Executive Order to protect reproductive
health care & abortion is an important step in fighting back against the
attacks by six extremist Supreme Court justices on the rights of women.
Now, let’s abolish the filibuster to codify Roe & pass my SCOTUS term
limits bill. 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRoKhanna/status/1545453318507560961),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Raja Krishnamoorthi:** “I’m glad to see @POTUS is taking action
to protect access to reproductive care and medication, but my colleagues
and I in Congress must do more to defend reproductive freedom.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CongressmanRaja/status/1545483134724186113),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Ann McLane Kuster:** “I appreciate @POTUS taking steps to protect
access to abortion & reproductive health care in the wake of SCOTUS’s
egregious ruling overturning Roe. Congress must put the protections
enshrined by Roe into law & ensure women can access the care they
need.” 
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepAnnieKuster/status/1545500225980317697)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Andy Levin:** “I’m pleased to see @POTUS stepping up to protect
access to abortion. We cannot stop until we ensure every single person
who needs or wants an abortion has the right to do so.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMikeLevin/status/1545474954262679555),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Mike Levin:** “Everyone deserves to decide what to do with their
body and get the care they need. Today, @POTUS signed an Executive Order
protecting access to vital reproductive health care services and the
right to privacy.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMikeLevin/status/1545474954262679555),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Tom Malinowski**: “Since SCOTUS’ decision, GOP governors and
state legislatures have been imposing extreme laws, banning a woman’s
right to choose. @POTUS’ executive order upholds an American’s right to
make their own health decisions, without political interference.” 
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/KathyManningNC/status/1545490036392693762)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Betty McCollum:** “POTUS signed an executive order today
safeguarding access to medication abortion & Plan B, protecting data
privacy, & coordinating federal efforts to protect reproductive rights.
More is needed – we must \#CodifyRoe – but I’m glad to see @POTUS taking
action to stand up for women.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BettyMcCollum04/status/1545456341950537729?s=20&t=sduMHttlkjVMC2AKgtoHmA),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Rep. Donald McEachin:** “I am grateful for @POTUS’s efforts to
safeguard reproductive health care in the wake of the Supreme Court’s
decision overturning Roe. This is a meaningful step, but our work is not
done. The Senate needs to take immediate action on the Women’s Health
Protection Act.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepMcEachin/status/1545453966892449792)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Chellie Pingree:** “@HouseDemocrats did their job to codify Roe
by passing the \#WHPA. @POTUS’s Executive Order today was urgently
needed, but next, we must: Abolish the filibuster Expand the Court End
partisan gerrymandering And eliminate the undemocratic electoral
college”  
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/chelliepingree/status/1545444649468313601)
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Ayanna Pressley**: “These much-needed actions will help folks get
the abortion care they need. TY @POTUS for heeding our calls to expand
access to medication abortion & support those traveling for care. Now
let’s build on this & declare a public health emergency. Everything must
be on the table.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPressley/status/1545475200178954243),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Deborah Ross:** “President Biden is right. We will fight these
extreme attacks on our rights, and we will use every tool at our
disposal to safeguard access to abortion. I’m glad @POTUS is taking
action to protect women and health care providers. We can & must do
more.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDeborahRoss/status/1545468065802080256),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Haley Stevens:** “Thank you, @POTUS for taking steps to protect
abortion access. Now Congress must act. It’s time to \#EndTheFilibuster
and enshrine the right to abortion care into law.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHaleyStevens/status/1545456344349696003),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. David Trone**: “We must ensure that women have the right to make
personal decisions about their own health care and futures. Thank you
@POTUS, for taking this crucial step toward protecting reproductive
freedom across the nation. Let’s keep fighting.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDavidTrone/status/1545472898965688320),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Rep. Marc Veasey:** “Thank you, @POTUS, for signing an executive order
to protect reproductive freedoms. Congress must follow your lead by
codifying Roe v. Wade to protect essential health care and the right to
choose.”  \[Tweet,
[7.8.22](https://twitter.com/RepVeasey/status/1545473343809355777)\]  
  
**Rep. Nikema Williams:** “Today, @POTUS signed an executive order
preserving access to abortion and contraception, defending patient
privacy & protecting clinic safety – all immediate priorities for women
who are disproportionately harmed by tearing down abortion rights. It’s
time for the Senate to step up and pass the Women’s Health Protection
Act to protect equal access to safe, legal abortion for EVERYONE in
EVERY ZIP code.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepNikema/status/1545443210381725697),
7.8.22\]  
  
***Governors***  
  
**California Governor Newsom:** “Thank you @POTUS  for fighting to
protect the right to choose!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CAgovernor/status/1545462105444196352?s=20&t=ymuBbBr0H1IQ8mJ6pT16SA),
7/8/22\]  
  
**Illinois Governor JB Pritzker**: “Thank you @POTUS for taking this
action to protect women’s rights. We must do everything to protect
access to reproductive health, the right to privacy, and the freedom of
all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovPritzker/status/1545519497951559680?s=20&t=ymuBbBr0H1IQ8mJ6pT16SA),
7/8/22\]  
  
**New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy:** “President Biden’s action today
builds upon the work we continue to do in New Jersey to ensure and
secure every woman’s access to abortion and reproductive health care
services. The President is correct that Congress must act to codify the
rights protected for fifty years by Roe in federal law, but absent that
action it is up to the states to protect women through our laws and the
federal government, as it can through this order, to ensure access and
privacy. New Jersey has enshrined the right to seek an abortion in state
law, and I just signed new laws to protect any woman who comes to our
state seeking abortion care, and also her doctor, from punitive actions
by her home state. I am proud to have President Biden standing
shoulder-to-shoulder with us in this fight.” [\[Press
Release](https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/status/1545471651952967684),
7/8/22\]  
  
**New Jersey Lt. Governor Sheila Oliver:** “Thank you
[@GovMurphy](https://twitter.com/GovMurphy/) and
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for working together to help ensure
women have access to reproductive health in America.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LtGovOliver/status/1545500311258890240),
7/8/22\]  
  
**North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper:** “President Biden’s Executive
Order is another strong step in the effort to protect access to
reproductive health care across the country. Here in North Carolina, I
will never back down when women’s health is on the line. – RC”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NC_Governor/status/1545479959812009985),
7/8/22\]  
  
**Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf:** “Thank you
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) for prioritizing the health and
safety of women and birthing people. I will continue to veto any attacks
on reproductive health care that reach my desk here in Pennsylvania.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovernorTomWolf/status/1545442583752712193),
7/8/22\]  
  
**Washington Governor Jay Inslee**: “Every action to protect abortion
access matters. Thanks to @POTUS for keeping the offense going. Congress
and states must do their part too.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovInslee/status/1545474904274792448?s=20&t=ymuBbBr0H1IQ8mJ6pT16SA),
7/8/22\]  
  
***Mayors***  
  
**Denver Mayor Michael B. Hancock:** “I applaud the @POTUS executive
order protecting access to reproductive healthcare services for all.” 
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MayorHancock/status/1545441536380268544),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**New York City Mayor Eric Adams:** “Thank you, @POTUS! Reproductive
rights are under assault and we need to use every tool at our disposal
to fight back. Now, it’s time for Congress to codify the right to access
an abortion into federal law.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/NYCMayor/status/1545464813286981639)
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Oakland Mayor Libby Schaaf:** “Thank you President @JoeBiden and @VP
@KamalaHarris for taking action to support reproductive rights after the
terrible Supreme Court decision. These executive orders will make a
difference to women and girls in need of health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LibbySchaaf/status/1545448525290299395),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Philadelphia Mayor Jim Kenney:** “Thankful that @POTUS is taking steps
to protect access to reproductive health care services. SCOTUS’s ruling
will disproportionately affect people of color, low-income residents,
and rural Americans. This fight is not over. Get involved here in
Philly: <https://t.co/CvCYakI6HG>.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PhillyMayor/status/1545450129720745989),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Richmond Mayor Levar Stoney:** “Earlier this week,
[@CityRichmondVA](https://twitter.com/CityRichmondVA/) declared that we
support the right to abortion in VA. Today,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) declared that abortion will be
protected nationwide – no matter where you live. We stand with
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS/) to provide safe and affordable
reproductive healthcare in Richmond!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LevarStoney/status/1545470744959893504),
7/8/22\]  
  
**Tucson Mayor Regina Romero:** “Thank you @POTUS for fighting to
protect women’s Constitutional right to bodily autonomy. Among its
safeguards, today’s executive action protects: ✅Access to medication
abortion ✅Access to contraception ✅Patient health information
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TucsonRomero/status/1545453626881179648),
7/8/2022\]  
  
**New York City Mayor Eric Adams:** “Thank you, @POTUS! Reproductive
rights are under assault and we need to use every tool at our disposal
to fight back. Now, it’s time for Congress to codify the right to access
an abortion into federal law.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/NYCMayor/status/1545464813286981639)
7/8/2022\]  
  
**Tom Cochran, CEO and Executive Director of U.S. Conference of
Mayors: ** “America’s mayors applaud the efforts by President Biden and
the Executive Branch to protect access to reproductive health care
services in the wake of the devastating Supreme Court decision in
*Dobbs*. Today’s Executive Order will also protect patient privacy and
access to accurate information and promote the safety and security of
patients, providers, and clinics. We further appreciate the Attorney
General’s pledge on June 24 that the Justice Department will work
tirelessly to protect and advance reproductive freedom. Just last month
the Conference of Mayors adopted
[policy](https://www.usmayors.org/the-conference/resolutions/?category=a0F4N00000QhBoyUAF&meeting=90th%20Annual%20Meeting)
registering the organization’s support for a woman’s constitutional
right to choose and calling on Congress to swiftly pass legislation to
codify that right. We will do everything we can to help to make that
happen but appreciate in the meantime the importance of this Executive
Order and the support it provides to women across the country.” \[[Press
Release](https://www.usmayors.org/2022/07/08/statement-by-u-s-conference-of-mayors-on-president-bidens-executive-order-protecting-access-to-reproductive-health-care-services/),
7/8/22\]  
  
**African American Mayor’s Association:** “The burden and the harms of
restrictions to abortion access falls disproportionately on Black
communities. America’s Black mayors are working to meet this moment and
ensure all of our communities have access to the reproductive health
care that they need. [rb.gy/zx0bd0″](https://t.co/F2ge1KMXqK)
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/OurMayors/status/1545483542729203712),
7/8/22\]  
  
***State Constitutional Officers***  
  
**Minnesota Attorney General Keith Ellison:** “Thank you, President
Biden. Despite what 6 people on the Supreme Court say, the vast majority
of Americans want the freedom to control their own bodies and their most
personal choices protected. This is what protecting Americans looks
like.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AGEllison/status/1545453326225080323?s=20&t=sduMHttlkjVMC2AKgtoHmA),
7/8/2022\]  
  
***<u>Advocacy Organizations and Advocates</u>***  
  
***Women’s Rights Leaders***  
  
**Hillary Clinton:** “Make no mistake: Banning abortion puts lives at
risk. Thank you, @POTUS, for taking these crucial steps to protect our
most fundamental rights and access to health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HillaryClinton/status/1545479819848196096),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Mini Timmaraju, President, NARAL Pro-Choice America:** “All across the
country, from governor’s mansions to state legislatures, pro-choice
Democrats are stepping up to the plate to defend our fundamental freedom
to make our own decisions about our families and futures while extremist
MAGA Republicans prepare a federal abortion ban and anti-choice state
officials are enforcing extreme bans on abortion state by state.
President Biden’s executive order to safeguard access to reproductive
healthcare, including abortion care, is an important first step in
restoring the rights taken from millions of Americans by the Supreme
Court. We’re encouraged by the Biden-Harris administration’s work to
defend abortion rights and access, and look forward to continuing
partnership with the administration to make good on its commitment to
championing reproductive freedom.These actions come in the aftermath of
the anti-choice supermajority on the Supreme Court overturning Roe v.
Wade in its ruling in Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health Organization. This
cruel decision opened the door for extremist state lawmakers to enforce
extreme bans on abortion. Roughly half of the states in the country are
at risk of banning abortion, and thus far, 11 states have bans in place
and many more are rushing to do the same. The people hurt most by these
bans and restrictions are those who already face barriers to accessing
abortion care—including women; Black, Indigenous, and other people of
color; those working to make ends meet; the LGBTQ+ community;
immigrants; young people; those living in rural communities; and people
with disabilities.
\[[Statement](https://www.prochoiceamerica.org/2022/07/08/naral-pro-choice-america-applauds-biden-adminstrations-executive-order-protecting-reproductive-freedom/),
7.8.22\]  
  
**Fatima Goss Graves, President and CEO, National Women’s Law Center:**
“We commend the President for making it clear that the full weight of
the government will be brought to bear on the legal and public health
crisis unfolding across our country. We expect them to move forward with
the speed and intensity demanded by this Executive Order, and look
forward to concrete initiatives that help people get the care they need.
This crisis is here because of a decades-long strategy where extremist
politicians took over our courts, restricted our right to vote, and
gerrymandered their districts in order to deny us economic security,
equality, and freedom. Undoing these injustices will take efforts by all
of us, including using the full force of the federal government.”
\[[Statement](https://nwlc.org/press-release/nwlc-reacts-to-president-bidens-executive-order-on-abortion/),
7.8.22\]

**Jacqueline Ayers, Senior Vice President of Policy, Organizing and
Campaigns, Planned Parenthood Federation of America:** “We’re in a
national health care crisis and need officials at every level of
government to do everything within their authority to fight for access
to abortion. Amid the Supreme Court stripping Americans of their
constitutional right to abortion after nearly 50 years, we need an
urgent and robust response to ensure people get the essential health
care they need. Planned Parenthood is encouraged the administration is
reaffirming its commitment to abortion access and looks forward to
working toward implementation  of these and other strategies to address
this crisis.”
\[[Statement](https://www.plannedparenthood.org/about-us/newsroom/press-releases/planned-parenthood-federation-of-america-responds-to-bidens-executive-order-on-abortion-rights),
7.8.22\]

**Amanda Brown Lierman, Executive Director, Supermajority:** “We applaud
President Biden for stepping up to the moment and safeguarding our
access to reproductive care. This Executive Order shows the Biden
Administration is willing to fight for women while our rights are under
attack. “The Supreme Court’s decision to overturn Roe v. Wade put the
lives of millions of people, especially women of color, in danger. The
decision pushed us into a new era where my three young daughters have
fewer rights than I or their grandmother had. “While this Executive
Order is not the only solution to this arcane and restrictive ruling, it
is a critical step towards safeguarding our ability to choose. But we
must continue to work until our lives are safe and our bodies are
respected.  “We cannot stop until Congress enshrines the right to safe,
legal abortion care into law. Our freedom should not be gambled for
political gain. Women –– as the majority bloc of voters –– have to show
up to the ballot boxes and keep our elected leaders accountable. We will
not stop organizing, voting, or protesting until our reproductive
freedoms are permanently safe.”
\[[Statement](https://supermajority.com/press/supermajority-supports-president-bidens-executive-order-protecting-access-to-reproductive-health-care-services/),
7.8.22\]

***Healthcare Organizations***  
  
**Dr. Jack Resneck, President, American Medical Association:** “Across
the country, since the Supreme Court’s egregious decision to overturn
*Roe v. Wade*, physicians have been placed in an impossible situation –
straining to meet our ethical duties to place patient health and
wellbeing first, while attempting to comply with vague, restrictive,
complex, and conflicting state laws that interfere in the practice of
medicine and jeopardize the health of patients. The AMA applauds today’s
executive order from the Biden Administration exploring pathways to
protect access to reproductive health care services and provide guidance
to physicians. For physicians and patients alike, this is a frightening
and fraught time, with new, unprecedented concerns about data privacy,
access to contraception, and even when to begin lifesaving care. Our
hope is that these first steps announced today are clarifying and
effective as we continue the critical work necessary to ensuring access
to comprehensive reproductive health care.” \[Statement, 7.8.22\]

**Dr. Maureen Phipps, CEO, American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists:** “As the nation’s leading organization representing
women’s health care professionals, ACOG, our volunteer leadership, our
members, and our staff have been working around the clock to provide
resources and support for obstetrician-gynecologists, their patients,
and their practice. We appreciate that the administration is taking
steps to support clinicians, including protecting access to necessary
medications; ensuring legal protections for clinicians who provide
out-of-state abortion care; and issuing new guidance on EMTALA and HIPAA
to support and protect clinicians, health care professionals, and
patients.”  
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/acog/status/1545494437425561603), 7.8.22\]

**Dr. Rachel Villanueva, President, National Medical Association**: “We
strongly support the Biden administration’s executive order to protect
access to reproductive health services, including abortion and
contraception. Today’s decision from the White House will protect
patients’ bodily autonomy, uphold the relationship between doctors and
patients, and strengthen privacy rights for everyone. As doctors, we are
encouraged by these developments, especially on the heels of the Supreme
Court’s decision to overturn Roe which undermines our ability to provide
safe, private health care to all of our patients. Unfortunately, the
Supreme Court’s decision to strip away the freedom of individuals to
make deeply personal health care decisions has far-reaching and
devastating consequences that the President alone cannot address,
particularly for people of color. The National Medical Association urges
the Senate to pass the Women’s Health Protection Act, and codify
reproductive freedom for all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nmanet.org/news/610813/National-Medical-Association-Reacts-to-Bidens-Executive-Order-Defending-Reproductive-Health-Care.htm),
7.8.22\]

**American Medical Women’s Association**: “The American Medical Women’s
Association (AMWA) supports key provisions in the Executive Order
announced today by President Biden. In particular, AMWA upholds the
commitment to safeguard reproductive rights, specifically to:

-   Protect access to FDA-approved medication abortion
-   Ensure that patients are able to receive emergency medical care
    afforded under the law
-   Enable interstate travel to attain abortion care and maintain access
    to contraception
-   Protect the privacy of an individual’s health information, including
    reproductive health information

The Executive Order addresses the need to protect digital health privacy
so that sensitive individual health information is not sold to data
brokers. AMWA supports all efforts aimed at protecting personal medical
privacy as a cornerstone of the invaluable physician-patient
relationship. As with most medical decisions, reproductive health
matters, including abortion, are complex and nuanced, necessitating
considerations by the patient in consultation with their physician
without legislative interference. AMWA supports efforts to provide
better protective measures that assure physicians are able to practice
evidence-based medicine and deliver the most appropriate and necessary
care possible. AMWA commends the efforts announced today by the White
House as important steps toward securing physicians’ ability to deliver
reproductive-related care without fear of legal repercussions. And, to
support patients’ rights to receive desired and necessary reproductive
medical care. AMWA champions these measures that uphold our mission to
assure that quality healthcare, including abortion, is accessible and
available to all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.amwa-doc.org/news/amwa-endorses-presidents-order-reproductive-rights/),
7.8.22\]

**Oregon Health and Science University**: “Thank you President Biden for
signing this Executive Order aimed at defending access to reproductive
health care services. Abortion is health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ohsunews/status/1545464873986928640?s=21&t=TlZI4qYDu6NQqjSTQNtwgw),
7.8.22\]

***Faith***  
  
**National Council of Jewish Women: “**We thank @POTUS for the exec.
order to create an Interagency Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare
Access, signaling dedication to protecting & expanding access to
abortion care, incl. medication abortion, & contraception, while
protecting patient privacy.”
 \[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCJW/status/1545495282426826753),
7.8.22\]  
**Religious Action Center of Reform Judaism:** “We welcome President
Biden’s executive order, which will protect access to medication
abortion & contraception; protect privacy of patients; ensure emergency
care; promote safety of patients, providers, & clinics; & form an
interagency reproductive healthcare access task force. Jewish tradition
teaches that providing health care is an obligation for both the doctor
and for all of society. Ensuring access to care for all requires the
Administration to use the full scope of executive powers. These
comprehensive measures are key to reach that goal.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/TheRAC/status/1545433386851991553),
7.8.22\]

**Dr. Serene Jones, President, Union Theological Seminary**: “Union
welcomes the safeguards the Biden administration is putting in place to
protect the reproductive wellbeing of all women, transgender and
non-binary people. As some states work to criminalize abortion, it is
essential that our federal government protect those rights, which is
consistent with what the Christian faith, the Bible and the teachings of
many faith traditions support. The Bible never explicitly discusses
abortion. What it does consistently tell us is that human beings are
moral agents, fully capable of making their own decisions. It also tells
us that we should protect and love each other. And so Union thanks the
Biden administration for advancing the very Christian value of
protecting and loving each other. We hope that this will also spur
Congress to action on codifying reproductive rights into law.”
\[[Statement](https://utsnyc.edu/protecting-access-to-reproductive-health-care-services/),
7.8.22\]

**American Muslim Health Professionals**: “ALL women must have equitable
access to quality & safe reproductive healthcare services & we applaud
the President’s executive order today to ensure this.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MuslimHealth/status/1545493243588009984),
7.8.22\]

***Union Leaders  
***  
**Randi Weingarten, President, AFT**: “From combating disinformation to
protecting access to things like medication abortion and contraception,
the Biden administration is taking the necessary steps forward. It’s
time for the Senate to do their part and protect reproductive freedoms.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/rweingarten/status/1545478196585455616?s=21&t=jPXA8Wbf__rybfIqIu4wYA),
07/08/22\]

**Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO**: “Thank you @POTUS for taking action
to protect access to critical reproductive care for millions of working
people. Everyone deserves autonomy & equity over their own health care.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/LizShuler/status/1545449238024314881),
07/08/22\]
