---
date: '2022-07-27'
modified_time: 2022-07-27 13:22:23-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-27 13:22:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/27/domestic-policy-advisor-susan-rice-delivers-remarks-to-the-national-conference-on-ending-homelessness/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Domestic Policy Advisor Susan Rice Delivers Remarks to the National Conference\
  \ on Ending\_Homelessness"
---
 
*Remarks as prepared for delivery*

Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Ann, for that introduction and for
stepping up to lead this remarkable organization. I also want to salute
Nan Roman for her years of service—not only as the head of the National
Alliance, but as a valued partner of the Biden-Harris Administration and
many others. Thank you, Nan. Let me also recognize one of your
co-founders and past chairs, Susan Baker, whose tremendous work helped
make this group the force it is today.

It’s good to be with some of our nation’s most thoughtful and passionate
advocates working to end homelessness. I’m honored to be here on behalf
of a champion for making housing available to all, President Joe Biden.
The President believes deeply that every American deserves a roof over
their head—not only as a matter of security, stability, and well-being,
but as a matter of dignity. Guided by that conviction, I’m looking
forward to sharing a bit today about how far we’ve come, the work ahead,
and the holistic approach we need to realize the goal of a nation
without homelessness.

During his 2020 presidential campaign, President Biden pledged to pursue
a comprehensive approach to ending homelessness. He committed to undoing
counterproductive and often harmful policies, and to taking a “Housing
First” approach to our homelessness crisis. He promised to partner with
mayors and local officials on the frontlines of this fight. He committed
to protecting Americans who too often find themselves living on the
edge, from veterans to LGBTQI+ individuals to people who were formerly
incarcerated.

It happened that President Biden unveiled that campaign commitment on
February 24<sup>th</sup>, 2020. The very next day, the CDC warned
Americans to brace for a deadly new coronavirus. Within weeks, the
pandemic surged across the country, falling especially hard on the most
economically vulnerable Americans and on those already experiencing
homelessness. Millions of Americans found themselves unemployed, and in
many cases, on the streets. To comply with social distancing
requirements, shelters were forced to turn people away. Many of you saw
this up close.

Faced with a once-in-a-century pandemic, President Biden didn’t retreat
from his commitment to tackle the homelessness crisis. He wasn’t
deterred. Instead, he doubled down.

The President’s landmark American Rescue Plan invested historic
resources to address homelessness. We distributed 70,000 emergency
housing vouchers. We devoted $5 billion for the HOME Investment
Partnerships program to create permanent, safe, supportive housing. We
put another $800 million towards support for homeless families. Many of
you have utilized billions of dollars in State and Local Recovery Funds,
to keep people off the streets and create permanent housing.

Confronting the prospect of a flood of evictions, the Biden-Harris
Administration has distributed over $30 billion of $46 billion in
Emergency Rental Assistance to cover rent and utilities, helping over 6
million households. HUD implemented new rules requiring landlords to
provide more notice before evictions and more information about
available assistance. We offered unprecedented flexibility in the use of
federal funds, so the most vulnerable households could access this
assistance. When the courts threatened the CDC’s eviction moratorium, we
fought to keep the moratorium in place and keep Americans in their homes
for as long as possible.

As we’ve reached a point in the pandemic where COVID-19 is no longer the
disruptive force it once was, our Administration has nonetheless kept
our foot on the gas. Last September, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development and the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness launched
our House America plan, an all-hands-on-deck effort to rehouse at least
100,000 people experiencing homelessness and expand the supply of safe
and affordable housing by at least 20,000 units by the end of this year.
We followed that up with a Housing Supply Action Plan, including reforms
to ensure that we’re using federal land and buildings to create more
housing for people experiencing or at risk of homelessness. At the VA
and HUD, my colleagues Secretary Fudge and Secretary McDonough are busy
implementing a bold plan to eliminate veterans homelessness.

These policies, and this record infusion of resources, are delivering
real results. According to a HUD analysis, the American Rescue Plan and
earlier rounds of relief will lift up to 211,000 households from
homelessness into safe and stable housing over the course of the next
several years. For example, here in D.C., homelessness has reportedly
been cut 13 percent in the past year alone.

This is significant, hard-won progress. But, homelessness in America is
still on the rise, and more than half a million people on any given
night are sleeping in shelters or cars or encampments, including just
blocks from the White House. Relative to their percentage of the overall
population, there are three times as many Black Americans—and five times
as many Native Americans—experiencing homelessness. Tens of thousands of
people die every year for lack of stable housing, with a life expectancy
among people experiencing homelessness nearly 30 years less than the
average American.

We can and must do better. That means addressing homelessness wisely and
comprehensively, based on what research tells us works. Instead of
withholding housing and food until someone overcomes obstacles such as
addiction or mental illness, we need to recognize that a home is the
foundation on which to rebuild a life—which means focusing on Housing
First. Instead of only trying to get people off the streets, we need to
focus relentlessly on preventing people from experiencing homelessness
in the first place. Instead of criminalizing homelessness, we need to
address the underlying causes and provide the support and services
people need. Not having a home should be a tragedy, not a felony.

Ending homelessness requires a whole-of-government response that breaks
down barriers and bureaucratic silos. The Domestic Policy Council
coordinates our homelessness response, alongside leaders like Secretary
Fudge, Secretary McDonough, and Jeff Olivet, who heads the Interagency
Council on Homelessness. That coordination ensures we’re addressing
homelessness in the context of our Administration’s work on a wide range
of issues, from criminal justice reform to mental health. You’ll see
that reflected in our federal strategic plan to prevent and end
homelessness, which will address in particular unsheltered homelessness.
We’ll have more to share in the coming months, but I’m excited to say
that our plan is ambitious, and it embodies this interdisciplinary
approach.   

This morning, let me elaborate on just three cross-cutting imperatives:
advancing equity, addressing mental health, and decriminalizing
homelessness.

First, since homelessness disproportionately impacts certain
communities, we must continue to advance equity in all that we do. On
President Biden’s very first day in office, he signed a historic
Executive Order making equity and racial justice the business of the
entire federal government. That had never been done before, and it’s
been a game-changer when it comes to addressing homelessness. For
example, we helped get Emergency Rental Assistance to those most in need
by taking steps like reducing burdensome documentation requirements and
expanding outreach—including multilingual outreach—through unions
and faith organizations. As a result, over 80 percent of that assistance
went to our lowest-income families. Sixty percent went to Black or
Hispanic renters. Two thirds went to female-headed households.
Low-income and majority-Black neighborhoods experienced the greatest
reduction in evictions.

Consider the steps we’ve taken to protect LGBTQI+ people from
discrimination in housing. Within weeks of taking office, HUD announced
that it would enforce the Fair Housing Act to prohibit discrimination on
the basis of sexual orientation and sexual identity. HUD restored
protections so that transgender Americans experiencing homelessness can
access shelters consistent with their gender identity. This past June,
during Pride Month, President Biden directed his Administration to
further address LGBTQI+ homelessness and housing instability. His order
charged federal agencies with strengthening services supporting LGBTQI+
individuals and expanded voluntary family counseling programs, so that
fewer LGBTQI+ young people are rejected by their families and more can
stay in a loving home.

Secondly, to help end homelessness, we must ensure access to mental
health, trauma, and substance use services for all Americans, including
by promoting better crisis response. Our nation’s mental health crisis
impacts Americans of all backgrounds. Yet, with severe mental health
issues afflicting more than one in five people experiencing
homelessness, mental health is deeply intertwined with—and exacerbated
by—homelessness.

As part of the Unity Agenda he announced in the State of the Union,
President Biden laid out a comprehensive strategy to transform how we
understand and treat mental health conditions. That means building a
system with enough capacity to treat everyone. It means connecting
people to the services they need, by tackling high costs and other
barriers. Lastly, it means supporting all Americans by creating
environments that support mental health and wellbeing, whether that’s in
school or online. At the same time, we’re implementing a National Drug
Control Strategy, focused on expanding access to treatment and ensuring
that resources are deployed alongside housing support, so that people
leaving treatment don’t end up back on the streets.

Third, we must continue working to halt the criminalization of
homelessness and safely reduce unnecessary interactions with the
criminal justice system. Over the past decade and a half, we’ve seen a
50 percent increase in laws making it illegal to sit or sleep in public
outdoor spaces. Nearly every state has a law on the books criminalizing
homelessness.

It’s time we acknowledge that we cannot arrest or incarcerate our way
out of this problem. The executive order President Biden signed in May
to advance effective, accountable policing made this point explicitly.
It calls for supporting alternative responses to arrest and
incarceration, including for people experiencing homelessness. Many of
you have likely seen these alternate models at work. In Denver, for
example, participants in a program that provides both affordable housing
and support services experienced eight fewer police contacts and four
fewer arrests than those who received no housing support. On average,
they spent 38 days less in jail. That’s better for individuals. It’s
better for police, who can focus on real crime. It’s better for
communities. So let’s create more of these evidence-based alternatives.

To further advance our holistic approach to homelessness, President
Biden’s FY23 budget seeks significant increases in funding for homeless
assistance programs. Nearly $3.6 billion for Homeless Assistance Grants
with support for shelter, outreach, rapid rehousing, and homelessness
prevention. Over $4.2 billion to support Veterans experiencing homeless.
The President also requested a $4.7 billion increase to the Housing
Choice Vouchers—which would fund as many as 200,000 additional
vouchers—along with a $450 million increase to the HOME Investment
Program. Taken together, these investments constitute a major push by
the federal government to help end homelessness.

But, tackling this challenge with all of its facets will take each of us
in this room and beyond. State and local officials. Continuum of care
providers. Academics. Advocates. Remarkable individuals who have
experienced homelessness yourselves and are now helping others get back
on their feet. You are healers and heroes.

I know the pandemic exhausted providers and budgets alike. I also know
what can be accomplished by all of us working in concert, getting
creative, and bringing everyone to the table—and there’s no time to
waste.

We all feel the urgency of meeting this moment just walking down the
street, reading the desperation in our fellow Americans’ eyes and on
hand-lettered cardboard signs. Recently, an artist collected a number of
those signs for an exhibit at the D.C. public library. Some of you may
be familiar with the exhibit. There are messages reading:

*“Vet. No Job. I don’t like this. I just need a little help. God
bless.”*

*“This is awkward 4 me, too.”*

*“Need a miracle.”*

*“If home is where the heart is*

*Where does the heart go*

*When there is no home?”*

These are words of loss and longing—and, one day, I hope the rare place
we’ll be able to see them is in an exhibit at a museum. Together, let’s
marshal all of our empathy, all of our smarts, and all of our resources.
Let’s break down old barriers and build new models of support. Let’s
move our nation closer to a future where no one experiences the tragedy
and hardship of homelessness, and everyone has a safe, stable, and
affordable home.

Thank you very much.
