---
date: '2022-07-14'
modified_time: 2022-07-14 16:28:56-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-14 16:25:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/14/president-biden-names-twenty-third-round-of-judicial-nominees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Names Twenty-Third Round of Judicial\_Nominees"
---
 
The President is announcing the nominations of four new federal judicial
nominees, his intent to nominate a fifth federal judicial nominee, and
three nominees for local courts in the District of Columbia—all of whom
are extraordinarily qualified, experienced, and devoted to the rule of
law and our Constitution.

These choices also continue to fulfill the President’s promise to ensure
that the nation’s courts reflect the diversity that is one of our
greatest assets as a country — both in terms of personal and
professional backgrounds.

For example, if confirmed, this slate would include:

-   The first Black woman to serve on the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Oregon

This is President Biden’s twenty-third round of nominees for federal
judicial positions and his tenth slate of nominations in 2022, bringing
the number of announced federal judicial nominees to 123. 

President Biden has spent decades committed to strengthening the federal
bench, which is why he continues to move rapidly to fill judicial
vacancies. And he has won confirmation of the most lower court judges
for the first year of a presidency since the Kennedy Administration.

**<u>District Court – Press Bios</u>**

1.  **<u>Matthew L. Garcia: Candidate for the United States District
    Court for the District of New Mexico</u>**

Matthew L. Garcia has served in the Office of New Mexico Governor
Michelle Lujan Grisham as Chief of Staff from 2020 to 2022 and General
Counsel from 2019 to 2020. From 2012 to 2018, he was a partner at Garcia
Ives Nowara in Albuquerque, New Mexico, and from 2009 to 2012, he was a
partner at Bach & Garcia in Albuquerque, New Mexico. Mr. Garcia had his
own solo practice from 2008 to 2009. From 2006-2008 Mr. Garcia was an
associate at Freedman Boyd Daniels Hollander Goldberg & Ives in
Albuquerque, New Mexico. Mr. Garcia received his J.D. from the
University of New Mexico School of Law in 2005, an M.P.P. from Harvard
University’s Kennedy School of Government in 2003, and a B.A., *magna
cum laude*, from the University of New Mexico in 1999.

1.  **<u>Lindsay C. Jenkins: Candidate for the United States District
    Court for the Northern District of Illinois—*Intent to
    Nominate*</u>**

Lindsay C. Jenkins is a partner at Cooley LLP in Chicago, Illinois,
where she has worked since 2021. She previously served as an Assistant
United States Attorney in the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of Illinois from 2006 to 2021. Ms. Jenkins was
previously an associate at Jones Day from 2004 to 2006. She served as a
law clerk for Judge Solomon Oliver, Jr. on the United States District
Court for the Northern District of Ohio from 2002 to 2004. Ms. Jenkins
received her J.D., *summa cum laude*, from Cleveland-Marshall College of
Law at Cleveland State University, in 2002 and her B.A. from Miami
University of Ohio in 1998.

1.  **<u>Justice Adrienne C. Nelson: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the District of Oregon</u>**

Justice Adrienne C. Nelson has served as an Associate Justice on the
Oregon Supreme Court since 2018. From 2006 to 2018, Justice Nelson
served as a trial judge on the Multnomah County Circuit Court. Justice
Nelson worked as a senior attorney for Portland State University from
2004 to 2006, and she was in private practice at Bennett, Hartman,
Morris & Kaplan from 2004 to 2006. From 1996 to 1999, Justice Nelson was
a public defender with Multnomah Defenders, Inc. Justice Nelson received
her J.D. from the University of Texas School of Law at Austin in 1993
and her B.A., *summa cum laude*, from the University of Arkansas at
Fayetteville in 1989.

1.  **<u>Judge Andrew G. Schopler: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of California</u>**

Judge Andrew G. Schopler has served as a United States Magistrate Judge
for the Southern District of California since 2016. From 2004 to 2016,
Judge Schopler was an Assistant United States Attorney in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the Southern District of California. He
worked at Rudolf and Maher in Chapel Hill, North Carolina from 1998 to
2004 He was a solo practitioner from 1997 to 1998. Judge Schopler
received his J.D. from Harvard Law School in 1997 and his B.A., *summa
cum laude*, from Dartmouth College in 1994. He has served in the United
States Army Reserve and California Army National Guard since 2014.

1.  **<u>Judge James Edward Simmons Jr: Candidate for the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of California</u>**

Judge James Edward Simmons Jr. has been a judge on the California
Superior Court since 2017. He is currently the Supervising Judge of the
North County Branch of the San Diego Superior Court. From 2006 to 2017,
he was a Deputy District Attorney in the San Diego District Attorney’s
Office. In 2005, Judge Simmons was a Deputy City Attorney in the San
Diego City Attorney’s Office. Judge Simmons received his J.D from Golden
Gate University School of Law in 2004 and B.A. from the University of
California, Berkeley in 2001. 

**<u>D.C. Court of Appeals</u>**

1.  **<u>Vijay Shanker: Candidate for D.C Court of Appeals</u>**

Vijay Shanker is the Deputy Chief of the Appellate Section in the
Criminal Division of the United States Department of Justice, where he
has worked since 2005. He was previously Counselor and Acting Deputy
Chief of Staff to the Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal
Division and Senior Litigation Counsel in the Criminal Division’s Fraud
Section at the Department of Justice. Mr. Shanker was an associate at
Mayer Brown from 2004 to 2005 and at Covington & Burling from 1999 to
2000 and 2001 to 2004. He served as a law clerk for Judge Chester J.
Straub on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit from
2000 to 2001. Mr. Shanker received his J.D., Order of the Coif, from the
University of Virginia School of Law in 1999 and his B.A., *cum laude*,
from Duke University in 1994.

**<u>D.C. Superior Court</u>**

1.  **<u>Laura Crane: Candidate for D.C. Superior Court</u>**

Laura Cranehas served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the
United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia since 2014.
Before joining the United States Attorney’s Office, Ms. Crane was a
senior associate at WilmerHale in Washington, D.C. from 2013 to 2014 and
a litigation associate at Cravath, Swaine, and Moore in New York City
from 2010 to 2012. She served as a law clerk for the Judge James E.
Boasberg on the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia from 2012 to 2013. Ms. Crane received her J.D., *summa cum
laude*, from the Washington University School of Law om 2009 and her
B.A., *magna cum laude,* from Duke University in 2003.

1.  **<u>Veronica Sanchez: Candidate for the D.C. Superior Court</u>**

Veronica Sanchez is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United
States Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, a role she has
held since 2009. Ms. Sanchez was a trial attorney in the Antitrust
Division of the United States Department of Justice from 2002 to 2009.
She served as a law clerk for Judge Melvin Brunetti on the United States
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from 2001 to 2002 and for Judge
Edward C. Reed on the United States District Court for the District of
Nevada from 1999 to 2001. Ms. Sanchez received her J.D. from the UCLA
School of Law in 1999 and her B.A. from Duke University in 1996

\###
