---
date: '2022-07-15'
published_time: 2022-07-15 19:12:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/15/fact-sheet-results-of-bilateral-meeting-between-the-united-states-and-the-kingdom-of-saudi-arabia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Results of Bilateral Meeting Between the United\_States and the\
  \ Kingdom of Saudi\_Arabia"
---
 
Today, President Biden met in Jeddah with the leaders of Saudi Arabia,
our hosts for the upcoming Summit with the Gulf Cooperation Council
(GCC) Council (GCC) countries plus Egypt, Iraq, and Jordan.  In a
meeting with King Salman and then an extended working session with Crown
Prince Mohammed bin Salman and their respective delegations, the United
States and Saudi Arabia finalized a number of international and
bilateral agreements that serve the interests of the American people and
a more integrated, stable, and prosperous Middle East region.

These results of this meeting include the following:

**Removing Peacekeepers from Tiran Island:** Since shortly after the
1978 Camp David Accords, U.S. troops have served as peacekeepers on
Tiran Island as part of the Multinational Force and Observers (MFO)
under the Treaty of Peace signed between Israel and Egypt.  Five
Americans were killed on the island in 2020 in a helicopter crash.
Tonight, arrangements were finalized to remove the MFO peacekeepers and
develop this area – which once sparked multi-state wars in the region –
for tourism, development, and peaceful pursuits.  Saudi Arabia has
agreed to preserve and continue all existing commitments and procedures
in the area.  President Biden welcomed this arrangement, which was
negotiated over many months and fully took into consideration the
interests of all parties.  The MFO peacekeepers, including U.S.
soldiers, will depart Tiran by the end of the year. The MFO will carry
out alternative arrangements to ensure the present freedom of navigation
to all parties, including Israel.

**Opening Saudi Airspace to Civilian Aircraft Flying to and from
Israel: **To date, civilian aircraft flying to and from Israel, with
rare exceptions, could not fly over Saudi Arabia, leading to increased
hours of flying time, significant expenses, and unnecessary impact on
our climate. Today, President Biden welcomed Saudi Arabia’s decision to
expand overflight of Saudi Arabia for all civilian aircraft, including
airlines flying to and from Israel, based on the principles of the
Chicago Convention of 1944. This was an important step forward towards a
more integrated Middle East region, interconnected with the world.  

**Sustaining the UN-Mediated Truce in Yemen: **The two delegations held
a detailed discussion of the situation in Yemen, and both committed
to taking steps to doing everything possible to extend and strengthen
the UN-mediated truce, which has led to fifteen weeks of peace, the
quietest period in Yemen in years, and translate it into a durable
ceasefire and political process. President Biden reaffirmed the U.S.
commitment to help Saudi Arabia protect and defend its territory and
people from all external attacks, particularly those launched by the
Iranian-backed Houthis in Yemen.  He also welcomed Saudi Arabia’s strong
commitment to the truce, particularly leading, in tandem with the Yemen
government, efforts to resume direct commercial flights from Sana’a to
Amman and Cairo for the first time in seven years.  The President also
welcomed the Kingdom’s financial support to Yemen’s Presidential
Leadership Council, which will help improve basic services and economic
stability to ease the suffering of Yemenis. This support includes a
pledge to provide over $1 billion for development projects and fuel
support, in addition to a joint Saudi and Emirati $2 billion deposit to
the Central Bank of Yemen.  

**Support for PGII:  **President Biden welcomed Saudi Arabia’s plan
to strategically invest in projects aligning with U.S. Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII) goals, which the President
and G7 leaders unveiled at the June 26, 2022, G7 Summit.  Together, the
United States and Saudi Arabia will mobilize hundreds of billions of
dollars to deliver quality, sustainable infrastructure that makes a
difference in people’s lives around the world, strengthens and
diversifies our supply chains, creates new opportunities for American
workers and businesses, and advances our national security.

**New Bilateral Framework for Cooperation on 5G/6G: **President Biden
welcomed the signing of a new Memorandum of Cooperation between the U.S.
National Telecommunication and Information Administration and the Saudi
Ministry of Communications and Information Technology, which will
connect U.S. and Saudi technology companies in the advancement and
deployment of 5G using open, virtualized, and cloud-based radio access
networks and the development of 6G through similar technologies. The
partnerships built under the MOU will also support 5G deployment in
Saudi Arabia and in developing and middle-income states
thereafter through the PGII.  Saudi Arabia has committed to a
significant investment for this project under the umbrella of the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment.  

**New Cooperation on Energy Security: **Saudi Arabia has committed to
support global oil market balancing for sustained economic growth. The
United States has welcomed the increase in production levels 50 percent
above what was planned for July and August. These steps and further
steps that we anticipate over the coming weeks have and will help
stabilize markets considerably. 

**New Bilateral Framework on Clean Energy Cooperation: **President Biden
welcomed the signing of a bilateral Partnership Framework for Advancing
Clean Energy, with new Saudi investments to accelerate the energy
transition and combat the effects of climate change.  This Framework
focuses particularly on solar, green hydrogen, nuclear, and other clean
energy initiatives.  By building upon existing collaboration between
energy experts in our countries, we seek to enhance our efforts to
tackle climate change and advance greater deployment of clean energy
resources around the world.  The Partnership will leverage public and
private sector collaboration to advance the deployment of clean energy
solutions while accelerating research, development, and demonstration of
innovative technologies needed to decarbonize the global economy and
achieve net-zero emissions. 

**Underscoring Human Rights Concerns: **The President underscored the
United States’ conviction that respect for and promotion of human rights
and fundamental freedoms promotes stability and strengthens national
security. Over the course of the discussion, he raised specific cases of
concern. He also raised the egregious murder of Jamal Khashoggi,
described the accountability measures the United States has put in place
in response, and received commitments with respect to reforms and
institutional safeguards in place to guard against any such conduct in
the future.  The United States will continue to engage in a regular and
direct dialogue with Saudi Arabia and other partners on these important
issues, and raise our concerns with human rights at every opportunity. 

**Cybersecurity Cooperation:  **President Biden welcomed the signing of
two bilateral agreements on cybersecurity with Saudi Arabia’s National
Cybersecurity Authority – one with the Federal Bureau of Investigations
and the other with the Department of Homeland Security’s Cybersecurity
and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA).  Through these memoranda of
cooperation, the United States and Saudi Arabia will expand their
existing bilateral relationship on this critical issue, share
information about cybersecurity threats and activities of malicious
actors to enhance the shared defense of our nations, and collaborate on
best practices, technologies, tools, and on approaches to cybersecurity
training and education.

**Cooperation in Space Exploration: ** The U.S. and Saudi Arabia are
expanding cooperation in all fields of space exploration, including
human spaceflight, earth observation, commercial and regulatory
development, and responsible behavior in outer space.  President Biden
welcomed the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia signing the Artemis Accords and
reaffirming its commitment to the responsible, peaceful, and sustainable
exploration and use of outer space. 

**Public Health Cooperation: **President Biden welcomed a new Memorandum
of Understanding between the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services and the Saudi Ministry of Health to continue strengthening
their relationship and working together to solve common health issues. 
The forthcoming areas of collaboration include health information
systems, capacity building in the delivery of health services, disease
surveillance, emerging infectious diseases, addressing the
health-related concerns of women and special needs populations, and
public policies oriented to disease prevention and health promotion.

**Enhanced Maritime Security Cooperation:  **The U.S. and Saudi Arabia
reaffirmed their commitment to preserving the free flow of commerce
through strategic international waterways like the Bab al-Mandab and the
Strait of Hormuz, through which 40 percent of the world’s energy passes
every day, through multiple joint naval task forces, including:

-   **Red Sea:** Newly-establish Combined Task Force 153, focused on
    international maritime security and capacity building efforts. 

<!-- -->

-   **Gulf of Oman and North Arabian Sea:** Saudi Arabia
    will soon assume command of Combined Task Force 150, which
    reinforces shared maritime security objectives.

<!-- -->

-   **Unmanned and AI Integration:**  Saudi Arabia will soon
    participate as part of the 5th Fleet’s Task Force 59, which for the
    first time integrates advanced technologies like unmanned vessels
    and artificial intelligence to enhance maritime domain awareness.

**Integrated Air Defense Cooperation:  **The two sides reviewed
developments in improving air defense integration and protection of
Saudi Arabia’s territory and people from external threats, including
missiles, drones, and UAVs.  This cooperation includes U.S. military
support and far-reaching foreign military sales cases with emphasis on
defensive systems and advanced technology.  The United States affirmed
it would accelerate our cooperation with Saudi Arabia and other partners
in the region to counter unmanned aerial systems and missiles that
threaten the peace and security of the region.  President Biden affirmed
the United States’ commitment to working with Saudi Arabia and other
allies and partners in the Middle East to integrate and enhance security
cooperation.  In particular, the United States is committed to advancing
a more integrated and regionally-networked air and missile defense
architecture and countering the proliferation of unmanned aerial systems
and missiles to non-state actors that threaten the peace and security of
the region. 

\###
