---
date: '2022-07-01'
published_time: 2022-07-01 16:25:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/01/icymi-president-biden-pushes-forward-on-tackling-climate-crisis-despite-supreme-courts-attempt-to-take-country-backwards/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI:  President\_Biden Pushes Forward on Tackling Climate Crisis Despite\
  \ Supreme Court\u2019s Attempt to Take Country\_Backwards"
---
 
Yesterday, in response to the Supreme Court’s ruling in *West Virginia
v. EPA*, President Biden issued a
[statement](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/30/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-supreme-court-ruling-on-west-virginia-v-epa/)
on his unwavering commitment to “continue using lawful executive
authority, including the EPA’s legally-upheld authorities, to keep our
air clean, protect public health, and tackle the climate crisis” and
“tackle environmental injustice, create good-paying jobs, and lower
costs for families building the clean energy economy.”  
  
Vice President Harris
[emphasized](https://twitter.com/VP/status/1542631060789293058) that
while “the Supreme Court’s misguided ruling aims to take our country
backward,” through “executive authority, legislation, and state and
local action, we must charge forward.” National Climate Advisor Gina
McCarthy [stressed](https://twitter.com/ginamccarthy46) that even though
the Supreme Court is “siding with extreme special interests that want to
dismantle our right to clean air,” President Biden will “keep moving us
forward, using every tool we can to tackle the climate crisis,” and EPA
Administrator Michael Regan [made
clear](https://twitter.com/EPAMichaelRegan/status/1542656005644902401)
that the agency “will move forward using our Clean Air Act authority,
consistent with the law, to set greenhouse gas standards for power
plants.”  
  
*Read more about how the Biden-Harris Administration is pressing
ahead:*  
  
**Time:** [‘We Have to Be Creative.’ How the Biden Administration Is
Responding to the SCOTUS Climate
Setback](https://time.com/6192857/biden-climate-scotus-west-virginia/)  
\[Justin Worland, 6/30/22\]  
  
Gina McCarthy, President Joe Biden’s national climate advisor . . . was
surprisingly optimistic—not that the ruling would go the
Administration’s way, but rather that the White House could chart a path
to slash emissions even if it didn’t. **“We’ve set very solid goals,
we’re making significant progress on the transition to clean energy,”
she told TIME on June 28. “And that is not going to live and die by the
Supreme Court’s decision.”** To meet the White House’s goals, she said,
the Administration needs to get “creative” and find novel ways to
galvanize the energy transition. That includes . . . the
Administration’s engagement with the private sector, use of its own
purchasing power, and use of the Defense Production Act to accelerate
the production of domestic clean energy technology, she says.   
  
**PBS NewsHour:**[EPA Administrator Michael Regan discusses Supreme
Court ruling on climate
change](https://www.pbs.org/newshour/amp/show/epa-administrator-michael-regan-discusses-supreme-court-ruling-on-climate-change)  
\[Interview, 6/30/22\]

EPA Administrator Michael Regan: “Let me be clear. It doesn’t take us
out of the game. **We still will be able to regulate climate pollution.
And we’re going to use all of the tools in our toolbox to do so** . . .
One tool that we will continue to look at is the authority that was in
question with the Supreme Court. Again, that tool is still available. We
have just lost some flexibility there . . . But it does not prevent us
from continuing to make progress. And so we will have to be vigilant in
terms of focusing on climate change pollution . . . We’re going to use
every tool in the toolbox that we have to set and implement
environmental standards that meet our obligation to protect all people
and all communities from environmental harm.”  
  
**Gina McCarthy on CNN:**[The Lead with Jake
Tapper](https://twitter.com/TheLeadCNN/status/1542642048016293889)  
\[Interview, 6/30/22\]

National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy: “We are not giving up, we’re
actually going to double down. And we know that **we have the legal
authority, and frankly we have the mandate of the people in the United
States and across the world** who want to address this challenge of
climate change and do it in a way that makes positive improvements in
our lives.”  
  
**Gina McCarthy on NPR:**[Morning
Edition](https://www.npr.org/2022/07/01/1109275642/has-the-supreme-court-tied-the-biden-administrations-hands-on-climate-change)  
\[Interview, 7/01/22\]

National Climate Advisor Gina McCarthy: “The Court hasn’t tied our hands
on climate change . . . **it was a very disappointing decision, but it
did not strip away the ability for EPA to regulate greenhouse gases** .
. . and more broadly, people should understand that this President
didn’t come into office thinking that EPA was the sole way in which we
could move forward on climate change . . . He recognized that special
interests for decades have been funded by fossil fuel companies to
really wage a long-term campaign to strip away all these environmental
protections that keep our water and our air clean . . . but that’s why
the President said we’re not just going to rely on EPA, we’re going to
have a whole-of-government approach . . . we’re leaving no stone
unturned . . . to invest in a clean energy future.”

\###
