---
date: '2022-07-12'
modified_time: 2022-07-12 08:41:46-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-12 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-administration-outlines-strategy-to-manage-ba-5/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Outlines Strategy to Manage\_BA.5"
---
 
Today, the White House COVID-19 Team is announcing its strategy to
manage BA.5. The strategy relies on ensuring that Americans continue to
have easy and convenient access to the vaccines, treatments, tests, and
other tools that protect against and treat COVID-19. These tools – even
in the face of BA.5 – work to prevent serious illness, keep people out
of the hospital, and save lives – and we can prevent nearly all COVID-19
deaths with them.

BA.4 and BA.5 – subvariants of the Omicron variant – now make up 80
percent of COVID-19 cases in the U.S., with BA.5 accounting for a
majority of cases. Early indications signal that BA.5 may have some
increased ability to escape immunity, including from prior infections,
meaning it has the potential to cause the numbers of infections to rise
in the coming weeks. This potential for increase is greatest where fewer
people are up to date on their vaccinations and there is increased
waning of immunity from vaccines.

In January 2021, the American people had limited tools to protect
themselves against COVID-19. Today, that is no longer the case. Thanks
to the infrastructure that the President’s comprehensive COVID-19
response has built and the tools that the Administration has worked to
make widely available over the past 18 months, the U.S. is prepared to
combat the challenge of BA.5. More than 222 million Americans are fully
vaccinated, over 106 million people have at least their first booster
shot, and virtually every American of every age is eligible for
vaccination. And, we have more courses of lifesaving treatments
available and being used than ever before, as well as widely available
at-home tests and high-quality masks.

The President’s comprehensive COVID-19 response has produced tremendous
results for the American people: COVID-19 is no longer the disruptive
force it once was, and most COVID-19 deaths are now preventable because
of the vaccines, treatments, and other tools the Biden Administration
has made available to the American people. Daily COVID-19 deaths are
down by 90 percent since the President took office. America’s schools
are open. More Americans are working in the private sector than before
the pandemic started. And, the vast majority of Americans are
comfortable visiting with loved ones, eating out, traveling and doing
other things that they did before COVID-19.

In March, the President released his National COVID-19 Preparedness Plan
– a roadmap to continue our fight against the virus and to continue
minimizing its impact on our lives. Since emerging from the Omicron
surge this past winter, we have worked to make sure that the tools we
have remain widely available and easily accessible to Americans.

To confront BA.5, the Administration will continue mobilizing the full
strength and capabilities of the federal government and working with
state and local leaders, health care workers, the private sector, and
community- and faith-based organizations to ensure that the American
people have easy and convenient access to and use vaccines, tests, and
treatments.

**The Administration’s strategy to manage BA.5 includes:**

**Making it easy for people to get vaccines and boosters:** The
Administration will continue working with state and local leaders,
doctors and pediatricians, pharmacies, community health centers,
long-term care facilities, employers, and community- and faith-based
organizations to drive additional uptake of booster shots, particularly
among those age 50 and older and other at-risk populations, including
long-term care facility staff and residents. Given the rise of BA.5, it
is essential that Americans stay up to date on their COVID-19
vaccinations. The science is clear that COVID-19 vaccines remain our
single-most important tool to protect people and prevent serious
illness, hospitalizations, and deaths, and staying up to date on booster
shots ensures that people have the highest level of protection possible.
Based on the latest CDC data, adults who are up to date with their
vaccinations are 3.5 times less likely to be hospitalized than
unvaccinated adults; among those who are 50 and older, people who have
received two booster shots are 42 times less likely to die from COVID-19
compared to those who are unvaccinated. Vaccines are free and easy to
access at 90,000 convenient locations nationwide. And, the guidance is
clear that every American age 5 and over should receive a booster five
months after their primary series,  and individuals age 50 and older or
those who are moderately or severely immunocompromised should receive a
second booster shot at least four months after their first.

**Making it easy to access COVID-19 treatments and boost provider and
patient awareness:** The Administration will continue working across the
federal government, with state and local leaders, health care providers,
as well as the public and private sectors, to take additional actions to
boost access and awareness of lifesaving treatments, particularly in
areas where BA.5 is spreading. Today, the U.S. has three treatments that
are effective against BA.5, including Paxlovid, a lifesaving antiviral
pill that has been shown to reduce the risk of hospitalization or death
by about 90 percent. Americans who test positive for COVID-19 should
consult their health care provider about their eligibility for these
treatments, or visit COVID.gov to find a Test to Treat location where
they can get tested and treatments all in one place. The Administration
has purchased 20 million treatment courses of Paxlovid – more than any
other country in the world – and moved quickly to make these treatments
widely available and to educate health care providers and patients about
their availability and efficacy. Oral antivirals are now available at
over 41,000 convenient locations nationwide, and nearly 90 percent of
Americans live within 5 miles of a place where they can pick up a
prescription. As a result of the Administration’s actions, the number of
people benefiting from oral antivirals has dramatically increased over
the course of this year, from about 18,000 prescriptions filled each
week in January to more than 230,000 last week – a more than 12-fold
increase. Each day, about one-third of confirmed and reported cases are
receiving free and effective oral antiviral treatments.

**Making free COVID-19 testing, including at-home tests, widely
available:** Testing continues to be an important tool to help mitigate
the spread of COVID-19, including BA.4 and BA.5. In the face of BA.5,
the Administration is encouraging Americans to use at-home tests before
attending large, indoor gatherings, traveling, or visiting indoors with
immunocompromised individuals. COVID-19 testing is now more widely
available and accessible to the American people than ever before, and
there are now 17 over-the-counter, at-home, rapid tests authorized for
the U.S. market – up from zero when the President took office. To help
ensure that Americans have tests on hand if a need arises, the
Administration opened COVIDtests.gov for a third round of ordering ahead
of the summer, meaning that 16 free tests have been made available to
each household since the launch of the program. To ensure equitable
access for visually-impaired individuals, the Administration has also
made available more accessible at-home tests to households with
visually-impaired individuals. To date, the Administration has delivered
approximately 530 million at-home tests directly to over 75 million
American households for free through COVIDtests.gov. Additionally,
private health insurers, Medicare, and all Medicaid programs are
required to cover at-home COVID-19 tests for free; health insurance
plans now cover eight free tests per month per individual which can be
easily accessed at local pharmacies and online. And, there are over
15,000 federally-supported free testing sites across the nation. This
free testing program has increased  equitable access to testing, and 50
percent of individuals currently served by the pharmacy free testing
program are racial and ethnic minorities or live in high social
vulnerability communities.

**Making free high-quality masks widely available and communicate clear
recommendations about when people should consider masking:** Experts
agree that masking in indoor, public spaces is an important tool to
control the spread of COVID-19. The CDC’s COVID-19 Community Levels
provide individuals with clear recommendations on when to consider
masking in indoor, public spaces. As BA.5 drives an increase in cases,
the Administration continues to encourage Americans to visit COVID.gov
to find the level of COVID-19 in their community and follow CDC’s
recommendations on wearing masks in public, indoor settings. Since
January 2021, the Biden Administration has taken significant action,
including using the Defense Production Act, to ensure that the U.S. has
ample supply of high-quality masks for health care workers and that
high-quality masks are also widely available to the American public
online and in stores. To further increase access, over the past seven
months, the Administration has made 400 million non-surgical N95 masks
from the Strategic National Stockpile available to the American people
for free at tens of thousands of convenient locations nationwide – the
largest deployment of personal protective equipment in U.S. history.
And, the Administration will continue to make masks available for health
care and other essential workers through states, building on the over 75
million masks and respirators we have already distributed to states,
Tribes, and territories across the country.

**Prioritizing protections for immunocompromised individuals:** As BA.5
cases rise, the Administration will continue to provide support to
individuals who are immunocompromised so that they have the support they
need to live their lives safely. The Administration has initiated a
communications campaign to ensure that immunocompromised individuals and
their close contacts are up to date with COVID-19 vaccination and
boosters. The availability of vaccines for kids as young as six months
old also ensures that all close contacts of immunocompromised
individuals can be protected by COVID-19 vaccines. The Administration
also continues to make effective pre-exposure prophylactics such as
Evusheld more widely available through enhanced distribution to
clinicians’ offices and clinics. And, in the coming weeks, the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will launch an
easy-to-remember hotline to help individuals access this effective tool
to prevent COVID-19.

**Encouraging all building owners to improve indoor ventilation:**
Improving ventilation can help prevent the spread of BA.4 and BA.5
indoors in buildings. The Administration has provided state and local
leaders hundreds of billions of dollars in federal funds that can be
used in schools, public buildings, and other settings to improve indoor
air quality, and the Administration will continue to advance indoor air
quality in buildings, including by increasing public awareness around
ventilation and filtration improvements to reduce disease spread, as
well as by recognizing buildings and organizations that have taken steps
to improve indoor air quality. These efforts will expand on the
Administration’s “best practices” guide for improving indoor air quality
and reducing the risk of spreading dangerous airborne particles and the
Clean Air in Buildings Challenge, which calls on all building owners and
operators, schools, colleges and universities, and organizations of all
kinds to adopt key strategies to improve indoor air quality in their
buildings and reduce the spread of COVID-19. Additionally, CDC has
released interactive tools to help individuals at home, in schools, and
in other buildings to understand how air flows in their space and what
they can do to help shore up air quality and improve ventilation
indoors.

**Empowering people with the latest information on COVID-19 and where to
access vaccines, treatments, tests, and masks at COVID.Gov:** The
Administration will continue to communicate clearly with the American
people about COVID-19 and the steps that they can take to protect
themselves and their loved ones. Earlier this year, the Biden
Administration launched COVID.gov, a new one-stop shop website to help
Americans find where to access lifesaving tools like vaccines, tests,
treatments, and masks. People can also type in their county to find the
latest updates on the level of COVID-19 in their community and related
guidance. And, with a click of a button, people can access resources
related to testing, ventilation, and other important COVID-19 topics.
COVID.gov is available in English, Spanish, and Simplified Chinese and
is accessible for those using assistive technologies. The Administration
is also making all of these COVID-19 tools available over the phone
through the National Hotline at 1-800-232-0233 (TTY 1-888-720-7489),
which supports over 150 languages. For individuals with disabilities who
may need additional support, the Disability Information and Access Line
(DIAL) is also available to help at 1-888-677-1199 or via email at
DIAL@usaginganddisability.org. 

\###
