---
date: '2022-07-11'
modified_time: 2022-07-11 18:34:10-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-11 17:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/11/biden-administration-produces-first-full-color-image-from-webb-space-telescope/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden Administration Makes Public First Full-Color Image from Webb Space\_\
  Telescope"
---
 
Today, the Biden Administration made public the first [full-color
image](https://www.nasa.gov/webbfirstimages) from the Webb Space
Telescope, which captured the highest-resolution images of the infrared
universe in history. The Webb Space Telescope launched from French
Guiana in December 2021 and is now orbiting the Sun one million miles
away from Earth. The image was previewed to President Biden and Vice
President Harris during a briefing at the White House by officials from
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA), where they
discussed how these revolutionary images will enable breakthroughs in
nearly every branch of astronomy.

During the briefing, President Biden publicly showed the first of the
images: “Webb’s First Deep Field,” the “deepest” and sharpest infrared
image of the distant universe ever produced. This image is filled with
galaxies, some more than 13 billion years old, which means they formed
just after the Big Bang. Over the coming days, NASA will publish
additional images, which reveal details about the atmosphere of an
exoplanet outside our solar system, “stellar nurseries” where stars
form, galaxies that interact and trigger star formation and black holes,
and a glimpse into how stars die.

The Webb Space Telescope is an international program led by NASA with
its partners, ESA (European Space Agency) and the Canadian Space Agency.
Its revolutionary technology will study every phase of cosmic history
over the past 13.5 billion years — from inside our solar system to the
most distant observable galaxies in the early universe. The telescope
gives us the capacity to explore a wide range of questions that help us
understand the origins of the universe and our place within it. The
telescope is one of humanity’s great engineering feats, launching from
Earth on a rocket, and then unfolding itself in space. Thousands of
engineers and hundreds of scientists worked to make the telescope a
reality, along with over 300 universities, organizations, and companies
from 29 U.S. states and 14 countries.

President Biden and Vice President Harris, who chairs the National Space
Council, were briefed by NASA Administrator Bill Nelson, Deputy
Assistant to the President Dr. Alondra Nelson, who leads the White House
Office of Science and Technology Policy, Head of NASA Science Thomas
Zurbuchen, James Webb Space Telescope Program Director Greg Robinson,
Operations Project Scientist Jane Rigby, and Space Telescope Science
Institute Deputy Director Nancy Levenson.

The images from the Webb Space Telescope illustrate the great leaps in
science and technology discovery that can be made with U.S. government
leadership, in partnership with other countries. The Biden-Harris
Administration has worked to restore scientific integrity to Federal
policy-making and to more broadly and equitably engage and serve
Americans around science and technology solutions, including addressing
great challenges like pandemics, cancer, and the climate crisis, and
ensuring America remains the world leader in technologies and industries
of the future that will be critical to our economic prosperity and
national security.

\###
