---
date: '2022-07-29'
modified_time: 2022-07-29 11:12:49-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-29 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/29/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-27/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration: 

-   Kathleen A. FitzGibbon, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Niger
-   Alan J. Patricof, Nominee for Member of the Securities Investor
    Protection Corporation
-   Juan Eduardo Sanchez, Nominee for Federal Co-Chairman of the
    Southwest Border Regional Commission
-   Jay T. Snyder, Nominee for Member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on
    Public Diplomacy
-   Joseph L. Falk, Nominee for Member of the United States Institute of
    Peace

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Kathleen A. FitzGibbon,
Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the Republic
of Niger**  
</span>  
Kathleen FitzGibbon is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Minister-Counselor. She currently serves as the Deputy Chief of
Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Abuja, Nigeria. Prior to that, FitzGibbon
was first the Division Chief, West and Southern Africa, and then the
Director of the Office of Africa Analysis in the Bureau of Intelligence
and Research at the U.S. Department of State. Her extensive experience
in Africa includes service as the Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S.
Embassies in Sierra Leone and Gabon and as the chief of the Political
and Economic section of the U.S. Embassy in Uganda. Among her other
assignments, FitzGibbon served at the U.S. Embassy in Chad and had an
earlier posting in Nigeria. She also worked in the Office to Combat and
Monitor Trafficking in Persons in the State Department. Prior to joining
the State Department, she was as a lecturer at Mary Washington College
in Fredericksburg, Virginia. FitzGibbon earned her Bachelor’s degree
from Hartwick College in Oneonta, New York and a Master’s degree from
the University of California, Davis. She speaks French.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Alan J. Patricof, Nominee for
Member of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation**  
</span>  
Alan J. Patricof is the Co-founder and Chairperson of Primetime
Partners, an early-stage venture capital fund focused on servicing the
aging population. A longtime innovator and advocate for venture capital,
he entered the industry in its formative days with the creation of
Patricof & Co. Ventures Inc., a predecessor to Apax Partners – today,
one of the world’s leading private equity firms with $75 billion under
management. In 2006, he founded Greycroft Partners, a venture capital
firm where he is currently Chairman Emeritus, to invest in leading early
and expansion stage investments in digital media. With offices in New
York and Los Angeles, Greycroft has $2B+ under management. With a
50-plus year career in venture capital, Patricof has been instrumental
in growing the venture capital field from a base of high net-worth
individuals to its position today with broad institutional backing, as
well as playing a key role in the essential legislative initiatives that
have guided its evolution. He has helped build and foster the growth of
numerous major global companies, including, among others, America
Online, Office Depot, Cadence Systems, Cellular Communications, Inc.,
Apple Computer, FORE Systems, NTL, IntraLinks, Audible, Huffington Post
and Axios. He was also a founder and Chairman of the Board of New York
Magazine, which later acquired the Village Voice and New West magazine.
He is currently a board member of the Finance Committee of Northside
Center for Child Development in Harlem, the Board of Overseers of
Columbia School of Business and Fortune Society. He is also a member of
the Council on Foreign Relations. Patricof holds a BS in Finance from
Ohio State University and an MBA from Columbia University Graduate
School of Business.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Juan Eduardo Sanchez, Nominee
for Federal Co-Chairman of the Southwest Border Regional Commission**  
</span>  
Juan Sanchez’s knowledge of the southwest region is both personal and
professional. Raised in Laredo, Texas, on the U.S.-Mexico border,
Sanchez attended public schools through college- graduating with a
Bachelor’s degree in Political Science from Texas A&M International
University, a Hispanic Serving Institution on the border. These
experiences provided him first-hand knowledge of the unique challenges
facing the Southwest Border Regional Commission’s (SBRC) service area.  
  
Sanchez has spent more than twelve years in public service working to
improve the quality of life for people on the U.S.-Mexico border.
Through various positions in Congress, he has worked with federal,
state, and local governments to help create economic growth and
development opportunities for the southwest region. This has included
working hand in hand with community leaders in New Mexico and across
south Texas, helping to deliver resources and develop tools for
underserved communities, tribes, educational institutions, local
governments, and non-profits. Sanchez has been a driving force in
crafting the first-ever, bipartisan humanitarian aid reimbursement
program for border communities; increasing federal investment in water
infrastructure projects; helping local governments navigate COVID-19
relief funding; and securing the initial funding for the Southwest
Regional Border Commission.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Jay T. Snyder, Nominee for
Member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy**  
</span>  
Jay T. Snyder has an expansive career in philanthropy, public service,
and business, working throughout the United States, Europe, Asia, and
the Middle East. In 2009, Snyder founded the Open Hands Initiative
(OHI), a nonprofit organization dedicated to public diplomacy.
Connecting young leaders and underserved communities across the
developing world, OHI has conducted people-to-people exchange programs
in Colombia, Egypt, Jordan, Morocco, Myanmar, and Syria, fostering
mutual understanding in the areas of journalism, women’s
entrepreneurship, health equity, conflict resolution, and disability
rights. Among Snyder’s many nonprofit activities, he serves on
Georgetown University’s College Board of Advisors, the USC Center for
Public Diplomacy Advisory Board, and the Beatrice Snyder Foundation,
which supports a diverse range of cultural and educational charities,
including the Clinton Foundation, Global Health Corps, NYU Langone, and
The Public Theater. He served as the Co-President of the American
Friends of the London Philharmonia Orchestra. Snyder also supports
refugee work by Choose Love and is a National Council member of
Welcome.US.

Snyder has served in both federal and state government appointments.
President Clinton named him U.S. Representative to the 55th United
Nations General Assembly. Snyder was also selected to be a member of the
U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy. In service to his home
state, Snyder was appointed as a Commissioner on the New York State
Commission on Public Authority Reform in June 2005, as established by
Governor George E. Pataki. Snyder is also Principal of HBJ Investments,
SL Ventures, and Butternut Partners, firms specializing in private and
venture capital investments. He serves as a Consultant and an Observer
to the board on numerous startups and growth-phase companies.
Previously, he was  an executive at Biocraft Laboratories. Snyder is
married and has three sons.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Joe Falk, Nominee for Member
of the United States Institute of Peace**  
</span>  
Joseph Falk is a consultant with the law firm of Akerman LLP and a
licensed mortgage originator. Akerman is a top 100 law firm and employs
over 700 attorneys and consultants. Falk was past President and
Legislative Chairman of the National Association of Mortgage Brokers
(NAMB). Falk is the author of the NAMB’s ‘Model State Statute Initiative
for the Licensing and Education of All Originators’. This effort led to
the introduction and passage of the national S.A.F.E. Licensing Act
signed into law in 2008. He has testified before Congress, both the
House and the Senate, on how to improve the regulatory structure
governing the mortgage industry. In 2014, he was appointed by President
Obama as a member of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board. Falk is a board member of the national LGBTQ Victory Fund, and
the Board and Capital Campaign Chairman of the Miami-based Frost Science
Museum. He is a former board member and past Chairman of SAVE, a Florida
based LGBT advocacy organization.

Falk is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Franklin and Marshall College and
received his MBA from the Harvard Business School. He is an avid amateur
photographer and enjoys ethnographic adventure travel. He resides in
Miami, Florida.

\###
