---
date: '2022-07-20'
modified_time: 2022-07-20 09:33:29-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-20 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-invests-in-summer-learning-and-enrichment-programs-to-help-students-catch-up/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Invests in Summer Learning and\
  \ Enrichment Programs to Help Students Catch\_Up"
---
 
*First Lady Jill Biden and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Embark on a Multi-State Summer Learning Tour *

Summer learning and enrichment programs can play a critical role in
student success. From providing students opportunities to catch up
academically from what they may have missed during the pandemic to
providing channels for students to engage with their peers, friends, and
caring adults, summer programs across the country are helping students
recover and thrive. President Biden has invested significantly in
expanding summer programs for students and families across the nation,
because he knows it is an essential ingredient in student recovery and
success. Through President Biden’s American Rescue Plan (ARP), states
and districts received $122 billion to help schools reopen and help
students catch up academically and access mental health supports,
including by increasing summer programming. As a result, all 50 states,
Washington D.C. and Puerto Rico, are investing in summer learning and
enrichment offerings, providing more opportunities for students –
especially those disproportionately impacted by the pandemic – to
benefit academically and socially from these programs.

Further elevating the importance of high-quality summer learning
programs, President Biden has called on schools to use American Rescue
plan funds to provide high-quality summer learning programs – as well as
tutoring and afterschool programs – at the scale needed to support, on
average, an additional four months of learning gains in reading and
math.

Starting today, First Lady Jill Biden and Secretary of Education Miguel
Cardona embark on a tour across the country to amplify that call and
highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is helping students catch
up academically through summer learning programs supported by the
American Rescue Plan.

**Summer learning and enrichment programming is among the top strategies
school districts are using to address missed instruction – and the
American Rescue Plan is funding it.**

President Biden’s American Rescue Plan provided states and districts
with $122 billion to help schools reopen and help students recover
academically and access the mental health supports they need. States
were also required to set aside over a billion dollars in funding to
invest in summer programs, because summer is an important time for
students to reengage with their peers and teachers, catch up
academically from missed instruction, and get the social, emotional, and
mental health supports they need.

-   **Local school districts plan to spend $27 billion of American
    Rescue Plan funds on academic recovery.** According to a June
    [analysis](https://www.future-ed.org/financial-trends-in-local-schools-covid-aid-spending/)
    by Future Ed, school districts across the country plan to spend $27
    billion on academic recovery, second only to investments in staffing
    to help students recover from the pandemic and thrive. The American
    Rescue Plan requires districts to spend 20% of their ARP Elementary
    and Secondary School Emergency Relief (ESSER) funds on academic
    recovery, but according to the analysis, districts are planning to
    spend more than the required percentage – at least 25% – to help
    more students catch up academically. Districts are also planning to
    spend an additional 23% of their ARP funds on staffing – which will
    play a critical role in helping students recover academically and
    access the supports they need.

<!-- -->

-   **Summer learning is among the top strategies school districts are
    using to provide additional academic instruction  **The Future Ed
    analysis also found that summer learning and afterschool programs
    make up nearly a quarter of the academic recovery investments. Its
    analysis projects that schools plan to spend over $6 billion of
    their ARP ESSER funds on these types of programs.

**First Lady Jill Biden and Secretary Cardona will highlight summer
learning and enrichment programs in Connecticut, Michigan, and
Georgia.**

Today, First Lady Jill Biden and Secretary Cardona kicked off a
multi-state tour highlighting ARP-funded summer learning programs that
are helping students catch up academically and providing them with
mental health, social, and emotional supports they need to succeed.
Together Connecticut, Michigan, and Georgia received $9 billion in ARP
ESSER funds to support safe school reopening and recovery and are
anticipated to spend at least $2 billion dollars on academic recovery,
including through summer learning and afterschool programs.

-   **Connecticut has received $1.1 billion in ARP ESSER funds, and the
    state and school districts are anticipated to spend at least $275
    million dollars on state and local academic recovery efforts through
    September 2024.** The Connecticut State Department of Education
    launched a Summer Enrichment Grant Program to provide up to $250,000
    in funds each to dozens of grant recipients that are providing and
    expanding summer programs this year, particularly those serving
    students most impacted by the pandemic. Last summer, Connecticut
    awarded nearly $9  million to grant recipients for summer
    programming.

Dr. Biden and Secretary Cardona will visit a Horizons National summer
learning program, held at Albertus Magnus College in New
Haven, CT, serving elementary students from local public schools.
Horizons received a $157,500 ARP grant, which is allowing the
organization to expand its programming across the New Haven region to
serve 1,000 students.

-   **Because of ARP ESSER funds, public schools in Detroit, MI have
    been able to double the number of students in summer school this
    year.** Detroit, MI received over $800 million in ARP ESSER funds,
    and the state overall received over $3.7 billion in ARP ESSER funds.
    The state and school districts are anticipated to spend at least
    $925 million dollars on academic recovery, including through summer
    programming. Because of ARP ESSER, Detroit was able to expand its
    summer enrichment offerings and doubled the number of students in
    summer programs this year. As a result, 8,000 students are attending
    summer school this year.

Dr. Biden and Secretary Cardona will visit a Detroit Public Schools
Community District summer learning program, held at Schulze Academy for
Technology and Arts in Detroit, MI, serving kindergarten through 8th
grade students from the school district. ARP funding has enabled
thousands more students in the district to access summer programming,
with a focus on enrichment opportunities including STEM and STEAM
programming, arts, coding and cooking.  

-   **Georgia is granting $40 million to over 100 organizations across
    the state operating summer and afterschool programs.** Georgia
    received $4.2 billion in ARP ESSER funds, roughly $1 billion of
    which the state and school districts are anticipated to spend on
    academic recovery. As part of this effort, Georgia created the
    Building Opportunities in Out-of-School Time (BOOST) Grant program,
    where the state funds grants to community-based organizations that
    operate summer and afterschool programs. The goal of the program is
    to provide evidence-based programming focused on supporting students
    most impacted by the pandemic and helping them recover. Georgia is
    granting $40 million to approximately 100-120 organizations doing
    this critical work across the state, funded by ARP.

Dr. Biden and Secretary Cardona will visit a Horizons National summer
learning program, held at the University of Georgia in Athens,
GA, serving students from Barnett Shoals Elementary School. Horizons
received a BOOST Grant of $192,500 per year for three years starting
this year to provide and expand programming to more Athens youth during
the summer and year-round.

Dr. Biden and Secretary Cardona’s tour is part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s broader commitment to addressing lost instructional
time and ensuring students have the mental health supports they need to
recover and thrive. Earlier this month, the Administration
[launched](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-national-effort-to-support-student-success/)
a national strategy to help students recover academically, with the goal
of mobilizing 250,000 tutors and mentors to support students’ academic
needs across the country. Tutors, mentors, and other adults in
high-impact roles will play a critical role this summer and during the
school year in helping students recover academically and succeed in and
out of the classroom. To sign up to volunteer, or get help expanding,
launching or improving high-quality programs, visit
[www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org](https://www.partnershipstudentsuccess.org).
