---
date: '2022-07-14'
modified_time: 2022-07-14 06:22:19-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-14 07:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/14/the-jerusalem-u-s-israel-strategic-partnership-joint-declaration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Jerusalem U.S.-Israel Strategic Partnership Joint\_Declaration"
---
 
The leaders of the United States and Israel, President Biden and Prime
Minister Lapid, met in Jerusalem on 14 July 2022, and adopted the
following Joint Declaration on the US-Israel Strategic Partnership:

The United States and Israel reaffirm the unbreakable bonds between our
two countries and the enduring commitment of the United States to
Israel’s security. Our countries further reaffirm that the strategic
U.S.-Israel partnership is based on a bedrock of shared values, shared
interests, and true friendship. Furthermore, the United States and
Israel affirm that among the values the countries share is an unwavering
commitment to democracy, the rule of law, and the calling of “Tikkun
Olam,” repairing the world. The leaders express appreciation to former
Prime Minister Bennett, who led the most diverse government in Israel’s
history, and under whose leadership this extraordinary partnership has
continued to grow stronger.

Consistent with the longstanding security relationship between the
United States and Israel and the unshakeable U.S. commitment to Israel’s
security, and especially to the maintenance of its qualitative military
edge, the United States reiterates its steadfast commitment to preserve
and strengthen Israel’s capability to deter its enemies and to defend
itself by itself against any threat or combination of threats. The
United States further reiterates that these commitments are bipartisan
and sacrosanct, and that they are not only moral commitments, but also
strategic commitments that are vitally important to the national
security of the United States itself.

The United States stresses that integral to this pledge is the
commitment never to allow Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon, and that it
is prepared to use all elements of its national power to ensure that
outcome. The United States further affirms the commitment to work
together with other partners to confront Iran’s aggression and
destabilizing activities, whether advanced directly or through proxies
and terrorist organizations such as Hezbollah, Hamas, and Palestinian
Islamic Jihad.

The United States and Israel note that nothing better reflects the
steadfast and bipartisan support of the United States to Israel’s
security than the unprecedented Memoranda of Understanding on security
assistance signed by successive U.S. administrations over the last few
decades, and that these arrangements demonstrate in word and deed that
the United States considers Israel’s security essential to U.S.
interests and an anchor of regional stability.

The United States strongly supports implementing the terms of the
current historic $38 billion Memorandum of Understanding in full, which
honors the United States’ enduring commitment to Israel’s security, as
well as its conviction that a follow-on MOU should address emerging
threats and new realities. In addition, the United States is committed
to seeking additional missile defense assistance in excess of MOU
levels, in exceptional circumstances such as the hostilities with Hamas
over eleven days in May 2021. Israel appreciates the U.S. commitment to
the MOU and for providing an additional $1 billion over MOU levels in
supplemental missile defense funding following the 2021 conflict.
Further, the countries express enthusiasm to move forward the
U.S.-Israel defense partnership through cooperation in cutting-edge
defense technologies such as high energy laser weapons systems to defend
the skies of Israel and in the future those of other U.S. and Israel
security partners.

Israel thanks the United States for its ongoing and extensive support
for deepening and broadening the historic Abraham Accords. The countries
affirm that Israel’s peace and normalization agreements with the United
Arab Emirates, Bahrain, and Morocco constitute a critical addition to
Israel’s strategic peace treaties with Egypt and Jordan, all of which
are important to the future of the Middle East region and to the cause
of regional security, prosperity, and peace. The countries note that the
historic Negev Summit, initiated and hosted by Prime Minister Lapid, was
a landmark event in joint U.S.-Israeli efforts to build a new regional
framework that is changing the face of the Middle East.

The United States and Israel welcome in this regard the meeting held in
Manama, Bahrain on June 27th, forming the Negev Forum on regional
cooperation. The United States welcomes these developments and is
committed to continue playing an active role, including in the context
of President Biden’s upcoming visit to Saudi Arabia, in building a
robust regional architecture; to deepen the ties between Israel and all
of its regional partners; to advance Israel’s regional integration over
time; and to expand the circle of peace to include ever more Arab and
Muslim States.

The United States and Israel also welcome the opportunity to participate
in a quadrilateral (hybrid) meeting, together with the leaders of India
and the United Arab Emirates, in the context of the I2U2 initiative,
bringing together these four countries to advance cooperation in economy
and strategic infrastructure, and demonstrating the importance of this
new partnership, first launched by their Foreign Ministers in October
2021.

The United States and Israel reiterate their concerns regarding the
ongoing attacks against Ukraine, their commitment to Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and affirmed the importance of
continued humanitarian assistance to the people of Ukraine.

The United States and Israel affirm that they will continue to work
together to combat all efforts to boycott or de-legitimize Israel, to
deny its right to self-defense, or to unfairly single it out in any
forum, including at the United Nations or the International Criminal
Court. While fully respecting the right to freedom of expression, they
firmly reject the BDS campaign. The two countries will use the tools at
their disposal to fight every scourge and source of antisemitism and to
respond whenever legitimate criticism crosses over into bigotry and
hatred or attempts to undermine Israel’s rightful and legitimate place
among the family of nations. In this context, they express their deep
concern over the global surge in antisemitism and reassert their
commitment to counter this ancient hatred in all of its manifestations.
The United States is proud to stand with the Jewish and democratic State
of Israel, and with its people, whose uncommon courage, resilience, and
spirit of innovation are an inspiration to so many worldwide.

The United States and Israel commit to continuing to discuss the
challenges and opportunities in Israeli-Palestinian relations. The
countries condemn the deplorable series of terrorist attacks against
Israeli citizens in recent months and affirm the need to confront
radical forces, such as Hamas, seeking to inflame tension and instigate
violence and terrorism. President Biden reaffirms his longstanding and
consistent support of a two-state solution and for advancing toward a
reality in which Israelis and Palestinians alike can enjoy equal
measures of security, freedom and prosperity. The United States stands
ready to work with Israel, the Palestinian Authority, and regional
stakeholders toward that goal. The leaders also affirm their shared
commitment to initiatives that strengthen the Palestinian economy and
improve the quality of life of Palestinians.

The United States and Israel enjoy extensive bilateral cooperation and
dialogue between their two countries in many critical spheres – from
groundbreaking collaboration in science and technology, to unique
intelligence sharing and joint military exercises, to shared efforts in
confronting pressing global challenges such as climate change, food
security, and healthcare. To complement the extensive existing
scientific and technological cooperation between their two countries,
and to bring their cooperation to a new height, the leaders launched a
new U.S.-Israel Strategic High-Level Dialogue on Technology to form a
U.S.-Israel technological partnership in critical and emerging
technologies, as well as in areas of global concern: pandemic
preparedness, climate change, artificial intelligence, and trusted
technology. This new technological partnership will be designed to boost
the countries’ mutual innovation ecosystems and address geostrategic
challenges.

In this same spirit, the United States and Israel affirm their
commitment to continue their shared and accelerated efforts to enable
Israeli passport holders to be included in the U.S. Visa Waiver Program
as soon as possible, as well as their support for increased
collaboration on operational cyber exchange and on combatting
cybercrime. The leaders state that all of these initiatives, and
countless other joint endeavors, undertaken between their peoples at
every level of government and civil society demonstrate that the
U.S.-Israel strategic partnership is indispensable and makes an outsized
contribution not only to the good of American and Israeli citizens but
also to the good of the Middle East and of the world.

With this record of remarkable achievement and with a sense of the
incredible promise that the unparalleled U.S.-Israel relationship holds
for the future, the United States and Israel warmly welcome entering the
75th year of this extraordinary partnership. 

Signed at Jerusalem on the 14<sup>th</sup> day of the July, 2022, which
corresponds to the 15<sup>th</sup> day of Tamuz, 5782, in the Hebrew
calendar, in duplicate in the English language.

Joseph R. Biden Jr. 

President of the United States of America   

Yair Lapid

Prime Minister of the State of Israel
