---
date: '2022-07-11'
published_time: 2022-07-11 20:22:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/11/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-in-a-briefing-to-preview-the-first-images-from-the-james-webb-space-telescope/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris in a Briefing to Preview\
  \ the First Images from the James Webb Space\_Telescope"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

6:13 P.M. EDT

  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Well, good evening,
everyone.  I am very honored to be with you all. 

President Joe Biden and I talk often about our mutual passion for
everything you all do.  This is a very exciting moment to join you for
the unveiling of the work that you have been laboring on for decades.

So, to our President, Joe Biden, thank you for your leadership around
all of these issues.  Our NASA Administrator, Bill Nelson, and the
Office of Science and Technology Policy Acting Director, Dr. Alondra
Nelson.

Thank you also to our colleagues from across the White House and NASA
and everyone else joining us from home. 

So, yes, as Chair of the National Space Council, I know that today
represents an exciting new chapter in the exploration of our universe. 
From the beginning of history, humans have looked up to the night sky
with wonder.  And thanks to dedicated people who have been working for
decades in engineering and on scientific marvels, we can look to the sky
with new understanding.

When NASA launched the Hubble Space Telescope in 1990, we were able to
see the stars unobstructed by the Earth’s atmosphere and understand the
universe in ways we could have never imagined even a few decades
earlier.

And now we enter a new phase of scientific discovery.  Building on the
legacy of Hubble, the James Webb Space Telescope allows us to see deeper
into space than ever before and in stunning clarity.  It will enhance
what we know about the origins of our universe, our solar system, and
possibly life itself. 

This was made possible by partnership among nations.  And it is an
example of how the scientific endeavor can build upon the international
rules and norms that govern our cooperation in space.

This telescope is one of humanity’s great engineering achievements.  And
the images we will see today are a testament to the amazing work done by
the thousands of workers across our nation who dedicated years to this
project.  They embarked on this complex endeavor for the benefit of
humankind, and in the process, accelerated American innovation,
strengthened partnerships with our allies, and will undoubtedly inspire
generations to look to the heavens with excitement and ambition.

With that, it is my great honor to introduce a leader who has always
believed in the power of American innovation and international
cooperation to achieve the remarkable: our President, the President of
the United States, Joe Biden. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it’s great to be with you all.  And I was going to
say “good afternoon,” but we’re starting this meeting late because I was
engaged in preparing for a trip to the Middle East.

But today is a historic day.  And thank you, Vice President Harris,
Chair of the National Space Council.  And thank you, my dear friend and
our outstanding NASA Administrator and the guy — the only guy here who’s
been in space, Bill Nelson.  Bill, you’re a good friend.  Thank you very
much for what you’re doing. 

And — and, Dr. Nelson, you’re doing a great job leading this Office of
Science and Technology Policy.  It really is a matter — it really is
amazing. 

Six and a half months ago, a rocket launched from Earth carrying the
world’s newest, most powerful deep-space telescope on a journey one
million miles into the cosmos — first of all, that blows my mind: a
million miles into the cosmos — along the way unfolding itself,
deploying a mirror 21 feet wide, a sunshield the size of a tennis court,
and 250,000 tiny shutters, each one smaller than a grain of sand.

Put together, it’s a new window into the history of our universe.

And today, we’re going to get a glimpse of the first light to shine
through that window — light from other worlds, orbiting stars far beyond
our own.  It’s astounding to me when I read this and saw the — I mean,
it really is.  It’s — it’s — anyway, I don’t want to — I’ll see what
they think when we see this. 

But light where stars were born and from where they die.  Light from the
oldest galaxies.  The oldest documented light in the history of the
universe from over 13 billion — let me say that again: 13 billion years
ago.  It’s hard to even fathom. 

Tomorrow, when this image is shared with the world, it will be a
historic moment for science and technology, for astronomy and space
exploration, for America and all of humanity.

You know, as an international collaboration, this telescope embodies how
America leads the world not by the example of our power, but the power
of our example.  A partnership with others, it symbolizes the relentless
spirit of American ingenuity.   And it shows what we can achieve, what
more we can discover, not just about distant places, but about our very
own planet and climate, like NASA’s Earth System Observatory that we
launched last year.

That’s why the federal government must invest — must invest in science
and technology, more than we have in the past.

These images are going to remind the world that America can do big
things.  And they’ll remind the American people, especially our
children, that there’s nothing beyond our capacity — nothing beyond our
capacity.

We can see possibilities no one has ever seen before.  We can go places
no one has ever gone before.  You know, you’ve — you’ve heard me say it
over and over again.  America is defined by one single word:
possibilities.  Possibilities. 

I want to thank the team at NASA for once again showing that that’s who
we are — that’s who we are as a nation: a nation of possibilities. 

And now let’s take a look at the very first image from this miraculous
telescope. 

(The image is displayed.)  (Applause.)

NASA Administrator Nelson, I’m going to turn this over to you.  So will
you please tell us about what we’re seeing?

ADMINISTRATOR NELSON:  Mr. President, if you held a grain of sand on the
tip of your finger at arm’s length, that is the part of the universe
that you’re seeing — just one little speck of the universe.  And what
you’re seeing there are galaxies.  You’re seeing galaxies that are
shining around other galaxies whose light has been bent.  And you’re
seeing just a small little portion of the universe.  
  
You know, 100 years ago, Mr. President, Madam Vice President — 100 years
ago, we thought there was only one galaxy.  Now, the number is
unlimited.  And in our galaxy, we have billions of stars, or suns.  And
there are billions of galaxies with billions of stars and suns.  And
we’re getting our first glimpse.  
  
As you said, Mr. President, we’re looking back more than 13 billion
years.  Light travels at 186,000 miles per second.  And that light that
you are seeing on one of those little specks has been traveling for over
13 billion years.  
  
And, by the way, we’re going back further, because this is just the
first image.  They’re going back about 13.5 billion years.  And since we
know the universe is 13.8 billion years old, we’re going back almost to
the beginning.  
  
That is the discovery that we are making with this.   
  
There’s another thing that you’re going to find with this telescope: It
is going to be so precise, you’re going to see whether or not planets,
because of the chemical composition that we can determine with this
telescope of their atmosphere, if those planets are habitable.  
  
And when you look at something as big as this is, we are going to be
able to answer questions that we don’t even know what the questions are
yet.  
  
This is what’s happening, and it’s because of this wonderful team that’s
out here, part of that team led by Thomas Zurbuchen.  It was in trouble
financially five years ago.  He took it over.  He got Greg Robinson,
that you’re going to meet, to direct it.  And the result is what you’ve
seen.  
  
So, what an incredible team — joined, by the way, with our international
partners, the European Space Agency and the Canadian Space Agency.  So
this is an international endeavor.

  
THE PRESIDENT:  It’s amazing.  I wonder what the press is like in those
other places.

6:23 P.M. EDT

  
