---
date: '2022-07-02'
modified_time: 2022-07-02 15:45:57-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-02 15:45:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/02/what-they-are-reading-in-the-states-biden-harris-officials-lead-a-nationwide-economic-travel-blitz/
tags: statements-releases
title: "What They are Reading in the States: Biden-\u2060Harris Officials Lead a Nationwide\
  \ Economic Travel\_Blitz"
---
 
This week, as President Biden showcased America’s leadership on the
world stage, Biden-Harris Cabinet members and administration officials
led a nationwide economic travel blitz to highlight how the President’s
economic agenda is delivering results for communities here in the
states.    
  
Biden-Harris officials fanned out across the country – from Alabama to
Alaska – and spoke directly to the American people about the actions the
Biden-Harris Administration is taking to tackle inflation, lower costs
for families, create good-paying union jobs, and how the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Bipartisan Innovation Act will help America win
the competition for the 21<sup>st</sup> century.  
  
See below for a sampling of what Americans are reading in the states
following this week’s economic travel blitz.

![](https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/f21e6037-0526-05fb-861c-68707f310fe1.jpg)

***Transportation Secretary Buttigieg, Office of Management & Budget
Director Young, EPA Administrator Regan and Infrastructure Coordinator
Landrieu in Louisiana***  
  
**New Orleans Advocate: [Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg has
list of projects from Louisiana to
consider](https://www.nola.com/news/politics/article_83d6abe6-f98f-11ec-9ba5-d752156fe333.html)**  
Louisiana will get its share of the more than $1 trillion in
infrastructure spending that President Joe Biden and Congress are
sending to states, Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg said Friday.
“A lot of the opportunities for passenger rail are in Louisiana and the
Gulf Coast,” Buttigieg said. “Part of it is funding, but part of it is
having the right support for passenger rail when it’s running on lines
that are owned by the freight railways. Freight railroads have a
business responsibility, but they also have a legal responsibility to be
good hosts to passenger rail when it’s on their metal.”

**Times Picayune: [Shalanda Young found her way from Clinton, via Loyola
and Tulane, to head federal budget
office](https://www.nola.com/news/politics/article_efe86b06-f98c-11ec-a560-036948ffb803.html)**  
“This” was to become in March the first Black woman to serve as director
of the Office of Management and Budget, a federal agency that’s little
known outside of Washington but that makes spending and regulatory
decisions that affect all Americans. Young was speaking Friday after
appearing on a panel at the Essence Festival with two other Biden
administration cabinet officials – Transportation Secretary Pete
Buttigieg and Environmental Protection Agency administrator Michael
Regan. \[….\] Asked about the one Louisiana issue that captures her
attention at OMB, Young replied, “Disaster, disaster, disaster response.
It is something personal to me. After Katrina, I got to work on aid as
an Appropriations baby staffer. I’ve kept that interest all through my
career and have worked with the Louisiana delegation to make sure
Louisiana has the resources.” \[….\] Noting that President Biden visited
Lake Charles in May 2021, in the wake of hurricanes Laura and Delta,
Young said, “I get to work with someone who wants to deliver for
everybody. There shouldn’t be any partisan politics in disaster
response.”  
  
**NOLA.com: [EPA chief says Supreme Court ruling won’t block efforts to
curb climate
change](https://www.nola.com/news/environment/article_d61a1818-f965-11ec-a9d1-9bfca44a6115.html)**  
With the EPA taking a lead role, President Joe Biden’s administration
had aimed to slash carbon emissions in half by 2030 and eventually steer
the power sector toward an emissions-free goal before 2040. Regan says
that goal is still achievable. The EPA is still assessing the full
impact of the decision on its ability to regulate power plants, but
Regan said the agency can take an even more aggressive approach against
other emitters, including vehicles and the oil and gas industry. “We’ve
already (enacted) the most stringent emission standards on light-duty
cars, and we’re proposing more for heavy duty vehicles,” he said. “And
we’ve proposed rules for methane emissions for the oil and gas industry
that are the most stringent in history.” The agency is also curbing the
use of hydrofluorocarbons, the climate-warming chemicals used in
air-conditioners and refrigerators.  
  
***Commerce Secretary Raimondo at SelectUSA Summit in Maryland***  
  
**Reuters: [U.S. commerce secretary presses lawmakers to greenlight $52
bln for
chipmaking](https://www.reuters.com/technology/us-commerce-secretary-presses-lawmakers-greenlight-52-bln-chipmaking-2022-06-27/)**  
  
US Commerce Department Secretary Gina Raimondo on Monday stepped up
pressure on Congress to approve US$52 billion in funding for chip makers
to expand operations, warning that firms would abandon American
expansion plans without the legislation … Raimondo’s warning came after
Taiwan’s GlobalWafers announced plans earlier on Monday to build a US$5
billion plant in Sherman, Texas to produce the silicon wafers needed for
manufacturing chips. Raimondo said the company’s CEO told her the
investment was contingent on Congress approving the funding.  
  
**Bloomberg: [Taiwan’s GlobalWafers to Build $5 Billion Chip Plant in
Texas](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-06-27/taiwan-s-globalwafers-plans-to-build-chip-wafer-factory-in-texas#xj4y7vzkg)**  
Speaking at an investment summit Monday, Commerce Secretary Gina
Raimondo said the US currently produces 10% to 12% of the world’s
microprocessor chips, down from nearly 40% in earlier years. “We took
our eye off the ball,” the secretary said. “We stopped investing in chip
manufacturing and chip R&D. And, in search of cheap labor, we watched a
lot of our manufacturing leave our shores.” The Biden administration has
for months sought the passage of a bill that would appropriate $52
billion for domestic semiconductor manufacturing. The legislation would
provide billions of dollars to boost research and development with an
eye toward creating new technologies to help the US stay ahead of a
rising China.  
  
***Housing and Urban Development Secretary Fudge in Florida***  
  
**WFOR (CBS Miami, FL):** [**HUD Secretary Marcia Fudge visits South
Florida to get firsthand look at housing
crisis**](https://www.cbsnews.com/miami/news/us-hud-secretary-marcia-fudge-south-florida-affordable-housing/)  
Housing and Urban Development Secretary Marcia Fudge’s first stop was
Lauderhill Point, a HUD apartment complex for 176 low-income families
currently undergoing renovation. “It is so different when you see it for
yourself, that’s why I’m here, it is important that we address the
housing crisis,” she said…. The Biden administration has allocated $10
billion dollars for housing grants administered by HUD and has requested
$30 billion more. Millions of dollars are headed to Florida….

**Florida Times-Union:** [**HUD secretary calls Hilltop Village a
‘success story’ following turnaround at Jacksonville
apartments**](https://www.jacksonville.com/story/news/local/2022/06/27/hud-secretary-marcia-fudge-visits-jacksonville-apartments-homeless/7748240001/)  
Local, state and federal officials convened in Jacksonville on Monday to
tour several federally supported housing complexes and tout positive
changes made at Hilltop Village apartments, a complex that has been rife
with problems for years… During a news conference after the tours at St.
Clair Evans Academy, Fudge said Hilltop has had a new management company
for the last five months and work has continued on improving the complex
and ridding it of a rodent infestation. Several residents of Hilltop
also spoke and agreed that living conditions at the apartment complex
have improved.

**Miami Herald:** [**Biden’s housing chief calls Miami the ‘epicenter of
the housing crisis in this
country’**](https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/community/miami-dade/article262956308.html)  
The nation’s top housing official visited Miami on Tuesday and called
the city the “epicenter” of a housing crisis in the United States. “I
decided I was going to Miami, to the epicenter of the housing crisis in
this country,” Marcia Fudge, secretary of Housing and Urban Development,
said during a visit to Miami-Dade County’s Liberty Square complex. In
Miami-Dade, HUD funding provides the bulk of the county’s $700 million
budget for public housing, which includes complexes such as Liberty
Square and rental vouchers under the federal Section 8 program, which
subsidizes rents for low-income residents with requirements for stable
rents and price caps.  
  
***Energy Secretary Granholm in Pennsylvania  ***  
  
**TribLive:** [**Officials say Western Pa. can lead way in clean energy
industry**](https://triblive.com/local/sewickley/energy-secretary-granholm-talks-western-pa-s-clean-energy-future-during-visit/)  
On Tuesday, U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm visited the
Pittsburgh region to meet regional leaders to discuss the Southwestern
Pennsylvania’s future in the clean energy sector…First, Granholm toured
a former steel factory in Leetsdale that has been converted into a solar
manufacturing facility with U.S. Sen. Bob Casey, D-Scranton, and U.S.
Rep. Conor Lamb, D-Mt. Lebanon…Then, Granholm joined a roundtable at the
United Steelworkers Building in Downtown Pittsburgh to discuss the
region’s efforts to rebuild the energy sector by embracing energy
storage technology, hydrogen, natural gas, nuclear, and green
buildings.  
  
**WPXI (NBC Pittsburgh, PA):** [**US energy secretary, Sen. Bob Casey in
Leetsdale to celebrate grand opening of new steel
facility**](https://www.wpxi.com/news/local/us-energy-secretary-sen-bob-casey-leetsdale-celebrate-grand-opening-new-steel-facility/GA5MMCBA45DANCZZZGP2OBZ7DM/)  
U.S. Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm and Sen. Bob Casey (D-PA)
were in Leetsdale, Allegheny County on Tuesday to celebrate the grand
opening of a new BCI Steel production facility at the site of a former
Bethlehem Steel plant…“Pittsburgh is the emblematic community that has
risen from the ashes, like a phoenix,” said Granholm…“It’s going to put
a lot of our people to work, but it also shows our commitment to
investing in the future,” said Allegheny County Executive Rich
Fitzgerald.  
  
**Pittsburgh Post-Gazette:** [**U.S. Steel meets U.S. solar in Leetsdale
manufacturing
facility**](https://www.post-gazette.com/business/powersource/2022/06/28/american-solar-energy-development-bci-engineering-nextrackers-steel-jennifer-granholm-dan-shugar/stories/202206290061)  
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm knows how to work a metaphor…“This
facility built landing craft for the invasion of Normandy,” she said on
Tuesday…”What you’ll be delivering might be part of the biggest peace
plan in the world,” she said…Ms. Granholm then headed to Downtown to
hold a roundtable on energy jobs at the headquarters of United
Steelworkers. The Department of Energy released its annual energy jobs
report on Tuesday, which estimated that Pennsylvania now has more solar
jobs than coal jobs (5,339 vs. 5,062).  
  
***Transportation Secretary Buttigieg in Alabama***

**Alabama Reporter: [Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg visits
Birmingham to announce $1 billion
program](https://www.alreporter.com/2022/07/01/transportation-secretary-pete-buttigieg-visits-birmingham-to-announce-1-billion-program/)**  
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg, joined by Congresswoman
Terri Sewell, D-Alabama, visited Birmingham on Thursday to announce the
U.S. Department of Transportation’s new Reconnecting Communities
program, a $1 billion plan designed to restore community contact to
transportation and increase economic opportunity. “Transportation can
connect us to jobs, services, and loved ones, but we’ve also seen
countless cases around the country where a piece of infrastructure cuts
off a neighborhood or a community because of how it was built,”
Buttigieg said. “Using funds from President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we are proud to announce the launch of Reconnecting
Communities: the first-ever dedicated federal initiative to unify
neighborhoods living with the impacts of past infrastructure choices
that divided them.”

**WIAT (CBS Birmingham, AL): [U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete
Buttigieg promotes new Birmingham bus system as part of infrastructure
pilot
program](https://www.cbs42.com/news/u-s-transportation-secretary-pete-buttigieg-promotes-new-birmingham-bus-system-as-part-of-infrastructure-pilot-program/)**  
U.S. Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg made a stop in Birmingham
Thursday to promote a new bus transit system as an example of what
further infrastructure funding can do to connect communities. The
Birmingham Xpress is set to start running in September, a 15-mile bus
route between Five Points West and Woodlawn. Buttigieg was in the city
to support the $20 million project funded through the ‘Reconnecting
Communities’ Pilot Program that’s part of the bipartisan infrastructure
law passed last year. “It’s a major milestone that we have been working
on throughout this administration,” Buttigieg said.

***Infrastructure Implementation Coordinator Landrieu in Colorado***

**KDVR (Fox Denver, CO):**[**Polis, state leaders highlight new money
for Central 70
Project**](https://kdvr.com/news/local/polis-state-leaders-highlight-new-money-for-central-70-project/)  
The Central 70 Project, which completely redeveloped a 10-mile stretch
of Interstate 70 through Denver and removed an aging viaduct in the
area, will see a boost in funding from the Infrastructure Investment and
Jobs Act… Wednesday, Gov. Jared Polis joined Senator Michael Bennet,
Denver Mayor Michael Hancock and Congresswoman Diana DeGette to welcome
White House Senior Advisor and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu
to highlight how the new infrastructure act will impact the massive
improvement to the highway.

**CBS Colorado:** [**Central 70 Project celebrated, construction nears
completion**](https://www.cbsnews.com/colorado/news/central-70-project-celebrated-construction-nears-completion/)  
The Colorado Department of Transportation is celebrating the near
completion of the Central 70 Project. The White House infrastructure
coordinator was invited to see the major milestone. The project improves
safety through the 10-mile stretch between I-25 and Chambers Road by
widening lanes and shoulders as well as improving ramps and bridges…
Gov. Jared Polis, Senator Michael Bennet, Denver Mayor Michael Hancock,
Rep. Diana DeGette all welcomed White House Senior Advisor and
Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu to Colorado on Wednesday
morning.  
  
***U.S. Trade Representative Tai in Alaska***  
  
**KTUU (NBC Anchorage, AK):** [**Alaskan fishing industry leaders meet
with US trade ambassador in
Anchorage**](https://www.alaskasnewssource.com/2022/07/01/alaskan-fishing-industry-leaders-meet-with-us-trade-ambassador-anchorage/)  
Ambassador Katherine Tai, the United States trade representative, and
Sen. Dan Sullivan held a roundtable discussion with leaders from the
state’s fishing industry at Hotel Captain Cook on Thursday… The U.S.
trade representative said Alaskan seafood exports totaled over $2
billion in 2021. She also touched on the work being done by the Biden
administration to level the playing field for the American fishing
industry against countries like China.  
  
***Labor Secretary Walsh in Mississippi & Arkansas***

**Arkansas Times:** [**$2 million of federal funds is coming to Little
Rock Workforce Development
Board**](https://arktimes.com/arkansas-blog/2022/06/29/2-million-of-federal-funds-is-coming-to-little-rock-workforce-development-board)  
U.S. Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh visited Philander Smith College
Wednesday to announce a $2 million grant for the Little Rock Workforce
Development Board — one of 18 organizations to receive a grant
nationwide. In total, $50.6 million of the federal funding — Pathway
Home grants — will “provide training and employment services to adults
reentering the workforce following incarceration in a local jail or
state correctional facility,” according to a press release. “These
grants will help people who are working for second chances,” Walsh said.
“They’re about reducing crime. They’re also about meeting the needs of
the local labor markets, like here, in Little Rock.”

**Mississippi Public** [**Broadcasting: Labor officials discuss how to
protect Mississippi’s
workforce**](https://www.mpbonline.org/blogs/news/labor-officials-discuss-how-how-to-protect-mississippis-workforce/)  
Mississippi is one of several states that limits the right to unionize,
with laws that allow employers to terminate someone at any time. The
state also does not have a Department of Labor, and Secretary Marty
Walsh with the US. Department of Labor says that places his office as
the closest governing body. He is speaking with workers’ rights groups
across the state about the hurdles facing Mississippi’s workforce.
“Hopefully, working supporting people, continuing to fight for wage
equity, gender equity, pay equity, and other issue pay equity,” says
Walsh. “In this country, the fact that we pay women less than men, and
make excuses for whey we do that, that’s just wrong. It’s 2022, it’s
time to whatever job a man has and a woman does the same exact job, she
would be paid the same exact rate.”  
  
***Agriculture Secretary Vilsack in Iowa***  
  
**Iowa Capital Dispatch:** [**Vilsack announces $10 million grant
program to develop new uses for ag
waste**](https://iowacapitaldispatch.com/2022/06/28/vilsack-usda-grant-program-agricultural-waste/)  
U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, during an eastern Iowa visit
Tuesday, announced a $10 million initiative to help farms and businesses
find uses for waste byproducts. The grant program is one piece of
President Joe Biden’s $1 trillion infrastructure law, passed in
November.

**Cedar Rapids Gazette:** [**Vilsack announces $10M grant program to
find uses for ag
waste**](https://www.thegazette.com/government-politics/vilsack-announces-10m-grant-program-to-find-uses-for-ag-waste/)  
For U.S. Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack, infrastructure is not
just about investing in roads and bridges and broadband internet. It’s
also about investing in the future and inspiring innovation, he says… At
an event Tuesday at Dan and Debbie’s Creamery in Ely, the head of the
U.S. Department of Agriculture and former Iowa governor announced
funding for a program created under the $1 trillion bipartisan
infrastructure bill signed into law by President Joe Biden.

**Iowa Capital Dispatch:** [**Vilsack, Axne urge Iowa farmers to apply
for derecho relief
funds**](https://iowacapitaldispatch.com/2022/06/29/vilsack-axne-urge-iowa-farmers-to-apply-for-derecho-relief-funds/)  
Farms across Iowa – and much of the Midwest – faced billions of dollars
of damage in August 2020, when the windstorm destroyed crops, silos and
barns. But farms do not have to recover from those damages alone: They
can take advantage of Emergency Relief Program funds to recoup financial
losses, Vilsack and Axne said.  
  
***Labor Secretary Walsh in Arkansas and Mississippi***

**KUAR (NPR Little Rock, AR):** [**U.S. Labor Secretary announces job
training initiative during Little Rock
visit**](https://www.ualrpublicradio.org/local-regional-news/2022-06-29/u-s-labor-secretary-announces-job-training-initiative-during-little-rock-visit)  
Arkansas is getting $2 million from the federal government to help
adults re-enter the workforce after being incarcerated. The funding from
the U.S. Department of Labor will go to the Little Rock Workforce
Development Board to provide training and employment services for people
recently released from jails and prisons. Labor Secretary Marty Walsh
announced the funding in a visit to Little Rock’s Philander Smith
College on Wednesday. “These grants will help people who are working for
second chances, they’re about reducing crime. They’re also about meeting
the needs of the local labor markets, like here in Little Rock,” Walsh
said.  
  
**Clarion Ledger:** [**U.S. Labor Secretary Marty Walsh leads labor
discussion at Jackson State
University**](https://www.clarionledger.com/story/news/2022/07/01/u-s-labor-secretary-marty-walsh-lead-labor-discussion/7788842001/)  
U.S. Labor Secretary Marty Walsh made his third stop in two days in the
South on Thursday when he headlined a roundtable discussion on workers’
rights at Jackson State University. After stops in Little Rock,
Arkansas, and Greenville, Walsh, the former mayor of Boston, spoke to a
room of nearly 100 people on the struggles many in the Mid-South and
across the nation are facing regarding workplace rights, compensation
and conditions. He made note of the H-2A Visa Program, which is meant to
help employers find workers where there aren’t enough workers. Instead,
in the Mississippi Delta, Walsh said farmers are using the program to
bring in foreign workers at a lower wage to replace Black farm workers
who have been in place for many years. Walsh said that in his role as
Labor Secretary, he wants to help make life better for people and hopes
honest dialogue will help educate people in the South and the rest of
the country. “I am taking much of this back with me to Washington, D.C.,
and see how we can make a difference,” Walsh said.
