---
date: '2022-07-28'
published_time: 2022-07-28 05:54:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/28/fact-sheet-vice-president-announces-new-private-and-public-sector-efforts-to-align-tens-of-billions-in-investments-in-underserved-communities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Announces New Private and Public Sector Efforts\
  \ to Align Tens of Billions in Investments in Underserved\_Communities"
---
 
*The federal government and a coalition of 24 companies and foundations
are coming together to align historic investments in underserved
communities;*

*Founding members of the Coalition include Ariel Investments, Bank of
America, BNY Mellon, Capital One, Citi, Discover, Ford Foundation,
Goldman Sachs, Google, Key Bank, Kresge Foundation, Mastercard,
McDonald’s, McKinsey & Company, Micron, Momentus Capital, Moody’s,
Netflix, Next Street, PayPal, PNC, The Rockefeller Foundation, TIAA, and
Upstart*

Since Day One of the Biden-Harris Administration, President Biden and
Vice President Harris have taken decisive action to lead [the most
equitable economic recovery on
record](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-report-advancing-equity-through-the-american-rescue-plan/)
and make long-overdue investments in communities that have historically
been left behind. By signing into law the American Rescue Plan and the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Biden-Harris Administration has made
historic investments to help communities recover, address inequities
made worse by the pandemic, and provide more pathways to economic growth
for historically underserved communities. Today, unemployment is near
historic lows, the number of Americans relying on government
unemployment benefits has dropped by more than 90%, and the vast
majority of Americans are vaccinated.  In 2021, a record number of
Americans applied to start 5.4 million new businesses—more than 20
percent higher than any previous year on record—with Black, Hispanic,
and Asian entrepreneurship powering overall growth.

**Today, during an event in New York City, Vice President Kamala Harris
will announce historic efforts  to catalyze and align public and private
investments – including the formation of a new Economic Opportunity
Coalition (“EOC”) – to address economic disparities and accelerate
economic opportunity in communities of color and other underserved
communities.**

Over the course of her career, the Vice President has remained focused
on ensuring that minority, rural, and low-income communities have the
capital and resources they need to thrive and support a vibrant
ecosystem of small businesses. Her commitment to these communities is
reflected in the Vice President’s longstanding support for community
development financial institutions (CDFIs), minority depository
institutions (MDIs), and other local financial institutions. As Senator,
the Vice President partnered with key Congressional stakeholders to
secure a transformative $12 billion investment for CDFIs and MDIs in
December 2020. Since that time, she has worked with Secretary Yellen and
the Department of the Treasury to ensure these programs are as
successful as possible. Additionally, the Vice President has traveled
across the country to meet with business owners and entrepreneurs in
underserved communities to discuss challenges and opportunities they
face—because she believes that if we harness the full potential and
talent of all our innovators, we can build a better and more prosperous
future.

Decades of disinvestment, destructive federal, state, and local policy,
and detrimental private sector practices have prevented many communities
from sharing in our nation’s broader economic growth.

Today’s announcements will build upon the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to achieving longer-term equitable growth by building an
economy that unlocks the economic potential of communities of color,
low-income communities, rural areas, and other historically underserved
communities, resulting in a stronger economy for everyone.

***Newly Created Economic Opportunity Coalition Investing Tens of
Billions in Underserved Communities***

Twenty-one corporations and 3 foundations have come together to create
the Economic Opportunity Coalition, committing themselves to aligning
major investments in communities of color with investments made by the
Biden-Harris Administration. The EOC will coordinate across public,
private, and social sector organizations to develop and deploy products
that solve challenges in getting resources where most needed and drive
towards outcomes for meaningful action.

The founding members of the Coalition include Ariel Investments, Bank of
America, BNY Mellon, Capital One, Citi, Discover, Ford Foundation,
Goldman Sachs, Google, Key Bank, Kresge Foundation, Mastercard,
McDonald’s, McKinsey & Company, Micron, Momentus Capital, Moody’s,
Netflix, Next Street, PayPal, PNC, The Rockefeller Foundation, TIAA, and
Upstart.

The EOC members have made significant commitments across each of its
four focus areas, including a number of investments since the group
formed earlier this year. The below illustrative commitments made by EOC
members to date signal a promising new era of historic investments in
underserved communities.

-   Investing in CDFIs and MDIs. The EOC has committed **more than $3
    billion of investments into CDFIs and MDIs, including $250 million
    in long-term, low-interest debt and over $70 million in grants to
    CDFIs and MDIs.** In addition, six Coalition members will provide
    technology and personnel to CDFIs and MDIs through secondment
    programs, pro-bono consulting, and pro-bono technology. Taken
    together, these investments will provide CDFIs, MDIs, and their
    ecosystem partners with the long-term funding, technology, and
    personnel required to scale and deliver the increased capital made
    available by the Biden-Harris Administration through the Emergency
    Capital Investment Program (ECIP). To support these efforts, the
    federal government is actively working to provide private sector and
    philanthropic partners with rigorous guidance on where private
    investment, technology support, and human capital development can
    generate the greatest impact among CDFIs and MDIs.

<!-- -->

-   Supporting entrepreneurship and minority-owned businesses. The EOC
    has committed to **purchase more than $6 billion in products and
    services from diverse suppliers and has invested more than $500
    million in funding to Black- and Hispanic-owned and -led equity
    funds**. In addition, six Coalition members are making investments
    in technology and technical assistance programs that will help
    entrepreneurs access capital and build capabilities in e-commerce,
    financial management, and hiring. These capability investments will
    help entrepreneurs effectively access the nearly $10 billion in
    loans and equity investments made available to support small
    businesses through the American Rescue Plan’s $10 billion [State
    Small Business Credit
    Initiative](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0875)
    (SSBCI), as well as up to ten times that amount in additional
    private capital that can be leveraged from these federal
    investments.

<!-- -->

-   Expanding inclusive and equitable access to credit and other
    financial services facilitating financial health. An EOC member is
    announcing a **$40 million investment in a** **new research center
    and incubator to promote innovation in financial services products
    for underserved consumers**. The same EOC member also plans to
    invest $35 million in a new fund to finance early-stage companies
    developing next generation financial services solutions for
    low-wealth consumers and small businesses. In the coming weeks and
    months, the White House, the Department of the Treasury, and the
    Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, an independent agency, will
    convene Coalition members and other industry stakeholders, data
    scientists, advocates, and agencies to share data and assessments of
    existing credit reporting practices – especially during disasters
    and other anomalous events – and discuss potential policy and
    industry action.

<!-- -->

-   Making infrastructure investments that create more community wealth
    by preserving and expanding affordable rental housing and
    homeownership in underserved neighborhoods. Members of the Coalition
    have committed over $25 billion towards expanding the supply of
    affordable housing, including a real estate impact fund that has
    already **deployed $3.5 billion and intends to deploy another $11.5
    billion by 2026 to invest in the preservation and improvement of
    affordable housing and community revitalization** to support
    building inclusive communities that have been historically
    underserved. These resources will complement the Administration’s
    actions to boost the housing supply through preservation and
    production of affordable homes announced in May 2022, economic
    development investments in 60 regions across the country through the
    American Rescue Plan’s Build Back Better Regional Challenge, and the
    new $1 billion Reconnecting Communities Program through the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.

These commitments, which represent only a small fraction of total
commitments from the EOC, show the immense resources these founding
members bring to the table, but they acknowledge they must do more. Over
the coming months, the EOC will build on investments the Biden-Harris
Administration has made and develop new solutions that reimagine how
capital, technology, and talent are deployed in underserved communities.
They will be built with and for the community, leveraging existing
strengths and assets to address the root causes of economic inequality.

EOC members have worked with seventeen social sector advisors to inform
the development and implementation of its commitments and will continue
to engage with these organizations and additional social sector
advisors. Social sector advisors to the Coalition include African
American Alliance of CDFIs, Applachian Community Capital, Enterprise
Community Partners, Financial Health Network, Hope Credit Union,
Momentus Capital, National Association for Latino Community Asset
Builders, National Coalition for Asian Pacific American Community
Development, National Bankers Association, Next Street, Opportunity
Finance Network, Policy Link, Prosperity Now, SaverLife, The
Resurrection Project, TruFund, and Urban Institute.

***Federal Agencies Are Taking Steps to*** ***Better Align Federal
Dollars to Maximize Impact***

Six federal government agencies—the Departments of the Treasury,
Commerce, Transportation, Housing and Urban Development, and Agriculture
and the Small Business Administration—are announcing a new collaborative
effort to better align federal dollars flowing into underserved
communities, including communities of color. These efforts will
facilitate opportunities for the public and private sectors to align,
leverage, and layer resources to collaboratively address longstanding
economic disparities in underserved communities.

Specifically, the agencies have signed a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) to enhance and expand their efforts to:

-   Align key definitions and procedures for programs directing capital
    and financial resources to underserved communities, including
    documentation requirements and others;
-   Coordinate local deployment and use of resources, such as staff,
    office space, and approaches to working with local implementing
    partners;
-   Seek flexibility and complementarity, to the extent feasible, in the
    requirements governing the deployment of federal funds and other
    support—including tax credits, loans, equity, grants, and others—to
    enhance impact and increase private capital support; and
-   Identify opportunities to enhance the provision of technical
    assistance and other non-financial resources that support the
    deployment of capital in underserved communities.

Pursuant to the MOU, the agencies will also form a new Interagency
Community Investment Committee to facilitate ongoing collaboration and
operational coordination of federal community investment and place-based
economic development programs. These efforts will not only ensure better
coordination of federal dollars to maximize impact, they will also
facilitate greater private sector investment and support.

The MOU will build on new efforts underway across the federal government
to strengthen access to public- and private-sector capital to drive
investment in historically disinvested neighborhoods by leveraging the
historic investments in the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, and other statutes. These efforts include:

*Investing in CDFIs and MDIs*

-   Through the Emergency Capital Investment Program, the Department of
    the Treasury has deployed approximately $8.26 billion of investments
    so far in 161 CDFIs and MDIs to enhance their ability and incentives
    to provide loans, grants, and forbearance for small businesses,
    minority-owned businesses, and consumers, especially in low-income
    and underserved communities.

<!-- -->

-   The CDFI Fund recently released the notice of funding availability
    for the $1.75 billion CDFI Equitable Recovery Program, after having
    delivered $1.25 billion in 2021 through the CDFI Rapid Response
    Program. Today, the CDFI Fund is releasing a request for public
    comment on a new definition of “minority lending institution,”
    pursuant to the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021. When final,
    the MLI designation will help public and private sector programs
    identify those CDFIs and MDIs that are well-positioned to deliver
    capital and services most effectively in communities of color.

<!-- -->

-   The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has
    launched a CDFI Task Force that is developing recommendations on
    administrative actions to expand support and secondary market access
    for CDFIs through Ginnie Mae and will increase its trainings for
    CDFIs to become FHA-approved lenders.

*Supporting entrepreneurship and minority-owned businesses*

-   $500 million in technical assistance through the SSBCI that will
    help small businesses access loans and equity investments. Treasury
    has released guidance for states, territories, the District of
    Columbia, and Tribal governments to submit plans for $200 million of
    these technical assistance funds and intends to start accepting
    applications in the coming weeks.  Additionally, the U.S. Department
    of Commerce’s Minority Business Development Agency plans to release
    a competitive funding opportunity later this year to use $100
    million of these funds to enable entities such as incubators and
    accelerators to provide technical assistance that will help
    minority-owned businesses build capacity. Today, Treasury is
    announcing that it intends to make a portion of the remaining SSBCI
    technical assistance funds available for innovative approaches to
    small business technical assistance that include incentives for
    private sector and nonprofit partnerships to increase the amount of
    technical assistance available to businesses, especially in
    underserved communities.

*Making infrastructure investments that* *create more community wealth*

-   The Department of Transportation and Department of Housing and Urban
    Development are launching the $30 million Thriving Communities
    program to strengthen local capacity to advance and execute
    transformative infrastructure investments in underserved and
    lower-resourced communities through a coordinated approach to
    connect transportation and infrastructure investments funded by the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law with other crucial investments like
    housing.

<!-- -->

-   This week, Treasury announced updates to the State and Local Fiscal
    Recovery Funds program guidance that will increase options for
    investing in affordable housing under the program, including in
    affordable housing development projects that make use of Treasury’s
    low-income housing tax credit (LIHTC), and is expected to enable
    greater private sector participation in expanding housing supply and
    reducing costs in the long term. In 2021 alone, 120 states,
    localities, and Tribal governments committed roughly $3.3 billion to
    affordable housing development, preservation, and innovative
    approaches to expand housing supply. These updates, including the
    expansion of presumptively eligible affordable housing uses and the
    ability to more easily fund projects using long-term loans, are
    expected to enable greater public and private sector coordination.

\###
