---
date: '2024-07-29'
modified_time: 2024-07-29 10:36:03-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-29 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/07/29/how-investing-in-equity-fosters-of-the-goals-of-investing-in-america/
tags: blog
title: "How Investing in Equity Fosters the Goals of Investing in\_America"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

When the President took office, he identified a number of challenges in
the American economy, including decades of rising inequality and the
rapidly rising costs of [climate
change](https://nca2023.globalchange.gov/), which disproportionately
[harms](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-report-shows-disproportionate-impacts-climate-change-socially-vulnerable)
lower-income communities. The President promised to build back better,
putting in place a historic Investing in America agenda and prioritizing
game-changing investments to enhance productive capacity across the
country. But growth without equity is insufficient to empower working
people and communities that for too long have been overlooked or left
out by federal investment. Combatting systemic barriers and ensuring our
Investing in America agenda reaches all communities improves people’s
lives while also supporting a strong economy. For the 60<sup>th</sup>
anniversary of the Civil Rights Act, the President is celebrating
several achievements that have aimed to address inequality.

Since the beginning of this administration, President Biden and Vice
President Harris have taken steps to [advance equity and racial
justice](https://www.whitehouse.gov/equity/). From
[preserving](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/executive-order-on-promoting-the-arts-the-humanities-and-museum-and-library-services/)
African American history and culture to delivering a historically
[robust economic recovery for all
Americans,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/05/16/recent-labor-market-conditions-for-black-workers/)
the administration’s policies have prioritized equity. The President’s
economic agenda does this by spurring investment in all communities –
including in disadvantaged communities, and encouraging the creation of
high-quality jobs.

This blog describes the economics of how investing in equity both
empowers workers today and into the future and fosters stronger economic
growth.

## **Improving racial and economic equity is a path to increasing overall economic growth**

Addressing inequality leads to a more dynamic and resilient economy.
Increased equity means that everyone has a chance to develop their
skills efficiently and deploy their talents most effectively.
Conversely, when people are unable to reach their full productivity
because of discrimination or systemic inequality, the overall economy
suffers.

Looking at these effects across the entire economy shows that the
economic costs of inequity are quite high. For example, a
[study](https://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/-/media/faculty/chang-tai-hsieh/research/ecta11427.pdf)
in *Econometrica* analyzes the changes in demographics of high-skilled
occupations between 1960 and 2010. The authors estimate that during this
period, improved job opportunities and talent allocation for women and
communities of color drove up to 40 percent of the growth in aggregate
U.S. gross domestic product (GDP) per person. Figure 1 depicts actual
growth and growth in a counterfactual scenario without the increased
access to opportunity.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png"
class="wp-image-103294" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1044px) 100vw, 1044px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png 1044w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png?resize=615,398 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png?resize=768,497 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png?resize=494,320 494w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png?resize=988,640 988w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/pic-1-1.png?resize=1038,672 1038w"
style="width:580px;height:auto" width="1044" height="676" />
</figure>

<span id="_msocom_1"></span>These effects of inequality continue to
reverberate throughout the economy. Research from authors at the San
Francisco Federal Reserve Bank, Boston University, and Stanford
University found that during the 30 year period from 1990 to 2019, the
estimated economic cost to the total U.S. economy of racial and ethnic
economic inequality was over [$25
trillion](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/15985-BPEA-BPEA-FA21_WEB_Buckman-et-al.pdf).
This study assumes that earnings were the same across all demographic
groups, and then computes the labor earnings contribution to GDP. By
eliminating these earnings gaps, prosperity would improve for racial
minorities as well as the broader population. For instance, in 2019
alone, the authors find that eliminating gaps by race and ethnicity
would have generated an additional $1.15 trillion to GDP.

The strong economic recovery made under President Biden has improved
inequality along several metrics. [Recent
research](https://economics.mit.edu/sites/default/files/2024-04/The%20Unexpected%20Compression%20-%20Competition%20at%20Work%20in%20the%20Low%20Wage%20Labor%20Market.pdf)
shows that coming out of the pandemic recession, wage inequality has
decreased—making a dent in decades of rising inequality. Using similar
methodology to compute indexed real (inflation-adjusted) wages, the
Council of Economic Advisers (CEA)
[found](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/ERP-2024-CHAPTER-1.pdf)
that in the post-pandemic period, low-income workers saw their wages
grow by a higher percentage than those of high-income workers. Updated
analysis indicates that between 2019:Q1 and 2024:Q1, real wages
increased by 14 percentage points more for low-income workers than for
high-income workers.

The economy has also made progress on reducing racial inequality. For
example, CEA
[found](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/05/16/recent-labor-market-conditions-for-black-workers/)
that between the second halves of 2019 and 2023, real average wages
increased 9.5 percent for Black workers and 6.7 percent for white
workers, reducing economic inequality across race. The progress also
extends to employment status. In April 2023, the Black unemployment rate
hit an all-time record low of 4.8 percent (Figure 2). A strong economy
produces benefits for workers of color, and as a consequence, improves
racial equity.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png"
class="wp-image-103295" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1046px) 100vw, 1046px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png 1046w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=615,405 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=768,506 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=486,320 486w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=972,640 972w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=1038,684 1038w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Picture2_951272.png?resize=114,76 114w"
width="1046" height="689" />
</figure>

## **Focusing on places too often left behind is good for growth**

Addressing geographic inequality is another way to foster economic
opportunity. Empirical evidence suggests that policies that actively
encourage investment in places that are economically distressed
generates relatively greater economic benefits. For example, according
to one [study](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.34.3.99),
the economic benefits of policies that add jobs in targeted places are
at least 60 percent greater in “distressed” regions than in “booming”
ones.

The President’s Investing in America agenda centers this principle by
targeting investments in historically underfunded communities. For
instance, the Inflation Reduction Act specifically targets “[Energy
Communities](https://energycommunities.gov/energy-community-tax-credit-bonus/),”
which include communities historically reliant on fossil fuels for
employment, wages, or tax revenue. The Energy Community Tax Credit
applies a bonus up to 10 percent for production tax credits or 10
percentage points for investment tax credits for new initiatives in
those communities. The U.S. Treasury Department
[reports](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-a-place-based-analysis-updates-from-q3-and-q4-2023)
that comparing before and after the passage of the Inflation Reduction
Act, clean electricity investments rose in regions that qualified for
this tax credit by an average of $1.4 billion per month more than in the
rest of the country.

There are emerging indicators that private investors see the value of
investing in communities that had been left behind. Private firms are
disproportionately investing in places broadly defined as less
advantaged. Prior to the Inflation Reduction Act, [68
percent](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-a-place-based-analysis-updates-from-q3-and-q4-2023)
of announced clean energy investments were in counties with incomes
below the national median. After passage, that number rose to 75
percent. More broadly, the President’s economic policies are
contributing to equitable growth across communities. As CEA has
[highlighted](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/01/23/the-labor-market-recovery-has-been-strong-across-the-country/),
the benefits of the strong economic recovery have been spread relatively
evenly across U.S. states. The gap between the highest and lowest state
unemployment rates hit a record low 3.2 percentage points in 2022 and
was matched again in 2023.

The Biden-Harris administration is also committed to supporting
minority-owned businesses. The Small Business Boom Report
[highlights](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Small-Business-Boom-Report-2024.pdf)
that since 2020, both Black- and Latino-owned businesses saw a
4-percentage point increase in the share of government-backed Small
Business Administration (SBA) loans. This represents a near-doubling for
Black-owned business and more than a 50 percent increase for
Latino-owned businesses. Over the past three years, total lending to
these groups has accumulated to about $12 billion. In addition, in
Fiscal Year 2023, a record [$76.2
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/fact-sheet-celebrating-national-small-business-week-biden-harris-administration-announces-a-record-in-federal-procurement-dollars-awarded-to-small-businesses/#:~:text=In%20total%2C%20a%20record%2Dhigh,Office%20of%20Management%20and%20Budget.)
was awarded to small disadvantaged businesses, totaling 12.1% of federal
procurement dollars.

## **Empowering workers can promote productivity and growth**

Policies that empower workers can
[reduce](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/labor-unions-and-the-us-economy)
barriers for workers as well as
[improve](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1706)
firm-level productivity. It is well documented that employers have
[high](https://www.nber.org/papers/w30365) [bargaining
power](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aeri.20180150)
relative to employees in the United States,
[more](https://blog.dol.gov/2024/05/02/a-closer-look-labor-management-cooperation-in-europe)
than other industrialized nations. Thus, higher unionization rates can
[increase
compensation](https://www.iza.org/publications/dp/12089/labor-market-concentration-and-labor-compensation)
without reducing efficiency by [redistributing labor market
power](https://www.nber.org/papers/w24307). Unionization and paying
workers fairly can [reduce
inequality,](https://www.nber.org/papers/w24587) [increase
wages,](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w23516/w23516.pdf)
and [improve
productivity.](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/04/06/blocking-the-low-road-and-paving-the-high-road-management-practices-to-improve-productivity/)
Furthermore, strong labor standards may communicate information about
the quality of firms in the context of government contracting. One
[study](https://www.americanprogressaction.org/article/federal-contractors-violating-workers-rights-harming-u-s-government/#:~:text=New%20analysis%20from%20the%20Center%20for%20American%20Progress,of%20federal%20contracts%20and%20waste%20of%20public%20resources.)
demonstrates that companies that violate labor standards are also more
likely to have performance problems.

## **Conclusion**

There are many economic benefits to investing equitably and empowering
communities. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to tackling
inequality and issues that prevent workers of all backgrounds from
reaching their full potential. While progress has been promising thus
far, our Administration will continue to make our economy work for all
Americans from every background and community.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
