---
date: '2024-06-13'
modified_time: 2024-06-13 18:10:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-13 18:10:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/13/background-press-call-on-the-g7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the\_G7"
---
 
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR:  Okay, thanks everyone.  I think we’re all set.  I’ll turn it
over to our senior administration official in a second, but just sharing
that we will now have an embargo on this call to about 3:30 p.m.
Central.  We’ll send another note letting everyone know whenever it
lifts.

But for your awareness, not for your reporting, the senior
administration official on today’s background call is \[senior
administration official\].  He’ll give a few words here at the top about
the Russian sovereign assets, and then we’ll have time to take one or
two questions. 

Thanks, everyone.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, everybody, for joining. 
I’ll say a few words at the top on the sovereign assets, the (inaudible)
deal, and then happy to take any questions that you have.

(Inaudible) — (in progress) — every G7 member that the situation on the
battlefield remains difficult and that if the war continues, Ukraine is
still going to have a large financial need next year and beyond, and
that this summit is our best chance to act collectively to close the
gap.  And it’s only fair that we close the gap by making Russia pay, not
our taxpayers.  And we found a way to do so that respects the rule of
law in every jurisdiction; it raises money at scale — $50 billion, to be
precise, this year.  We’re going to move with urgency.  And we’re going
to maintain solidarity, which has been our greatest strength.

But I would say, more fundamentally — and President Zelenskyy will
probably speak to this in a couple of minutes here — this agreement is a
signal from the leading democracies of the world that we’re not going to
fatigue in defending Ukraine’s freedom and that Putin is not going to
outlast us.

Let me just stop there.  I know you have questions, so please jump in.

Q    Hey, it’s Andrea here from Reuters.  Can you tell us what — you
said two things.  You said, “We have a deal” and “We’re on the cusp of a
deal.”  So is it decided?  And also, can you say what the amount will
be?  Was there agreement on the $50 billion?  And will you — you know,
or is that still something that needs to be worked out?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Fair enough, Andrea.  I think
the leaders’ communiqué has not yet been released.  That’s why I hedge
my words very slightly.  We have political agreement at the highest
levels for this deal to happen.  And it is $50 billion this year that
will be committed to Ukraine.

Q    Great.  Can I ask a follow-up question?  So can you walk us through
some of the mechanics as they exist now?  Who will loan the money and
how will it be backed up?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me try to hit — I mean, I think I
probably can guess some of your questions.  And they’re totally —
they’re the right questions.

Okay, like, how did this get done?  I mean, honestly, the hard part is
not so much the idea.  There are infinite ways to extract the present
value of future cash flows.  That’s finance 101.  (Inaudible) diplomacy
— the sausage making of diplomacy is hard enough domestically.  It’s an
order of magnitude more difficult multilaterally.  But the President and
Jake Sullivan really had leadership, and we executed across borders.

In terms of who makes the loan, we’ve said the U.S. is willing to make a
loan of up to $50 billion.  We will not be the only lenders.  This will
be a loan syndicate.  We’re going to share the risk because we have a
shared commitment to get this done.

How will — I’ll just ask myself some questions.  Are we going to get
repaid?  Russia pays.  So the interest — the income comes from the
interest stream on the immobilized assets.  And that’s the only fair way
to be repaid.  The principal is untouched for now, but we have full
optionality to seize the principal later if the political will is
there.  You’ll see a line in the communiqué that makes it clear that
option is still on the table.

How will we know the assets are going to remain immobilized?  I mean, my
answer to that is: Because leaders have committed to do so.  And they’ve
also committed to seek approval from the full membership of the EU to
get another blessing.  And I would say when you have a commitment at the
highest political levels, technocrats act and technical details get
worked out.

Let’s see.  What if there’s a peace settlement and the assets are no
longer immobilized?  Well, look, a just and sustained peace is, of
course, what we all want.  And G7 leaders have committed that the assets
will remain immobilized until Russia pays for the damages it’s caused. 
So if there is a peace settlement, either the assets stay immobilized
and keep generating interest to repay the loans, or Russia pays for the
damage it’s caused.  Either way, there’s a source of repayment.

And let me stop talking to myself and listen to you, if you have more
questions.

Q    I do.  Can you explain, you know, how did you move past the
resistance that was reported there from France, Germany, and some of the
others?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Leadership and stamina.  You know, we
had backing at the very top of our political system.  President Biden
and Jake Sullivan in particular deserve credit.  And we just worked this
for years.  I mean, if you go — if you want to go through the tick-tock
of this, it goes back pretty close to the beginning of when we
immobilized these assets in the first place, two years ago.

And, I mean, I would say — what I said at the top is what was clear to
every leader — what is clear to every leader in the room that signed up
to this communiqué, which is: The situation on the battlefield is still
very difficult.  That means there’s going to be a large financial need,
even after our supplemental and even after the EU 50-billion-euro
facility.  And that, you know, it’s very simple: Russia should pay the
loan.  And this is our — this is our best chance as a G7 to act
together. 

And we found a way.  I mean, we did have to be creative.  We floated I
don’t know how many ideas.  But ultimately, we found an idea that
respected every jurisdiction’s red line; it respected every
jurisdiction’s rule of law.  And it still raised money at scale, at
speed, and with solidarity.  And that’s what we have announced today.

AIDE:  Andrea, I think we’ve got a lot more people with questions, so
we’re going to pass it back.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Our next question will go to Josh from Bloomberg. 

Q    Hey there.  Thanks for doing this.  Can you just zero in on the
question of the mechanics?  How many individual loans are we talking
about?  And is it accurate that it’s not clear how much the U.S.
contribution will be and that the U.S. (inaudible) bring about $50
billion, or whatever the sum of the other contributions is?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, hi, Josh.  I’m not going to speak
for other delegations.  I mean, they really — it’s for them to say if
they’re going to contribute to the loan.  But what you’ll see in the
communiqué, just to give you a preview, is that there will be loans,
plural.  So I can assure you the United States will not be the only
lender in this syndicate. 

As I mentioned at the top, we, the U.S., are willing to provide up to
$50 billion of the loan.  And that’s why we know the number will be at
least — will be $50 billion.  Whether other delegations make commitments
in public today, I’m not sure.  But as they do so, you’ll see that our
number is probably — is certainly going to be somewhat less than 50 and
maybe significantly less, because the idea here is to share risk.  And I
think getting the $50 billion is really important, but equally important
is having a shared commitment.  And the loan syndicate is kind of a
technocratic expression of that commitment that’s being shared.

Q    Any thought that (inaudible) more on this will allow you to do it
through (inaudible) congressional approval?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, Josh, that cut out a bit.  I
think you’re asking about, like, can we have — what kind of scoring
situation will this —

Q    Yeah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You can think of this as a secured
loan.  It’s secured with the interest that’s generated from the
immobilization of the assets.  And so, because there’s now a commitment
to keep the assets immobilized, that means there’s a commitment to keep
the income stream flowing.  There are scenarios in which that income
stream may not flow.  But even in those circumstances, there would be a
reparation payment, and that can also be a source of repayment. 

So we’re covered.  We feel like this is a very prudent structure that
allows us to manage risk with other partners in a way that’s going to
be, I think, successful for Ukraine and gives the signal that we’re all
— you know, we’re all giving Ukraine a psychological boost.  We’re
giving it an inflection point in this conflict by demonstrating that
we’re not going to fatigue no matter what happens in elections anywhere
across the world.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Selina with ABC.

Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I just have a couple of
questions.  Just number one, could you just kind of do a little bit more
detail about concerns that some of the European countries had and just
how you convinced them to sign on to this? 

And secondly, is the primary purpose of these funds to be used for
rebuilding the economy?  For defense?  All the above?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I mean, I think the most convincing
argument to every other delegation is: While there may be costs and
risks to providing this loan, all policy decisions need to be weighed
against the counterfactual.  What’s the alternative?  And if Ukraine was
insufficiently financed to win this war, what would be the chilling
effect it would cause across Europe and the rest of the world?  What
would be the signal to autocrats that they can redraw borders by force? 
Those are the costs I think we all agree were unacceptable.  And that’s
why we acted.

Q    Sorry, what about the second question in terms of the primary use
of the funds for rebuilding the economy?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, I didn’t hear that.  Sure.

So that’s kind of a — I don’t mean to be glib.  There’ll be multiple
distribution channels for the money with multiple destinations, by which
I mean military support, budget support, humanitarian support,
reconstruction support.  These will all be destinations for the funds
that we generate.

And, you know, here we’ve created flexibility in this structure.  There
are certain jurisdictions that prefer to send their money to budget
support and to reconstruction.  There are others that prefer to have
their money earmarked, especially now, to military support.  And both —
all of those distribution channels are reinforcing money is fungible.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to David Sanger with
the New York Times.

AIDE:  David, are you on?  Okay, seems like we should move on.

Q    Hi, it’s Colleen from the AP.  I’m wondering if we could talk a
little bit about when Ukraine can expect to start seeing the funds.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So you’ll see in the communiqué
that the disbursals will begin this year.  I can’t give you a specific
date because there are some next steps that need to be taken.  For
example, the EU-27 needs to enshrine this action.  We need to write
contracts between the lender; the recipient, of course Ukraine; and
intermediaries.  So I mentioned distribution channels; those are the
intermediaries, and there will be multiple intermediaries.

And then we have to work out the disbursal schedule.  And the disbursal
schedule needs to be at a pace that Ukraine can effectively absorb and
direct to its highest priorities.  So that’s going to take some time.

But as I mentioned, this is not an initiative that is indefinitely
(inaudible) —

Q    Can you repeat that last thing?

Q    Sorry.  We’re having a hard time hearing you.  Sorry.

AIDE:  Is the Internet cutting out? 

Q    We hear you now.  The Internet was cutting out.

AIDE:  Okay, I’m going to pass the phone back, and we’ll try this again.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Should I repeat the answer to the last
question?

Q    Yeah.  So I heard you up until you said there’s a disbursal
schedule and that’s going to take some time.  And then we started to
lose you after that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, I see.  Okay.

So I was describing the next steps.  The next steps are to enshrine the
communiqué commitments with the EU-27, the full membership.  Then we
need to write contracts between the lenders — and I emphasize plural;
the recipient, which is Ukraine; and the intermediaries, and there’ll be
multiple intermediaries.  And then we have to agree on a disbursal
schedule because we need to ensure that the disbursals can be
effectively absorbed by Ukraine and that they can be directed to their
highest priority uses.

But again, I don’t mean to make it sound as though this is going to take
years.  The commitment is to be ready to disburse $50 billion this
calendar year.

Q    Can you just clarify that please?  Is it all 50 this calendar year,
or is it just the portion that the U.S. is able to disburse?  Because I
understand that we have legal authority to disburse some of the money
but not all.  Can you also explain in terms of, you know, what is that
authority?  Where does that come from?  Is it related to the REPO Act? 
I guess I still am not clear in terms of the disbursement and the legal
requirements around it, and the guarantee.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so — sure.  Sure.

So we have we have loan authority already.  USAID has loan authority
already established from Congress.  There’s not a set schedule that is
required or a capped amount.  But we have decided that we can provide up
to $50 billion. 

I didn’t answer your question precisely on when the last payment will be
made because it depends — it does depend on how — the pace at which
Ukraine can absorb the money effectively. 

So while we’re availa- — while we have $50 billion that we could make
available this year, that depends on our judgment as to how effectively
Ukraine can absorb it.  And every jurisdiction that’s making a loan has
to go through the same process. 

So the money will be available.  There’s no constraint on that basis. 
We will begin disbursing this year, but I can’t say that the endpoint of
the disbursals will be in 2024.  Is that clear?

Q    Yes.  And can you address just in terms of guaranteeing that these
loans will be immobilized?  Because as I understand, the EU needs to
renew sanctions regime every six months to keep these assets
immobilized.  So how have leaders agreed on that issue?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, you’re right about the
mechanics.  But we have confidence because European leaders — Germany,
France, Italy, the European Commission, President of the European
Council — they’ve committed to do so and to seek approval from the full
membership of the EU to get that blessing.  And when you have commitment
at the highest political levels, you know, that is what gives us
confidence that these assets are going to remain immobilized, the income
will continue to flow, and we will be repaid either from the income
itself or through reparations with Russia.

MODERATOR:  That’s all the time we have.  Thanks, everyone. And again,
this is embargoed until 3:30 p.m.  This was on background to a senior
administration official.  Thanks again.

END   
