---
date: '2024-06-28'
modified_time: 2024-06-28 17:13:18-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-28 17:22:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/28/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-campaign-communications-director-michael-tyler-en-route-queens-ny/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Campaign Communications\
  \ Director Michael Tyler En Route Queens,\_NY"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Queens, New York

3:02 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have Michael Tyler with me as well.  I just have one
thing at the top, and then we’ll get going.   
  
So, today, the Iowa Supreme Court ruled the state’s extreme and
dangerous abortion ban can go into effect.  This latest abortion ban and
the 21 other abortion bans across the country were made entirely
possible by the previous administration when three Supreme Court
justices were handpicked with the goal of overturning Roe v. Wade.  
  
In Iowa, abortion will now be banned before a lot — before a lot of
women even know they’re pregnant.   
  
These bans put women’s health and lives in jeopardy.  They’re scary,
they’re dangerous, and they infringe on our fundamental freedoms.   
  
And it’s not stopping at the state level.  Republican elected officials
in Congress have proposed four national abortion bans while refusing to
protect nationwide access to IVF and contraception.   
  
President Biden believes that women in every state must have the right
to make deeply personal decisions about their health care.  And — and he
will continue to call on Congress to restore the protections or Roe v.
Wade in federal law once — once and for all.   
  
And with that, I have our communica- — well, the president’s campaign
communications director, to be clear, Michael Tyler, who is going to
take any campaign questions that you have.  I — I think you had
something at the top, right?  
  
MR. TYLER:  Yeah, I’ll just start and open up too.  Good to see
everybody.   
  
Everybody was obviously at the speech today in North Carolina.  You
know, the president came, gave a very forceful, powerful speech today in
North Carolina talking about the stakes of this election, calling Trump
to task not just for the lies that he spewed on the debate stage last
night but for the fundamental contrasts that we have in this race moving
forward, the things that Donald Trump talked about on the debate stage —
him celebrating the role that he played in overturning Roe v. Wade —
right?; him denying or refusing to commit to accept the results of the
election if he’s — loses it again this time; and, of course, the extreme
economic approach he wants to return us to.  The president spoke about
all of that again today. 

Obviously, I think the president said himself he’s not as good as a
debater as he used to be.  He doesn’t walk or talk as smoothly as he
used to.  But he knows how to fight like hell.  And I think he showed
that today in North Carolina.   
  
And so, that’s what the American people are going to continue to see day
in and day out for the remainder of this campaign: a president in Joe
Biden who understands he’s never going to stop fighting for the American
people and he’s never going to stop contrasting that against Donald
Trump, who every single day is clearly fighting for himself.   
  
I think what you saw last night after the debate was the president leave
the debate stage; go rally supporters — grassroot supporters in Atlanta;
went and got some food at Waffle House — excuse me; hopped on the plane
here to Raleigh; touched down in Raleigh at nearly 2:00 a.m. to a b- —
meet a bunch of supporters on the tarmac, shook every single hand; then
got back up this morning, gave the speech that we all just saw, made a
forceful demonstration of what the choice and what the stakes are in
this election; and he’s going to continue to do that day in and day out
for the remainder of this campaign.   
  
So, we’re excited coming off of today.  He understands that sometimes
you get knocked down, but you get back up and you keep fighting.  And
that’s exactly why the American people elected him in the first place,
and it’s why they’re going to reelect him again in November.  So, with
that, I’ll take a few questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Darlene.  
  
Q    Given the president’s appearance in Raleigh, was it a mistake to
insist on no audience for the debate?  
  
And secondly, what kind of outreach is the campaign doing to Democrats
and others who are concerned about winning in November based on his
performance last night?

  
MR. TYLER:  Yeah, so, I think one of the things that the American people
got to see last night on the debate stage was Donald Trump in prime time
as well.  They got to see the Donald Trump that has been speaking at the
MAGA rallies since he launched his campaign, where he has, every single
day, been talking about ruling as a dictator on day one, where he’s been
calling for a bloodbath, where he’s been celebrating January 6th,
promising to pardon the insurrectionists of January 6th.   
  
The vast majority of the American people had not heard that at all until
last night.  And so, last night was one of the first times that the
American people are going to begin to see the extremism that Donald
Trump represents and just how harmful a second Trump term would be
moving forward.   
  
So, I think the President is honest about his own performance.  But as
far as what last night’s debate actually provided for the American
people, it — it crystallized the threat — it begins to crystallize the
threat that Donald Trump poses.   
  
And so, that’s what we’re going to continue to focus on as we head into
the summer months, as more and more people begin to tune into this
election and Donald Trump, who’s no longer in the — on the sidelines of
American politics, returns to the

limelight.  
  
Q    And not having an audience?  
  
MR. TYLER:  No, listen, I th- — again, I think it forced Donald Trump —
you — what you saw Donald Trump do throughout the course of that debate
as it went on was — obviously, he spent the entire night lying.  But as
the debate went on in prime time, without an audience for him to feed
off of, he became more unhinged, he started to spew more and more lies,
and he reminded the American people of exactly why they fired him in the
first place.  
  
When he said that the overturning of Roe was a great thing; again, when
he refused to commit to accept the results of an election; when he,
again, said that his corporate ta- — giveaways were the right thing to
do — that’s what the American people have rejected already.  They have
not necessarily heard him say that in prime time, but that’s what they
got to see last night.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay —  
  
MR. TYLER:  I think he’ll —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m so sorry.   
  
MR. TYLER:  Go ahead.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry.   
  
MR. TYLER:  No, no.  Go.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no. 

MR. TYLER:  Go ahead.  
  
  
Q    Michael, can you explain the president’s performance last night?  I
know you’re focused on Trump and what he said, but the president
himself, by all — he was unable to answer some questions, meandered, was
clearly very different last night than he was this morning.  Can you
just explain what happened and why — why he performed like that?

  
MR. TYLER:  Yeah, I think the president said it himself today.  You
know, he didn’t have the best night on the debate stage.  But we’d
rather have one bad night than a candidate with a bad vision for where
he wants to take the country.   
  
And, again, I think that’s what the American people saw in Donald Trump
last night.  It’s certainly what they’re going to see with him as he
returns to a MAGA rally in Virginia today.  They’re going to see exactly
why they fired him in the first place as the — as he continues to be
more and more in the limelight moving forward.  
  
Q    And do you firmly reject any calls for the president to consider
stepping aside or not running again?  Are there any conversations about
that?  
  
MR. TYLER:  There are no conversations about that whatsoever.  The
Democratic voters elected — nominated Joe Biden.  Joe Biden is the
nominee.  Joe Biden — and a couple of things I would point to about this
too.   
  
If you look at the actual — what we actually saw since the debate last
night, we have seen, again, the president go to North Carolina, touch
down, had thousands of supporters in the state of North Carolina rally
around him. 

But we also raised $14 million yesterday.  In fact, the 11:00  hour was
our most successful grassroots fundraising hour of the entirety of the
campaign.  That is Democratic voters tuning in, telling Joe Biden that
they’ve got his back for the fight ahead because they understand that
he’s fighting for them.

Q    And just a quick one.  Does the president commit to appearing at
the debate in September?

MR. TYLER:  Oh, absolutely.  That’s what we laid out when we challenged
Donald Trump to two debates.  Joe Biden will be there on September
10th.  We’ll see what Donald Trump does.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  Go ahead, Steve.  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Michael, what’s your assessment of all this criticism from fellow
Democrats about his performance?

MR. TYLER:  Listen, I’ve also seen people — like Governor Shapiro,
Governor Walz, Governor Whitmer, Speaker — Speaker-to-be Jeffries as
well, who talked about the president who was on that debate stage,
obviously, fighting for the American people and on the stage today in
North Carolina demonstrating that he’s always going to get back up and
continue to fight for the American people every single day and lay out
the fundamental stakes of this election. 

Are we going to have a president who fights for the American people,
protects their freedoms, stands up for our democracy, fights for an
economy that grows from the middle out and the bottom up? 

Or are you going to have somebody like Donald Trump, who made it very
clear on the debate stage last night, makes it very clear every single
day on the stump that he is fighting for himself as a convicted felon?

He does not care about the harm that he causes, the chaos that he
causes, the division or the violence that he sows so long as Donald
Trump comes out on top.  That’s what the President called out today in
North Carolina.  And that’s the choice that we’re going to continue to
present to the American people going forward.

Q    Has the — has the president made any phone calls to fellow
Democratic leaders trying to calm people down?

MR. TYLER:  I can’t — I can’t speak to that.

Yeah. 

Q    And — and how is he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.

Q    First, is the president sick?  And did that affect his preparation
for the campaign?

MR. TYLER:  I know that the president did have a sore throat. 

Q    But is he sick?  Does he have a cold?

MR. TYLER:  I think you saw the president today on the stage in North
Carolina forcefully deliver remarks today.  So, it’s certainly not — the
president would not cite his sore throat as an excuse for the debate
performance.  He had a bad night.  He said that, right?  And it’s about
how you get back up.  And that’s what we saw in North Carolina today.

Q    And — and would you — would you change the format for the next
debate?  Or are you comfortable with — with the way C- — CNN conducted
the debate?

MR. TYLER:  Listen, I — I think what you saw was Donald Trump get up
there and lie to the American people.  And I think the American people,
as we move forward, are going to see that as they see him in prime time
over and over and over again. 

So, what this campaign is focused on right now, on June 28th and as we
move forward, is communicating directly with the American people not
just what the president’s vision is for where — where he wants to take
the country over the course of the next four years but, again, as people
begin to understand the stakes and see Donald Trump back in the
limelight, once again, reminding them of the lies, of the chaos that he
sowed, of the division that he sowed, of the violence that he sowed. 

That’s what they saw on the debate stage last night.  And that’s why
they fired him four years ago.  So, we’re going to make sure that people
continue to see that as we move into the summer months.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, go ahead, go ahead.

Q    Is th- — is the strategy going to change at all now after this
debate?  I mean, President Biden today said that he’s not as good — as
good a debater as he once was.  He says he has a cold.  So, kind of,
which is it?  And is — how is the strategy going to change going
forward?

MR. TYLER:  Well, the strategy doesn’t change at all.  Our strategy, as
I just said, moving forward is to relentlessly communicate directly with
the American people between June 28th and November. 

We are going to — the president right now — what did he do after he got
off the debate stage?  He went straight to North Carolina to rally the
troops here in the Tar Heel State, where the vice president is touching
down in — out west in Nevada, doing the exact same thing right now.

We’re going to relentlessly communicate across the airwaves, on the
ground.  We have 300 field offices that are opened up.  We’re going to
relentlessly work to reach the voters that are going to decide the
pathway to 270 electoral votes. 

We have the candidate that beat Donald Trump in 2020.  We have the team
that beat Donald Trump in 2020.  And we are confident that if we keep
our heads down and do the work, the American people are once again going
to side with Joe Biden.

Q    But age continues to be an issue for this campaign.  So, after last
night, how — how could you not rethink some of the strategy here?

MR. TYLER:  Well, listen, age — the president himself has said it’s fair
for the American people to consider age.  But what’s clear is that age
is not going to be the contrast in this race.  Joe Biden is 81 years
old.  Donald Trump is 78 years old. 

Joe Biden, every single day, is fighting for an economy that actually
works for working people.  That’s fundamentally what they’re going to
vote on.  They’re going to vote about — on the issues.  They’re going to
vote for the candidate who is actually fighting for them. 

And it is very clear on all the issues that matter — from people’s
economic weel- — well-being to which candidate is actually going to
respect and restore a woman’s fundamental right to make her own choices
about her body to defending and protecting our democracy — the only
candidate fighting for them is Joe Biden.

Donald Trump, clearly fighting for himself and fighting against the
American people on all those issues. 

That’s what — that’s how the voters are going to fundamentally make
their decision. 

Q    Did you feel like the president performed differently in the debate
prep?  Did you see any kind of difference?

MR. TYLER:  Listen, the president himself said he, you know, didn’t have
the best night.  I think everybody understands that.  And what you saw
him do today was to get right back up and carry on the fight.  That’s
exactly what people in North Carolina saw.  That’s what people across
America are going to see.  And that’s what we’re going to see in the
days to come. 

This — this is a president who understands that he’s never going to stop
fighting for the American people, and that’s what we’ll continue to do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Tyler.  We’re going to wrap it up.  Go
ahead, Tyler.

Q    (Inaudible) million people watched the debate last night.  A lot
fewer will have seen the president’s performance in North Carolina
today.  So, how do you make up for that gap of the people who just saw
the image last night and did not see the rally that you guys are excited
about today?

MR. TYLER:  Yeah, that’s why you have a campaign: to relentlessly
communicate the president, his vision, his message.  It’s not just the
travel on the ground.  It’s not just on television.  It’s how we package
and disseminate content.

I would actually look at a lot of the work that we did with content
creators — not just last night but continuing to today.  We’re going to
continue to — to communicate relentlessly and use all channels of
communication to make sure that people actually see the fighter in Joe
Biden who got up on that stage today and will do so in the weeks to
come.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    A rally — a rally is vastly different than a debate.  So, back to,
sort of, the strategy angle.  If they are going to have a second matchup
in September, what is the actual strategic difference in preparation so
that you have more of what happened today at the rally and less of what
happened last night at the debate?

MR. TYLER:  Listen, we’ll talk more about the second debate as we get
closer to the second debate.  What we’re focused on right now in — on
June 28th is doing what we’re doing today: getting back out on the
stump, communicating directly with the voters that are going to decide
the election in the battleground states. 

You have the president here in North Carolina — again, the vice
president in Nevada — on the ground talking with the voters in those
states that are going to decide this election.  I think you saw how
North Carolinians responded to the president’s message and his vision
today in North Carolina.  You’re going to see the same thing out west,
where people get a chance to see Kamala Harris. 

And that’s what our focus is going to be on — right? — directly engaging
the voters, making sure that all of our organizers — we have over a
thousand organizers across all the battleground states who are
relentlessly doing the work on the ground.  Our paid advertisements
continue to be aggressive.  They continue to — to outpace the work that
Donald Trump is doing, who’s still — the vast majority of the money that
his campaign is raising is still doing things like paying legal fees for
somebody who’s now a convicted felon.  Right?  I think it’s in stark
contrast.

Given the polarized electorate that we’re in, given the fact that both
of these candidates are so well known, the work that the candidates and
the campaigns are doing to turn out and organize their voters matters
that much more.  And so, that’s what this campaign is going to be
focused on as we head into the summer.

Q    One la- —

Q    Can you —

Q    One last thing.  Will you review how you do the debate preparation
for — you know, m- — examine whether you need to do some things, need to
do more things?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He just — he just —

MR. TYLER:  Again, I think I just answered that question.  I said we’d —

Q    I didn’t hear it.

MR. TYLER:  — think more — that’s okay.  We’d — we’ll — we’ll approach
the second debate when we get closer to the second debate.  Our focus
right now is on communicating directly with the voters.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Darlene.  Last question.  Last question.

Q    Can you give us some details about the event tonight in New York
City?

MR. TYLER:  I got nothing for you yet. 

Q    Nothing?

MR. TYLER:  You’ll have to tune in.

Q    How is that possible?  (Laughter.)

MR. TYLER:  I got — you all will just have to wait.  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Lauren, you have last question.

Q    Are you considering any staffing changes on the campaign after last
night?

MR. TYLER:  Absolutely not.  This is the team that beat Donald Trump in
2020.  It’s the candidate to beat Jon- — Donald Trump in 2020.  And
we’re going to beat him in 2024. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Tyler.  Really, really, really the last
question.

Q    But there was an all-staff meeting today with the campaign.  What
was the message that was sent to the —

MR. TYLER:  There was, but I was on the plane when it happened, so I
have nothing to read out for you.

Q    Will the campaign focus on Virginia at all anymore?  I know Trump
is in Southern Virginia.  Is that going to become a focus point —

MR. TYLER:  Yeah.

Q    — for the campaign?

MR. TYLER:  This campaign is focused on the path to 270 electoral votes
and the tru- — and the battleground states.  I think that’s reflected in
everything that we’re doing.  Today, we’re in North Carolina, we’re in
Nevada.  I think that you’ve seen our path to victory, the states that
we’re focused on that are actually going to decide the pathway to 270
electoral votes. 

Donald Trump can do — I know he talks about rallies in New York City,
for example.  But h- — we’re not going to allow him and his nonsense to
distract us from what we know the task at hand needs to be.  We’re going
to remain disciplined and do the work to get to 270 electoral votes. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.

MR. TYLER:  All right, y’all.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Michael.

Q    Thank you.

MR. TYLER:  Thank you so much.  We will be doing this more often. 

Q    Really appreciate it.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Michael.  Bye.

MR. TYLER:  Thanks, y’all.

Q    Appreciate it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

All right —

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s it.  Thanks, everybody.  (Laughter.)

I don’t know what to say.  What else can I say?  (Inaudible.)

Q    Can you tell us more about his cold?  When did he contract it? 
What — did it affect his performance last night?

Q    Was he tested for COVID?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — okay, step back for a second.  So, yes, and I
think we shared this with many people yesterday.  The president had a
cold; he had a sore throat.  That happens.  And — and that’s what you
heard last night.  And, you know, I’ll — I’ll leave it there.  I don’t
have anything else to add.  I think Michael covered a lot of this just
moments ago. 

But, yes, he had a cold.  He had a sore throat.  Once he knew that he —
he had a cold and a sore throat, he tested — he certainly tested for
COVID.  It was negative.  And then we moved on from there.

Q    Why did the White House wait until the middle of the debate to
release that information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’ll tell you this.  Look, he had a strong
debate-prep week.  And — and he got a cold, which happens.  It happens. 
It’s not unusual.  It’s not something — you know — I mean, you don’t
share every time, you know, the president has a cold.  It happened.  And
once — once he had the cold and had a sore throat, again, he tested
negative for COVID.  And then we moved on.

Q    But just curious about the disclosure of that information.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he got a — I mean, Tyler, he got a cold.  It —
it happens.

Q    But just in terms of when — the sequencing, like instead of before
the debate, in the middle of the debate —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    — how you decided —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, well —

Q    — when to announce —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — obviously, during the debate, we were asked if the
president has a cold.  We — we said — well, they would — we were asked
about his hoarse voice.  We shared that he had a cold, we shared that he
tested negative, and then we moved on.  That’s it.  It was from his —
his voice as he was speaking during the debate, obviously.

Q    Were there plans to let the public know if you weren’t received —
if you weren’t, you know, asked from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he —

Q    — asked about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — had a cold.  It happens.  He had a cold.

Q    Right.  But you were — you were — during the debate, that was the
blame for why he wasn’t doing well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He had a hoarse voice, so people asked why he had a
hoarse voice — because he had a cold.  And we also shared — we went a- —
we went a step — we took a step further and shared that he tested for
COVID and was negative. 

I mean, he had a cold.  (Laughs.)  That’s what it was.

Q    Have you talked to the president?  How is he feeling w- — did you
talk to him last night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He —

Q    How he’s feeling —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m not going to — I’m not going to disclose my
private conversations with the president.  Obviously — obviously, I — I
speak to him often. 

You saw him today.  You saw him — and I’m going to be super mindful. 
Obviously, it was a camp- — it was a campaign event today.  But you saw
him.  He — he spoke directly to the — to the American people.  You saw
the crowd.  You saw what he laid out.  He li- — he laid out his vision
for the future, what he’s done in the past three and a half years.  And
that’s what I’ll stick to.

The other part, you can actually — obviously, you can speak — you can
see for yourself.  But the president is a fighter.  He’s going to
continue to fight for the American people, as he’s done the last three
and a half years.  That doesn’t end.  That doesn’t stop.  And that’s
what you’re h- — you’ll continue to hear from this president, as you saw
today.

Q    Any reaction from him to the reaction to his performance last
night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think the president — and I said this
yesterday — the president always took — takes an opportunity — when he’s
in front of an audience, when he knows that millions of Americans are
going to tune in to hear directly from him, he’s going to take that
opportunity to lay that out. 

Yes, did he have a — a bit of a slow start?  You heard from the vice
president last night, yes.  But as the time went on, he certainly made
up some of that — right? — and mo- — mo- — probably faster than most
would have and laid out his vision and was very clear about certain —
certain parts of issues that the American people care about, whether
it’s abortion, immigration, the things that you hear us talk about all
the time, the contrast that we make with extreme Republicans and
congressional members and what they’re trying to do on the other side. 

And so — and you certainly heard that from him today.  And so, look, the
president is going to always take the opportunity, again, to be very
clear, to be very concise about what he’s doing on behalf of the
American people.  There’ll be many, many opportunities.  We move on. 
And you’ll hear more from the president, obviously, later today.

Q    What — was it ins- — personally insulting to him to have all these
fellow Democrats come out and say, “You need to step aside”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m not — you know, look, people are going to have
their opinion.  I’m going to be very careful — right? — because this was
a debate — the Hatch Act piece of that. 

We respect — we respect, you know, our fellow — our fellow Democrats —
obviously, part of our party — and their opinion.  But you heard — you
heard Michael talk about the folks who were on — on TV today and earlier
— earlier this morning talk about the president and his performance and
how he’s a president that we need today.  He’s a president that’s going
to continue to lead the way on really critical, important issues that
Americans care about, that — truly, that Americans care about.

This week alone, we — we marked the Dobbs anniversary — right? — two
years of when the former president put three extreme — extreme members
on the court — individuals on the court, and they overturned Roe v.
Wade.  And look what it’s caused.  It caused chaos with IVS \[IVF\],
contraception. 

And you have heard us — the president and the vice president continue to
speak to that.  And we are with the majority of Americans, while, you
know, extreme Republicans want to put national bans.

That’s what you’re going to continue to hear us fighting for: everyday
Americans.  The economy — we understand how Americans are still feeling
the pinch. 

But what the president has done this last three and a half years is work
to get the economy back on its feet.  And we see that with unemployment
under 4 percent.  We see the — the amount of — record amount of jobs
that this president has — able to be created — more than 15 million
jobs. 

And so, we’re going to — that’s going to be our focus.  Our focus is
going to be how do we create, continue to provide that breathing room
that you hear the president talk about for American people, fight for
our freedom, fight for democracy.

And so, that’s — that is, I think, the contrast that you saw last night
and what the president is going to do moving forward.

Q    Do you think the president does better or is more comfortable in
moments that are scripted, like the rally earlier today, as opposed to
the debate, when he has to think on his feet a bit more?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you — I’m just going to repeat what the
president said today.  He understands.   
  
Look, he’s not as smooth as he used to be on the debate stage.  He
doesn’t speak as smoothly as he used to be.  I mean, you heard him say
and acknowledge — acknowledge where he is today.  And — and — but the
thing that he ended with, which I think is so important, which I keep
saying over and over to all of you, is he’s — he knows he’s going to
fight for democracy.  He’s going to fight for freedom.  And he knows
exactly how to do that. 

And you see it with his record in the last three and a half years.  I
think the record that he has been able to do — whether it’s legislation
— historic pieces of legislation to get things done — I think that
speaks for itself.  And so, this is a president that’s going to continue
to do that — continue to do that.

Q    Karine —

Q    The Supreme Court Chevron ruling that came out today.

So much of the administration, you know, agenda is on — is around
climate change. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    How big of a setback do you think this might be for some of the
policies that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you may have seen I issued a — a statement —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — on this earlier, a respon- —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

So, I’ll just say a little bit.  This is yet another troubling decision
that takes our country backwards.  Republican-backed special interests
have repeatedly turned to the Supreme Court to block common-sense rules
that keep us safe, protect our health and environment, safeguard our
financial system, and support American consumers and workers. 

The president has directed his legal team to work with Department of
Justice and other agency counsel to review today’s decision carefully
and ensure that our administration is doing everything we can to
continue to deploy the extraordinary expertise of the federal workers to
keep Americans safe and ensure our communities thrive and prosper.

Q    And what about the Supreme Court ruling about the Justice
Department overstepping on charging hundreds of people for the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, that one, I’m going to be super mindful —
I’m going to refer you to Department of Justice.  As you know, they’re
ongoing cases.  So, I just got to be super careful on that.  That
litigation continues.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, the — three U.S. troops died in Jordan this year and more
in Afghanistan in 2021.  How can the president say none have died during
his administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, obviously, the president, as you know, is
the commander in chief.  And you hear him even when he ends every — ev-
— all of his remarks, he talks about respecting — respecting our — our
troops who are serving today.  And he con- — he will always do that and
continues to do that.  And he obviously had — his son was — was —
obviously served, as well.  So, this is something that he respects.  And
so, I don’t think — I don’t think that will ever change. 

Obviously, our hearts and our thoughts go out to the family who are pro-
— clearly still suffering and thinking about their loved ones.  And so,
we’ll continue to do that. 

And I — you know, I refer you to the campaign about specifics about
fact-checking and all of those pieces.  But I can speak to a president
that has been incredibly respectful of the military and what they do for
us day in and day out and how they continue to serve our country. 

You saw th- — you saw that on display, obviously, on D-Day when he was
in Normandy — he did that twice — and honoring those who have fallen. 
And so, he’ll continue to do that. 

Any particular fact-check, I would certainly refer you to the campaign.

Q    Well, I understand that that was said during debate, so that we can
— can refer to the campaign.  But he is the president.  This — these
weren’t off-the-cuff remarks.  They felt prepared.  And it was clearly a
mistake.  Does he not consider these to be —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I will say is the president respects our
military force.  He respects the families who have lost members of the
military.  He will continue to do that.  He has been very consistent
about that — not just as president but as vice president, as senator. 
You hear him talk about the service and how they put their lives on the
— on the line every single day to protect us.  He t- — he always ends
his remarks mentioning that, mentioning and lifting up our service
members.  And that’s what I will speak to at this time. 

All right, guys.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  We’ll see you in New York.  All
right.

3:28 P.M.  EDT
