---
date: '2024-06-11'
modified_time: 2024-06-11 21:37:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-11 21:37:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/11/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-previewing-the-g7-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John Kirby Previewing the G7\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:16 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Good afternoon, everyone. Thanks so much for joining this
on-the-record gaggle to preview the G7 and go through the news of day
with White House National Security Communications Advisor John Kirby.

Kirby will have a few words at the top, and then we’ll take your
questions.

Kirby, I’ll turn it over to you.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Eduardo. Hey. Good afternoon, everybody.

I think as you all know, tomorrow President Biden will be heading to
Puglia, Italy, for the G7 Leaders’ Summit.

I want to start by just taking a quick step back to the President’s very
first G7 in Cornwall. The leaders hadn’t been in person for years at
that point because of the pandemic, and there was a real sense of relief
in the room that America was back and actually leading at the table. And
that’s still more true now than ever. The President’s message on that G7
in Cornwall was that we need to step up in solidarity and demonstrate
that democracies can still deliver for our people and for people all
over the world.

And for the past few years, we’ve done that in a number of areas. That
includes in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which not only
threatens democracy in Ukraine but actually affects security across the
European continent as well, and also affects the post-World War Two
international order that the President talked about very eloquently in
Normandy last week.

At the G7 meeting later this week, our commitment to Ukraine will
continue to be right up front and clear. We will take bold steps to show
Mr. Putin that time is not on his side and that he cannot outlast us, as
we support Ukraine’s fight for freedom.

First, we will announce new steps to unlock the value of the immobilized
Russian sovereign assets to benefit Ukraine and to help them recover
from the destruction that Mr. Putin’s army has caused.

On Thursday, President Biden and President Zelenskyy will sit down to
discuss our strong support for Ukraine now and into the future. And
following that meeting, both leaders, President Biden and President
Zelenskyy, will participate in a news conference.

Throughout the last two and a half years, we’ve also stood up to Putin
in other ways: imposing the strongest set of sanctions and export
controls ever placed on a major economy; moving in lockstep to
immobilize Russia’s sovereign assets to deprive Putin’s war machine of
critical funding; and to enforce a price cap on Russian oil.

We’re going to continue to drive up costs for the Russian war machine.
And this week, we will announce an impactful set of new sanctions and
export control actions.

These actions will follow through on several of the commitments that G7
leaders have made to date. The actions will target the entities and
networks that are helping Russia procure what it needs for its war. They
will make it harder for financial facilitators, for instance, to support
Russia’s defense industrial base. And they will further restrict
Russia’s future revenues in key sectors.

Now, you’ll also see in Italy that the G7 is more unified than ever as
we stand up for shared values, to tackle global challenges, and to renew
our commitment to partners around the world that we will help them
invest in bright futures for their people.

We will build on the progress we made last year on our shared approach
to the Indo-Pacific as well, including by advancing an Indo-Pacific
region that is free, open, secure, prosperous, resilient, and connected.

We will address the PRC’s support for the Russian defense industrial
base. And we will confront China’s non-market policies that are leading
to harmful global spillovers, working with partners in and beyond the G7
to promote economic resilience and security.

This year, President Biden will again host a side event that will
highlight our positive value proposition to countries around the world
via the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, or PGI.

We will continue to offer a path to help countries overcome
unsustainable debt burdens, to boost the World Bank’s lending firepower,
to mobilize additional capital for high-standard infrastructure
investments, and to make new commitments on food and health security.

And as many of you saw, leaders will be joined by His Holiness, Pope
Francis, for a session on artificial intelligence, among other topics.
This will be an important moment for our countries to come together and
develop our shared approach to harnessing the benefits of AI while at
the same time managing the risks to our national security and impacts
that it may have to our workforces and inequality.

The bottom line here is that President Biden believes we must continue
to imagine, to event — invent, I’m sorry, and to inspire. And we are
committed to investing in that vision with our closest allies. We are
very confident that if we do, the United States will continue to lead on
the world stage for generations to come.

So the President is very excited about getting over to Italy and having
these important discussions at the G7. And I said — as I said earlier,
you’ll all be able to hear directly from him and President Zelenskyy as
well.

One last point before I turn it over to questions.

On behalf of the entire press team at the NSC, I want to congratulate
Michael Feldman and his new bride, Wendy, who got married over the
weekend in Virginia. Exciting time for them as they start a whole new
chapter in their lives. And we wish them all the best and all the
happiness.

As I’ve long noted and known myself, marriage is the only ocean for
which no compass has yet been invented. And I think that’s one of the
most special things about it. You start on a journey together; you don’t
really know how long it’s going go and how far and how — and where
you’re going to go. And I think that’s the exciting thing about it. And
we’re all excited for Michael and Wendy.

And with that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR: Thanks. Our first question will go to the line of Colleen
Long. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thank you. Hey, Kirby. Two things. On the G7, I wondered what the
likelihood is that the G7 nations are going to agree to the $50 billion
loan to Ukraine using frozen assets.

And then on Hamas, the ceasefire deal, it looks like they’ve given
mediators back a reply on the proposed deal with some remarks. I
wondered if this is, you know, good enough progress, if the U.S. is
still sort of believing that the ceasefire deal is imminent. If you
could update us on that.

MR. KIRBY: Hey, Colleen. I won’t get ahead of the discussions on the
frozen assets. As I said, that will be a topic of discussion. The
President will continue to reiterate our desire to move in lockstep with
our allies and partners on using those frozen assets appropriately to
help with reconstruction in Ukraine.

As I said in my opening statement, there’ll be some announcements on
that. But I don’t want to get too far ahead of all that. And I certainly
won’t speak for other of our G7 partners.

But I just want to circle back and just — as I said before, the only way
this works is if we do have participation and support from other
nations. But as I said, there’ll be some announcements on that. And I
think I best leave it at that for right now.

On your second question, we’re in receipt of this reply that Hamas
delivered to Qatar and to Egypt. And we are evaluating it right now. And
I think that’s really as far as I’m going to go today — just that we
have this response, and we’re working our way through it and looking at
it. And I think, really, that’s where I’m going to have to leave it.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Andrea Mitchell. You should be able to
unmute yourself.

Q Thank you very much. I understand that, but there’s some language in
it that indicates that they might still be wanting to continue the
hostilities. Do you think it’s at least helpful that they have
responded?

And what is your assessment of the Wall Street Journal’s report with
communications from Sinwar that seem to be — that are taking, you know,
pleasure in the death of civilians and thinking that it is to the
advantage of Hamas to have so many people being killed?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, on your first question, it’s certainly helpful that we
have a response, Andrea. No question about that. I mean, we’ve been
eagerly awaiting a response.

But as for the reported details that may be out there, I think I’m just
going to demur right now. We’ve only just gotten it. Our team is going
through it. As I understand, the Qataris and the Egyptians are as well.
And I think we just need to reserve comment until we’ve had a chance to
fully examine it. And I hope people can understand that.

I know it’s not a super satisfying answer for you all this afternoon,
but it’s really the most responsible thing that we can do right now, is
to really kind of take the thing in full and take our time to go through
it to make sure we fully understand it.

I’m not in a position to confirm the specific reporting in the Wall
Street Journal about Sinwar, but I will say this: It should come as a
shock to no one that Mr. Sinwar cares nothing at all about the lives of
innocent Palestinians that have been caught up in this war, a war he
started. And it should surprise and shock no one that a beast like Mr.
Sinwar would actually take glee in it and see advantage to it.

Again, without confirming the specifics of the reporting, it is — in
general, it’s certainly not uncharacteristic of the brutality that this
man is capable of and the willingness that he has shown himself able or
capable of, since the beginning, of trying to advance his own agenda on
the backs of and in the lives of innocent Palestinians living in Gaza.

And it should underscore and be a reminder to everybody how this war
started, how quickly it could end if Mr. Sinwar didn’t have these
predilections and would do the right thing, and exactly what Hamas as an
organization is still capable of. I think I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Josh Wingrove.

Josh, if you’re speaking, we can’t hear you.

Q Hey, thanks so much. Sorry about that. John, are you able to talk a
little bit more about the sanctions that you mentioned at the top of the
call?

MR. KIRBY: No, Josh. I’m really going to leave it to the opening
statement. There’ll be some announcements on that, ways in which we’re
going to increase pressure — economic pressure on Russia, as I said,
specifically around its defense industrial base. But I do hope you can
understand that I’m not prepared to use today’s gaggle to actually make
those announcements.

Q And can you give us any indication as to whether the President plans
to speak with Prime Minister Modi, assuming he’s still planning on
attending, and whether they will discuss the allegations with respect to
the alleged plot targeting a national on U.S. soil? Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: The President — he’s looking forward to speaking to all the
leaders of the G7, and he’ll take advantage of every opportunity he’s
got to do that. I don’t have something on the — I don’t have anything on
the calendar that I can point to right now at this point. I know on the
flight over you all will be hearing from Jake a little bit more. I think
Jake will be able to provide a little bit more flesh on the bone for
what the schedule is going to look like. I don’t have anything more
right now.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to the line of Nadia Charters.

Q Thank you, Eduardo. Hi, John. Hello from Italy. Hope to see you soon.
I have two questions. Number one is: How does this recent European
election and the rise of the right will affect a long-term cooperation
between the U.S. and your allies, especially with regarding Ukraine?

And second about the Gaza proposal. There’s some kind of, like,
understanding with either from the Israelis or Hamas that they can still
fight whether it is they agree to the term or not? Is the proposal
unambiguous enough for the two sides to accept it but to lead them to
believe that actually they can continue the way they believe that they
can score victory?

MR. KIRBY: Look, on your first question, the results were  
mixed inside various countries and they were mixed across Europe. And,
look, you know, that’s democracy. And democracy, as the President said
in Normandy, is an incredibly powerful force for humanity around the
world, and we respect it. And more critically, we respect our allies and
partners across the continent of Europe.

And we have every bit — every confidence that regardless of who gets
what seat in the EU parliament, that we’re going to be able to continue
to work with all our allies and partners, and we’re going to continue to
work with the EU. And we look forward to continuing our great
relationship with President von der Leyen. And we’re not at all
concerned that we’re not still going to be able to advance shared
interests and values across the European continent and continue to
support, as we have supported with our EU partners, Ukraine’s fight for
its freedom and its territorial integrity.

On your second question: Again, I’m not going to provide any context or
details about this response, which just came in and which our team is
evaluating and our friends in Qatar and Egypt are as well.

I would just say — I would just point you back to the way the President
characterized this: that if we can get this deal in place, in phase one
the fighting stops; the fighting stops all across Gaza. That’s what
phase one is all about. That’s how you get the hostages out safely, and
that’s how you get, hopefully, up to 600 trucks a day going into Gaza,
is with a calm — a sustainable calm that can potentially lead to phase
two, which could lead to a cessation of hostilities altogether.

So if the deal is entered into by both sides, then you get a ceasefire,
at least for six weeks, which means no fighting anywhere in Gaza.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to MJ Lee.

Q Thank you. Just back to the Hamas response to the ceasefire proposal.
Can you give us even a general sense of whether the changes that they
say they are demanding are significant or not? And is it also your
understanding that the response came from Sinwar and had his blessing?

And then just secondly — obviously understand the primary focus of this
briefing, but given the significant news today, just as the President’s
advisor and a spokesperson for this White House, can you give us a sense
of how the President has been processing the news of his son’s
conviction and just where his head is right now?

MR. KIRBY: MJ, two very fair questions, and I’m afraid I’m just not
going to be able to be helpful on either of them. I really don’t want to
prejudice or get ahead of our review of the text here. So I’m not going
to get into content one way or the other at this point.

It has in the past, and so it is today, our assumption that if Hamas has
delivered a response to Qatar, which they have, that it comes with Mr.
Sinwar’s approbation. That’s the way Hamas has operated in the past —
that Sinwar has to sign off on it. That’s certainly our assumption going
into this text here.

But I need to reserve any comment until the experts have had a chance to
go through it and make their own assessments.

Again, this just happened within the last couple of hours, guys, so just
— I understand that — I do really understand the interest in it, but
we’re just going to need to take the time to work through that text in
the right way. And again, I hope you all can understand it.

There’s a whole heck of a lot riding here, a whole lot at stake, and not
the least of which — in fact, the most important of which is the lives
of these hostages and their families. And we just — we need to be very,
very careful about what we say and how we say it. And this just came
across the desk, and so we’re going to take the time to evaluate it the
right way and figure out what the next step is going to be.

And on your second question, that’s well beyond the scope of my duties
at the National Security Council, and I’m simply not able to speak to
that one way or the other.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to the line of Aurelia End. You should be
able to —

Q Hi. Thanks so much for taking my question. The first question is just
to clarify: These announcements on the frozen assets and on sanctions,
will those G7 announcements or will those be announcement from this
administration?

And second question: The President goes to Europe just after elections
that have shown a rise in — you know, from populist parties and parties
that for some of them have clear pro-Russia positions. So how concerned
is he about that?

And also, more precisely, is he ready to maybe in a few weeks work with
a far-right-led government in France?

MR. KIRBY: The President will work with the democratically elected
leaders of France no matter who they are. As he said when we were in
Normandy and in Paris, France is our oldest ally, and we will always
work with whoever the French people decide to elect as their
representatives. Full stop right there.

On your second question: As I said, we have every confidence that
regardless of who fills what seats in the EU parliament, we’re going to
continue to work closely with President von der Leyen and our EU
partners on all the issues relative to our shared interest across the
European continent, and that includes supporting Ukraine. And I’ll leave
it at that. We’re confident in that.

And, dang it, I didn’t write down your first question. What the heck was
it again?

Q I was asking: These announcements this week on frozen assets and on
sanctions, are those going to be common G7 announcements or only U.S.
announcements?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I think, again, you’re going to — the issue of the
frozen assets will actually be on the agenda. You’ll see those leaders
talk about the need to move in lockstep, as we have in the past, to
immobilize these Russian sovereign assets.

And I think you’re going to see — what I can say is: You’ll see — I
think you’re going to see unanimity here at the G7 when it comes to
working towards using these frozen assets to help Ukraine with their
reconstruction. I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Marek. You should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q Thank you, Eduardo. Hi, John. The NATO Summit is just a month away
from now, here in Washington. How far is NATO from a consensus on the
next Secretary General?

MR. KIRBY: Marek, I wouldn’t be able to answer that one. That’s really
for the Alliance to speak to, and I’m not going to get ahead of the
Alliance on that and who the next Secretary General is. That’s beyond
the scope of my ability today.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Patsy.

Q Thank you, Eduardo. Hi, John. First question: How confident is the
President that there will be a G7 agreement on a concrete plan to deal
with Chinese overcapacity?

And to follow up on the questions on the surge of far-right parties, I
thought I heard you say that the President is looking forward to a great
relationship with President von der Leyen. So are you saying that he is
confident that Ursula von der Leyen will secure a second term?

And just last on logistics, if I may: Will the President have a bilat
with Giorgia Meloni and also an audience with the Pope, and when? Thank
you.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, again, on the specific meetings with specific leaders,
you’ll hear more from Jake tomorrow and more details about the agenda.
I’ll defer to Jake on that.

And my comments about President von der Leyen were certainly
representative of what we generally believe to be the likely outcome
here.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Karen DeYoung.

Q Thanks, John. In their response to the U.N. resolution yesterday and
in their response today, Hamas said that what they’re seeking is a
commitment to a permanent ceasefire and full Israeli withdrawal. As I
understand the plan, as the President explains it, negotiations in phase
one are open-ended until — assuming that both sides act in good faith —
until there’s an agreement to a permanent ceasefire and withdrawal. So,
in other words, in phase one, a ceasefire would continue. Israel has
never committed to that and, in fact, has said it’s not finished with
its operations in Gaza.

Based on the administration’s conversations with the Israelis, do you
believe that Israel has committed to that and is prepared to say so
publicly or (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY: This is an Israeli proposal, Karen, and they’ve acknowledged
that themselves. This is an Israeli proposal. The President accurately
and meticulously identified the details of it to include, as you rightly
point out, what would happen in phase two.

Now, the phase two negotiations obviously haven’t begun because we’re
not even in phase one. But the idea of getting to phase one is you use
that six weeks to start negotiating phase two. But you accurately
depicted what would happen in phase two, and the Israelis have said that
that is their proposal.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Molly Nagle.

Q Hi. Thanks so much for doing this. I wanted to see if you could
confirm — there are reports that President Biden has approved the
deployment of another Patriot missile system to Ukraine and that it
could be deployed to the frontlines in the next several days. Can you
confirm this report?

MR. KIRBY: No, I cannot.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Jake Epstein.

Q Hey, can you guys hear me?

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, I got you.

Q Hey, thanks for having this. I have a quick question on the Houthis.
The U.S. Navy continues to expend lots of resources fighting the
Houthis. For instance, they’ve fired off more than 500 munitions costing
some $1 billion, and yet the Houthis have continued to attack ships in
the Red Sea and the Gulf of Aden. I’m wondering how sustainable is the
U.S. naval presence in the region and how long does the administration
expect that this can go on for.

MR. KIRBY: Without getting into, you know, inventory levels and resupply
— you know, that gets you into an operational security environment
pretty dang quick in talking about making sure ships are armed and
ready.

I can tell you that President Biden and the entire national security
team is committed to making sure this coalition of more than 20 nations
that are operating in and around the Red Sea to defend and to defeat
Houthi attacks on commercial shipping remains high. And we will continue
to do everything that we can to knock that steel out of the sky and make
sure that our Navy is fully prepared to do so.

It is still — you know, you’re asking me — if you’re asking me — and I’m
not suggesting you are; but if you are, like, you know, what date on the
calendar does this operation end, I would tell you we don’t have a date
on the calendar right now because it’s still a very viable threat. And
shipping companies are still making pretty dang tough decisions about
what route they’re going to take to get goods to market. And we want to
make sure that they have a measure of confidence that they can still
travel through the Red Sea.

So the mission is still alive. It’s still viable. And, quite frankly, we
believe it’s still vital. And we’re going to treat it that way when it
comes to resourcing it.

MODERATOR: We have time for one more question. We’ll go to the line of
Laura Kelly.

Q Hi. Thank you so much for taking my question. Looking ahead at the G7
and the NATO Summit in Washington, how concerned is the U.S. about
increasing Russian hybrid attacks  
on NATO member states in Europe? We saw those that are attributed to
Russia and those that are suspected of being attributed to Russia. And
do we see that the U.S. and allies are going to make any statements
addressing this or have any work done about taking some sort of action?
Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have anything with respect to statements about these
hybrid attacks at the G7. But make no mistake, as I mentioned in my
opening statement: What Russia has done in Ukraine and what they
continue to do or try to do across the landscape of the European
continent remains a significant concern for President Biden, certainly
for our entire national security team and those of our G7 partners. And
I have little doubt that the full scope of Russia’s malign activities
will be discussed at the G7.

But as to what individual leaders plan to say about all that, you know,
I certainly can’t predict. We are watching these, quote, unquote,
“hybrid attacks,” to use your phrase,  
closely. We are certainly mindful that these are the kinds of things
that Russia has done in the past and has certainly continued to prove
their capability of doing now. It is of a page from their playbook.

And as I said in my opening statement, we will continue to examine,
pursue, and announce measures to hold Russia accountable, certainly for
what they’re doing in Ukraine, and to make it harder for their defense
industrial base to continue to  
threaten the security of not only the Ukrainian people but the European
continent. I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR: Thanks, Kirby. And thanks, everyone, for joining. That’s all
the time we have for today. If you have any follow-up questions, feel
free to email our distro, and we’ll get back to you. Thanks again.

END 3:48 P.M. EDT
