---
date: '2024-06-15'
published_time: 2024-06-15 08:27:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/15/background-press-call-on-an-update-on-the-presidents-second-day-at-the-g7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on an Update on the President\u2019s Second Day at the\_\
  G7"
---
 
Via Teleconference

7:46 P.M. CEST

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  We’ll get started.  As a reminder, this is a
call on background, attributable to a senior administration official, to
sort of give a run-through of today’s day and any updates that might
have happened since we all talked earlier today.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, today’s senior
administration official is \[senior administration official\].  He has a
few words here at the top, and then we’ll try to get as many questions
in as we can before he has to pop off.

So, over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Sam.  Hi, everybody.  Thanks
for jumping on.  Sorry it took so long to connect.  Our final session
just wrapped, and then, as you know, we had the family photo.  So we’re
finally free. 

Let me do two — let me do three things.  One, I’ll give you a few
updates on the Russian sovereign asset deal.  I’ll then try to give you
a sense of what was discussed today.  And then I’ll summarize key
deliverables from the communiqué, which just got approved 15 minutes
ago, and it should be released imminently if it hasn’t been already. 

So, first on Russian sovereign assets.  Look, I know there are a lot of
questions about the technical details of the agreement, which are being
worked out as we speak, but we shouldn’t lose sight of what’s already
happened this week, which I truly believe was historic: The G7 found a
way and agreed to make Russia pay.  And just put that into context. 
Never before in history has a multilateral coalition immobilized the
sovereign assets of an aggressor country and then found a way to unlock
the value of those assets for the benefit of the aggrieved party as it
fights for its freedom.  That’s what happened at this G7. 

And it’s a testament to President Biden’s belief that multilateralism is
a force multiplier for American interests.  And I want to underscore the
G7 took this step while respecting the rule of law in every G7
jurisdiction, while maintaining our solidarity. 

So let me give you some technical — some updates on technical details
that I think are incremental to what I told you yesterday.

First, we spoke yesterday about which countries will participate in the
deal.  And the answer really is that every G7 country is going to do its
part.  Some countries are going to contribute to the loan; others will
contribute to the repayment.  Others still will provide guarantees of
repayment if the income flow isn’t sufficient to service and repay the
loan in full. 

But the basic contours are what you know: Fifty billion U.S. dollars’
worth will be provided to Ukraine starting this year.  And the loans
will be repaid by the income on the immobilized assets. 

As for the U.S., we’ve already shared that we’re prepared and willing to
make a loan of up to $50 billion.  But I can now confirm the U.S. won’t
be the only lender.  Canada went public — I believe all of you probably
know — yesterday with their intention to contribute $5 billion.  Europe
has suggested it might wish to make at least half of the total loan. 
Japan is finalizing its plans.  And we also already know the repayment
will be made with income from the immobilized assets, most of which are
held in the EU but not exclusively.  And there’s at least one
jurisdiction that’s exploring, as I mentioned, how it can provide a
sovereign guarantee for the full repayment of the loan. 

Second, on how the proceeds will get distributed to Ukraine, the answer
is: The money will flow to Ukraine through multiple channels.  Europe
has a preference to flow its loan contribution to the Ukrainian military
through an existing European facility, namely the European Peace
Facility.  Other G7 members — Japan, for example — Japan has a legal
requirement to make its potential contribution to Ukraine’s budget and
not for military purposes. 

But as I mentioned yesterday, regardless of the destination, all of
these contributions are reinforcing.  Think of it this way: The more
budget relief provided to Ukraine, the better it can sustain its
defense.  And the more successful Ukraine can be on the battlefield, the
more sustainable its finances will become. 

Third update on the implication for Ukraine’s finances.  I know there
are questions about this.  So, again, the loan will be repaid with
proceeds from the immobilized assets, and that means Ukraine can treat
these funds as a grant.  That’s important because if it’s not expected
to repay any portion of the loan from its own budget, it doesn’t change
Ukraine’s debt to GDP ratio. 

Fourth, on governance.  Now, for the money that’s going to be directed
to reconstruction, what you’ll see in the communiqué is a nod to an
existing facility to which all G7 members belong, and is co-chaired by
the U.S. and the EU, and that’s called the Ukraine Multi-Donor
Coordination Platform.  I know it’s a mouthful.  But its purpose is to
do just what it sounds like: It coordinates the flow of money coming
into Ukraine, and it directs it to Ukraine’s highest priorities at a
pace that it can effectively absorb.  That platform already exists, and
we intend to strengthen it. 

The fifth detail is on Belgium’s role.  There have been many questions
about Belgium.  And as I said yesterday, we fully expect that the EU-27
will meet this moment and, with the G7’s direction, authorize the
continued immobilization of Russia’s sovereign assets.  The reason I say
that is that European G7 countries have now committed at the highest
political levels to seek that approval from Brussels.  But it’s not the
only option for the assets to remain immobilized.  We are also closely
engaged with Belgium.  As you know, one of Belgium’s companies has a
large share of the total immobilized assets.  And I’ll just say they
have played and will continue to play a very constructive role as
partners in this effort. 

Sixth, last incremental update on Russian sovereign assets:  Ukraine’s
reaction.  You all know — most of you were there, if not all of you — we
had the bilateral security agreement signing last night with Ukraine. 
And during those discussions, Ukraine welcomed the $50 billion
commitment, both because of the direct impact it will have in funding
Ukraine’s fight for freedom but also the psychological signal it sends. 

Just step back and consider what’s been announced this week: an historic
agreement to mobilize Russia’s sovereign assets to fund Ukraine’s fight;
a string of bilateral security agreements with Ukraine, none more
important than ours last night; and arguably the most significant
tightening of our sanctions regime to disarm the Russian war machine in
years.

So it has the potential to create a psychological inflection point now
going into the NATO Summit in July. 

All right, so I’m happy to take questions on the Russian sovereign
assets deal, but let me go through what happened today and just give you
a quick wrap of the summit overall. 

So, today there were three sessions.  First, the President participated
in a session on migration.  I would say he used that session and he
drove the conversation around his framework for managing migration,
which is really based on the Los Angeles Declaration he launched in May
of 2022.  It has three elements.  One, to promote humane and coordinated
enforcement of the border.  Two, to strengthen pathways for legal
migration and to integrate migrants into host communities.  And three,
to support efforts to address the root causes of migration. 

He also remarked, as he has before, that, you know, more people are on
the move today than at any time in history and that the risks are
two-sided.  Migrants bring immense talent into our country but also
challenges that require cooperation.  And I would say the conversation
among leaders was largely centered around how to turn migration into an
asset rather than a liability. 

He then participated in a session on the Indo-Pacific region.  And I
would say most of that discussion focused on a diagnosis of the economic
and national security threats from China’s efforts to dominate strategic
sectors.  You’ll see in the communiqué a shared diagnosis of the problem
we and, I would say, most of the world shares, which is we have
unrivaled policy distortions coming out of China.  That’s giving rise to
an unfair competitive advantage that’s manifest in the overcapacity that
China is producing in strategic sectors.  And that’s a problem for three
reasons.  It’s undercutting our own investments in our productive
capacity.  It’s reducing our supply chain resilience.  And it’s
threatening our national security interests, particularly when it
undercuts our ability to remain preeminent in foundational technology. 

So, on that — against that backdrop, what you’ll see in the communiqué
is the G7 is collectively calling out those risks and then collectively
pledging to take action, again, in a way that’s shared.  You’ll see
references throughout the communiqué to investing in our own industrial
capacities.  You’ll see references as well on giving each other, and
countries that play by the same rules, fair access to our markets and to
our production.  And then also our shared willingness to take
restrictive measures, where it’s necessary, to protect our workers and
industries from practices that are causing harm. 

The last session today was when President Biden and His Holiness Pope
Francis and the G7 leaders and the outreach countries discussed AI.  And
here, the context was — the way President Biden talked about it was:
We’re going to see more technological change in the next five years than
we saw in the last 50 years.  And so we have to deepen our cooperation
to harness the promise of artificial intelligence and also manage the
potential perils.

Specifically in terms of harnessing the promise, most of the focus was
on addressing the potential effects of AI on our labor markets and the
efforts we can take to bridge skills gaps with the private sector.  So
you’ll see in the communiqué a new consortium that’s designed to
identify job roles that are most likely to get impacted by AI and to
identify the skills and the competencies that will be needed to avoid
displacement effects and try to create more potential for augmenting
productivity and developing training programs around it. 

And then the other part of the conversation was around how to make
artificial intelligence safe and secure and how we can use policy to do
so.  And that includes testing AI systems before they get released. 
There was quite a bit of mention of watermarking content that’s
generated by AI, flagging AI algorithms that can reinforce bias,
requiring developers of the most powerful systems to share results of
safety tests with the government. 

I would say these are all aspects of what’s included in the President’s
executive order for AI.  So, that — it actually — the AI executive order
was echoed in much of the conversation that took place today. 

I would just say lastly, stepping back and thinking about the
deliverables, the key takeaways from the communiqué as you read through
it, to me there are five or six that stand out.  One is what we talked
about at the top: the shared effort to fund Ukraine’s fight for
freedom.  And that really has been accomplished by mobilizing Russian
sovereign assets.  The leaders took a very important first step, but it
was a necessary and crucial step, and it can be continued in the weeks
and months ahead.  But this step had to be taken so that political
leaders could give direction to technocrats to do what they do, which is
now finalize the technical details. 

The second real deliverable is to agree on defunding and disarming the
Russian war machine.  There was unanimous agreement that the Russian
military has been sustained by transforming its entire economy into a
war machine and because China and other countries have been willing to
serve as the (inaudible) war machine. 

And so, you saw the United States announce an aggressive expansion of
our sanctions that now allows us to sanction any foreign bank that deals
with sanctioned Russian banks or companies or individuals.  And that’s
going to meaningfully disrupt Russia’s ability to export — import
dual-use items that are being used on the battlefield. 

It’s a really simple message: If Russia’s entire economy is now a cog in
its war machine, then no banks outside of Russia should have any
dealings with sanctioned Russian banks or companies that are funding and
fueling the war machine.  If they do, they’ll lose access to our
financial system. 

You also saw this week our announcement of the expansion of our export
controls.  It used to be just U.S. origin products.  Now it’s going to
be U.S.-branded products.  That’s going to cover a much broader range of
battlefield components that are made with U.S. tools or technology that
are either being produced abroad or that transit through third countries
abroad. 

And then we also backed up our words with actions.  That’s why we
sanctioned over 300 firms, many of which were outside of Russia.  So
that’s a key shift in our sanctions strategy. 

The third deliverable was what I mentioned about the China
conversation.  There was a collective diagnosis and a collective
agreement to confront the economic and national security threats from
China.  And you saw — you’ve seen our actions in terms of tariffs in
strategic sectors.  You heard this week about the EU’s actions.  And
other countries that have yet to act made commitments to follow suit. 

The fourth deliverable, which we didn’t talk about on this call yet, is
delivering a better value proposition to developing countries.  And that
was the whole purpose of the outreach to 12 countries outside of the
G7.  They want a genuine partnership.  They want transparent
alternatives to coercive forms of lending.  They want the ability to
make investments they need to combat climate change and to invest in
their own healthcare and education.  And the G7 agreed to do everything
it can to meet that demand, because our own security, our own prosperity
depends on it. 

So three items you’ll see in the communiqué: One is — and this is
consistent with the Nairobi-Washington Vision you heard President Biden
announce with President Ruto — scale up sustainable and transparent
financing and debt relief for developing countries that have ambition to
make investments to address climate change and to address other global
challenges.  And PGI is a big part of it, but you’ll see references to
debt relief measures as well. 

Two is: We have to keep boosting the financial firepower of the World
Bank and other MDBs, and you’ll see specific references to how we do
so. 

And then third: Ending the freeriding of China, because since 2019,
China has been net-taking money out of low- and middle-income countries
due to it being — paying back 100 cents on the dollar for the debt that
it’s provided to these developing countries.  Meanwhile, we and the
MDBs, the multilateral development banks, have been collectively putting
money in.  So there’s a collective agreement to stop that form of
freeriding.

And then, AI and migration were the other two main (inaudible), but we
already spoke about that. 

So let me pause here and take your questions.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to JJ with Bloomberg.

Q    Hey, can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can hear you, Jennifer.

Q    Hey.  I’m just wondering if there was any conversation amongst the
leaders about the cost of the war in Ukraine and how much rebuilding
will cost.  And if there was (inaudible), can you share some numbers
please?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, there was a discussion about
that, Jennifer, in two ways.  One is, you know, the costs of
reconstruction are continuing to grow.  The last estimate from the World
Bank was $486 billion.  It’s undoubtedly larger, especially given all
the damage to Ukraine’s energy infrastructure in recent weeks. 

But the conversation then focused on who should pay, and that’s where
the Russian sovereign asset approach — sorry, proposal, came in.  And
there was, of course, unanimous agreement that when it comes to
financing the eventual reconstruction of Ukraine, it’s only fair that
Russia, not our taxpayers, foot the bill. 

The second part of your question was really — sorry, Jennifer, say
again?

Q    Oh, just two things.  I just wanted to know the cost of the war and
then the cost of reconstruction. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so beyond — I mean, beyond the
World Bank estimate, there wasn’t a numerical estimate that was updated
in the discussions.  But there was an agreement, there was an
understanding that the costs are mounting.  And the conversation really
focused on the fairness of forcing Russia to pay rather than taking on
more of the burden among G7 countries.

MODERATOR:  Awesome, thank you.  Our next question will go to David
Sanger with the New York Times.

David, you should be able to unmute yourself.  Are you able to hear me?

Q    Are you able to hear me now?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can hear you, David.

Q    Great.  Thanks very much for doing this.  I wanted to go back to
the discussion about China, because it sounds different to me than the
way the G7 has usually talked about China.  Usually, there’s been
sections of the communiqué that referred to China as a partner or
whether it was counterterrorism, nonproliferation in dealing with Iran,
and so forth. 

As I look at the communiqué here, it’s almost all pretty critical. 
There’s a section on, obviously, supplying the Russian war machine that
you referred to.  There’s sections on oversupply.  There are sections on
your concerns about their cutting off critical minerals.  Was this
notable in the discussion?  Can you give us a little bit of a sense of
what the China discussion looked like?  Did it strike you as taking a
pretty universally negative tone?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think it was just — it was a
realistic conversation, David, that, as time goes on, it’s more clear
that President Xi’s ambition is to restore China’s dominance, at least
in the Indo-Pacific, possibly beyond.  And that effort is mostly taking
place through an effort to establish economic and technological
primacy.  And that’s the explicit objective of Made in China 2025 that
was referenced several times this week.  It’s somewhat more subtle with
the Belt and Road Initiative.  And there was also an observation that
China appears to believe that democracies are in structural decline.  So
he now appears to be taking tactical risks to realize his strategic
ambitions. 

And as it relates to economics, I mean, there’s a corollary, which is
the observation that China’s economic model, it’s increasingly state-led
and centralized.  And it’s unlikely — none of the leaders felt as though
the trend line was likely to change, because market-oriented reforms
require a loss of control that the leadership appears unwilling or
unable to accept.  So if that’s the case, then China’s growth strategy
is going to remain underpinned by national champions and state-owned
enterprises that rely on unrivaled levels of government subsidies and
non-tariff barriers and currency distortions and weak energy standards,
weak labor standards, sometimes outright theft. 

And the implication is that G7 businesses are in an unfair competition
against the Chinese government.  And that has very serious costs to our
economies, especially in trade-affected communities, but then even more
profound damage to our supply chain resilience and our national
security, even our political economy.  That was the nature of the
conversation. 

So, you know, I think it’s just an acceptance of the competition that
we’re in.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Hey, how you doing?  I just wanted to ask: Vladimir Putin said
today that Ukraine must withdraw troops to start peace talks, which is
obviously completely unrealistic.  Do you think that this kind of
uncompromising position is partly a way of hitting back at all the steps
that the G7 has taken and also at the 10-year security deal?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You know, as usual, I can’t really give
you any confident interpretation of what’s going on inside President
Putin’s mind.  But most of these proposals that he’s floated, they have
not made their way directly to Ukraine.  So that’s what stands out, is
they’re being made in public rather than where they ought to be
directed, which is to Kyiv.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Tyler Pager with
the Washington Post. 

Q    Thanks so much.  I’m wondering if you can give us any more context
or color about what the President and Pope Francis talked about in their
private meeting.  Was there any specific discussion on certain topics? 
Any color or more detail on that meeting would be great.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sorry, Tyler — I left the
President to come and talk to all of you, so I missed the meeting.  But
it had a very — I can tell you they had a very warm embrace when the
Pope arrived to the AI session, although I can’t speak to what was said
in private just now.  I think we’ll have something for you in the
aftermath if I’m not mistaken.  Sam, you can correct me.

MODERATOR:  I think we should.  Eduardo should actually be the one who
confirms that. 

MR. MAIA SILVA:  That’s right, we’ll have a readout. 

MODERATOR:  Perfect.  Our next question will go to Andrea Shalal with
Reuters.

Q    (Inaudible.)  (Poor audio connection.)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Andrea, I’m sorry, it cut out.

Q    (Inaudible) China?  Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I didn’t hear your question.  I’m
sorry.

Q    Sorry.  So, this question has been on my mind for the last few
days.  With all the measures that you’ve taken regarding China, spanning
from debt to the overcapacity issue to the aiding of the Russian war
effort, but also to the frustration on the debt front, I’m wondering if
this is a pivot point or shift in terms of the relationship; if you see
this as like a major inflection point in the way that the West is going
to interact with China.  And whether — and what are the implications of
that for the efforts that President Biden and the administration have
taken over the past year or so to mend — you know, ease tensions with
China get back to a more balanced relationship where there can be
communication and coordination?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Andrea, I think it’s a continuation of
what you’ve seen during this administration.

Q    And then separately, if you could just say whether the President
had any sort of sideline pull-asides with the Indian Prime Minister and
others.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Andrea.  I was — I would
characterize this as a continuation of the policy that we’ve had in
place over the course of this administration.  And it’s still centered
on investing in ourselves.  And there was quite a bit of discussion
about the IRA and the CHIPS Act, the infrastructure bill, all of the
supply-side investments that the President has managed to legislate
during his term. 

It’s also very much still about creating partnerships and establishing
and updating rules that we all play by so we can give each other access
to the results of the investments we’re making. 

But, you know, where we have to confront China, we’re doing so, and it’s
a continuation of that effort.  I would say what’s different, perhaps,
about the most recent actions is that some of China’s actions to support
the Russian war machine are now not just threatening Ukraine’s
existence, but European security and transatlantic security.  And so,
it’s taken on a new form, and that’s why the sanctions measures that
were announced this week are so serious.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to James from the
Financial Times.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, sorry, I didn’t answer Andrea’s
second question.

There were brief exchanges during the — just before and just after the
outreach session today, Andrea, but I wouldn’t characterize those as
bilats.  These were 60- to 90-second exchanges at most.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this.  I was wondering if there were
any discussions about some of the market turmoil here in Europe,
especially in France, in the wake of the elections — the EU elections on
Sunday and Macron’s call for new parliamentary elections.  Is that a
concern for the U.S. in terms of market stability?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I mean, we’ve been in meetings
all day, so I don’t know what happened.  I’ve heard that French bond
yields have started to widen relative to German bond yields. 

But I think, on the whole, what you see from the election results —
there’s clearly been some pickup in the votes earned by right-leaning
parties, but by and large, the center has held.  And that was largely on
display here in Puglia as well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Hey, thank you.  On the Russian frozen assets — so these countries
that have come out with pledges of their own portions of the loan, are
they — just to make sure, are they basically guaranteeing the loan and
also eating the loss if rates fall and they won’t get the estimated
whatever interest rate it was as promised or as predicted?

And if you can comment on the fact that the statement came out — the
communiqué came out with leaders reiterating commitments in Hiroshima,
but we see a removal of the phrase “access to safe and legal abortion”
that we saw in last year’s summit.  If you can comment about, kind of,
the dynamics behind that and what was the U.S. position.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, on the first question — sorry,
you were asking about how different countries are going to participate
in the loan?  I’m sorry, it cut out.  My signal is not the best.

Q    Oh, yeah.  Yeah, so essentially, yeah, how each country will
participate in the loan.  You mentioned some pledges already.  How firm
are those pledges?  And are they basically saying that they are going to
guarantee the loan and eat the losses if the rates fall?  Because that
was one of the concerns as I understand it.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, understood.  So, yeah, I think
there are three forms of participation: making a loan to Ukraine through
an intermediary; contributing income to repay the loan; or offering a
guarantee of repayment to the lenders or some portion of the loan that’s
made. 

And we, the U.S., have committed to make up to $50 billion of lending
available to Ukraine.  Canada, I believe, went public yesterday with a
$5 billion commitment.  And the European Union and Japan are actively
considering whether to join in the loan syndicate.  So they have to
speak to whether their plans have become final.  The UK is considering a
way to guarantee the repayment of loans that are made.  And then the
European Union is also going to play a very large role, of course, in
providing the income from the immobilized assets that’s used to repay
the loans. 

So it can come in multiple forms.  The commitments have already been
made public by the U.S. and Canada.  It may be that others have done so
over the course of the last few hours.  I have not seen that yet.  But I
would expect you’ll hear more from them in the coming days. 

Your second question on the language in the communiqué — I mean, I’ll
just read to you.  You may have it in front of you, but the language
related to abortion says, “We reiterated our commitments from the
Hiroshima communiqué, specifically the commitment to universal access as
it relates to adequate, affordable, and quality health services for
women, including comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and rights
for all.”

So some of the words may not be identical, but the commitments are the
same.  And that’s very much the intent of what was put in the
communiqué.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to MJ Lee with CNN.

Q    Hey, can you hear me okay?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, MJ.  Yes, I can.

Q    Great.  Just on the last answer that you gave about the language on
reproductive rights, was the President fully satisfied with the final
language that ended up being included in the communiqué?  And I wondered
also whether there were any specific discussions about potentially
including a specific reference to LGBTQ rights in the final version.

And then, separately, there was another official talking to reporters
earlier today who said that the topic of Trump — the possibility of a
second Trump term hadn’t come up, at least as far as they were aware,
amongst the leaders so far.  And I just wondered whether that had been
your experience as well so far, or if you have been privy to any
discussions about the U.S. presidential election and the possibility of
Trump’s return, this week.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, first, MJ, on your question
about the President’s stance on the language in the communiqué on
abortion — I mean, he stands fully behind the language that made its way
into the final communiqué.  He felt strongly about the language that
made it through.

On LGBTQIA+, there is a reference.  It’s in the gender equality
section.  I wouldn’t read too much into where the language is placed. 
It says, “We express our strong concern about the rollback of the rights
of women and girls and LGBTQIA people around the world, in particular in
time of crisis.  And we strongly condemn all violations and abuses of
their human rights and fundamental freedoms.”  And this is largely what
we had in place last year.  Again, the words are different; the
commitments are the same.

On your question around whether our election came up explicitly, I think
the answer to that, honestly, is no.  The conversation was mostly around
the fact that this is the year of the election, and many remarked that
more than 60 countries are going to the ballot box, more people are
voting this year than in human history.  And it’s a moment for leaders
to demonstrate that multilateralism is still a force multiplier. 

And there was also an observation made by almost all of the leaders — I
believe all of them actually — that the G7 is now more unified and
purposeful than it’s ever been in its 50-year history.  And that unity
has been built with trust — trust earned through difficult decisions and
hard moments.  That’s been the track record of the G7 for the past three
years.  I think it’s the track record President Biden established early
on in Cornwall, and it was — I think it was cemented this week.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our final question will go to Beatriz with EFE.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  In your opening remarks,
you mentioned — my question is about the frozen assets.  In your opening
remarks, you mentioned that the European Union suggested that they might
cover (inaudible) —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m sorry, you’re cutting out, Beatriz.

Q    Sorry.  Can you hear me now?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Could you try that again? Yeah, I heard
half of your question but not the second half.

Q    It’s about the frozen assets and the European contribution to the
loan.  I want to know if there is a specified — like a precise amount
that they have committed to.  What is exactly the role?  If you can
provide a little bit more detail.  And also, if this commitment came
from the European union representatives or from countries like France
and Germany that are part of Europe.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So the first step — this is
something we discussed briefly yesterday.  The first step Europe has to
take now is to go to the EU-27 and get the entire membership to commit
to the continued immobilization of the Russian reserves.  We feel
encouraged by this week because the leaders of Germany, France, Italy,
and the European Commission and the European Council has committed that
they are going to keep the assets immobilized in their countries and
they’re going to seek approval — you see in the communiqué — seek
approval to do so in the required intergovernmental organizations.  I
think that’s the term of art that’s used.

And once that step has been taken, Europe will be in a — the EU will be
in a position to decide what portion of the $50 billion loan they wish
to take on.  The suggestions that were made this week were that could be
as much as half of the entire loan.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone, again for joining us
and bearing with us today.  We really appreciate your patience and
flexibility.

As a reminder, today’s call was held on background, attributable to a
senior administration official.  For those traveling, hope you get back
safe.  And enjoy your weekend. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everybody. Safe travels.

    8:22 P.M. CEST 

\###
