---
date: '2024-06-20'
published_time: 2024-06-20 16:29:27-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/20/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-15/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:12 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  Thanks for joining us.  Hope everyone was
able to take some time off yesterday, if you were, and relax.

Kirby has a few words here at the top, and then as always, we’ll get
through as many questions as we can.

MR. KIRBY:  Good morning, everybody.  What I want to talk about today is
Ukraine and our efforts to meet their critical air defense capabilities,
their needs.

For more than two years, at the President’s direction, we have
prioritized strengthening Ukraine’s air defenses to help protect the
Ukrainian people against Russia’s aerial attacks.  But in recent months,
Russia has accelerated both its missile and its drone attacks against
cities and civilian infrastructure.  They are trying to destroy
Ukraine’s energy system ahead of this winter.  Again, this is not a new
tactic for them, but they have certainly applied a lot more energy and
effort into it in recent months.

As we’ve heard from President Zelenskyy, the Ukrainian military is in
desperate need of additional air defense capabilities.  We take our
partnership seriously, especially when a partner like Ukraine is in such
jeopardy.  Right now, we know that Ukraine urgently needs these
additional capabilities.

We have continued to dig deep and provide Ukraine with a variety of air
defense systems and interceptor missiles from our own stockpiles,
including those of the Patriot system, NASAMs, and of course, the Hawks.
 

Many of our allies and partners have stepped up in historic ways as
well.  But obviously, more is needed, and it’s needed now.  So as a
result, the United States government has made the difficult but
necessary decision to reprioritize, near term, planned deliveries of
foreign military sales to other countries of particularly Patriot and
NASAM missiles to go to Ukraine instead.

So let me just take a moment to explain what this means.

As you know, the United States has a robust foreign military sales
program where our defense industrial base produces and then exports
material to other countries, including, of course, air defense
missiles.  And what we’re going to do is we’re going to reprioritize the
deliveries of these exports so that those missiles rolling off the
production line will now be provided to Ukraine.  This will ensure that
we’ll be able to provide Ukraine with the missiles they need to maintain
their stockpiles at a key moment in the war and as we get, again,
towards the end of summer and into the fall.

As a result, deliveries of these missiles to other countries that are
currently in the queue will have to be delayed.  To be clear, those
countries will still receive the missiles that they have ordered.  It’s
just that the delivery timelines will now take a little longer.

We have, of course, informed all the affected countries that we are
taking this extraordinary step.  And we’re making every effort to
minimize any negative impact to countries with affected foreign military
sales cases.  If any of our other partners were ever in a situation
similar to Ukraine’s, we would go to extraordinary lengths to support
their security as well.

This decision demonstrates our commitment to supporting our partners
when they’re in existential danger.  The United States firmly believes
that this is the best course of action right now to support Ukraine,
while still ensuring other partners receive the air defense missiles and
capabilities that they’ve committed to purchase, again, on a delayed
timeline.

Look, the broader message here to Russia is clear: If you think you’re
going to be able to outlast Ukraine and if you think you’re going to be
able to outlast those of us who are supporting Ukraine, you’re just
flat-out wrong.  And we’re going to make sure that we give Ukraine the
critical air defense capabilities they need now and into the future. 
And we’re going to keep working with our allies and partners to make
sure that they too get the air defense capabilities that they ordered. 
And we’re grateful to the nations that we’ve reached out to and have not
only understood but many of them have been fully supportive of this
decision. 

So with that, we can start taking some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Steve Holland with
Reuters.

Q    Thank you.  Along those lines, could you talk about what are the
ramifications for the United States of the defense pact signed by Putin
and Kim Jong Un over the last couple days?

MR. KIRBY:  Steve, I did not hear that question.  Can you repeat it? 
I’m sorry.

Q    The ramifications of the defense pact that Russia and North Korea
signed in the last couple of days.

MR. KIRBY:  The ramifications of the —

Q    Defense pact.

MR. KIRBY:  The defense agreement that they signed?

Q    Yes.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, I talked about this the other day, you know, but
I’m happy to revisit it here now that they’ve made public the text of
this agreement.

Number one, no surprise here, Steve.  We’ve been talking about this and
warning about a burgeoning defense relationship between these two
countries now for many months, through a series of downgraded
intelligence that we put out there.

So we’ve been sharing information publicly about how the DPRK has been
enabling Russia’s war in Ukraine and about their weapons transfers. 
Obviously, it’s something that we’ve taken seriously.  If we didn’t take
it seriously, my goodness, we wouldn’t have made it public and wouldn’t
have been talking about it for quite some time.

Number two — and I think this should be fairly obvious too — when you
look at the body of work President Biden has directed the national
security team to do, particularly in the Indo-Pacific, we have been
strengthening and bolstering our allies, our alliances, and our
partnerships all throughout that region throughout the entire three and
a half years of this administration, including through the historic
trilateral agreement between the Republic of Korea and Japan and the
United States, including through the AUKUS initiative, including by
expanding our access and cooperation with the Philippines.  And of
course, we’re going to continue to evaluate our posture throughout the
Indo-Pacific as needed.

But we have prioritized this part of the world since the beginning of
this administration.  And that work, that effort, we believe, has right
now and will continue to put us in the best possible position to be able
to thwart any threats and challenges, not just on the Korean Peninsula
but elsewhere in the region.

Q    And if you —

MR. KIRBY:  But wait, just a couple more points, if I could.

That’s not to say that this development, this agreement is not a
concern.  Of course, it is.  It should be a concern to any country that
cares about maintaining peace and stability, not just on the Korean
Peninsula but in the Indo-Pacific.  It should be a concern to any
country that believes that the U.N. Security Council resolutions ought
to be abided by.  It should be a concern to anybody who thinks that
supporting the people of Ukraine is an important thing to do. 

And we would think that that concern would be shared by the People’s
Republic of China, since this agreement also seems to be in direct
contrast with the statement that President Putin and President Xi made
in Beijing just a month ago in which both countries called for a
peaceful and diplomatic solution to the situation on the Korean
Peninsula.

Now, last thing I’ll say here, Steve, and then I’m happy to take any
follow-ups you have, is: Our view is that this agreement is also a sign
of Russia’s desperation.  I mean, they’re reaching out to North Korea
for missiles, reaching — they’re still getting drones from Iran.  They
don’t have a lot of friends in the world, and they’re trying to do
everything they can to pull on the strings of the friends that they do
have.

Russia is absolutely isolated on the world stage.  They’ve been forced
to rely, again, on countries like North Korea and Iran. 

Meanwhile, split-screen, if you will, Ukraine just organized a
successful peace summit in Switzerland that had more than 100 countries
and organizations sign up to support President Zelenskyy’s vision for a
just peace. 

So, last thing I’ll say, and then I promise I’ll shut up on this: We’re
just going to keep supporting Ukraine as they defend themselves from
Russia.  And we’re obviously going to keep looking for opportunities to
strengthen, deepen, and bolster our strong and vast network of alliances
and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific. 

So, sorry, that was a long one.  But go ahead, Steve.  You have a
follow-up?

Q    Thank you.  Just a quick follow-up.  Mike Turner is giving a
speech, saying that the Biden administration isn’t taking the threat
seriously enough of Russia’s space-based nukes.  What’s your response to
that?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, he’s just wrong.  He’s just flat-out wrong. 

Look, we have absolutely taken this very seriously.  We’ve been working
this particular problem set from every possible angle, including through
intense diplomacy with countries around the world and, obviously,
through direct conversations with Russia.  We’ve been working hard to
get other countries to join us in making clear what the dangers are of
an anti-satellite weapon that’s designed to carry a nuclear weapon, just
like the one that Chairman Turner is referencing.  And we put forth a
resolution at the U.N. Security Council to do that just about a month or
so ago. 

As we said at the time, in February, when this was made public,
publicizing this highly sensitive intelligence was highly irresponsible,
and it was something that the intelligence community themselves had
serious concerns with.  And we had assessed that starting with private
engagement, rather than immediately publicizing the intelligence, would
have been a much more effective approach.  So, obviously, as we said at
the time, and we still are, disappointed that that opportunity was
prevented by Chairman Turner’s letter and then, thus, making it public. 

Nevertheless, what I can say is: We’re going to continue our efforts to
dissuade Russia from putting a nuclear weapon into orbit.  We’re going
to do everything possible to prevent that outcome.  This is a national
security issue.  And quite frankly, it’s not something that anyone
should be playing politics one way or the other. 

All nations, all individuals, anybody in public service, particularly
here in this country, ought to be similarly concerned about the manner
in which we talk about this and the approach that we take to try to
stymie the Russian plans. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jordan with
Bloomberg.

Q    Thanks, Kirby.  Two questions for you.  First, on the Patriot
missiles, can you tell us a timeframe of when the countries that will
have their deliveries delayed, when they’ll be able to get them?  Are we
talking weeks, months, years? 

And secondly, wondering if the administration is aware of a pair of
major cyberattacks on a software company used by auto retailers and
whether there’s been any determination if that’s been carried out by a
foreign actor and if there’s any assessment of how that will affect the
economy.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, what I can tell you is that we
expect the first shipments from this reprioritization of air defense
missiles to Ukraine will happen over coming weeks.  Certainly before the
end of the summer, Ukraine will start to see the initial deliveries of
these.

I can’t say with specificity what the delay is going to be like for
every country that is affected by this, because these are individual
contracts.  And as we have communicated to these countries and will
continue to do so, we’ll do the best we can to minimize their delay as
much as possible.  But each country is going to have a different set of
circumstances applied to that based on how much they’ve ordered and, you
know, what their own self-defense needs are. 

But I also would just add that the scope of the deliveries that were
given to Ukraine will span — will provide them enough capabilities over
the rest of this fiscal year and, of course, all next fiscal year.  So
about 16 months will be the focus of the timeframe to fill out Ukraine’s
inventory.  And then, after that, the countries that have been asked to
delay will start to get their deliveries.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question —

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, wait a minute, before you go to the next question. 

You asked — I don’t have a good answer for you on the reports of a
cyberattack on the auto industry.  I’m going to take that question, and
we’ll see if we can get something a little bit better for you. 

Q    Thanks, John.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, sorry about that.

Q    Thank you.  Our next question will go to Arlette with CNN.

Q    Hi, thank you.  I have just two areas I want to touch on.  Still on
the Ukraine air defense capabilities: Do you have an idea of how many
countries will be impacted by this?

And then, if I could also ask about Israel: How frustrated has the
President been about Netanyahu’s comments claiming that the U.S. was
withholding some military aid for Israel?  And what do you think
Netanyahu’s motivation was in making such a claim?  And are there any
plans — or where do things stand — plans for POTUS to meet with
Netanyahu when he comes to Washington in July?

MR. KIRBY:  Okay, there’s an awful lot there.

Look, on the number of countries, I would just say it’s a range of
countries.  But I think we’re going to respect each country’s
prerogative to either acknowledge it and speak to it or not.

I would tell you — you didn’t ask this, but just to make it clear that
this reprioritization will not affect Taiwan and what Taiwan continues
to need and to receive from the United States with respect to their
self-defense.

Look, on the Prime Minister’s comments — and I assume you mean the video
that he put out, claiming that, you know, it was unconscionable for the
United States to withhold assistance — I would just — a couple of points
here. 

Number one, obviously, we didn’t know that video was common.  And it was
perplexing to say the least, certainly disappointing, especially given
that no other country is doing more to help Israel defend itself against
the threat by Hamas — and, quite frankly, other threats that they’re
facing in the region — than the United States.  I mean, my goodness,
this President put U.S. fighter aircraft up in the air, in the middle of
April, to help shoot down several hundred drones and missiles, including
ballistic missiles that were fired from Iran proper into Israel. 
There’s no other country that has done more or will continue to do more
than the United States to help Israel defend itself. 

So those comments were deeply disappointing and certainly vexing to us,
given the amount of support that we have and will continue to provide
Prime Minister Netanyahu. 

And I think you had, like, several other follow-ups on that.  And I
think I —

Q    Well, what do you think his motivation was behind making such a
comment?

MR. KIRBY:  I —

Q    (Inaudible) domestic audience at home, or is he genuinely concerned
about some missing aid that they haven’t gotten?

MR. KIRBY:  No idea.  You’d have to talk to the Prime Minister about
what prompted him to do that.  Again, it was vexing and disappointing to
us, as much as it was incorrect.  So, difficult to know exactly what was
on his mind there.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Gordon with Wall
Street Journal.

Q    My question was asked.  I’m good.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Okay.  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nick with
PBS.

Nick, you should be able — there we go. 

Q    Yeah, sorry, Sam.  Thanks, John.  I think I know the answer to
this, but just making sure: Does any air defense system in Israel — is
that affected by today’s announcement?

And then, to go back to some statements from Israel: In the last 24
hours, what has been a private — or reasonably private, I suppose —
dispute between the leaders of the IDF and the Prime Minister has
exploded into public.  Do you think that what is now a public dispute
between the leaders of the IDF and the Prime Minister threatens U.S.
goals when it comes to Gaza and the region and the overall war in Gaza? 
Thanks, John.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Nick.  So, on your first question: No, there’s no —
there’s going to be no impact felt by Israel as a result of this
reprioritization. 

On your second question, I think it would be imprudent, at best, for us
to speak about any intragovernmental tensions in Israel right now,
except to say — I think in answer to your question — we do not believe
that there’s going to be any — certainly any change to our objectives or
our goals.  And we don’t see any impact of these tensions on our shared
objective: getting all the hostages out, getting this deal in place,
getting a ceasefire in place, and trying to find a way to end this war. 

But beyond that, I’d let the parties speak to it.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Aurelia with AFP.

Q    Hi, John.  Thanks for taking my question.  A follow-up maybe.  On
the Middle East: Can you confirm that Jake Sullivan is meeting today
with the Israeli Minister of Strategic Affairs, Ron Dermer?  And what
would be the agenda for that meeting?

And another question, if I may, on Darfur.  One week ago, the United
Nations Security Council demanded an end to the siege of the city of
Al-Fashir.  Since then, have you seen any sign that the fighting is
calming down?  And if not, what’s the administration doing to try to
prevent, like, a major humanitarian catastrophe there?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to take your question on Darfur, Aurelia, and get
back to you, rather than try to explain something that may just make me
sound stupid.  So I don’t want to do that.  I want to do that right and
take the question for you. 

On your first question: Yes, Jake will be meeting today with his
counterpart, Ha- — Hagnebi \[sic\], and — I’m sorry about that — and Mr.
Dermer.  And it’ll be a wide-ranging discussion, I think you can
imagine, about everything that’s going on with the Gaza war, with our
support to Israel, with our efforts to get a better sense of how they’re
continuing to prosecute operations against Hamas, as well as continuing
to talk about the importance of closing on this deal. 

Sorry, I blanked on his last name.  It’s Hanegbi.  Hanegbi.

Anyway, that’s the focus of that meeting today.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Haley with Scripps.

Q    Thank you.  I’m curious, on the line of the hostage ceasefire
talks, if there have been any additional developments or if you’ve heard
back from Hamas additionally this week.

And then, when it comes to the supply of Patriots to Ukraine, I mean, I
know — I’m guessing you’re probably not going to put a specific number
on this, but what impact do you expect this to make quantitatively for
them when it comes to the numbers they’re asking for?

MR. KIRBY:  I can tell you, on the Patriots, it’s in the realm of
hundreds that we’re talking about, as I said, over the course of the
rest of this fiscal year and into next fiscal year, the entire fiscal
year for ‘25.  So in the realm of the hundreds.

I don’t have an update for you on the progress on the ceasefire deal. 
Again, it’s our understanding that Hamas — I’m sorry, that Qatar and
Egypt are still talking to their interlocutors with Hamas and trying to
see if they can close whatever gaps exist.  And we’re still hopeful and
still watching this very, very closely. 

And just to remind: As I said in my opening statement, it is in the
realm of the hundreds, and it’s both Patriot interceptor missiles and
NASAM interceptor missiles.  Both programs.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Keleigh with
NewsNation.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks for taking my question.  I wanted to ask about
the tensions between Hezbollah and Israel and the concerns of a wider
war.  I know something you’ve spoken about and the administration has
spoken out about not wanting to see this grow into a wider war. 

On Tuesday, the IDF approved operational plans for an offensive in
Lebanon.  Since that approval, what discussions have the U.S. had to try
to deescalate the situation?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, as you know, our envoy, Amos Hochstein, has been in
the region the last few days, shuttling back and forth between Tel Aviv
and Beirut to have these exact conversations. 

I won’t speak to IDF military planning; they need to do that.  I would
just tell you that we still don’t want to see a second front opened up. 
Obviously, we take the tensions and the rhetoric seriously by both
sides.  And we’re doing everything we can to try to prevent that
outcome.  And those conversations are ongoing, literally as we speak.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Anita with VOA.

Q    Thank you so much, John.  Going back to Putin and his travels in
Asia: He’s headed to Hanoi.  Is there any indication, that you are aware
of, that he seeks material support from Vietnam for the Ukraine war?

And then secondly, with the top State Department official headed to
Hanoi as well this week, is the U.S. seeking a debrief from Hanoi on
Putin’s visit?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, obviously, we have an embassy there, and they’ll
certainly have, in due course, appropriate conversations with their
counterparts in the Vietnamese government. 

But, look, I would just say, broadly speaking, our expectation is that
Vietnam will continue to adhere to its commitment to, and its commitment
and support for, the basic principles of the U.N. Charter, which include
sovereignty, which include territorial integrity, and that they’ll
continue, as they have, to convey that these principles need to be
upheld all across the world — in Europe, as well as in Asia.

I’ll let the two countries speak for themselves about the particulars of
this visit and whatever they might agree to coming out of it.  But I
think it’s — I would remind you that that we, the United States,
President Biden, elevated our bilateral relationship with Vietnam to a
historic level, basically upgrading it to a comprehensive strategic
partnership.  And that’s a partnership that we believe reflects well the
strength of that bilateral relationship.  And we’re going to stay
focused on continuing to deepen it, broaden it, improve it for our own
mutual benefit to each other and to the region. 

We’re focused on this bilateral relationship in ways that we don’t
believe anybody else really is, and we’re going to stay focused on that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Yuna with Channel
12.

Q    Hi, Kirby.  Hi, Sam.  Thank you for doing this.  First, to follow
up about a question I don’t think was answered.  Is there a plan for a
meeting between the President and Prime Minister Netanyahu during his
speech in Congress?

And the second thing is: After the video by Netanyahu, was there any
talks behind the scenes?  I know that he met Special Envoy Amos
Hochstein, but was there any attempt to scale it down a little bit?  Any
apology coming from Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, I don’t have anything on the
President’s schedule to speak to. 

On your second question, I think we’ve made it abundantly clear to our
Israeli counterparts, through various vehicles, our deep disappointment
in the statements expressed in that video and our concerns over the
accuracy in the statements made. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nathan with KAN.

Q    Thanks so much for taking my question.  Going back to the issue of
arms shipments to Israel, could you give us an update on the status of
these 2,000-pound bomb shipments? 

And is there anything to add about the shipment itself or advancing the
deal of the F-15 fighters to Israel?  Has that been approved, and will
that go ahead?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to let the State Department speak to the F-15
question; that’s really more in their lane.  I will just tell you a
couple of things. 

Number one, as I said earlier, material assistance to Israel and their
ability to defend themselves has continued — has continued to flow, even
though there had been a pause put on those 2,000-pound bombs.  I don’t
have an update for you on that one way or the other.  But the idea that
we had somehow stopped helping Israel with their self-defense needs is
actually just not accurate. 

On the F-15s, the only other thing I’d add is that these would be slated
to be delivered in, like, 2029, if they’re approved.  And that approval
process is ongoing, not related at all to the current conflict.  But
again, I’d point you over to the State Department to talk about that in
a little bit more in detail. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Neria with Israel
13.

Q    Hey, Kirby.  Thank you so much for doing this.  After hearing
Netanyahu’s remarks, we’ve heard really tough comments by the White
House, and also, we’re hearing you now saying that it was very
disappointing.  Did you try to tell — to say anything to Israeli
officials about it?  Are you about to say today in your official
meetings with Sullivan and senior officials in Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  As I said earlier, I think to a question a few minutes ago,
we’ve made it clear at various levels, through various vehicles, our
concerns over the content of that video.

Q    And why do you think that he did that?  Why do you think that he
put that video out there?  Do you have an assumption?

MR. KIRBY:  No idea.  You’d have to talk to the Prime Minister’s
office. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Morgan with
Semafor.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks so much for doing this.  Just one follow-up on
the decision to reprioritize the air defense capabilities to Ukraine. 
You mentioned you notified other countries will be affected.  What kind
of reaction did you get?  I mean, were they understanding?  Was there a
level of concern there?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I could describe it as broadly understanding of it.

Q    Thank you.  And I think we have time for one more question.  We’ll
go to Marek with Polskie Radio.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  On missiles: You said that Taiwan and
Israel won’t be affected.  What about countries on the eastern NATO
flank, close to Russia and Ukraine?  Are those countries excluded?  If
not, why?  There were cases when Russian missiles flew over Poland
during Russian attacks on western Ukraine.

And my second question: Are you also considering putting on hold or
redirecting deliveries of Patriot and NASAM systems itself, including
launchers and radars?

MR. KIRBY:  Including launchers?

Q    And radars.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, so to your first question, as I said earlier, we’ll
let the countries affected speak for themselves on this.  As I said, the
response we got was broadly supportive.  And many of the countries that
we talked to were, in fact, very supportive of this because they know
how serious the need is in Ukraine. 

As for the actual amount, this is about — just to be clear, this
decision is about reprioritizing the deliveries of missiles, the actual
interceptor missiles.  We did take a look at the broader system writ
large — the launchers, the radar systems, all that go with that — and I
think we’d be open to it.  But the way that FMS is — foreign military
sales program — is structured, right now we just don’t have eligible
systems coming off the production line.  So it was something we looked
at, but right now the focus is really going to be on the missiles
themselves.

Q    Can I take it as a confirmation that eastern NATO flank countries
are not excluded from the hold?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’ll let other countries speak for themselves.  As I
said, we spoke to a number of countries about this, and I don’t think
we’re going to identify them here today.  We’ll let those countries
speak for themselves.  I mean, we’re talking about air defense
capabilities here.  And some countries will likely be more willing to
talk about their participation in this effort than others, and they
should speak for themselves.  So I’m just not going to get into that. 

But I do want to go back, if I could, just on your question about
systems.  One thing I forgot to mention was: Separate and distinct from
this effort — and as I said, we’re open to continue to look at the
possibility of systems themselves being redirected.  But even before
this decision, we had been working closely with other countries, in
Europe and beyond Europe, that have systems — launchers, radar systems,
and support systems — about their willingness to contribute those
systems to Ukraine’s air defense capabilities.  And so, that effort is
ongoing; I would even describe it as a parallel effort.  And we’re going
to continue to do that going forward.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for joining.  As always,
if we weren’t able to get to you, reach out to the NSC press distro, and
we’ll try to get back to you as soon as we can.  Thanks, everyone.

END    11:44 A.M. EDT
