---
date: '2024-06-14'
modified_time: 2024-06-14 08:11:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-14 08:11:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/14/background-press-call-previewing-the-presidents-second-day-at-the-g7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the President\u2019s Second Day at the\_\
  G7"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:02 A.M. CEST

MODERATOR:  Good morning, and thanks for joining us on today’s
background call to preview the second day of the G7.

Our senior administration official on today’s call is \[senior
administration official\] here at the NSC.  He has a few words here at
the top, and then we’ll get through some of your questions.

So, over to you, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much.  So I’ll start
off by noting the announcement President Biden made yesterday.  As you
all know, President Biden and Ukrainian President Zelenskyy signed a
historic U.S.-Ukraine bilateral security agreement reflecting the close
partnership between our two democracies.  The United States sent a
powerful signal of our strong support for Ukraine, now and into the
future.

Now, turning to today, President Biden this morning will participate in
a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Meloni.  They’ll have an
opportunity to discuss a range of topics, including of course Ukraine,
where Prime Minister Meloni has been very strong and supporting
Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. 

And of course with Italy’s leadership of the G7, there was also an
important announcement yesterday on unlocking the value of the proceeds
from Russian sovereign assets for the benefit of Ukraine.  And I am sure
they will discuss developments in Ukraine as well. 

There will be an opportunity to discuss the PRC, as well, and the
troubling support that the PRC has provided in terms of dual-use
equipment and goods to Russia to advance Russia’s defense industrial
base — things like optics, nitrocellulose, microelectronics, the sorts
of items that go directly to the production of armaments that are used
not just in Ukraine but that pose a long-term threat to the security of
Europe. 

That is something that is of concern to all of the G7 countries, and so
I think we’ll have an opportunity to discuss this as well, as well as
the transatlantic relationship, as we are now just about a month out — a
little less than a month out from the Washington summit, the NATO
Summit.  Of course, Italy is a strong partner in NATO, and they’ll have
an opportunity to discuss some of the outcomes of that summit. 

I would expect that there’ll be an opportunity as well to discuss the
Middle East and specifically Israel-Gaza, where, again, Prime Minister
Meloni has been a strong partner.  She has endorsed the President’s plan
for ending the war.  And so, there’ll be an opportunity to get into that
as well. 

And then finally, I think the other topic that possibly could come up or
that may come up are the recent European elections.  I’m sure you all
are tracking the elections from the 6th to the 9th of June across
Europe.  Prime Minister Meloni’s party did rather well, coming in first
in Italy.  And so now there will be a reset of the top European
institutions, including the European Parliament, the European
Commission, the European Council.  All of that will get underway in the
coming days and weeks.  And so I think the leaders will have an
opportunity to get into some of that.

Following that, the President will have an opportunity to meet with His
Holiness Pope Francis later this afternoon, or early evening.  And
there, I expect that some of the topics that they’ll have an opportunity
to discuss will be largely similar.  I would expect there will be a
discussion of Ukraine where the Holy See has been actively engaged. 
Cardinal Zuppi, in particular, has been an envoy working to return
Ukrainian children who have been forcibly deported across the border,
separated from their families.  Of course, it’s one of the huge
tragedies of this war. 

And the Holy See has also been engaged in trying to promote a peace
agreement.  And Cardinal Parolin, if I understand correctly, will be the
Vatican’s representative to the Switzerland peace conference that will
kick off this Saturday, where Vice President Harris will represent the
United States.

I would expect with Pope Francis that the President will also have an
opportunity to discuss the Middle East and then also the issues of
artificial intelligence and climate change, which are issues that are of
great concern and interest to Pope Francis but also to the United
States. 

And I’ll just say on AI, I think we are both interested in responsible
use of artificial intelligence, preserving human dignity and human
rights.  And so they’ll have a chance to get into that.  That’s also
going to be one of the topics at today’s G7 plenary session, with the
participation of Pope Francis, and then also climate change, which is an
issue that is near and dear to both leaders. 

Of course, the President’s plan for adaptation and resilience, which was
launched in November of 2021, is an important effort to deal with
climate change, as is the multilateral Loss and Damage Fund to which the
United States has contributed $17.5 million, an important effort to
mitigate some of the effects of climate change. 

That’s largely where I see those two conversations going.  Of course, I
can’t tell you for sure what they’ll discuss.  Those are the likely
topics. 

But I think I’ll pause now and take any questions that you all might
have.

MODERATOR:  Awesome.  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Tyler
Pager with the Washington Post.

Q    Thanks.  I wanted to ask you about abortion and whether the
President plans to bring it up with Prime Minister Meloni.  You know,
there’s some reporting that there’s been disagreements over how that
will manifest in the communiqué.  And curious if you can just tell us
what the latest update there is and whether the President plans to raise
the issue today in his bilateral meeting.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I’m not aware of an intention to
discuss that topic.  I can tell you that the G7 communiqué is going to
be agreed by consensus by all G7 countries.  And I’ll just leave it at
that.

Anyone else?

MODERATOR:  James with the Financial Times.

Q    Hey there.  Good morning.  I was wondering if you could talk about
the Indo-Pacific session and to what extent is there going to be much
stronger language on, you know, calling out China for enabling Russia’s
war in Ukraine. 

And also, if there’s going to be anything more concrete in terms of
economic coercion by China and overcapacity, and if the G7 is going to
take more concrete steps against China on the economic front as well as
the national security front.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So this is, as you know, an important
topic for all of the G7 countries and leaders.  And indeed, there will
be an opportunity to discuss the issue of the PRC’s support for the
Russian defense industrial base, which, as I said earlier, is a critical
issue not just in terms of the support and how it translates into
Russia’s offensive war machine against Ukraine, but also in terms of
some of these systems that it helps to develop the capabilities,
missiles, artillery, and whatnot that will pose a long-term threat to
Europe’s security and is of concern to all members of the G7. 

And then also, as you mentioned, the issue of overcapacity is also an
issue of concern to all of the G7 leaders, including subsidies that
China provides, as well as unfair market practices that impact trade
with all of the G7 partners. 

So this will certainly be an issue that is raised in the communiqué and
that has been discussed and will be discussed among the G7.

MODERATOR:  AJ with Bloomberg.

Q    Good morning.  Can you say if there will be any bilat with Modi of
India?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I am not aware.  No.

Q    Is there a particular reason why some of those bilats were chosen
and other leaders are not getting meetings?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, these trips, there’s always a lot
of leaders and very little time.  Most of the day is spent up with
participation in the G7 sessions, the plenary sessions, where obviously
all of the G7 leaders are present and they have a robust discussion
there. 

At this particular G7, Prime Minister Meloni has invited a range of
other leaders, as you know, including the Turkish president, the Kenyan
president, and a number of others.  And so, there are opportunities for
some bilats on the margins.  Pope Francis is obviously one of the guests
as well.  But there’s very little time, and so we have prioritized just
a few bilateral meetings. 

And, of course, yesterday’s historic bilateral security agreement
signing with President Zelenskyy, which really capped off an intense day
of meetings here at the G7.

Q    Sam, we’re sharing a cell phone, so I’m going to hand my phone over
to Andrea from Reuters.  And she might pass it to someone else.  Hang
on.

Q    Hey.  Hello.  Hey, thanks for doing this.  So I wanted to follow up
on the previous question from James about what the G7 — so in addition
to discussing China, are there specific measures that you can share or
maybe language from the communiqué about what — you know, the response
both on the industrial overcapacity and also on the sanctions front?

And then, I wanted to ask on the debt component.  This is an issue
that’s often been raised by the Pope.  I wonder if that’s going to come
up in the bilat with the Pope.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, on the latter question, you know,
I don’t know.  It may.  Obviously, debt overhang is an important issue
for a lot of the developing world.  It may or may not come up; I just
can’t tell you. 

But in terms of the language in the communiqué, which I don’t have in
front of me, but certainly the issue of overcapacity.  China’s support
for subsidies, I should say, for electric vehicles, lithium-ion
batteries, solar panels, and other items have contributed to
overcapacity in just about every Western market, and it’s of concern to
all of the G7 countries.  So that will be reflected in the communiqué. 
And then actions that will follow from that will be taken individually
by G7 countries. 

You’ve seen what — some of the actions that the United States has
taken.  You’ve seen the European Union also take action.  So there is a
common concern.

Q    Great.  Somebody else want a question?  Okay.

MODERATOR:  We’re good?

Q    Yeah, we’re good.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you both.  Our next question will go to
Colleen with AP. 

Q    Hi there.  Good morning.  So, I wanted to ask two questions.  One
is: There’s apparently some criticism that Biden didn’t attend the main
dinner last night with the other leaders.  I just — you know, can you
just speak generally about how the President chooses to attend events? 

And then, my second question is related to Tyler’s question.  I just
wondered if you can talk a little bit about the discussion over how to
word the communiqué, whether there was concern on the U.S. side, in
particular given, you know, the battle over abortion rights in the U.S. 
I know you were saying that you feel comfortable with the communiqué,
how the communiqué will come out, but I just wondered if you could talk
a little bit more about, you know, from the U.S. side, the level of
importance on the language surrounding it.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, again, on the communiqué, this is
language that is going to be agreed consensually, which is how these
communiqués get done, by all of the G7.  As I recall, the language in
this year’s communiqué will endorse the language that appeared in the
last G7 Summit in Hiroshima, which had some extensive language on sexual
and reproductive health rights.  So you can look at that language, and
that’ll give you a preview of what is going to appear in this year’s
communiqué as well.  Again, that’s consensual language among all the
G7. 

As for the schedule, you know, look, I don’t have any sort of magic
formula to share with you.  As I said earlier, these are very intense
days filled with lots of meetings.  And we try to see as many leaders as
possible.  It’s obviously impossible to see everybody who’s here, so we
prioritize the best we can.

As for last night, as you know, we capped off the day rather late at
night with a historic bilateral security agreement that was preceded by
a bilateral between President Biden and President Zelenskyy that was of
— you know, I don’t think this is hyperbole to say — of historic
significance.  It’s a 10-year agreement that sets out our cooperation on
security and defense, on supporting Ukraine’s economic and governance
reforms, on building a just and lasting peace, and on ensuring that
there’s accountability in this war for Russia’s actions and aggression. 
That was a big deal.  And that’s what capped off our day yesterday
evening. 

AIDE:  And, Sam, I think we have time for one more before he has to go
to the bilat.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Our last question will go to Paolo with La
Repubblica.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Paolo.  Go ahead.

MODERATOR:  Paolo, we can’t seem to hear you.  So we will go on to Peter
Nicholas with NBC.

Q    Hi.  Thank you very much for doing this.  With respect to the
10-year security agreement, if there’s a different president in place in
January 2025, is that president bound by this 10-year agreement, or can
he cast that aside if he chooses?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, this is an executive agreement. 
It is intended to show the United States’ steadfast support for Ukraine
over the 10-year period.  So it is structured in a way that it has both
near-term goals in terms of training and equipping, but then also in
terms of support for institutional reform. 

We certainly intend to make good on what is included in this agreement
because it is in the interest of the United States to support Ukraine’s
democratic trajectory, to support its economic reforms and
reconstruction, but also to defend its sovereignty and territorial
integrity.  That’s the aim of the agreement. 

But to your point, it is an executive agreement between the United
States and Ukraine. 

Q    And I have a quick follow-up question.  President Biden told Time
Magazine that when he travels abroad, he often hears from his
counterparts consternation about possibility of former President Trump
returning to power.  Has he gotten those questions or inquiries at this
G7, or has any member of — have members of the American delegation
gotten those sorts of questions and inquiries about the election and
about the possibility of Trump’s return?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can just speak for myself in the
meetings that I’ve been in, and I have not heard this topic come up in
my time here.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Thank you, everyone, again for joining us.  As a
reminder, this call was held on background, attributable to a senior
administration official.  If we weren’t able to get to you, as always
reach out, and we’ll try to have more folks for you to hear from later
today.  Thanks, everyone.

10:21 A.M. CEST 
