---
date: '2024-06-04'
published_time: 2024-06-04 18:01:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/04/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-previewing-president-bidens-travel-to-france/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John Kirby Previewing President\_Biden\u2019s Travel to\_France"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:35 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining our on-the-record gaggle
with John Kirby, who’s our White House National Security Communications
Advisor. 

As promised, Sean is never allowed to moderate one of these gaggles ever
again. 

And with that, we’re going to turn it over to Kirby, who will start with
a topper.  (Laughter.)

MR. KIRBY:  Sean Savett.  May he rest in peace.  He had his moment and
he blew it. 

Good morning, everybody.  Great to be with you again.  As you all know,
later today President Biden is going to travel to France to commemorate,
alongside our allies and partners, the 80th anniversary of the historic
D-Day operation. 

As you all know, Operation Overlord not only freed France’s western
region during the Second World War, but set the course for the
liberation of the rest of Europe.  It was the beginning of the end of
Nazi Germany.  And it absolutely helped lead to our current rules-based
world order that has continued to make us all safer and more secure. 

While in Normandy, the President will speak with our nation’s veterans
and veterans from Allied powers.  And they’ll deliver remarks about the
continued impact of their contributions.  American and Allied forces
exhibited remarkable bravery, skill, and intrepidity — intrepid bravery
on D-Day, excuse me, and throughout the war.  Their bold defense upheld
freedom and democracy everywhere. 

Now, that war showed the world the value of strong alliances and
partnerships, which is the lesson that continues to resonate today in
Europe and well beyond.  This visit will come at an important moment, as
Ukraine continues to face down Russian threats in its east and north and
as we are working to address the humanitarian crisis in the Middle East.

President Biden has made revitalizing our relationships a key priority,
recognizing, of course, that we are stronger when we act together and
that today’s challenges require global solutions and global responses. 

Now, to that end, while he’s in France, President Biden will also
participate in an official state visit with President Macron.  France
is, of course, an important U.S. ally — in fact, our nation’s oldest
ally.  And this visit will underscore continued U.S.-French leadership
on a range of consequential issues. 

During their bilateral meeting, the presidents will discuss priorities
like supporting Ukraine, of course; the need for a free and open
Indo-Pacific region; addressing the crisis in the Middle East; and
efforts to combat climate change. 

As you all know, there will be a series of deliverables coming out of
this state visit.  I will not be able to get into the details of that
today.  We will have more to say on that a little bit later and a little
bit closer to the state visit. 

But I think in broad terms, what you can expect from the deliverables
out of the state visit are a few things.  You can expect that they will
underscore the power and the importance of the transatlantic
relationship.  You can expect that they will help deepen our
Indo-Pacific cooperation, not just from a security perspective, but also
from an economic and diplomatic one.

You can expect that the deliverables will help us increase clean energy
investments and opportunities, as well as to improve and increase
nuclear energy capacity.  And I think you can expect the deliverables to
highlight U.S.-French cooperation with respect to the Olympics to help
make sure that the Games are safe, secure, and sustainable, and that
they can truly demonstrate the very best in athletic achievement. 

The President looks forward to these engagements this week and to
advancing our cooperation on these and so many other pressing topics. 

And with that, we can start taking some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, sir.  And I should clarify the reason why Sean is
not allowed to moderate anymore is because he wished John Kirby a very
happy birthday yesterday.

So, first up we’ll go —

MR. KIRBY:  Sean had a good life.  He had a good run at it.  And now
it’s over.  Yeah. 

MODERATOR:  Yeah.  With that, we’ll go to Aamer.  Aamer, you should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi, John.  And I’m sorry I missed the call yesterday to wish you a
happy birthday.

Any reaction to the elections in India?  And I was also curious: What
does the administration make of it?  Looking like it might be less of a
lopsided victory for Modi and the BJP than had been anticipated. 

And then, just on France: Do you anticipate the President will meet with
President Zelenskyy while there?  Zelenskyy is expected to be in
Normandy.  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, Aamer.  On the India elections, we certainly
(inaudible) how the vote of the Indian people are to voicing them —
voicing their desires and participating in a very vibrant democratic
process.  So we celebrate that with them.  And we applaud the government
writ large for successfully completing a truly massively sized electoral
undertaking.  And we look forward to seeing the final results.

To your second question: Not all the votes have been tallied and
counted, and we’re going to withhold judgment or comment until such is
the case. 

On your second question: I don’t have anything on the — anything
additional in the President’s schedule to speak to, Aamer.  I think
you’ll hear more specifics on the President’s schedule as we get a
little closer.  I know Mr. Sullivan might have some things to say later
this evening on the flight over.

But look, I would just, you know, note: In the past, certainly it’s not
uncommon when President Zelenskyy and President Biden are in the same
city or town for whatever the purpose is, that it’s not uncommon for
them to find time to meet and to discuss issues in Ukraine with one
another. 

But again, I just don’t have anything formal to announce or speak to
right now.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go to Andrea with Reuters. 
Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Hey, thanks so much.  And Happy Birthday, John. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, thank you.

Q    Or belatedly. 

On Ukraine, I just want to ask: You know, there’s obviously a lot of
work going into preparing the leaders’ summit for next week.  Do you
have anything to read out for us now in terms of progress on the Russian
assets?  And, you know, do expect that that will feature into the
discussion with Macron? 

And we were asking Karine yesterday about the peace conference that’s
taking place in Switzerland.  But it’s still not clear to me, you know,
why President Biden decided not to attend that.  And I wonder if you can
say what you expect to come out of that.  You know, the Vice President
will be there, and obviously Jake will be there too.  So I just wanted
to get a little elaboration on that.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  On your first question, again, without getting ahead
of the discussions that haven’t happened, as you well know, we have —
our position is that we do believe that it is a worthwhile endeavor to
look at the potential use of (inaudible), Russian frozen assets, to
assist Ukraine, particularly in reconstruction.  Now, we’ve also said we
can’t do that unilaterally because the assets are held all over the
world.  And so we got to have participation and assistance with our
allies and partners, or it won’t work.  You’re not going to be able to
get the full weight of those assets applied to reconstruction efforts in
Ukraine. 

This is something that Secretary Yellen has discussed in the run-up to
the G7 with other finance ministers.  It’s certainly something Secretary
Blinken has discussed.  And I have no doubt that it will come up in
discussions when President Biden certainly has an opportunity to speak
to leaders in France but also later at the G7. 

But, you know, where that’s going to go and whether we’re going to have
some sort of decision soon, I can’t speak to that.  But it is an idea
that we believe has merit and should be explored.  But in order for it
to happen and to be effective, we got to have the participation of
friends and partners on that. 

On the peace summit, I talked about this a little bit yesterday. 
Ukraine has no stronger friend and supporter than Joe Biden, and that’s
from the very beginning of this war till today.  We’re going to continue
to make sure Ukraine has what it needs to defend itself.  That support
evolves as the battlefield evolves, as it has since February of 2022. 
And that won’t change. 

And I would note that sending the Vice President of the United States
and the National Security Advisor is senior-level, sober, serious
representation.  And we’re grateful that the Vice President and Mr.
Sullivan are going to make that trip and be there at that summit. 

We have participated in every peace summit that Ukraine has sponsored to
date, at various levels of course, because of the levels (inaudible)
summit. 

And I would also add — this kind of gets at your last question: Ever
since Mr. Zelenskyy came up with this peace formula of his, this
10-point formula, no other nation has more strongly tried to see it
operationalized and pushed forward than the United States.  We have been
behind him every single step of the way on this peace formula, really
trying to make sure it’s well understood around the world and that we’re
looking for ways to get it operationalized.  Obviously, it’s his peace
formula, and we respect that, but we are right there side by side with
him on that.  And we’ll certainly see what happens here in Switzerland. 

In terms of outcomes, I can’t get ahead of that.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Michael Shear
with the New York Times.  Michael, you should be able to unmute
yourself. 

Q    Hey, guys.  So, John, you may make news on a couple of answers
here.

One, do you have anything about what Biden is going to be doing
tomorrow?  It looks like an entirely down day.  Will he just be doing
touristy stuff, or is there some reason why he’s down the entire day?

Second, could you talk a little bit about the sort of odd position that
the President will be in over the next couple of weeks where, on the one
hand, he’s really rallying the Allies behind Ukraine but, at the same
time, in a very different position than most of those same leaders when
it comes to Israel and Gaza, and so the tension about that?

And then finally, how old are you, John?

MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  Damn you. 

Q    You have to tell the truth.  You’re still under oath as a spokesman
for the White House.

MR. KIRBY:  That is correct.  I am 61.  Thank you. 

What was you second question about Israel, Gaza?  I’m sorry, Michael, I
didn’t hear it.

Q    Just the fact that he’s in a very different place on the two
issues.  He’s in unison with the Allies and the leaders that he’s going
to be talking to — Macron but also the others at the G7 — on Ukraine. 
But when it comes to Israel, he is in — you know, in some ways, very
isolated and in a different place than France and Britain and a lot of
the other European and G7 countries are when it comes to, you know,
Israel and Gaza and the war. 

MR. KIRBY:  Okay, I got you. 

Q    There’s a tension there.  And how does he reconcile that?

MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  There’s a lot there.  I’ll try to do this quickly.

So, look, on the schedule, I’d refer you to the White House team on the
President’s schedule.  As you know, we’re taking off tonight.  We’ll be
flying all night long and then getting into Paris, I believe, you know,
midday or so.  And I know the President has some internal staff meetings
on his schedule shortly after we arrive — you know, preparatory, the
kinds of things that you would do in advance of the weighty engagements
that he has over the following three days: speaking at Normandy, at the
cemetery; speaking the next day at Pointe du Hoc; and then a state
visit. 

I mean, there’s a lot on the calendar, and I believe they’re going to
take advantage of the afternoon tomorrow to make sure that we’re working
through all the internal mechanisms and do that right. 

So I think there’s preparatory meetings on his schedule, which is why
it’s probably not showing up publicly just because they’re internal
staff preps, which we do, you know, every time.  What makes this one
different, of course, is we’re flying all night.  And then with the time
zone difference, you get in and it’s already — half the day is gone in
Paris, just because (inaudible).  So I think that’s what’s driving all
that. 

But again, feel free to go to the White House folks for more detail if
you’d like.

On your second question, I’d say a couple of things.  And I don’t want
to get too far ahead of the G7 here since, you know, we haven’t really
talked much about that in any great detail. 

But number one, the President respects that every one of our allies and
partners have had their own views.  You know, we’ve seen some nations in
the past, you know, come out recently and call for unilateral
recognition of a Palestinian state.  Allies — NATO Allies have said
that.  We just don’t agree.  We don’t agree that’s the way forward.  And
many nations have different views, of course, about what’s going on in
Gaza.  The President respects that.  He appreciates that.  It’s the very
idea of sovereignty and territorial integrity and the precepts of the
U.N. Charter that apply.  And he respects all that.  It doesn’t mean we
have to agree on everything.

The President looks forward, when he goes to France here this week, and
then eventually in his conversation with G7 counterparts, to talk about
our position and the objectives we’re trying to achieve for peace and
security in the Middle East. 

And we believe a couple of things: that this deal, what’s on the table
right now, is the best chance — he called it “a decisive moment” — the
best chance to get the all the hostages out and to get a path to a
permanent cessation of hostilities coming out of phase two, if Hamas
will accept the deal. 

And if you get that, then you can talk about really advancing a vision
for post-conflict Gaza and what that needs to look like (inaudible). 
And if you can get that, then you can really start to get some momentum
towards other goals we have in the region, like normalization between
Israel and Saudi Arabia.  And of course, all of that can help build to
an eventual two-state solution, which the President believes, unlike
some people — he believes that it still is best achieved through direct
negotiations between the parties. 

So, look, he recognizes that not every nation agrees with his policies. 
He knows that not every American agrees with everything he’s doing in
Gaza.  But he doesn’t govern.  He doesn’t make national security
decisions based on popularity, and he doesn’t do it based on contrary
opinions outside the United States.  He does it based on what he
believes is in our best national security interest. 

And he believes the approach that he’s taken, this team has been taking,
is the best path forward for Israel’s security being guaranteed, so they
don’t have to live next to Hamas, and for an eventual state for the
Palestinian people. 

So I think I’d leave it at that. 

The last thing I’d say — because you talked about tension: Disagreements
with allies and partners is not something new to President Biden any
more than unity and cooperation and collaboration, which he also fosters
across a range of issues.  And so I have every expectation that Ukraine
in that regard will also be a prominent topic to be discussed. 

And then, I answered your third question about my age.  I would also
note that Sean Savett was 34.  There will be not a 35.  I just wanted to
add that.  (Laughter.)

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up we’re going to go to Sara with CBS. 
Sara, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you all.  Can you hear me?

MODERATOR:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Great.  And Happy Birthday, Kirby.  Sorry, Sean.  (Laughs.)

Can you confirm the reports that Ukraine has, for the first time, used
U.S. weapons across the border in Russia?  And does the partial lifting
of the restrictions against using U.S. weapons in Russian territory give
Ukraine the freedom to shoot down Russian aircraft that are launching
glide bombs from the sanctuary of Russian territory?

MR. KIRBY:  So I can’t confirm your first question.  As I said, we’re
just not in a position on a day-to-day basis of knowing exactly what the
Ukrainians are firing at what.  It’s certainly at a tactical level.  So,
I can’t confirm that.  I can tell you that they understand the guidance
that they’ve been given. 

And on your second question, I just want to note — there has been some
confusion on this: There’s never been a restriction on the Ukrainians
shooting down hostile aircraft, even if those aircraft are not
necessarily in Ukrainian airspace.  I mean, they can shoot down Russian
airplanes that pose an impending threat.  And they have.  They have
since the beginning of the war.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up we’ll go to Danny Kemp. 
Danny, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you very much.  And I just want to say: Save Sean.  He’s a
(inaudible) nice guy.  (Laughter.) 

MR. KIRBY:  I can see it now: \#Savett.

Q    I’m starting it right after this.  (Laughter.)

I just wanted to ask a kind of broader-picture question.  And we’ve had
three pretty massive announcements in the last — basically, in the space
of last week on the Gaza peace deal, on

Ukraine weapons, and now on migration.  I just want wondered, what’s the
sort of thinking behind that?  What’s the hurry?  Is there a kind of a
sense that the President wants to get everything sort of sorted right
now, at the moment, for some reason?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I can’t speak to the immigration issue that you’re
talking about. 

But just to, I think, to the larger, broader theme of your question,
what you’re seeing is the President moving out with an appropriate sense
of urgency on some of the key foreign policy issues of the day, in both
trying to get ahead of events, but also, quite frankly, trying to
respond to events as they occur, events that have prompted him to
reevaluate our policy and reevaluate our approach and reevaluate what
we’re doing to support allies and friends. 

I mean, had it not been for the six-month gap, who knows whether Russia
would have tried to press the advantages that they tried to press in the
Donbas and then towards Kharkiv.  But what you’re seeing now, in the
last month — you know, five security assistance packages being rushed to
Ukraine now that we finally have the funding — is in response to the
fact that we didn’t have any funding for six months and the Russians
were pressing their — trying to press their advantages in the east.

What you’re seeing in terms of his remarks on Friday with respect to
Gaza and what we’re trying to do to make sure that Israel has what it
needs to defend itself also is a reflection somewhat of the fact that we
didn’t have supplemental funding.  As you know, there was quite a bit of
supplemental funding applied there to helping our ally, Israel. 

But it’s also a reflection of what we’re seeing on the ground and the
fact that Hamas still is operating in Rafah, and the Israelis felt
strongly that they needed to deal with that threat, as well as watching
closely and trying to respond as fervently as we can to a dire
humanitarian situation in Gaza, which is why we, you know, have put the
pier off the coast, which is why we continue to conduct airdrops, which
is why we continue to try to press the Israelis to open up and sustain
more crossings into Gaza. 

So it’s a combination of trying to get ahead of issues as best we see
them developing, but also responding in real time to what’s going on. 

And that’s — again, that’s — I think that explains quite well the
President’s sense of energy here. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go with Nick Schifrin.  Nick, you
should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    I feel like we need alliteration.  \#SaveSean.  (Laughter.)

John, number one, the Qatari spokesman just came out and said something
interesting — so I wonder if you could just elucidate a little bit —
that Qatar has received a formal Israeli proposal for the hostage deal
as outlined by the President on Friday.  We talked yesterday about how
Hamas received this proposal in writing on Thursday night.  So can you
just kind of square that circle?  What is the status of whatever it is
in writing?  Who’s approved it and who sent it to whom?

And then, just an elucidation on one of the President’s quotations in
his Time piece.  Time asked the President this question: “Some in Israel
have suggested Netanyahu is prolonging the war for his own political
self-preservation.  Do you believe that?”  The President’s answer was:
“I’m not going to comment on that.  There is every reason for people to
draw that conclusion.”  And then he goes on to talk about the domestic
unrest over the judicial changes.  So can you just try and translate for
us what the President was trying to say?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  On your first question, Nick, I have not seen those comments
by a Qatari spokesman.  All I can do is go back (inaudible) before, that
that proposal had been transmitted to Hamas on Thursday night. 

So we’ll go back and take a look at what the spokesman said.  And if
there’s some additional context that needs to be provided, I’ll have the
team do that.  But we stand by our comments before, that the proposal
was transmitted to Hamas on Thursday evening, before the President’s
speech. 

On your second question —

Q    And sorry, John, just to — and Hamas has not provided a formal
response yet.  Is that right? 

MR. KIRBY:  That is correct.

On your second question, I think the President was very clear in his
answer on that, and we’ll let the Prime Minister speak to his own
politics and to what his critics are saying.  And the President was
referencing what many critics have said. 

For our part, though he and Prime Minister Netanyahu do not agree on
everything — and he talked in that interview about some of the things
they don’t agree on, such as on a two-state solution — but for our part,
we’re going to make sure that Israel has what it needs to continue to
eliminate the threat by Hamas and that we’re going to continue to work
with the Prime Minister and the war cabinet to try to get this proposal
over the finish line — a proposal, I would add, that was an Israeli
proposal that they crafted after some diplomatic conversations with us,
in which they’ve acknowledged is their proposal.  So that’s what our
focus is going to be on.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go with Emily Goodin with
Daily Mail.  Emily, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thanks, guys.  I have two questions.  My first question is
about: What message is the President sending with his decision to visit
the American cemetery that his predecessor did not visit?

And then secondly, do you have any details on what Dr.  Biden and Mrs.
Macron are going to be doing?  I thought you guys might be better
friends now, John, since you share the same birthday with the First
Lady.

MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  The First Lady and I have not talked about our
shared birthday.

I don’t have anything on her schedule to speak to.  I believe you would
have to go to the First Lady’s office on that.  That wouldn’t be
something that I’d be able to speak to. 

But on your first question, the message is simple: that the service and
the sacrifice of American troops in wars overseas — World War One, I
think in the case that you’re referring to, and of course, World War
Two, with his visit to Normandy — should never be forgotten.  And our
commitment to honor that sacrifice should never waver.  And our
obligations to those they leave behind, even though it may be
generations ago, can never be lessened. 

And that’s the — those are the messages that the President is trying to
send with these visits, that these — in these two wars, of course, these
brave soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines, they didn’t sacrifice
their futures for nothing.  And we need to take every opportunity that
we can to acknowledge that.  It’s somber.  It’s sober.  But it’s a very
serious obligation for all Americans everywhere.  And he looks forward
to paying respects to all of them.  And I think I’d leave it there.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think we have time for maybe one or two more.

MR. KIRBY:  I can squeeze in, yeah, one or two more.

MODERATOR:  All right.  We’ll go with Kayla from CNN.  Kayla, you should
be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you so much, guys, for doing this.  And I’m marking my
Outlook calendar for all future June (inaudible) so that we won’t
(inaudible) in the future. 

I wanted to zoom out a little bit, John.  I’m just wondering if you
could talk about the stakes for this particular visit and the upcoming
series of engagements with transatlantic allies, given Russia’s latest
aggression, deteriorating political goodwill in the U.S. and Europe, and
the forthcoming elections in the UK and the U.S.  Like, describe this
moment for the transatlantic and how important the moment is for the
President. 

And then, as a follow-up to that: When the President gives his speech on
democracy from Pointe du Hoc, how do you expect that message to be
different from his prior addresses on that topic?

MR. KIRBY:  Okay, on your first question, I mean, I can’t really
describe it any better than the President has.  He really believes we’re
at an inflection point in history.  And it’s not tied to elections,
whether they’re here or in the UK, or anywhere else for that matter.  He
believes it’s tied to the way geopolitics are changing, the way
challenges are being presented to us all around the world in different
ways, whether they be security challenges, economic challenges, social
and cultural challenges; that, across the world, we’re at an inflection
point and that, in his view — and this kind of gets to your second
question — in his view, there’s a power in democracy, there’s a power in
observing the voice of the people and in trying to reach and achieve the
aspirations of the populace that

can’t be underestimated.  And that the idea of standing up to
aggressors, whether they actually be in the act of aggression or

anticipated to be in the act of aggression, standing up to that and
making it clear what you stand for, as well as what you stand against,
matters today. 

And so, I think if you look at the next couple of weeks, it will be a
busy couple of weeks for the President, certainly on the world stage. 
And he will take full advantage of the opportunity to talk about the
moment we’re living in, the importance of democracies working together
on behalf of their peoples, but also the importance of American
leadership, as he has described in that Time Magazine interview, as the
world power, and the obligations and the responsibilities that come with
that. 

And when he talks about American leadership, it’s not an arrogant
leadership.  It’s a humble leadership.  He recognizes that for as
powerful as we are and as much good as we can do, we need help.  Our
allies and partners bring things to the endeavor that we can’t always
bring, and that we are much more — we send a much stronger signal about
lofty words like “peace” and “freedom” and “stability” and “security”
when we’re working in concert with one another. 

And so I think he’s going to, again, use the opportunity to send that
broader message to the world.

And then, on the Pointe du Hoc speech — again, I want to be careful that
I don’t get ahead of him and preview the speech too much.  But what
makes that opportunity, in terms of speaking about the power of
democracy and standing up to aggression, is that you can point to real
lives that were impacted at Pointe du Hoc.  You can point to real blood
that was spilt in pursuit of that loftier goal.  And you can tell
stories about real men who climbed real cliffs and faced real bullets
and real danger in the pursuit of something a whole hell of a lot bigger
than themselves.  That’s what makes being able to talk about democracy
at Pointe du Hoc differently. 

If you’ve never been, any of you, I can’t recommend it enough, going to
Normandy, walking the beach, seeing the cemetery.  But going to Pointe
du Hoc, you can still see the craters from the battleships that were
firing preparatory fires onto the ground to try to neutralize the Nazi
gun pits there.  You can still walk in those craters.  You can still
look at those cliffs, and they are shear.  I mean, you’re looking
straight down at a very tiny strip of beach.  And you think about these
guys climbing those cliffs, hand over hand, foot over foot, being killed
all the way up, and then crossing over that cliff and doing what they
did.  It’s eye watering. 

That’s what makes Pointe du Hoc special and different.  And it’s a way
of telling the story, not only of camaraderie on the battlefield, but of
camaraderie between democracies that the President really believes is
appropriate for this particular moment that we’re living in, this
inflection point.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And for our last question, we’ll go with Justin
Sink from Bloomberg.  Justin, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey, Kirby.  Thanks for doing this.  Happy belated. 

I just wanted to look back on the question Nick asked, about the Time
Magazine interview.  Israel’s government has come out and condemned the
President’s remarks pretty strongly, saying that it was outside the
diplomatic norms of every right-thinking country.  I’m wondering if
there’s a sense among you guys that there needs to be a conversation at
this point between Prime Minister Netanyahu and President Biden, and if
you anticipate this having any impact on the negotiations over the peace
deal proposal that are going on right now.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sure that the two leaders will talk again as
appropriate.  They’ve stayed in touch since the beginning of the
conflict in Gaza, and they will continue to stay in touch.  I have
nothing on the schedule to speak to. 

And there should be no impact at all on this proposal to get the
hostages out and to get some sort of temporary ceasefire in place during
phase one.  It was a good-faith effort by Israel to put this proposal on
the table.  We’re grateful for that good-faith effort.  Now Hamas needs
to accept it.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  That’s all the time we have for
today.  If you have any questions, feel free to email our distro.  And I
hope you guys all have great Tuesdays.  Thanks.

12:10 P.M. EDT
