---
date: '2024-06-13'
modified_time: 2024-06-13 11:53:02-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-13 11:53:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/13/on-the-record-roundtable-by-apnsa-jake-sullivan-previewing-the-presidents-first-day-at-the-g7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Roundtable by APNSA Jake Sullivan Previewing the President\u2019\
  s First Day at the\_G7"
---
 
9:13 A.M. CEST

MR. SULLIVAN:  We’ve got a busy day ahead of us here at the first day of
the G7.  I’ll just highlight a few items for you.

The first session will be on Africa, climate change, and development. 
And the President will have his chance, coming out of the Kenya state
visit in particular, to talk about the full range of investments and
approaches the U.S. has taken with respect to Africa to spur social and
economic development, security, and in particular, investment.  And I’ll
come on to that in a minute.

We believe the G7 will — the statement will reflect the
Nairobi-Washington Vision that President Biden signed with President
Ruto on debt relief for low- and middle-income countries.  And that’s
going to be an important outcome today.

Second, we’ll have a session on the Middle East.  This will be an
opportunity for the leaders to get an update from President Biden on the
negotiations with respect to the ceasefire and hostage deal, to talk
about G7 support for bringing that deal to closure so that we can get a
ceasefire in place and the hostages home. 

They’ll also talk about Lebanon and the increasing tension along that
border, including the increasing intensity, scope — intensity and scope
of the strikes by Hezbollah deeper into Israel and including into
civilian areas.  President Biden will talk about the links between
getting a ceasefire in Gaza and getting calm on the border between
Israel and Lebanon.

And of course, they’ll compare notes on the continuing threat posed by
Iran, both with respect to its support for proxy forces and with respect
to the Iranian nuclear program, where we continue to have grave concerns
and where the IAEA spoke last week.

Next, the President will participate in a session with President
Zelenskyy of Ukraine and the G7 leaders on G7 support for Ukraine across
the board.  And that will be an opportunity to talk about coordination
on sanctions, which the United States announced yesterday and other G7
partners will be announcing over the coming days.  Of course, to talk
about many of your favorite subject and mine: the mobilization of the
proceeds from Russian sovereign assets to help Ukraine with respect to
its resilience and economic needs. 

As I told some of you guys on the plane yesterday, there’s been very
good progress in the discussions among the G7 delegations here to reach
an agreement for how to make that happen.  And hopefully by the time the
leaders meet today, we will have a common vision for the way forward,
and the Italian presidency will be able to announce that there is a path
forward.  But we’ll all just have to wait and see what happens here in a
few hours’ time.

This has been something that the United States has put a lot of energy
and effort into because we see the proceeds from these assets as being a
valuable source of resources for Ukraine at a moment when Russia
continues to brutalize the country, not just through military action on
the front, but through the attempted destruction of its energy grid and
its economic vitality.

One more thing I’ll just note today coming in is we believe that,
entering our fourth G7 — President Biden’s fourth G7, G7 leaders are
more unified, really, than they’ve ever been, at least in modern memory,
on the major issues across the board, whether that’s geopolitical crises
or its challenges related to the global economy, including issues like
Chinese overcapacity.

And as we’ve come into this G7, the European Union has taken what we
believe is an important step with respect to the imposition of tariffs
on electric vehicles from China.  We welcome that action, which they
implemented after a thorough investigation, to address China’s unfair
trade practices and the electric vehicle sector.  And as we head into
our first sessions here in Italy, we think this kind of alignment is
what we’re looking to build upon to create a level playing field for our
workers and our firms.

And then, the last thing I wanted to talk about is: Later today, the
President will participate in and help lead a side event on the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment, PGI.  He’ll
co-host it with the Prime Minister of Italy.  It will bring together
leaders of the G7 and private sector executives, including the CEO and
chairman of Microsoft, Satya Nadella, and the chairman and CEO of
BlackRock, Larry Fink, to identify incentives and methods to mobilize
infrastructure investment with a particular focus on leveraging private
capital.

And so, the President will showcase how we’re scaling the G7’s flagship
infrastructure initiative to attract major investors so that we can not
just generate — because the demand is there — but channel the demand for
high-quality infrastructure financing and make a connection between
sources of private capital and the needs across the developing world.

So at this event, the President is going to announce that since the
launch of PGI in 2022, we’ve initiated investments that will mobilize
over $60 billion in support of PGI.  And we’re going to, in the next few
months and years, accelerate investments so that we will hit the
President’s $200 billion mobilization goal by 2027.

And he’ll also highlight game-changing investments that we’ve unlocked
in partnership with multilateral institutions in the private sector over
the past year that advance our own supply chains and national security
and our work to outcompete China.  There’ll be some more specific
announcements that come out of that session later today.

And then, just to close out the day, of course, as I mentioned
yesterday, the President will be signing a bilateral security agreement
with President Zelenskyy of Ukraine.  We think this is a big deal, a
milestone moment in the partnership between the U.S. and Ukraine and a
real marker of our commitment not just for this month and this year, but
for the many years ahead, as we will continue to support Ukraine both in
defending against Russian aggression and in deterring future aggression
so that Ukraine can be a sovereign, viable, thriving democracy rooted
and anchored in its partnership with the West and in the Euro-Atlantic
community.

So, sorry to go on for so long, but that’s where we are this morning,
and I look forward to taking your questions.

Q    Jake, according to European Union sources, every reference to
abortion and reproductive rights have been cancelled from the final
declaration at the request of the Italian presidency.  This is, of
course, also a matter of international rights.  Does the President
know?  Does he agree with that?  Is he going to raise the issue of
reproductive rights and general rights, LGBTQ rights, during the
bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Meloni?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President always talks about human rights in all of
his interactions, both with friends and with competitors and
adversaries.  And I don’t expect the next two days will be any
different.

I can’t speak to the specific assertion.  I have not heard that with
respect to discussions over the communiqué itself.

But from the President’s point of view, he doesn’t change up his message
based on who he’s talking to, and nothing about that will change today.

Q    On a ceasefire, Jake, can you update us based on what’s the
latest?  I understand you spoke yesterday and there’s really not much
that you can say.  But for people who are confused about the state of
play at this point, would it be fair to characterize that Hamas has not
agreed in private but say publicly that they have agreed, and Israel is
the opposite of that in private, agreeing, but in public not agreeing?

And then, if you could, just update my question yesterday, which was the
U.N. inquiry that has called out both Hamas and Israel for violating
international law and committing war crimes.  If you’ve had a chance to
look at that.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, we’ve made our position clear on the second issue
in the report that emerged from National Security Memorandum 20.  That’s
the U.S. position with respect to these questions of international
humanitarian law.  And I’ll let that speak for itself.  The U.N. is
going to speak for itself through multiple voices and multiple
channels.  And I’m not going to give it further comment today. 

I don’t entirely agree with your characterization.  Israel has supplied
this proposal.  It has been sitting on the table for some time.  Israel
has not contradicted or walked that back.  To this day, they stand
behind the proposal that was put on the table in late May that President
Biden described in his May 31st speech.  So I don’t think that there is
a contradiction in the Israeli position.

I do think Hamas’s assertion that they’ve accepted that proposal, to the
extent that they are saying that publicly, is not correct.  What they
have done is responded to that proposal with an amended proposal.  And
as I said yesterday, some of those amendments are modest or minor. 
They’re not unanticipated.  We can work through them.  Others are not
consistent with what President Biden laid out or what the U.N. Security
Council embraced.

But our goal is to figure out how we work to bridge the remaining gaps
and get to a deal.  So we’re going to work with Qatar and Egypt.  Qatar
and Egypt will work with Hamas.  Qatar, Egypt, and the United States
will work with Israel.  And the goal is to try to bring this to a
conclusion as rapidly as possible.

Now, I can’t give you a timetable for that.  I would have to say that in
complex negotiations like this, especially indirect negotiations, things
don’t happen necessarily instantly.  And so, I may not have an update
for you 12 hours from now any more than I do from 12 hours ago, but I
can tell you that we are working actively to generate a path forward
based on what Hamas has come in with that gets us to a result that’s
consistent with what the U.N. Security Council laid out and consistent
with what President Biden laid out.  We believe that is possible.

We still believe that it is important for the world to continue to train
the focus on Hamas, who has said on behalf of the Palestinian — on
behalf of, you know, its leadership and, you know, its view of what is
happening in Gaza, that it wants to get to a ceasefire.  If, in fact, it
does, there’s a ceasefire on the table.  They should take it and not try
to push this thing in a direction where we just get to stalemate.

And so, I think continuing to encourage Hamas to step up and do its part
will be an important thing for the rest of the world.

Q    Just to put a finer point on that, Jake.  So the Israelis have not
agreed, at least publicly, to commit to a permanent peace path, the
first phase, because that’s essentially, you know, what Hamas is saying
that they need in writing, or at least that’s what we’re hearing.  Has
the Israeli — I mean, can you confirm that Israel will commit to a
permanent ceasefire, despite the fact that we haven’t heard it from them
publicly?

MR. SULLIVAN:  What I can confirm is that the Israelis have agreed to
the proposal that the President laid out in detail, step by step.  If
you go back and read his May 31st text, everything in that is completely
faithful to a document that Israel itself put forward and has not walked
away from.

Q    Despite everything that they say publicly?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t think it’s despite everything they say publicly. 
I think if you look at the document as laid out — or, excuse me, the
President’s speech as laid out, that is something the Israelis have
committed to, remain committed to.  And I haven’t heard any Israeli
leader right now contradict that they stand behind the proposal put
forward in late May.

Q    Jake, can you say a little bit more about the Washington-Nairobi
Vision and what that means specifically?  As I understand it, there’s a
lot of concern about China’s slow progress in agreeing to debt
restructuring.  So will there be language that specifically calls out
China, or will it be more broad?  And, you know, what changes as a
result of what you’re expecting to happen?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, there are elements of the Nairobi-Washington
declaration, or Washington-Nairobi declaration, that are really about
increasing the capacity of countries bearing significant debt burdens to
be able to pay those off, getting them access to lower-cost financing so
that they’re not just stuck with the high-cost financing that is like an
albatross around their neck.  And we’ve taken a number of steps through
the multilateral development banks, the international financial
institutions to make that available.

Second, it’s about coordination and effectively getting the major
private and public creditors together around a common vision. 

And that leads to this third point that you’re raising, which is China
is a significant creditor to a lot of countries who are saddled by debt
burdens.

The G7 communiqué is not singling out or focusing on a single country. 
It’s talking about a common approach every country, including China,
should sign up to.  But in the discussion the leaders have, they will
all very much squarely face the reality that so much of the crushing
debt burden facing countries around the world comes from China, and
China needs to be a constructive actor in that. 

And I think you’ll hear a common voice from the G7 about what the right
path forward is.  We’ll be aligned on that.  And that, I think, will set
these developing countries up to have a more constructive conversation
with China than they’ve been able to have to date.

Q    Can you talk a little bit about the migration aspect of the G7?  I
wondered — a lot of the nations who are here are grappling with
migration challenges, in particular the U.S.  And I wonder what is — you
guys hope to glean from those discussions.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, as you know — it’s kind of amazing to say this —
but two years ago, more than two years ago, the President hosted the
Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles.  And as part of that, he pulled
more than 20 countries together around the Los Angeles Declaration for
Migration and Protection. And that basic vision for how to do effective,
humane, and orderly migration management has remained at the core of his
approach.  And it has three elements to it.

The first is humane and effective enforcement.  The second is investing
in root causes so that people do not feel compelled to leave in the
first place.  And the third is expanding legal pathways so that we can
have regular migration that can replenish the vitality of our nation and
other nations across the hemisphere.

So to put a fine point on it, the goal of the President here at the G7
on migration is to take the Los Angeles Declaration and make it more
than a regional compact but something that becomes a global vision.  And
we believe that the outcome of the G7 will reflect those core pillars of
the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection.  And it will
build upon the actions that the President has taken, including the
recent actions on border enforcement, as well as the steps he’s taken to
open up more legal pathways and to invest in root causes, not just in
the Americas but in other parts of the world. 

And other G7 members are particularly focused on root cause investments
in Africa and what I’ve just laid out with respect to PGI and the first
session that will unfold today on Africa, climate, and development. 
That’s all consistent with that pillar of the LA Declaration and that
element of what the G7 approach will be when it’s adopted today.

Q    As part of the discussion the President had over migration, he
talked with, I think it’s Spain and Canada — right? — to discuss, like,
moving migrants over in Europe?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah, as part of lawful pathways.

Q    Yeah.  Is there any discussion to broaden that to other G7 nations?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s not going to be a formal agenda item today, but it
is a subject of some discussion with other countries as well, who are
looking for regular, lawful migration for their economies, for their
economic growth.

And so, the President has always made clear that if other countries want
to be partners with us in that regard, as Spain and Canada, then he
would welcome that.  And those discussions are ongoing.

Q    Hey, Jake.  The President has often talked about, coming out of the
first G7 in England, the conversations he had with Scholz and other
then-world leaders about America being back, America’s commitment to the
world stage.  Obviously, this could be his last G7. 

And I’m wondering if you can read us into how he’s thinking about having
some of those conversations, how your counterparts have talked with you
about the possibility that there’s a different American president next
year (inaudible), and how you may put in place things to try to bridge
any gaps between American administrations.  I mean, just sort of how
that might be hanging over some of the conversations, especially on the
heels of the European elections, where a number of — Macron, Scholz,
their parties suffered some serious defeats.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, one of the great things about the G7 is we’re all
democracies, so the leaders here don’t get to pick and choose how things
go in their countries politically day in, day out.  They leave that to
the people of their countries.

But at the same time, I think the President, like the other G7 leaders
who have just come off elections, they’re going to be focused on the
task at hand.  And from his perspective, the real work to be done here
is work that is going to put the United States in the best possible
position to protect our interests and reflect our values. 

So whether it’s Russian sovereign assets or it’s alignment about Chinese
overcapacity, support for Ukraine, coordination on the ongoing crisis in
Gaza, he’s going to set kind of the broader election context aside and
really focus in on the work that needs to get done here.  And he’s going
to measure a successful G7 by whether or not we’ve made tangible
progress on those issues.  I think we’re teed up for success in that
regard, but we’ll have to see how the next two days unfold.

And then, you know, he’s in — every day subsequent to this summit, his
goal is going to be to do as much as possible to reinforce the idea that
the United States is best served if we are closely aligned with our
democratic allies and partners; that we are more likely to accomplish
our objectives, more likely to protect the interests of our workers and
businesses, more likely to produce security and stability when we are
aligned, as opposed to in conflict, with the leading democracies of the
world.  That’s going to be on display today.

And the difference between past times when the U.S. has not been aligned
and what you’re going to see here in Puglia is something that can
actually be measured, from my perspective, in an improved American
standing in the world and the improved capacity of the United States to
deliver for its people.

Q    Very quickly, on the state of the talks for unlocking the assets,
(inaudible) to get this done or individual countries getting loans?  Is
the U.S. giving more loans?  How does that stand?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, as a fellow member of the Air Force One plane team
flying over here — (laughter) — I must have repeated like six time —

Q    Are you (inaudible) again?

MR. SULLIVAN:  — that I wouldn’t get ahead of — look, the Italian
presidency, I think, has done a really good job of bringing everyone
together around the table to try to deal with what’s, you know, both a
simple and a complex proposition.  The simple proposition is we got to
put these assets to work.  The complex proposition is how you do that
specifically. 

And so, I think we are on the verge of a good outcome here.  I will wait
until we have the session on Ukraine and let the Italians describe where
we are.

As I said on the plane yesterday, I think we will have the major
tentpoles of this decided but some of the specifics left to be worked
through by experts on a defined timetable.  That’s how I anticipate this
will all play out, to include how things will unfold on the vehicle and
the range of countries that may step up on issues related to the loan.

Q    Fifty billion sound right?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve read that.  (Laughter.)

AIDE:  All right, we need to go.

Q    Thanks, Jake.

    9:35 A.M. CEST

\###
