---
date: '2024-06-27'
modified_time: 2024-06-27 18:17:29-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-27 18:17:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/06/27/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-marietta-ga/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Marietta,\_GA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Marietta, Georgia

2:15 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, all.   
  
Q    Hey.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I got a — two things at the top.   
  
So, today’s Supreme Court order ensures that women in Idaho can access
the emergency medical care they need while this case returns to the
lower courts.  But our fight is not over.  The Biden-Harris
administration will continue to defend our long-standing fundamental
belief that women have the right to access the emergency medical care
they need.   
  
No woman should be denied care or wait until she’s near death or forced
to flee her home state just to receive the health care she needs, yet
this is exactly what is happening in states across the country since the
Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade.   
  
It’s all part of Republican elected officials’ extreme and dangerous
agenda to ban abortion nationwide, put women’s health and lives at risk,
and threaten doctors with jail time.  The stakes should not be higher,
and the — I’m sorry, the stakes could not be higher, and the contrast
could not be clearer.  
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue to fight for a
woman’s right to make deeply personal health care decisions and to
restore the protections of Roe v. Wade in federal law for all women in
every state across the country.   
  
Second, the president has repeatedly said that we must secure our
border.  That’s why, about three weeks ago, he announced actions to bar
migrants who cross our border unlawfully from receiving asylum.   
  
Since then, unlawful crossings between ports of entry have dropped more
than 40 percent.  We’re still early in implementing the president’s
actions, and we understand that migration flows are dynamic.  That is
why we continue to call on Congress to provide our immigration officials
and Border Patrol the resources they need to do their jobs.  
  
Republicans in Congress have proven that they would rather have a
political football than actually fix the problem.  We will continue
calling on congressional Republicans to do their jobs and give border
officials the resources only Congress can provide.  
  
With that, Darlene, you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Yes, thank you.  To follow up on your topper on the Supreme Court
case out of Idaho, given the outcome of that case, is the administration
considering suing any other states, you know, like Texas, with similar —
that have similar circumstances?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to announce or to lay out. 
That’s certainly going to be up to the Department of Justice as it
relates to any litigation.  They’re — something that they can speak
to.  
  
What I can say is our fight is not over.  So, we’re going to continue to
defend what I said at the top — the administration long view of making
sure that a woman has the right to access emergency medical care. 
That’s — continues to be our — our stance. 

And so, we will continue to investigate complaints; take enforcement
actions as appropriate; and ensure that doctors, hospitals, patients
understand that rights and obligations under — the rights and
obligations under EMTALA.  
  
Anything further beyond that, I just don’t have anything to add.  
  
Q    What —  
  
Q    And one to the president.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    He’s been at Camp David for more than a week.  Can you tell us
anything about his mindset going into tonight, his mood?  Have you seen
him since we’ve been airborne?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, a couple of things — and I’m going to be
really mindful, follow the law — Hatch Act, all of the things.  And I’ll
say this.  Look, the president is president wherever he is.   
  
Obviously, we — we — there was the Dobbs decision.  You heard from the
president then.  You heard from the vice president.  You — you heard us
lay out — I just star- — stated this at the top about what the — what we
have seen at the border and the 40 percent drop, which I think is also
important.  So, he’s able to do the job wherever he is.  There’s the
infrastructure to do just that.   
  
And I’ll say this.  You know, whenever there’s an opportunity for the
president to speak directly to American public — in this instance, it’ll
be millions of Americans watching — he takes that opportunity very
seriously.  And he understands that Americans are going to be watching,
wanting to hear from their president, wanting to hear what he’s been
able to accomplish this last three and a — three and a half years.   
  
This is something that he does regularly, obviously, and to lay that out
— to lay out the contrast on what we’ve been trying to do and what
Republicans have been trying to do — extreme Republicans at that.  I
just talked about the Dobbs decision.  I just talked about EMTALA. 

All of these things that we’re seeing, as it relates to reproductive
freedom and — and contraception, you know, being — being on the line and
IVF and what we’re seeing with 27 million women in 21 states that have
abortion restrictions, what they’ve had to be going through — it is
happening because of what the last administration did, because of the
overturning of Roe v. Wade. 

So, these are the things that you’re going to continue to hear the
president talk about, the contrast, whether it’s the economy, whether
it’s expanding health care, giving — making sure we’re giving Americans
a little bit of breathing room and not giving tax cuts to billionaires
and corporations.  That’s not where we are.  We want to protect
Medicare, Medicaid, Social Security.  Republicans want to continue to
try to gut that.

So, you’ll — you’ll continue to hear the president lay out what he’s
done in three and a half years and, obviously, as we do regularly, give
that stark contrast and lay out what’s at stake. 

Q    Are you — are you happy with the debate rules, the fact that
there’s no audience, the mic will be turned off?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something for — for the campaign to speak to. 
As you know, that was a discussion that they had.  And so, I’m going to
leave that to them.

Q    And — and what’s the president’s feeling about standing toe to toe
with his — his main adversary tonight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I’m not going to speak directly to tonight
and directly to his main adversary this evening. 

But, look, you know this president.  He likes to fight.  He likes to
fight for the American people.  He believes on standing up for the
American people.  You see him do that over and over again. 

And so, look, I would — I would refer you to the State of the Union —
not just this year but also last year — and how he was able to take — to
take extreme Republicans in the room on.  I — I’m just going to leave
that there.

Q    Sticking with the — with the Supreme Court in another decision
today.  Does the administration have any concerns on the Supreme Court’s
decision and the SEC case to curb in-house judges?  Just any comment or
reaction to that case and if it could potentially limit enforcement on
financial rules and regulations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to speak to that.  We’ve been always
very, very mindful on that.  So, I’m j- — I just don’t have anything to
add to the — to the Supreme Court ruling.

Q    Karine, could you give us few details about what these past few
days have looked like for the president at Camp David?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have anything more to add to answering
Darlene’s question. 

Look, the president is the president wherever he is.  He, you know —
obviously, he continues to do the work of the American people.  The last
couple of days, we’ve made some important announcement on things, on
matters that the majority of Americans care about, whether it’s the
Dobbs decision, marking the two-year anniversary.  I just talked about
immigration, what’s happening at the border, securing the border, and
the actions that the president took — the executive actions that the
president took not too long ago.  We laid that out for all of you
yesterday — the 40-percent decrease at the border. 

I don’t have anything else to add.  I’m sure the campaign will have more
specifics on that.  But I’m just going to stick to what the president —
how the president delivers every day for the American people.  That’s —
that’s my — that’s my lane.  That’s my role.  And that’s what I’ll stick
to.

Anything else?

Q    Is — is — sorry.  Is the president concerned that the Kenyan
government caved to violence and overturned their new tax laws?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things on that.  Give me one second. 
Guys, I can’t see. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kenya, yeah.

So — so, obviously, we’re deeply concerned about — about what — what is
occurring there and obviously condemn the reported violence in all
forms.  We offer our deepest condolences to the families who have been
impacted and continue to urge restraint so that no further Kenyans are
put in harm’s way while exercising their constitutional, protected right
to peacefully, publicly assemble. 

We are encouraged by recent — by President Ruto’s openness to dialogue
and will continue to push for calm to prevail.   
  
So, answering that question, I think it’s important to have that open
dialogue and wh- — we are — I think we are encouraged by that open
dialogue that the president of Kenya is currently having with — with
folks on the ground.

Q    Does the president have confidence in the effectiveness of the Gaza
pier is — that the Pentagon has opened up a Inspector General look into
it.  Does he — does he think it’s money well spent?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say — I’m not going to speak to the IG
investigation.  That’s something that I won’t get into. 

Look, we have always said one of the things that this president wanted
to do is get that increased humanitarian aid into Gaza.  We’ve — we’ve
been very clear about that.  And we’ve said — and you’ve heard Jake
Sullivan talk about air, land, and sea.  Right?  And so, this is part of
that effort. 

We’re confident in that effort, in making sure that we’re getting those
really important goods and aid that the people of — of Gaza, Pal- —
innocent Palestinians need into — obviously into Gaza. 

So, that’s always going to be our focus.  And anything more specifically
about the process and how that’s moving forward with the pier,
certainly, I would refer you to the — to the Department of Defense.  

But again, that is the president’s commitment: to increase

— to increase that aid.  And so, that is something that the president —
that — that we’ve been incredibly focused on. 

And I do want to share some total figures here.  Since the beginning of
the conflict, President Biden has been leading the effort to get
humanitarian aid into Gaza.  And it was a result of the president’s
effort that assistance was allowed into Gaza after October 7th. 
Overall, total of nearly 16,000 trucks since April 5th and a daily
average of 190 trucks have been going in a day.  And that is, again,
because of the president’s leadership.  And we’re going to do everything
that we can to increase that aid.

Q    Julian Assange’s lawyer says he deserves a pardon and that
President Biden should give him one.  Is that under consideration or
even discu- — being discussed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not. 

Q    And what is the response to former President Trump’s claims that
President Biden may be taking something tonight to boost his
performance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think that I should dignify that with an
answer.

Q    Did — did Jake — when Jake spoke to the Israeli Defense Minister
yesterday, did they talk about post-conflict Gaza, the plan for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They di- — yes, they did.  They did talk about that. 

Let me see if I can find it.  Yikes.  Let me lay that out for you.

So, one of the things — like I said, they — yes, they did discuss that —
Jake Sullivan and obviously the Defense Minister.  They also discussed,
obviously, a wide range of issues.  And we issued out a readout of the
conversation yesterday that they had.

Go ahead.

Q    And on the what appeared to have been a failed coup in Bolivia. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re glad that — that calm has been restored. 
And I’ll just leave it there.

Q    I had a question about tomorrow.  Can we go to tomorrow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Tomorrow?

Q    There’s an official event on his schedule.  Do you have any details
about what he’s going to be doing in New York City after —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, they’re — they will be campaign events.  So, I
would refer you to the campaign.

Q    But it says “official” on the guidance. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you’re talking about — not tomorrow.  You’re
talking about — oh, you’re talking about the New York pieces of it. 
We’ll have —

Q    The first one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The first —

Q    It said “official.”  The second one — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more to share later today.  We’ll have more
details to share for sure.

Q    What about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, are you guys just coming up with things at
this point?  (Laughter.)

Q    No.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thank you.  Appreciate it.

 END  2:28 P.M. EDT
