---
date: '2023-05-19'
published_time: 2023-05-19 10:40:19-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/19/a-proclamation-on-world-trade-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Trade Week,\_2023"
---
 
     My Administration is committed to building an economy from the
bottom up and middle out, ensuring every worker gets a fair shot at the
American Dream.  Global trade is a key part of making that dream a
reality.  By expanding markets around the world for American businesses
and crafting rules for fair competition, we can empower our workers,
protect our planet, and promote inclusive prosperity.  During World
Trade Week, we recommit to writing a new story on trade — a
worker-centered story — where everyone has dignity and opportunity and
no one is left behind.

     This new story begins with investing in America.  For decades, the
middle class and thriving towns across America were hollowed out as
good-paying jobs moved overseas and factories at home closed down.  My
Administration is changing that.  Through our blue-collar blueprint for
America, we have created more than 12 million jobs and brought
unemployment down to its lowest rate in more than 50 years.  Across the
country, we are witnessing a manufacturing boom, and factories are
coming back to America to produce the semiconductors that power
everything from cellphones and automobiles to the technology that will
power our clean energy future.  In every State, construction is underway
to rebuild our roads, bridges, ports, airports, and water systems.  

     These investments in our country will help us maintain our
innovative edge, boost our industrial capacity, and ensure we have the
best-trained workforce — making us a stronger, more capable partner for
our allies and all those who share our vision for a more equitable
economic future around the world.  That is why 13 economies in the
Indo-Pacific stepped up to join the United States in strengthening labor
standards, incentivizing the use of clean energy, and protecting our
economies from corruption.  Together with 11 of our neighbors in the
Western Hemisphere, we are working to drive inclusive regional economic
growth and create good-quality jobs.  We are working to increase trade
with Kenya and Taiwan — two vibrant partners in critical parts of the
world.  And we are working closely with international partners to build
more resilient and reliable supply chains for critical minerals used in
products like electric vehicle batteries.

     We are also deepening our cooperation with the European Union —
negotiating the world’s first emission-based trade arrangement on steel
and aluminum to reward fair trade, promote clean manufacturing, and
generate good jobs on both sides of the Atlantic.  At the same time, the
United States and the European Union are collectively addressing unfair
competition from non-market economies and authoritarian regimes and
working to eliminate forced labor from global supply chains. 

     We know that, with every new commitment we make, we must also
enforce existing ones to build trust and confidence in trade.  That is
why my Administration has been laser-focused on working through the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to uphold our commitment to
workers’ rights and environmental protections and to ensure that our
dairy farmers and businesses in the energy and agricultural
biotechnology sectors are treated fairly.  We also remain committed to
the World Trade Organization and to working with nations around the
world to help the institution more effectively promote fair competition,
transparency, and the rule of law while fostering supply chain
resiliency through improved border procedures and addressing challenges
like the climate crisis.

     At home, my Administration is incorporating diverse voices into our
policymaking — from small businesses and entrepreneurs to manufacturers,
farmers, ranchers, fishers, and producers — to ensure trade works for
more sectors of the American economy.  We are taking steps to expand the
benefits of trade to historically underrepresented and underserved
communities, including making it easier for small- and medium-sized
enterprises to access loans and loan guarantees offered by the
Export-Import Bank of the United States, and working to double the
number of businesses receiving export assistance from the Department of
Commerce.

     In America, we believe that everyone deserves a shot at
prosperity.  My Administration will continue to make sure trade is a
force for good for all Americans — lifting up workers and businesses,
forging lasting partnerships around the globe, and building a better and
brighter tomorrow for us all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
21 through May 27, 2023, as World Trade Week.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this week and to celebrate with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
