---
date: '2023-05-19'
published_time: 2023-05-19 10:45:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/19/a-proclamation-on-national-safe-boating-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Safe Boating Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Every year, nearly 100 million Americans go boating in our Nation’s
lakes, rivers, bays, and oceans — a number that surged during the
pandemic, as more people sought peace outdoors.  With summer now
approaching, countless families are again drawn to the promise and
possibility of time on the water.  During National Safe Boating Week, we
remind one another to be safe and responsible and to do all we can to
prevent boating accidents and prepare for emergencies.

     Whether fishing, sailing, canoeing, kayaking, jet skiing, or motor
boating, safe boating starts with planning ahead.  More than 10 percent
of American households now own some kind of boat, and they should each
make sure their vessel meets Federal safety standards.  The civilian
Coast Guard Auxiliary can send volunteers to examine boats for free and
tell their owners how to improve safety.  Free boating safety courses
are available in all 50 States, and the Coast Guard Auxiliary and groups
like America’s Boating Club train people online and in-person in boat
handling, marine navigation, engine maintenance, weather prediction, and
more.   

     Simple things can be life-saving:  life jackets, weather forecasts,
maps — especially in unfamiliar areas — and emergency communications
tools.  Boating sober, without alcohol or drugs, is so important.  And
every boat operator should always wear their engine-cut-off switch
lanyard in order to automatically stop the boat if they are thrown into
the water. 

     Operating a boat is a serious thing, like driving a car.  It
demands attention and caution, even as it gives boaters a profound
feeling of freedom and peace.  This week, we thank the courageous
members of the United States Coast Guard — along with the Federal,
State, Tribal, and local partners — who sacrifice so much to protect
boaters and help rescue those in need at a moment’s notice.  We should
honor their work by each doing our own part to keep life on the water
safe.

     In recognition of the importance of safe boating practices, the
Congress, by joint resolution approved on June 4, 1958 (36 U.S.C. 131),
as amended, has authorized and requested the President to proclaim
annually the 7-day period before Memorial Day weekend as “National Safe
Boating Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 20 through May 26, 2023, as
National Safe Boating Week.  I encourage all Americans who participate
in boating activities to observe this occasion by learning more about
safe boating practices and by taking advantage of boating safety
education opportunities.  I also encourage the Governors of the States
and Territories, and appropriate officials of all units of government,
to join me in encouraging boating safety in every community.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
nineteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
