---
date: '2023-05-11'
published_time: 2023-05-11 14:39:23-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/11/a-proclamation-on-military-spouse-appreciation-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Military Spouse Appreciation Day,\_2023"
---
 
The English poet John Milton wrote, “They also serve who only stand and
wait.”  Today, we honor the nearly one million military spouses who
serve and strengthen our Nation alongside their loved ones in uniform.
 While navigating the many demands of life in a military family, they
remain strong, caring, and resourceful — representing the very best of
who we are as Americans.

Like our service members, military spouses know what it means to make
sacrifices for our values and freedoms — stepping up every day to
shoulder the unique burdens that come with military life.  They
selflessly care for others, often balancing their responsibilities at
home and work while praying that their spouse returns home safely.  They
bring their diverse talents to all sectors to provide for their families
and communities, even in the face of demanding and difficult
circumstances.  They strive to make birthdays and holidays special, even
when there is an empty seat at the dinner table.  And during some of
life’s toughest moments, military spouses are there for each other —
forging lasting friendships grounded in support, service, and
selflessness.

Our Nation has many obligations, but we have only one truly sacred
obligation:  to prepare those we send into harm’s way and to care for
them and their families while they are deployed and when they return
home — including our military spouses.  My Administration is working to
ensure we meet this obligation, including through the First Lady’s
Joining Forces initiative, which is committed to supporting military and
veteran families, caregivers, and survivors.  We have broadened pathways
to Federal careers for military spouses and started a new program to
connect military spouses with private sector employers through paid
fellowships.  We have expanded scholarship opportunities for many
military spouses so they can get professional licenses, certificates, or
associate degrees and find good jobs.  We are broadening parental leave
for service members and increasing access to affordable and dependable
child care — including making it easier to save for child care and
working to make pre-kindergarten universal at all Department of Defense
Education Activity Schools.  And as we continue working to ensure
military spouses have the resources they need to thrive in all aspects
of life, we call upon more communities to hire and support military
spouses, harnessing their unique skills, strengths, and experiences.

We have asked so much of our military spouses for so long.  Yet every
time Jill and I meet with spouses, we are struck by their extraordinary
commitment and fortitude.  They are the solid steel spine that bears up
under every burden and the courageous heart that rises to every
challenge, even while their service and sacrifice too often go unsung.
 Today we pause to lift up their stories, invest in their abilities, and
ensure they have the support they need to achieve their aspirations.
 May God bless our military spouses and families, and may God protect
our troops.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 12, 2023, as
Military Spouse Appreciation Day.  I call upon the people of the United
States to honor military spouses with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
