---
date: '2023-05-05'
published_time: 2023-05-05 10:54:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/05/a-proclamation-on-public-service-recognition-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Public Service Recognition Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Every day, more than 20 million dedicated public servants in small
towns and big cities across our Nation go to work to make sure that
America works for all of us.  From teaching our children and delivering
the mail to controlling air traffic in our skies, overseeing our
elections, fighting fires, keeping our streets safe, and defending our
country in uniform, these remarkable Americans are the lifeblood of our
democracy.  This week, we honor them and celebrate all they give to this
country.

     I have had the great privilege of working with public servants who
lift up others and so seldom seek recognition or personal acclaim in
return.  I have also witnessed the sacrifices of families who serve
alongside them, like those who uproot their lives every few years when a
family member’s job calls on them to find a new home, and law
enforcement families who wait bravely for loved ones to come back from
their shifts.  Public servants embody the timeless creed of this Nation
found in the words of President John F. Kennedy:  “Ask not what your
country can do for you — ask what you can do for your country.”

     At a time when public servants are facing threats and hostility
simply for doing their jobs, their continued willingness to serve is
even more meaningful and important.  We have an obligation to support
them and to recognize and value their commitment and sacrifice.  Our
Nation’s future depends on ensuring our public servants have good jobs
with competitive pay and benefits, along with the resources they need to
accomplish their work.  It also depends on the next generation of smart,
dedicated people answering the call of public service and joining their
ranks, helping deliver the promise of America to more of our citizens.
 That is why my American Rescue Plan provided $350 billion to State,
Tribal, and local governments to keep public servants on the payroll and
make vital new hires — including first responders, teachers, and public
works employees.  My Safer America Plan calls on the Congress to provide
our law enforcement officers with more mental health and wellness
resources and to recruit and hire 100,000 more police officers for safe,
effective, and accountable community policing, consistent with the
standards of my policing Executive Order. 

     Meanwhile, my Administration is taking steps to protect, empower,
and rebuild the career Federal workforce.  I issued Executive Orders
increasing the minimum wage for Federal employees to $15 per hour,
making Government jobs more competitive and giving hardworking Americans
more breathing room.  To ensure public servants reflect the diversity of
the communities they serve and to draw on the full range of talent we
have across our Nation, I took executive action to protect Federal
employees against discrimination on the basis of gender identity or
sexual orientation, and launched a Government-wide initiative to advance
diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility in the Federal
workforce.  And I established a White House Task Force on Worker
Organizing and Empowerment, led by Vice President Harris, to strengthen
the right to unionize among Federal Government workers.  To ensure that
employment in the Federal workforce continues to be based on merit,
skill, and experience — and does not become politicized — I have also
called for legislation to protect the integrity of the civil service.

     Public servants so often come out of school with debt that can take
more than a decade to pay off, so my Administration has also worked to
fix the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program.  To date, we have
helped over 450,000 public servants — including teachers, first
responders, nurses, and members of the military — get nearly $31 billion
in loan forgiveness.  

     These actions are all part of my plan to build a country that
rewards work and not just wealth, especially for those who dedicate
their lives to improving the lives of others.  These are investments in
America’s future.  When we support our public servants with the
recognition and resources they deserve, our loved ones are safer in
their communities, our families are more likely to get the high-quality
services they need in a timely manner, our economy is stronger, and we
put ourselves on a path to win the race for the future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 7
through May 13, 2023, as Public Service Recognition Week.  I call upon
all Americans to celebrate public servants and their contributions this
week and throughout the year.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
