---
date: '2023-05-04'
published_time: 2023-05-04 10:41:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/04/executive-order-on-imposing-sanctions-on-certain-persons-destabilizing-sudan-and-undermining-the-goal-of-a-democratic-transition/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Imposing Sanctions on Certain Persons Destabilizing Sudan\
  \ and Undermining the Goal of a Democratic\_Transition"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*), section 212(f) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code,  
  
     I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13067 of November 3, 1997 (Blocking Sudanese Government Property
and Prohibiting Transactions With Sudan), and expanded by Executive
Order 13400 of April 26, 2006 (Blocking Property of Persons in
Connection With the Conflict in Sudan’s Darfur Region), finding that the
situation in Sudan, including the military’s seizure of power in October
2021 and the outbreak of inter-service fighting in April 2023,
constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security
and foreign policy of the United States.  
  
     It is the policy of the United States to support a transition to
democracy and civilian transitional government in Sudan, to defend such
a transitional government from those who would prevent its initial
formation through violence and other methods, and, once formed, to
protect it from those who would undermine it.  The United States, in
cooperation with like-minded partners, will help such a transitional
government, when formed, meet the needs of the Sudanese people and
prepare for democratic elections.   
  
     Accordingly, to address the threat described in this order and to
take further steps with respect to this national emergency, I hereby
order:  
  
     Section 1.  (a)  All property and interests in property that are in
the United States, that hereafter come within the United States, or that
are or hereafter come within the possession or control of any United
States person of the following persons are blocked and may not be
transferred, paid, exported, withdrawn, or otherwise dealt in:  
  
          (i)    any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be responsible
for, or complicit in, or to have directly or indirectly engaged or
attempted to engage in, any of the following:               

(A)   actions or policies that threaten the peace, security, or
stability of Sudan;

               (B)   actions or policies that obstruct, undermine,
delay, or impede, or pose a significant risk of obstructing,
undermining, delaying, or impeding, the formation or operation of a
civilian transitional government, Sudan’s transition to democracy, or a
future democratically elected government;

               (C)   actions or policies that have the purpose or effect
of undermining democratic processes or institutions in Sudan;

               (D)   censorship or other actions or policies that
prohibit, limit, or penalize the exercise of freedoms of expression,
association, or peaceful assembly by individuals in Sudan, or that limit
access to free and independent news or information in or with respect to
Sudan;

               (E)   corruption, including bribery, misappropriation of
state assets, and interference with public processes such as government
oversight of parastatal budgets and revenues for personal benefit;

               (F)   serious human rights abuse, including serious human
rights abuse related to political repression, in or with respect to
Sudan;

               (G)   the targeting of women, children, or any other
civilians through the commission of acts of violence (including killing,
maiming, torture, or rape or other sexual violence), abduction, forced
displacement, or attacks on schools, hospitals, religious sites, or
locations where civilians are seeking refuge, or through conduct that
would constitute a serious abuse or violation of human rights or a
violation of international humanitarian law;

               (H)   the obstruction of the activities of United Nations
missions — including peacekeeping missions, as well as diplomatic or
humanitarian missions — in Sudan, or of the delivery of, distribution
of, or access to humanitarian assistance; or

               (I)   attacks against United Nations missions, including
peacekeeping operations; 

          (ii)   any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be or have
been a leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of the
board of directors of any entity:

               (A)   that has, or whose members have, engaged in any
activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section relating to the
tenure of such leader, official, senior executive officer, or member of
the board of directors; or

               (B)   whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order relating to the tenure of such leader,
official, senior executive officer, or member of the board of directors;

          (iii) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be a spouse or
adult child of any person whose property and interests in property are
blocked pursuant to this order;

          (iv) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have
materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, material, or
technological support for, or goods or services to or in support of, any
activity described in subsection (a)(i) of this section or any person
whose property and interests in property are blocked pursuant to this
order; or

          (v) any foreign person determined by the Secretary of the
Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to be owned or
controlled by, or to have acted or purported to act for or on behalf of,
directly or indirectly, any person whose property and interests in
property are blocked pursuant to this order.

     (b)   The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply
except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or any license or permit
granted before the date of this order.

     Sec. 2.  Following the issuance of a determination by the Secretary
of State, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury and the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development,
that a civilian transitional government has been formed in Sudan, the
Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs shall
coordinate, through the interagency process identified in National
Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the National
Security Council System), or any successor memorandum, the executive
branch actions necessary to implement the policy set forth in this
order, including coordinating executive departments and agencies
(agencies) to mobilize international assistance to support such a
civilian transitional government in implementing political, economic,
security, and human rights-related reforms essential for completing a
democratic transition. 

     Sec. 3.  The prohibitions in section 1 of this order include:

     (a)   the making of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to this order; and

     (b)   the receipt of any contribution or provision of funds, goods,
or services from any such person.  
  
     Sec. 4.  I hereby determine that the making of donations of the
types of articles specified in section 203(b)(2) of IEEPA (50 U.S.C.
1702(b)(2)) by, to, or for the benefit of any person whose property and
interests in property are blocked pursuant to section 1 of this order
would seriously impair my ability to deal with the national emergency
declared in Executive Order 13067, and expanded by Executive Order 13400
and this order, and I hereby prohibit such donations as provided by
section 1 of this order.  
  
     Sec. 5.  (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the
purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to
violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.  
  
     (b)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set
forth in this order is prohibited.  
  
     Sec. 6.  (a)  The unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry
into the United States of noncitizens determined to meet one or more of
the criteria set forth in section 1(a) of this order would be
detrimental to the interests of the United States, and the entry of such
persons into the United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, is
hereby suspended, except when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of
Homeland Security, as appropriate, determines that the person’s entry
would not be contrary to the interests of the United States, including
when the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security, as
appropriate, so determines, based on a recommendation of the Attorney
General, that the person’s entry would further important United States
law enforcement objectives.  
  
     (b)  The Secretary of State shall implement this authority as it
applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may
establish.  
  
     (c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this order
as it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.  
  
     (d)  Such persons shall be treated by this section in the same
manner as persons covered by section 1 of Proclamation 8693 of July 24,
2011 (Suspension of Entry of Aliens Subject to United Nations Security
Council Travel Bans and International Emergency Economic Powers Act
Sanctions).  
  
     Sec. 7.  For the purposes of this order:  
  
     (a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;  
  
     (b)  the term “noncitizen” means any person who is not a citizen or
noncitizen national of the United States;  
  
     (c)  the term “person” means an individual or entity; and  
  
     (d)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States
(including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.  
  
     Sec. 8.  For those persons whose property and interests in property
are blocked pursuant to this order who might have a constitutional
presence in the United States, I find that because of the ability to
transfer funds or other assets instantaneously, prior notice to such
persons of measures to be taken pursuant to this order would render
those measures ineffectual.  I therefore determine that for these
measures to be effective in addressing the national emergency declared
in Executive Order 13067, and expanded by Executive Order 13400 and this
order, there need be no prior notice of a listing or determination made
pursuant to section 1 of this order.  
  
     Sec. 9.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers
granted to the President by IEEPA as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent
with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the
Department of the Treasury.  All agencies of the United States shall
take all appropriate measures within their authority to implement this
order.  
  
     Sec. 10.  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United
Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and
related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.  
     
     Sec. 11.  Nothing in this order is intended to affect the continued
effectiveness of any action taken pursuant to Executive Order 13761 of
January 13, 2017 (Recognizing Positive Actions by the Government of
Sudan and Providing for the Revocation of Certain Sudan-Related
Sanctions), and Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017 (Allowing
Additional Time for Recognizing Positive Actions by the Government of
Sudan and Amending Executive Order 13761).  
  
     Sec. 12.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair
or otherwise affect:    
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
   
   

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  May 4, 2023.
