---
date: '2023-05-18'
published_time: 2023-05-18 09:55:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/18/a-proclamation-on-national-hepatitis-testing-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hepatitis Testing Day,\_2023"
---
 
     Thousands of Americans die every year of viral hepatitis —
infections of the liver that can be managed or cured if patients know
they are infected and can get treatment.  On National Hepatitis Testing
Day, we urge Americans to get tested and recommit to ensuring that those
who are diagnosed can receive lifesaving care.

     Viral hepatitis is a hidden epidemic.  For those with hepatitis C,
which spreads through contact with infected blood and is the most common
strain, it can be years between the time someone is infected and when
they first present symptoms, leaving far too many unaware that they are
sick.  This can further spread the virus, delay treatment, and lead to
serious liver disease — including cirrhosis, liver failure, liver
cancer, and even death.  Pregnant women with untreated hepatitis C can
also pass the virus on to their newborns.  It disproportionately affects
Black Americans and Native Americans, who too often cannot access
quality health care, and it is more common among those experiencing
homelessness and those who are incarcerated as more than a third of
people in a jail or prison can be positive at a given time.  The good
news is that we now have a cure for hepatitis C that is 95 percent
effective — but its high cost, among other factors, has kept it from
many of the more than 2 million Americans in need.

     My new Budget includes a bold plan to change that this decade —
ending hepatitis C as a public health threat by expanding testing,
slashing the high cost of treatment, and promoting awareness of the
risks and the cure.  It draws on work that the Department of Veterans
Affairs has done in treating more than 100,000 affected veterans since
2014.  My plan would make testing quicker and simpler with more
point-of-care diagnostic tests so patients can be tested and treated in
a single visit, rather than having to return several times before
determining their infection status.  It would pioneer innovative
approaches to treating hepatitis C, including a national antiviral
subscription model, so more Americans can get affordable care and
taxpayers can save billions of dollars through prevention and the
reduced need for treatment of advanced liver diseases.  My plan would
also support grassroots public health groups; train more health care
professionals; and expand mobile, telehealth, and community sites
focused on hepatitis testing and care.  And it would boost progress
toward a hepatitis C vaccine.

     We are also taking steps to prevent hepatitis B — the second most
common strain of the virus among adults, which can lead to premature
death in 15 to 25 percent of cases.  We are fortunate to already have a
hepatitis B vaccine; it has been widely recommended for children for
over 30 years, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention now
urges all adults under 60 to be screened and vaccinated too.  This is
especially important among Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander communities, who account for almost 60 percent of chronic
hepatitis B cases in this country.

     Working to beat hepatitis is something that all Americans can agree
is important.  It is within our power to save tens of thousands of lives
and billions of dollars in health care costs, and by reducing liver
cancer, these steps will also bring us closer to meeting our moonshot
goal of ending cancer as we know it, achieving one of the greatest
public health victories of all time.  Every American can do their part —
ask your health care provider about getting tested for hepatitis B and C
and about being vaccinated for hepatitis B if you have not yet done so.
 And ask the Congress to back our push to eliminate the threat of viral
hepatitis from the United States for good.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
19, 2023, as National Hepatitis Testing Day.  I encourage all Americans
to join in activities that will increase awareness about viral hepatitis
and what we can do to prevent and treat it.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eighteenth day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
