---
date: '2023-05-19'
published_time: 2023-05-19 10:32:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/19/a-proclamation-on-national-maritime-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Maritime Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On National Maritime Day, we honor the thousands of dedicated
merchant mariners who serve on United States vessels around the world.
 During times of both peace and war, merchant mariners are always there
— stepping up to transport equipment, troops, and goods across the globe
to make our country safer and stronger.

     With professionalism and passion, merchant mariners have forged us
into the maritime Nation we are today.  During the Revolutionary War,
merchant vessels joined the vastly outnumbered American fleet to help
defend our independence.  During World War II, as our brave service
members battled the forces of fascism, more than a quarter-million
members of the Merchant Marine volunteered to transport tanks,
ammunition, and troops across the Atlantic and Pacific theaters.  Many
of them made the ultimate sacrifice in the service of freedom.  And
today, merchant mariners not only help move hundreds of billions of
dollars’ worth of cargo through our 25,000 miles of waterways and more
than 360 commercial ports annually — they also crew vessels of our
United States Ready Reserve, shipping vital military cargo to help the
people of Ukraine defend themselves against Russia’s brutal war. 

     My Administration remains steadfast in its support of the Merchant
Marine as well as the Jones Act, which ensures American workers see the
benefits of our domestic maritime industry.  We are also making historic
investments to improve our maritime supply chains by making it easier,
faster, cheaper, cleaner, and safer for ships to get in and out of our
ports.  We are strengthening our support for licensed Merchant Marine
Officers, including requesting $196 million in my 2024 Budget to upgrade
the United States Merchant Marine Academy’s campus, expand training, and
help prevent sexual assault and support survivors — because every person
at the Academy deserves to feel safe and have their contributions fully
valued.  We are also working to advance diversity, equity, and inclusion
in the ranks of the Merchant Marine because our economy and national
security are strongest when we draw on the full skillsets and diversity
of our Nation.

     The United States Merchant Marine underpins our Nation’s prosperity
and upholds our Nation’s highest principles — freedom, liberty, and
dignity.  Today, and every day, we honor merchant mariners’ service and
sacrifice and renew our commitment to stand by their side, from sea to
shining sea.  
  
The Congress, by a joint resolution approved May 20, 1933, has
designated May 22 of each year as “National Maritime Day” to commemorate
the first transoceanic voyage by a steamship in 1819 by the S.S.
Savannah.  By this resolution, the Congress has authorized and requested
the President to issue annually a proclamation calling for its
appropriate observance.  I also request that all ships sailing under the
American flag dress ship on that day.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 22, 2023, as National Maritime
Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day and to celebrate the
United States Merchant Marine and maritime industry with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
