---
date: '2023-05-04'
published_time: 2023-05-04 10:59:28-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/04/a-proclamation-on-missing-or-murdered-indigenous-persons-awareness-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day,\_\
  2023"
---
 
     On Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day, we
remember the many lives shattered or lost, and commit to working with
Native communities to find justice, keep families safe, and help them
heal.

     Indian Country has been gripped by an epidemic of missing or
murdered Indigenous people, whose cases far too often go unsolved.
 Families have been left investigating disappearances on their own,
demanding justice for their loved ones, and grieving pieces of their
souls.  Generations of activists and organizers have pushed for
accountability, safety, and change.  We need to respond with urgency and
the resources needed to stop the violence and reverse the legacy of
inequity and neglect that often drives it.  

     When I ran for President, I promised to work across jurisdictions
to break this cycle of violence.  Under the leadership of Secretary Deb
Haaland, the Department of the Interior created a new unit to speed up
investigations, bring families closure, and keep Native communities
safe.  At our 2021 White House Tribal Nations Summit, I signed an
Executive Order that tasked Federal agencies with investigating the
causes of this crisis, collecting better data on these overwhelmingly
underreported crimes, and developing a strategy to combat this epidemic,
which most often impacts women, girls, LGBTQI+ people in the community,
and Two-Spirit Native Americans. 

     At the 2022 Summit, we built on that progress by announcing that
all United States Attorneys’ Offices operating in Indian Country would
better prioritize addressing this crisis.  The Federal Bureau of
Investigation has new personnel focusing specifically on missing and
murdered Indigenous cases.  The Departments of Justice and Interior are
coordinating their efforts to more effectively investigate and prosecute
these crimes using trauma-informed and culturally responsive
approaches.  The Department of Justice established a new position
devoted to ensuring victims and their families have a voice throughout
the criminal justice process. 

     My Administration is helping Native American survivors and victims’
families pursue justice in Tribal courts too.  Last year, I worked with
the Congress to reauthorize and strengthen the Violence Against Women
Act — a law that I first wrote as a United States Senator over 30 years
ago to end the scourge of gender-based violence.  This time, we expanded
recognition of Tribal courts’ jurisdiction over non-Native perpetrators
suspected of committing crimes of stalking, sexual assault, child abuse,
and sex trafficking on Tribal lands.  At the same time, we are investing
in shelters and rape crisis centers on Tribal lands, housing and legal
assistance for survivors, and trauma-informed training that helps law
enforcement and courts be more responsive.  We are working to address
the underlying causes of violence, from human trafficking to
longstanding economic disparities, systemic racism, historical trauma,
and the need for services to address substance use disorders.

     Our efforts are guided by Indigenous survivors and victims’
families — and by our enduring Nation-to-Nation relationships.  That is
why we have convened Tribal leaders, law enforcement, service providers,
survivors, and family members of missing and murdered people to work
together to combat this epidemic and support paths to healing.  The
United States is also working with the governments of Mexico and Canada,
and with Indigenous women leaders from all three countries, to better
coordinate our response — all the while ensuring that we uphold our
solemn trust and treaty responsibilities, strengthening our
Nation-to-Nation ties.

     For the thousands of families who have lost or are still looking
for a friend or loved one, I know this day is full of purpose and pain.
 Know that your fight to cast light on these injustices has already
saved lives.  Our Government has a solemn obligation to ensure that
every case of a missing or murdered Indigenous person is met with swift,
effective action to finally bring justice and healing.  Together, we
will get that done.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
5, 2023, as Missing or Murdered Indigenous Persons Awareness Day.  I
call on all Americans and ask all levels of government to support Tribal
governments and Tribal communities’ efforts to increase awareness and
address the issues of missing or murdered Indigenous persons through
appropriate programs and activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
