---
date: '2023-05-03'
published_time: 2023-05-03 11:30:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/03/a-proclamation-on-national-day-of-prayer-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Day of Prayer,\_2023"
---
 
     In periods of peace and prosperity and in times of struggle and
strife, countless Americans turn to prayer to seek guidance, bolster our
faith, and brace our spirits when we need it most.  Prayer is both a
personal and communal act — composed of our most intimate thoughts and a
practice observed by multitudes across our diverse Nation in every
language, culture, religion, and belief system.  On this National Day of
Prayer, we recognize the profound power of prayer, grounded in deep
humility and hope.

     The right to pray is enshrined in our Constitution and stamped
firmly in the American tradition.  The belief that prayer can move
mountains is, at its core, a belief in making the impossible possible. 
There is nothing more American than believing in the endless
possibilities of what we can do when we do it together. 

     Throughout our history, prayer has empowered moral movements and
fueled efforts to strengthen our democracy.  It was deeply rooted in the
fight to abolish slavery and the expansion of voting rights and voter
access.  And it continues to compel us to uphold our founding creed that
all of us are created equal, are made in the image of God, and deserve
to be treated with dignity and equality throughout our lives. 

     We will never fully know how prayer has quietly influenced every
aspect of American life — bringing comfort to service members on the
battlefield, grounding the spirits of astronauts in space, guiding the
healing hands of medical professionals tending to our loved ones, and
fortifying the faiths of millions of worshippers in every corner of our
Nation.  There is hardly an aspect of American life that is not touched
by the silent supplications of prayer to fulfill our hopes and our
aspirations.

     Earlier this year, I was honored to speak at a Sunday service at
the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s Ebenezer Baptist Church in
Atlanta, now pastored by Senator Raphael Warnock.  In that sacred place,
praying and contemplating Dr. King’s moral vision of a “Beloved
Community,” we were reminded that so much more unites us than divides
us.  We are all bound together by our love of country and our belief in
democracy.  Today, I pray that we can see each other as we should:  not
as enemies but as neighbors, and not as adversaries but as fellow
Americans and human beings.  Only when we see ourselves in each other
will justice, as scripture tells us, “roll down like waters,”
righteousness become “a mighty stream,” and America fulfill its true
promise as a land of liberty and justice for all.

     The Congress, by Public Law 100-307, as amended, has called on the
President to issue each year a proclamation designating the first
Thursday in May as a “National Day of Prayer.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
4, 2023, as a National Day of Prayer.  I call upon the citizens of our
Nation to give thanks, in accordance with their own faith and
conscience, for our many freedoms and blessings, and I invite all people
of faith to join me in asking for God’s continued guidance, mercy, and
protection.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
