---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 08:37:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/12/a-proclamation-on-mothers-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Mother\u2019s Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On Mother’s Day, we celebrate the moms and the women filling the
role of a mother in our lives, who bless us with a total sense of what
it means to be family.  They believe in us so we can believe in
ourselves.  They sacrifice to give us opportunities they never had. 
They are there for us at our highest points and our lowest moments,
lifting us up when we need it most.

     The lessons I learned from my mother, Catherine Eugenia “Jean”
Finnegan Biden, continue to guide me today.  She led with honor.  She
believed everyone deserved to be treated equally.  She reminded my
siblings and me that failure was inevitable, but giving up was never an
option.  She would say that courage is the greatest virtue, because
without courage, you cannot love with abandon.

     My wife, First Lady Jill Biden, has loved our children and
grandchildren with abandon as well.  She was the glue that helped put
our family back together after my boys and I experienced profound loss. 
Every day, her joy, wisdom, and strength bring light to so many,
including the students she teaches full time.

     Across the country, mothers are nurturing children, providing for
families, and driving innovation in every field.  They serve at the
highest levels of government, lead our Nation’s military, and power our
economy — running some of the biggest companies in the world and
operating beloved small businesses on Main Streets across America.  At
the same time, many mothers work night shifts and jobs that often do not
pay them enough to make ends meet and support their families.  As moms
continue knocking down the barriers that stand in the way of all women
and girls reaching their full potential, my Administration is working to
give them support and opportunity.  Our American Rescue Plan helped keep
the doors open for 220,000 child care providers — 90 percent of which
are owned and staffed by women — so families could go to work while
their children were cared for.  We expanded the Child Tax Credit and cut
child poverty in half during our first year in office.  The historic
infrastructure, manufacturing, and clean energy laws I signed as part of
our Investing in America agenda are creating good-paying jobs for women
in sectors where they have been previously underrepresented.  And to
ensure that new and expecting mothers can thrive in the workplace, I
signed into law new protections for pregnant workers and nursing parents
in the workplace:  the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act and the Providing
Urgent Maternal Protections for Nursing Mothers Act.

     Meanwhile, Vice President Kamala Harris is leading the charge to
make pregnancy and childbirth safer for all women and to make sure
pregnant women and moms in all communities are treated fairly.  We
released a Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis to lower
the rates of maternal mortality and morbidity; reduce disparities in
maternal health; and improve the experiences of women before, during,
and after birth across the country.  Our American Rescue Plan gave
States the option to extend Medicaid postpartum coverage for a full year
— up from just 60 days — and we have already approved requests from over
30 States and Washington, D.C., to expand this coverage.  And my
Administration continues fighting for a national, comprehensive paid
family and medical leave program. 

     Today, at family gatherings across America, let us give thanks for
all the mothers and mother-figures, who we love so much.  Let us be sure
to make the most of our precious time together.  Let us also keep in our
prayers those who observe this day with a hole in their heart, missing a
mom’s irreplaceable presence and the comfort it brings, as well as the
mothers who know the pain of losing a child.  Finally, let us continue
working to extend our country’s promise of dignity and opportunity to
America’s mothers — the least we can do for the people in our lives who
have given us the most.   

     The Congress, by joint resolution approved May 8, 1914 (38 Stat.
770), has designated the second Sunday in May each year as “Mother’s
Day” and requested the President to call for its appropriate observance.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 14, 2023, as Mother’s Day.  I
urge all Americans to express their love, respect, and gratitude to
mothers everywhere.  I call upon all citizens to observe this day with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
