---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:38:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-ocean-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Ocean Month,\_2023"
---
 
     The ocean makes life on Earth possible — feeding us, sustaining
livelihoods, and connecting economies across the globe.  It bonds us as
a source of recreation and rejuvenation for our spirits and links us to
our heritage through Indigenous communities who have stewarded our
marine habitats since time immemorial.  Through its rich ecosystems of
diverse plants, animals, and other species, it is also central to our
fight against the climate crisis and to creating a cleaner, safer, and
healthier future.  During National Ocean Month, we recommit to
protecting and conserving our precious ocean and to harnessing its power
to shape a more sustainable planet.

     My Administration is acting with urgency and a seriousness of
purpose.  Around the globe, the climate crisis today is drastically
impacting marine life, coastal communities, and the ocean economy.  The
past eight years have been the warmest on record — and more than 90
percent of excess heat has been absorbed by the ocean.  Rising
temperatures force marine life to move away from their usual habitats,
straining communities and working families who rely on fisheries for a
living and for sustenance.  Increasing acidity in our seas, along with
nutrient and plastic pollution, endangers species and threatens food
supplies.  Higher sea levels make storm surges even more dangerous for
coastal communities.  

     But we are not powerless in the face of these challenges — and the
ocean can be an effective tool to confront them.  That is why my
Administration has joined together with State, Tribal, territorial, and
local partners to implement the first-ever United States Ocean Climate
Action Plan.  With billions of dollars from our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and our Inflation Reduction Act –- the most
significant climate investment in American history — we are advancing
new offshore wind projects with an ambitious goal of deploying 30
gigawatts by 2030, enough to power 10 million homes while also
protecting biodiversity.  We are modernizing America’s infrastructure
and electrifying equipment at our ports to decrease the carbon footprint
of cargo ships and build cleaner supply chains.  And as part of our
strategy to place environmental justice at the center of our ocean
climate action, we are supporting communities that have been smothered
by a legacy of pollution.

     At the same time, we are protecting ecosystems and supporting the
communities who rely on them.  Together with our international partners,
we are cracking down on illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing. 
And we are working to strengthen sustainable fisheries, ensuring
hardworking Americans can continue to provide for their families and
feed our Nation. 

     As part of my America the Beautiful Initiative — which set a goal
of conserving 30 percent of America’s lands and waters by 2030 — we are
also taking steps toward designating new national marine sanctuaries. 
Toward that aim, I issued a Presidential Memorandum to consider
designating more than 700,000 square miles around the Pacific Remote
Islands as a new national marine sanctuary.  If completed, this area
would be among the largest marine protected areas on the planet.  And it
would honor the traditional practices and ancestral pathways of Pacific
Island voyagers.  With input from Tribal partners, my Administration
also began the designation process for multiple new national marine
sanctuaries, including the Hudson Canyon in the Atlantic Ocean and the
Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary off the coast of Southern
California.

     These actions make us safer.  Healthy ecosystems like mangroves,
seagrasses, and salt marshes take carbon out of the atmosphere while
creating natural buffers that help absorb the force of hurricanes,
typhoons, and tropical storms before they reach our communities.  That
is why my Administration is investing more than $500 million to help
fortify these and other, nature-based climate solutions and create
good-paying jobs for Americans in the process.

     It is hard to imagine just how much of the ocean we have yet to
discover and what possibilities for the future of human and planetary
health, as well as for our economy, lie beneath its surface.  This
National Ocean Month, let us honor its beauty and bounty with action and
commit to protecting and conserving it for generations to come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2023 as National Ocean Month.  I call upon Americans to take action to
protect, conserve, and restore our ocean and coasts.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
