---
date: '2023-05-04'
published_time: 2023-05-04 10:42:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/04/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-imposing-sanctions-on-certain-persons-destabilizing-sudan-and-undermining-the-goal-of-a-democratic-transition/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on Imposing\
  \ Sanctions on Certain Persons Destabilizing Sudan and Undermining the Goal of a\
  \ Democratic\_Transition"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq*.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et
seq*.), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8
U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I
hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order that expands the
scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13067 of
November 3, 1997 (Blocking Sudanese Government Property and Prohibiting
Transactions With Sudan), and expanded by Executive Order 13400 of April
26, 2006 (Blocking Property of Persons in Connection With the Conflict
in Sudan’s Darfur Region).   
  
I find that the situation in Sudan, including the military’s seizure of
power in October 2021 and the outbreak of inter-service fighting in
April 2023, constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the
national security and foreign policy of the United States.   
  
It is the policy of the United States to support a transition to
democracy and civilian transitional government in Sudan, to defend such
a transitional government from those who would prevent its initial
formation through violence and other methods, and, once formed, to
protect it from those who would undermine it.  The United States, in
cooperation with like-minded partners, will help such a transitional
government, when formed, meet the needs of the Sudanese people and
prepare for democratic elections.  
  
Through this Executive Order, I am imposing sanctions on persons
determined to have engaged or attempted to engage in actions or policies
that threaten the peace, security, or stability of Sudan; actions or
policies that undermine the formation or operation of a civilian
transitional government, Sudan’s transition to democracy, or a future
democratically elected government; actions or policies that undermine
democratic processes or institutions in Sudan; censorship or other
actions or policies that limit the exercise of freedoms of expression,
association, or peaceful assembly; corruption; serious human rights
abuse; the targeting of women, children, or any other civilians; the
obstruction of the activities of United Nations missions; and attacks
against United Nations missions.  
  
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.

                                                                       
                           Sincerely,

            JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
