---
date: '2023-05-19'
published_time: 2023-05-19 10:44:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/19/a-proclamation-on-emergency-medical-services-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Emergency Medical Services Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Every day, across our country, paramedics, emergency medical
technicians, 911 dispatchers, and other first responders rush to fellow
Americans’ aid with compassion and lifesaving strength.  During
Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Week, we celebrate their service and
recommit to getting them the resources and support they need to do their
essential frontline work for us all.

     The pandemic made every American aware of the absolute courage and
incredible sacrifices made by EMS providers nationwide.  They have had
to work longer hours, taking on new roles and new risks, often at great
personal cost — whether braving a deadly virus, rushing to save victims
of gun violence, enduring dangerous natural disasters, or simply
supporting people at the most vulnerable moments of their lives.  We owe
them.  We have a duty to care for those who care for us.

     Since I took office, my Administration has worked to help State,
local, Tribal, and territorial governments keep EMS providers on the
payroll, buy better equipment, and improve training.  We have made
resources available to help first responders deal with trauma and
burnout.  And we are helping to ease the crippling student debt burden
that so many EMS providers live with by finally fixing the Public
Service Loan Forgiveness program.  I am proud that, to date, we have
helped over 450,000 public service employees, including EMS providers,
see billions of dollars in student loans erased.  Meanwhile, we are
working to ease staffing shortages by making it easier for fire
departments to retain and recruit more firefighters, who often provide
emergency medical services so other first responders will not be
stretched thin. 

     Saving lives is not just what tireless EMS providers do — it is who
they are.  I have seen their commitment up close.  They are the steel
spine of our Nation, and they give each of us the peace of mind of
knowing that someone will be there to catch us if we fall.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
21 through May 27, 2023, as National Emergency Medical Services Week.  I
call upon public officials, doctors, nurses, paramedics, EMS providers,
and all the people of the United States to observe this week with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave EMS
workers and to pay tribute to the EMS providers who have lost their
lives in the line of duty.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
