---
date: '2023-05-09'
modified_time: 2023-05-09 11:34:55-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-09 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/09/executive-order-on-moving-beyond-covid-19-vaccination-requirements-for-federal-workers/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Moving Beyond COVID-\u206019 Vaccination Requirements for\
  \ Federal\_Workers"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  In 2021, based on the
best available data and guidance from our public health experts, I
issued Executive Order 14043 of September 9, 2021 (Requiring Coronavirus
Disease 2019 Vaccination for Federal Employees), to direct executive
departments and agencies (agencies) to require coronavirus disease 2019
(COVID-19) vaccination for their employees, and Executive Order 14042 of
September 9, 2021 (Ensuring Adequate COVID Safety Protocols for Federal
Contractors), to ensure that Federal contractors and subcontractors have
adequate COVID-19 safety protocols.  I issued those orders at a time
when the highly contagious B.1.617.2 (Delta) variant was the predominant
variant of the virus in the United States and had led to a rapid rise in
cases and hospitalizations.  Those orders were necessary to protect the
health and safety of critical workforces serving the American people and
to advance the efficiency of Government services during the COVID-19
pandemic.  Following issuance of those orders, my Administration
successfully implemented a vaccination requirement for the Federal
Government, the largest employer in the Nation, achieving a 98 percent
compliance rate (reflecting employees who had received at least one dose
of the COVID-19 vaccine or had a pending or approved exemption or
extension request) by January 2022.  More broadly, my Administration has
effectively implemented the largest adult vaccination program in the
history of the United States, with over 270 million Americans receiving
at least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine.  
  
     Following this important work, along with continued critical
investments in tests and therapeutics that are protecting against
hospitalization and death, we are no longer in the acute phase of the
COVID-19 pandemic, and my Administration has begun the process of ending
COVID-19 emergency declarations.  Our public health experts have issued
guidance that allows individuals to understand mitigation measures to
protect themselves and those around them.  Our healthcare system and
public health resources throughout the country are now better able to
respond to any potential surge of COVID-19 cases without significantly
affecting access to resources or care.  Since September 2021, COVID-19
deaths have declined by 93 percent, and new COVID-19 hospitalizations
have declined by 86 percent.  Considering this progress, and based on
the latest guidance from our public health experts, we no longer need a
Government-wide vaccination requirement for Federal employees or
federally specified safety protocols for Federal contractors. 
Vaccination remains an important tool to protect individuals from
serious illness, but we are now able to move beyond these Federal
requirements.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Revocation of Vaccination
Requirements</span>.  Executive Order 14042 and Executive Order 14043
are revoked.  Agency policies adopted to implement Executive Order 14042
or Executive Order 14043, to the extent such policies are premised on
those orders, no longer may be enforced and shall be rescinded
consistent with applicable law.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Effective Date</span>.  This order is
effective at 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 12, 2023.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
  
               (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive
department or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
               (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
          (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
          (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

                        
       JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    May 9, 2023.
