---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 11:52:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/12/a-proclamation-on-national-defense-transportation-day-and-national-transportation-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Defense Transportation Day and National Transportation\
  \ Week,\_2023"
---
 
     To have the world’s strongest military and leading economy, the
United States must have the world’s best transportation system.  And to
achieve that, we must prepare and equip the world’s best workforce to
build it.  Today and this week, we celebrate the American workers who
build our infrastructure, power our economy, bolster our national
security, and are the backbone of this Nation.  We also recommit to
investing in our Nation’s infrastructure and strengthening critical
supply chains. 

     National Defense Transportation Day dates back to 1957, a year
after President Dwight D. Eisenhower signed the landmark Federal-Aid
Highway Act.  This law helped build America’s interstate highway system,
which is critical to our national security.  In the years since, we have
seen how modern transportation makes it possible to deploy service
members quickly and to ship defense supplies and equipment efficiently.
 It also means first responders can act fast when a crisis occurs.

     The interstate highway system also proved vital to our national
prosperity — connecting small towns with big cities, allowing goods to
ship to all corners of the country and world, and turning our
infrastructure into the envy of the globe.  But gradually, we stopped
investing in our infrastructure.  As we allowed the quality of our
roads, bridges, ports, and railways to deteriorate, so too did the
reliability of America’s transportation system.

     I took office determined to change that.  I signed the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law — a once-in-a-generation investment in rebuilding
America and putting Americans across the country to work doing it. It is
the most significant investment in our infrastructure since President
Eisenhower.  To date, we have already funded more than 25,000 projects —
upgrading roads, bridges, and tunnels from California to Ohio to New
York; renovating major airports from Massachusetts to Georgia to Oregon;
and upgrading our rail infrastructure on the Northeast Corridor,
bringing world-class rail to new corners of the country.  We are also
paving new highways so trucks filled with goods can get to their
destinations faster and deepening channels so ships can move in and out
of harbors more efficiently. 

     Additionally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is the largest
investment in public transit in the history of our country.  It improves
subways and commuter rail in some of the busiest travel corridors in
America, easing traffic congestion and making it easier for people to
get where they need to go.  Thanks to this law, we will replace
thousands of diesel school buses with electric buses so our kids do not
have to inhale diesel exhaust fumes, which can make them sick.  And we
are helping local governments retrofit subway stations so people who
need an elevator or ramp can reliably access our rail systems.  All
told, these actions will improve transit for millions of Americans while
reducing emissions.

     These investments are part of our mission to build a clean energy
future.  As part of that effort, we are creating a national network of
electric vehicle charging stations across America.  In time, finding a
place to charge your electric vehicle will be as easy as pulling into a
gas station.  And our Inflation Reduction Act, the largest investment
ever made to tackle climate change, is providing incentives for
companies to electrify heavy-duty vehicles and for consumers to buy
electric cars and fuel cell vehicles.

     As we improve our transportation system, we must make good on our
promise that the workers who are designing, building, and maintaining it
are seeing the benefits.  Many of these new jobs in construction,
trucking, and the railroad industry will be union jobs with good pay and
good benefits, providing the breathing room American families deserve. 
We are also investing in workforce development; expanding Registered
Apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeship programs; and spurring
commitments from employers, unions, and community-based organizations to
invest in training and apprenticeships.  And we worked hand in hand with
the trucking industry to improve safety and job quality through the
Biden Trucking Action Plan. 

     Finally, we are working to rectify our Nation’s past mistakes when
it comes to where and how we build new infrastructure.  Nearly six
decades ago, the expansion of the interstate highway system routed many
highways directly through Black and brown communities, destroying entire
neighborhoods or cutting them off from economic opportunity.  In
response, my Administration launched the Reconnecting Communities Pilot
Program — the first-ever Federal initiative to cap highways and add
green spaces in an effort to unify neighborhoods that had been divided.
 Our goal is to ensure that our investments reach places that have
historically been forgotten, opening doors of opportunity and
strengthening communities as cranes go up and shovels dig into the
ground.

     On this National Defense Transportation Day and throughout National
Transportation Week, I am proud to say that we are embarking on an
infrastructure decade.  Our investments to create the world’s best and
safest roads, bridges, railroads, ports, airports, and more will make
our economy and country stronger.  And by empowering America’s workers —
who in turn power our national prosperity — we will continue to build an
economy from the middle out and bottom up, not the top down.  That is
America at its best — reinventing, rebuilding, and reimagining a future
of boundless possibilities.

     In recognition of the ongoing contributions of our Nation’s
transportation system and in honor of the devoted professionals who work
to sustain its tradition of excellence, the United States Congress has
requested, by joint resolution approved May 16, 1957, as amended (36
U.S.C. 120), that the President designate the third Friday in May of
each year as “National Defense Transportation Day” and, by joint
resolution approved May 14, 1962 (36 U.S.C. 133), that the week in which
that Friday falls be designated as “National Transportation Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, May 19, 2023, as National
Defense Transportation Day; and May 14 through May 20, 2023, as National
Transportation Week.  I urge all Americans to observe these occasions
with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities as we show our
appreciation to those who build and operate our Nation’s transportation
systems.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twelfth day of May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
