---
date: '2023-05-08'
published_time: 2023-05-08 17:34:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/08/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-actions-of-the-government-of-syria/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House and the President of the Senate on the\
  \ Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to the Actions of the Government\
  \ of\_Syria"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to the actions of the
Government of Syria declared in Executive Order 13338 of May 11, 2004 —
as modified in scope and relied upon for additional steps taken in
Executive Order 13399 of April 25, 2006, Executive Order 13460 of
February 13, 2008, Executive Order 13572 of April 29, 2011, Executive
Order 13573 of May 18, 2011, Executive Order 13582 of August 17, 2011,
Executive Order 13606 of April 22, 2012, and Executive Order 13608 of
May 1, 2012 — is to continue in effect beyond May 11, 2023.  
  
The regime’s brutality and repression of the Syrian people, who have
called for freedom and a representative government, not only endangers
the Syrian people themselves, but also generates instability throughout
the region.  The Syrian regime’s actions and policies, including with
respect to chemical weapons and supporting terrorist organizations,
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security, foreign policy, and economy of the United States.  For these
reasons, I have determined that it is necessary to continue in effect
the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13338 with respect to
Syria.   
  
In addition, the United States condemns the brutal violence and human
rights violations and abuses of the Assad regime and its Russian and
Iranian enablers.  The United States calls on the Assad regime, and its
backers, to stop its violent war against its own people, enact a
nationwide ceasefire, facilitate the unhindered delivery of humanitarian
assistance to all Syrians in need, and negotiate a political settlement
in Syria in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254. 
The United States will consider changes in policies and actions of the
Government of Syria in determining whether to continue or terminate this
national emergency in the future.

                                Sincerely,  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
