---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:56:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-black-music-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Music Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During Black Music Month, we pay homage to legends of American
music, who have composed the soundtrack of American life.  Their
creativity has given rise to distinctly American art forms that
influence contemporary music worldwide and sing to the soul of the
American experience.

     Much of Black music is rooted in African rhythms, coupled with the
experience of slavery and struggle in America.  Barred from expressing
themselves in their native tongues, enslaved people developed a language
to articulate their hopes, dreams, sense of loss, and tenacity to
overcome the harrowing nature of their lives.  They used music to
strategically and creatively voice their most deeply held feelings. 
Today, the creative ways that Black music tells stories of trial and
triumph in American life continue to move us all to understand the
common struggles of humanity.  Spirituals, gospel, the blues, R&B, rock
and roll, jazz, pop, rap, hip-hop, and more have molded American culture
and given rise to new American art forms emulated around the globe.

     Since taking office, my Administration has supported American
creators and communities — uplifting more voices, inspiring new
generations, and showing the full power of our example as a great
Nation.  We have invested hundreds of millions of dollars in
strengthening the National Endowment for the Arts and the National
Endowment for the Humanities while securing over a billion more to help
concert halls, theaters, museums, libraries, and other venues recover
from the COVID-19 pandemic.  I have also had the honor of celebrating
legendary Black musicians at the White House who, along with thousands
more across the country, have made a lifetime of contributions to this
Nation. 

     This month, we celebrate the songs and artists that challenge us to
think critically, stand up to injustice, and believe in ourselves.  We
recommit to expanding the promise of dignity and opportunity for all
Americans.  And we revel in the sounds, spirit, and soul of some of the
very best music ever created.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2023 as Black Music Month.  I call upon public officials, educators, and
all the people of the United States to observe this month by honoring
Black musicians and raising awareness and appreciation of Black music.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
