---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:53:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-caribbean-american-heritage-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Caribbean-American Heritage Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During Caribbean-American Heritage Month, we celebrate the
achievements and dreams of the millions of people of Caribbean origin
now living in the United States while honoring the shared history of joy
and perseverance that has united and enriched life across our region for
centuries.

     There is no single Caribbean American identity.  The mix of
cultures, languages, and religions alive across the United States and
the islands reflects the diversity of spirit that defines the American
story.  Meanwhile, our countries are bound by common values and a shared
history — overcoming the yoke of colonialism, confronting the original
sin of slavery, and charting new opportunities across borders and
generations.

     Since our founding, Caribbean Americans from Alexander Hamilton to
Colin Powell have contributed to the United States in the most profound
ways. Today, pathbreakers like Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor
continue advancing our work toward a more perfect Union.  I am
especially proud of the extraordinary leaders of Caribbean heritage now
serving in my Administration ‑- from Vice President Kamala Harris to
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, Secretary of Homeland Security
Alejandro Mayorkas, and White House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre.
 And I take equal pride in the generations of Caribbean Americans who
literally built this country — bringing tremendous hope and energy to
bear as small business owners, teachers, health care workers, military
service members, union organizers, community leaders, and so much more.

     For too long, too many have faced systemic barriers to success.  As
President, I have issued two separate Executive Orders to change that,
pushing to advance racial justice across every policy that my
Administration pursues.  As we have passed historic laws to rebuild our
Nation’s infrastructure, lower prescription drug costs, create a clean
energy economy, and transform American manufacturing to once again lead
the world, we have done so with an eye for equity, rebuilding our
economy from the middle out and bottom up.  As a result, we have created
12.7 million jobs — bringing Black and Latino unemployment to record
lows — and we have helped millions to start and grow their own
businesses.  At the same time, we are using all the tools we have to
make our Nation’s broken immigration system as orderly, safe, and humane
as possible, sending support to the border while expanding lawful
pathways for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans — among
others — to come to the United States without taking the dangerous
journey to our southern border.  What we really need is for the Congress
to finally pass comprehensive immigration reform, including a pathway to
citizenship for Dreamers, farm and essential workers, and temporary
status holders, many of whom are from the Caribbean.  I will not quit
pressing the Congress to act.

     Beyond our borders, we are working with our Caribbean partners to
expand opportunity and keep the region safe so more of our neighbors can
build lives at home.  We partnered with the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM) in November 2022 to launch the Crime Gun Intelligence Unit and
disrupt firearms trafficking in the region.  We are also working to
improve access to development financing and advance clean energy
projects across the Caribbean through the United States-Caribbean
Partnership to Address the Climate Crisis 2030.

     A central promise of this country is the idea that everyone is
created equal and deserves to be treated equally throughout their lives.
 It is a cornerstone of our common heritage in this hemisphere, even as
we keep striving to finally make that vision real.  Caribbean-American
Heritage Month is a chance to celebrate the rich diversity that covenant
has brought us and to renew its promise for future generations of
Caribbean Americans and for us all. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2023 as National Caribbean-American Heritage Month.  I encourage all
Americans to join in celebrating the history, culture, and achievements
of Caribbean Americans with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
