---
date: '2023-05-16'
modified_time: 2023-05-16 12:13:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-16 12:13:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/16/message-to-the-house-of-representatives-presidents-veto-of-h-j-res-39/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the House of Representatives \u2014 President\u2019s Veto of H.J.\
  \ Res.\_39"
---
 
TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

     I am returning herewith without my approval H.J. Res. 39,
a resolution that would disapprove the Department of Commerce’s rule
titled “Procedures Covering Suspension of Liquidation, Duties and
Estimated Duties in Accord With Presidential Proclamation 10414.”

    For too long, because of unfair trade practices and underinvestment
in domestic manufacturing, the United States has been reliant on China
for solar energy products.  From day one, my Administration has bet on
America to create a strong solar supply chain.  We have worked to create
good-paying jobs and build manufacturing facilities in the United States
for solar energy and other important global industries — and our plan is
working.

    Thanks to my Investing in America agenda, 51 new and expanded solar
equipment manufacturing plants have been announced since I took office.
 Since the passage of Public Law 117-169, commonly referred to as the
Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, last August, private companies have
announced commitments to build enough solar panel manufacturing capacity
to power nearly six million homes.

    America is now on track to increase domestic solar panel
manufacturing capacity eight-fold by the end of my first term.  But that
production will not come online overnight.  The Department of Commerce’s
rule supports American businesses and workers in the solar industry and
helps provide sufficient, clean, and reliable electricity to American
families, while continuing to hold our trading partners accountable.

    The rule implements a temporary, 24-month bridge to make sure that
when these new factories are operational, we have a thriving solar
installation industry ready to deploy American-made solar products to
homes, businesses, and communities across the Nation. Given the progress
we are making on American solar, I do not intend to extend the tariff
suspension at the conclusion of the 2-year period in June 2024.

    Passage of this resolution bets against American innovation.  It
would undermine these efforts and create deep uncertainty for American
businesses and workers in the solar industry.

    Therefore, I am vetoing this resolution.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    May 16, 2023.
