---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:34:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-national-homeownership-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Homeownership Month,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Homeownership Month, we recognize the power of
owning a home when raising a family, planting roots in a community,
building equity, and passing down generational wealth to continue the
American Dream for generations to come.  We recognize that a place to
call home, regardless of owning or renting, is essential to a life of
security, dignity, and hope.

     That is why my Administration is committed to removing barriers to
homeownership.  During the COVID-19 pandemic, when mortgage payments
became harder to make and rents rose 26 percent nationally, my
Administration took action to ensure people could stay in their homes. 
We extended foreclosure moratoriums for millions of households, provided
financial relief for homeowners who had fallen behind on their mortgage
payments, delivered nearly 11 million emergency rental assistance
payments, developed the first ever national infrastructure to stop
eviction, and provided 70,000 emergency housing vouchers. To build on
this progress, we recently awarded more than 19,000 new Housing Choice
Vouchers — the largest expansion of flexible rental assistance in 20
years.

     We are taking additional steps to make housing more affordable. 
Over the past decades, rising prices have forced people to spend more
than 30 percent of their incomes on housing in many places around the
country, too often locking Americans out of the prospect of buying a
home altogether.  In February, the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) made annual mortgage insurance premiums cheaper,
saving Americans with Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured
mortgages an average of $800 per year.  The FHA also made it easier for
first-time homebuyers to qualify for mortgage financing by allowing
underwriters to take into account positive rental history to determine
creditworthiness.  And HUD is making it easier for Americans to access
resources that help with homeownership, foreclosure avoidance and
eviction, financial literacy, financial planning, and more.

     At the same time, we are hard at work implementing our Housing
Supply Action Plan with a goal of addressing and eliminating the root
causes of the affordable housing shortfall by 2027.  That includes
making it easier to build mixed-income housing using Low-Income Housing
Tax Credits.  We have helped housing projects build multifamily homes by
making more affordable financing options available.  And with the
historic investments through my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are
making low-interest loans available to developers and State, local,
Tribal, and territorial governments to build new housing close to public
transit locations.  The law will also connect communities with vital
resources like water and high-speed internet that increase home values
and a tax base to fund important things like local schools.  
  
Today, across America, there is a historic number of affordable,
multifamily units currently under construction.  And my Fiscal Year 2024
Budget calls for $175 billion to build on this progress.  It would
provide down payment assistance to first-time, first-generation
homebuyers — helping to make a key part of the American Dream a reality.
 It would create a new tax credit to directly support building or
renovating affordable homes for low- or middle-income buyers.  It would
also help State and local governments fight restrictive zoning laws and
other red tape that stalls new construction and drives up housing
prices.  Further, my Budget includes provisions to prevent evictions and
bring us closer to our goal of reducing homelessness by 25 percent by
2025.

     These actions go hand-in-hand with our work to combat racial
discrimination in housing, including everything from ending the legacy
of redlining to addressing the cruel fact that a home owned by a Black
family is too often undervalued compared to the same kind of home owned
by a white family.  The Fair Housing Act bans discrimination against
renters or potential buyers on the basis of race, but studies show that
many Americans are still denied equal treatment in the housing market. 
That is why the Department of Justice and HUD are cracking down on
discrimination and why my Administration is taking bold action to root
out bias in the appraisal process.

     I have often said that the middle class is not just a number — it
is a value set.  It is about the issues that matter to every American
family:  a good education; economic opportunity; and access to quality,
affordable health care.  Having a safe, decent, and affordable place to
call home is a key part of that.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2023 as National Homeownership Month.  I call upon the people of this
Nation to safeguard the American Dream by ensuring that everyone has
access to an affordable home in a community of their choice.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
