---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 08:41:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/12/a-proclamation-on-peace-officers-memorial-day-and-police-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Peace Officers Memorial Day and Police Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Every day when law enforcement officers pin on their badges, they
make an extraordinary commitment to the American people:  to rush toward
danger regardless of the risk and to faithfully stand up for the rule of
law.  Across our neighborhoods, towns, and cities, they put themselves
in harm’s way, hoping to return home safely to their families.  On Peace
Officers Memorial Day and during Police Week, we celebrate the
remarkable courage of our law enforcement community and honor the fallen
heroes who made the ultimate sacrifice to protect their fellow
Americans. 

     As a Nation, we expect a lot from our law enforcement officers. 
They save lives by keeping our roads, subways, and highways safe and
responding to domestic violence incidents and natural disasters.  We ask
them to ensure public safety, build trust within our neighborhoods, and
protect the well-being of our communities.  Too often, they are also
called upon to respond to mass shootings, drug overdoses, mental health
crises, and more.  Being a law enforcement officer is not just what they
do; it is who they are.

     The same is true for their families, who sacrifice alongside these
heroic Americans.  It takes a special person to marry or be the child of
a law enforcement officer — knowing the uncertainty as their loved one
walks out the door and dreading the possibility of receiving that phone
call.

     No memorial can ever fill the void left in the hearts of those who
have lost a loved one in the line of duty.  But their sacrifices in full
service to their communities and to our Nation will never be forgotten.
 We will continue to honor their memories with actions that help keep
our law enforcement officers and communities safe from harm. 

     When I took office at the height of the pandemic, State, local,
Tribal, and territorial law enforcement budgets were shrinking.  Some
agencies were facing their lowest staffing levels in decades,
undermining their ability to perform their jobs.  That is why we
provided crucial funding to help police departments build new training
facilities, recruit new personnel, and give officers a raise.  I also
expanded benefits for first responders who were disabled in the line of
duty and their families.  And I signed laws improving officer wellness
by expanding critical mental health resources to address the physical
and emotional trauma that so many members of our law enforcement
community experience.

     Meanwhile, I have taken steps to keep law enforcement officers
safer on the job by signing the most sweeping gun safety law in nearly
three decades.  It helps keep more guns out of the hands of dangerous
people, including by broadening restrictions on domestic abusers, which
is critical because domestic violence calls can often turn deadly for
police.  This law also supports crisis interventions, including extreme
risk protection orders, and provides a billion dollars to address the
mental health crisis in America.  We are also strengthening background
checks for 18 to 20-year-olds trying to purchase guns, helping
prosecutors crack down on illegal gun sales, and reining in ghost guns
that police across the country are increasingly finding at crime scenes.

     As I have often said, when it comes to keeping our communities
safe, the answer is not to defund the police.  It is to fund them with
the resources and training they need to protect and serve our
communities and to build trust with the American public.  My Safer
America Plan calls on the Congress to invest in recruiting, hiring, and
training more than 100,000 additional officers for effective,
accountable community policing, consistent with the standards of my
policing Executive Order.  My plan also invests in programs that send
social workers and other professionals to respond to calls that should
not be the responsibility of law enforcement.  And it invests $5 billion
in proven crime-prevention strategies like community violence
interruption.  We must not accept the false choice between public safety
and public trust; they are two sides of the same coin. 

     At the National Law Enforcement Memorial in Washington, D.C., there
is a quote engraved on the wall that reads, “It is not how these
officers died that made them heroes, it is how they lived.”  Today,
during this week, and year-round, we express our gratitude for the
courageous women and men of our Nation’s law enforcement community.  We
honor the memory of the members who made the ultimate sacrifice and pray
for their families.  And we recommit ourselves to the sacred task of
creating a safer and more just Nation for all Americans. 

     By a joint resolution approved October 1, 1962, as amended (76
Stat. 676), and by Public Law 103-322, as amended (36 U.S.C. 136-137),
the President has been authorized and requested to designate May 15 of
each year as “Peace Officers Memorial Day” and the week in which it
falls as “Police Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2023, as Peace Officers
Memorial Day and May 14 through May 20, 2023, as Police Week.  I call
upon all Americans to observe these events with appropriate ceremonies
and activities and salute our Nation’s brave law enforcement officers
and remember their peace officer brothers and sisters who have given
their last full measure of devotion in the line of duty.  I also call on
the Governors of the United States and its Territories, and appropriate
officials of all units of government, to direct that the flag be flown
at half-staff on Peace Officers Memorial Day.  I further encourage all
Americans to display the flag at half-staff from their homes and
businesses on that day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
