---
date: '2023-05-31'
published_time: 2023-05-31 12:48:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/31/a-proclamation-on-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-pride-month-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex\
  \ Pride Month,\_2023"
---
 
     In June 1969, a courageous group of Americans rose up to protest
the violence and marginalization they faced in what became known as the
Stonewall Uprising.  Police had raided the Stonewall Inn — a gay bar
located in New York City — and for the next six days they clashed with
LGBTQI+ protestors, who bravely stood their ground.  Their courage
sparked a civil rights movement for the liberation of the LGBTQI+
community and changed our Nation forever.  

     During Pride Month, we honor a movement that has grown stronger,
more vibrant, and more inclusive with every passing year.  Pride is a
celebration of generations of LGBTQI+ people, who have fought bravely to
live openly and authentically.  And it is a reminder that we still have
generational work to do to ensure that everyone enjoys the full promise
of equity, dignity, protection, and freedom.

     Today, our Nation faces another inflection point.  In 2023 alone,
State and local legislatures have already introduced over 600 hateful
laws targeting the LGBTQI+ community.  Books about LGBTQI+ people are
being banned from libraries.  Transgender youth in over a dozen States
have had their medically necessary health care banned.  Homophobic and
transphobic vitriol spewed online has spilled over into real life, as
armed hate groups intimidate people at Pride marches and drag
performances, and threaten doctors’ offices and children’s hospitals
that offer care to the LGBTQI+ community.  Our hearts are heavy with
grief for the loved ones we have lost to anti-LGBTQI+ violence. 

     Despite these attacks, the LGBTQI+ community remains resilient.
 LGBTQI+ Americans are defiantly and unapologetically proud.  Youth
leaders are organizing walkouts at high schools and colleges across the
country to protest discriminatory laws.  LGBTQI+ young people and their
parents are demonstrating unimaginable courage by testifying in State
capitols in defense of their basic rights.

     They are not alone:  My entire Administration stands proudly with
the LGBTQI+ community in the enduring struggle for freedom, justice, and
equality.  And we are making strides.  On my first day in office, I
signed a historic Executive Order charging the entire Federal Government
with protecting LGBTQI+ people from discrimination — from health care to
housing, education, employment, banking, and the criminal justice
system.  Last December, surrounded by dozens of couples who have fought
for marriage equality in the courts for decades, I had the great honor
of signing into law the landmark Respect for Marriage Act.  This
bipartisan law protects the rights of same-sex and interracial couples —
like caring for one’s sick partner and receiving spousal benefits. 
Deciding who to marry is one of life’s most profound decisions, so we
etched a simple truth into law:  Love is love.

     Meanwhile, I have taken unprecedented steps to support LGBTQI+
youth.  During Pride Month last year, I signed an Executive Order
charging Federal agencies with combating the dangerous and discredited
practice of so-called “conversion therapy.”  I also directed agencies to
help end the crisis of homelessness among LGBTQI+ youth and adults and
to address discrimination that LGBTQI+ kids face in foster care.  The
Department of Justice is combating laws that target transgender
children, and the Departments of Education and Health and Human Services
have proposed new rules to protect LGBTQI+ Americans from discrimination
in health care, at school, and in sports.  I also established the White
House Task Force to Address Online Harassment and Abuse to develop
concrete actions to prevent and respond to online harassment and abuse,
which disproportionately target LGBTQI+ people.  Additionally, my
Administration made it easier for LGBTQI+ youth to access vital mental
health support.  Now, by calling the 988 Suicide & Crisis Lifeline and
dialing the number 3, LGBTQI+ youth can speak to counselors who have
been specifically trained to support them. 

     This country is stronger and more just when America’s leaders
reflect the full diversity of our Nation, so I have appointed a historic
number of highly qualified openly LGBTQI+ judges and public servants at
all levels of the Federal Government.  Our Armed Forces are most capable
when all patriots can serve their country, so I protected the right of
transgender people to once again serve openly in the military. 

     But there is more to do, like passing the bipartisan Equality Act,
which would strengthen civil rights protections for LGBTQI+ people and
families across America.  We must also address the disproportionate
levels of homelessness, poverty, and unemployment in the LGBTQI+
community and end the crisis of violence against transgender women and
girls of color.  We must support LGBTQI+ activists around the globe who
are standing up for basic human rights and LGBTQI+ survivors of
gender-based violence.  And we must end the HIV/AIDS epidemic once and
for all.  Our collective freedoms are inextricably linked:  when one
group’s dignity and equality are threatened, we all suffer.  This month
and every month, let us celebrate the pride that powers the movement for
LGBTQI+ rights and commit to doing our part to help realize the promise
of America, for all Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
2023 as Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex Pride
Month.  I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the
achievements of the LGBTQI+ community, to celebrate the great diversity
of the American people, and to wave their flags of pride high.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of May, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
