---
date: '2023-05-12'
published_time: 2023-05-12 11:53:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/05/12/a-proclamation-on-national-womens-health-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Women\u2019s Health Week,\_2023"
---
 
     During National Women’s Health Week, our Nation recommits to
improving the health and well-being of women and girls across America
and encouraging them to make their health a priority.

     The White House officially observed its first National Women’s
Health Week in 2010, the same year we passed the landmark Affordable
Care Act.  This law ended the shameful practices of denying women
coverage for pre-existing conditions and charging them more for health
care simply because they are women.  It extended crucial preventive
care, like cancer screenings, to millions more Americans and expanded
access to basic health services, like maternity care.

     As President, I have worked hard to protect the expanded health
care coverage provided to millions by the Affordable Care Act and to
strengthen Medicaid for those who need it.  At the same time, I have
acted to improve the well-being of women and their families, including
slashing prescription drug prices and saving American families hundreds
of dollars a year on health insurance premiums.  I am proud that our
Nation has seen historic health insurance coverage gains since I took
office, and I am working to ensure that health care is a right in our
Nation, not a privilege.

     But so many women are still denied this right, especially when it
comes to making deeply personal decisions about their own bodies and
health.  Last year, the Supreme Court overturned *Roe v.* *Wade*, with
grave repercussions for millions of women across the country.  Since
then, women having miscarriages have been turned away from emergency
rooms by health care professionals afraid of the legal consequences of
providing care.  Women have been told they need to wait until they are
sicker before they can be seen by a doctor.  Others have been denied
prescriptions they need, and still others are forced to travel hundreds
of miles away from their homes and families, across State lines, to
access life-saving care.  

     In response to this crisis, I have issued two Executive Orders to
protect a woman’s right to access comprehensive reproductive health care
services, including abortion and contraception.  My Administration is
working to ensure that patients receive care during medical emergencies;
safeguard patients’ privacy and their sensitive health information; and
promote the safety and security of patients as well as providers, who
are delivering the evidence-based, lawful care and treatment that they
have been trained to provide.  My Administration will continue to defend
access to medication abortion and I will also continue to call on the
Congress to restore the protections of *Roe v. Wade* in Federal law,
which would secure the right to choose once and for all.

     My Administration is also leading efforts to tackle the maternal
health crisis, which has resulted in American women — particularly Black
and Native American women — dying at a higher rate from
pregnancy-related causes than in any other developed nation.  As part of
my Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis, we have extended
Medicaid postpartum coverage across America and taken steps to grow and
diversify the maternal health workforce, and we are working to improve
access to care in rural communities and address systemic inequities that
put many women at greater risk of pregnancy-related complications. 

     Vice President Kamala Harris has been a leader on the issue of
maternal mortality for years, and she continues to elevate the problem
nationally, convening State legislators, medical professionals, and
private industry leaders to work together to develop solutions so all
women can access the care they need before, during, and after
childbirth.

     To address the mental health challenges that new and expecting
mothers may face, including postpartum depression, anxiety, or substance
use disorder, my Administration launched the National Maternal Mental
Health Hotline (1-833-TLC-MAMA) and the Maternal Mental Health Task
Force, charged with improving maternal mental health in this country.
 We are making other investments in women’s mental health as well, such
as expanding Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics, which
deliver 24/7 mental health care to millions of Americans, regardless of
their ability to pay.  And my 2024 Budget proposes spending tens of
billions over the next 10 years to transform our behavioral health
system. 

     Standing up for women’s health also means preventing gender-based
violence and helping survivors access safety, justice, and healing. 
Last year, I was proud to reauthorize and strengthen the landmark
Violence Against Women Act, which I first introduced in the United
States Senate more than 30 years ago.  We have increased funding for
shelters and rape crisis centers, expanded access to housing and legal
assistance for survivors of abusive relationships, and enhanced training
for law enforcement agencies and courts.  We have also expanded support
for survivors — including addressing the needs of LGBTQI+ survivors and
other underserved populations — and have broadened protections to cover
online abuse, such as the non-consensual distribution of intimate
images. 

     My Administration is fighting a wave of extreme State policies that
target transgender women and girls to prevent or limit access to
evidence-based, gender-affirming health care just because of who they
are.  I have challenged my Administration to address discrimination
wherever we find it and to ensure equal access to health care for all
Americans.

     The First Lady and I are committed to ending cancer as we know it
through the reignited Cancer Moonshot, including for the nearly one
million American women who will be diagnosed with cancer this year.  My
Administration increased our investment in the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention’s National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early
Detection Program, which provides breast and cervical cancer screening
and diagnostic services to those with low incomes who are uninsured or
otherwise qualify for the program.  We are bringing together community
health centers and leading cancer centers to facilitate access to
life-saving cancer screenings and close the screening gap.  We have also
created the Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) to
deliver new, innovative, comprehensive ways to prevent, detect, and
treat cancer and other diseases.

     In addition, my Administration will continue its work to prevent
health conditions that affect women, including heart disease and
diabetes.  Heart disease is the number one killer of women in this
country.  My Administration has a national strategy that seeks to
improve access to affordable, healthy food; better integrate nutrition
into the health care system; support physical activity for all; and
enhance research into food and nutrition security.  At the same time,
experts agree it is important that women get regular checkups,
preventive screenings, vaccinations, and mental health care. 

     This week, we make our message clear to women and girls across
America:  Your health impacts the future of our Nation.  Achieving
everything America aspires to be depends on the health, safety, and
support we give to all women, who are leaders in every industry, in
every community, and in every family.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May
14 through May 20, 2023, as National Women’s Health Week.  During this
week, I encourage all Americans to join us in a collective effort to
improve and support the health of women and girls and promote health
equity for all.  I encourage all women and girls to prioritize their
health and catch up on any missed screenings, routine care, and
vaccines.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
May, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
