---
date: '2024-07-02'
modified_time: 2024-07-03 10:17:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-02 21:57:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/02/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-july-2-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, July 2,\_2024"
---
 
2:45 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, full house.

Q    Hello.

Q    Hi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.

Steve, you’re such a ladies’ man.  (Laughter.)

Q    Look at that.  
  
Q    This is a good group.

Q    He knows.  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    That’s right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  It’s good to see everybody.  Welcome back. 
Going to have a couple things at the top.  I know it’s been a while
since we’ve done this, so please bear with me.

So, I want to begin by discussing the devastation caused by Hurricane
Beryl, which President Biden just addressed directly.  
  
This already deadly storm was upgraded to a Category 5 storm as it heads
towards Jamaica.  
  
The president has been briefed on Hurricane Beryl and our administration
is in close touch with territory and local officials.  
  
USAID and FEMA has resources and supplies pre-staged in the region, with
staff and partners ready to assist.  
  
We urge residents to stay vigilant and h- — and heed the warnings of
local officials.  You heard that from the president as well.  
  
Next, I want to express our disappointment in yesterday’s District
\[Court\] ruling, which blocked our temporary pause on pending approvals
of liquified natural gas exports.  
  
While congressional Republicans and their allies continue to deny the
very existence of climate change, President Biden is committed to
combating the climate crisis with every resource available.  
  
That is why we will continue taking action to transition to a clean
energy future and reduce emissions, creating good-paying clean energy
jobs, and bolster the resilience to — to bolster resilience to the
impacts of extreme weather.  
  
I’ll now turn to sharing how we are delivering for American workers and
lowering costs for them.  
  
Yesterday, the Biden-Harris administration began expanding overtime
protections to millions of American workers.  
  
The Department of Labor’s overtime rule extended overtime protections to
1 million workers making less than $43,888 a year.  And next year, it
will extend protections to another 3 million workers by increasing the
overtime threshold to $58,656.  
  
That means higher paychecks or more time with family for — for millions
of workers.  
  
While elected Republicans side with big corporations and special
interests to try to deny workers these protections, President Biden is
fighting for families.  
  
As a record Americans travel for the Fourth of July, President Biden is
taking action to lower gas prices.  
  
Today, we announced the sale of 1 million barrels of gasoline, which
will lower gas prices, particularly in northeast states such as Maine,
New Hampshire, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania.  
  
While President Biden has unleashed record energy production, including
affordable clean energy, congressional Republicans are siding with Big
Oil to give out tax cuts while keeping prices high for families.  
  
Now, this week, the president and — the president and his administration
is marking the 60th anniversary of President Johnson signing the Civil
Rights Act of 1964.  
  
This landmark legislation prohibited discrimination on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, or national origin and serves as the legacy
of generations of courageous and extraordinary Americans who fought to
fulfill the promise of our nation.  
  
Despite this critical step forward, securing our civil rights remains
the unfinished fight of our time.  
  
That’s why President Biden is fighting actively to protect the civil
rights of every — every American.  
  
He signed a landmark executive order to protect voting rights and
continues to urge Congress to pass the John R. Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act and Freedom to Vote Act.  
  
President Biden appointed Justice <s>Ketanja</s> \[Ketanji\] Brown
Jackson, the first Black woman to be on the Supreme Court, and has
appointed more Black women to the federal appellate court than every
other president in history combined.  
  
He’s also creating opportunities for every American to thrive, investing
historic amounts into HBCUs, and changing our country’s failed approach
to marijuana, which disproportionately impacts communities of color.  
  
You’ll continue to hear more from this administration to mark this
major, major anniversary.  
  
And finally — thank you for your patience.  And finally, we have a few
schedule updates.  So, wanted to share the following with all of you.  
  
This week, the president will speak with Hill leaders and Democratic
governors.  
  
He will travel to Wisconsin on Friday.  He will conduct a sit-down
interview with George Stephanopoulos from ABC News while on the campaign
trail.  
  
He will travel to Philadelphia on Sunday.  
  
And next week — I know you guys are going to be really excited about
this — he will host a press conference during NATO.  
  
This is in addition to the previously announced events this week.  And I
will be happy to take your questions.

All right.  Colleen, go for it.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, there are growing calls from Democrats,
including members of Congress, for the president to step aside for the
2024 election because he’s not capable of serving another four years. 
What is his response to this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just step back for a minute and, I guess,
deal with the questions that have come in about the debate.  And
honestly, this is something that the president has addressed himself
multiple times since this past Thursday.

And first of all, I want to say we understand the concerns.  We get it. 
The president did not have a great night.  As you all know — and many of
you reached out during the ca- — the — the debate — the president had a
cold.  He had a hoarse voice.  You all heard it.  That’s why you reached
out.   
  
But I will say this, and the president said this over the past couple of
days — certainly, right after the debate: He knows how to do the job. 
And he knows how to do the job not because he says it, because his
record proves it.  Because for three and a half years, almost four
years, the rec- — the president’s record has been unprecedented,
delivering for the American people.  
  
Another thing that he said that I would add is he knows right from
wrong.  He knows how to tell the truth.  And, again, he knows how to
deliver for the American people.  
  
Joe Biden is a person — take away his title — he is someone who has
dealt with tragedy.  He is someone who has confronted that head on.  He
is someone who knows how to get back u- — up once you’ve been knocked
down.  That is something that he understands very, very well.  And I
think and we believe that’s something that many of Americans across the
country understand as well.   
  
And he knows how to come back.  He knows how to come back.  And so, the
president is going to continue to focus on what he’s been doing the past
three and a half years.  He’s going to focus — continue to focus on the
American people.   
  
And, you know, to your question, just to add a little bit more to your
question.  Look, you heard from Speaker Pelosi.  You heard from
Representative Clyburn.  And let me just share — paraphrase a little bit
of what they said.   
  
Speaker Pelosi, who is very close to the president, said it is not about
performance in terms of a debate; it’s about performance in a
presidency.  And this is a president — you’ve heard me say this; we’ve
talked about this — he’s been able to give us an economic recovery — the
strongest economic cov- — recovery in modern history.   
  
Let’s not forget, during the midterms of 2022, many people — many of you
all, some of you in this room — said that it was going to be a red wave,
and that didn’t happen.  He defeated Big Pharma.  We have seen historic
low in crime in more than — down to 50-year low.   
  
And then you had Representative Clyburn, who said, “The president has
done a great job leading for the last three and a half years.  The best
predictor of future behavior is past performance.”  This is from
Clyburn: And when you look at the record of President Biden versus
former President Trump, you see President Biden, who has delivered the
strongest recovery in modern history, versus the previous
administration, whose plans hurts the middle class; and President Biden,
who is committed to protecting our fundamental freedoms versus the
former — the former president, the previous administration doing
everything that they could, and they did, to overturn Roe v. Wade, and
they are responsible for that.   
  
And those are — that’s coming from two people who are not just leaders
in Congress but also close to the president.  
  
Q    I think part of the problem that Democrats are articulating is that
it wasn’t just that he had a cold, but rather he had, you know, answers
— he was trailing off.  He — he didn’t answer some questions in — in a,
sort of, fulsome way.  And speaking of Nancy Pelosi, one of the things
that she recently said was that it was a legitimate question whether his
performance was an “episode” or a “condition.”  
  
So, I guess I’m wondering —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — if there’s been any consideration given to, like, releasing a
more robust set of medical records or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — or something to show his mental acuity.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will say this.  Look — and, again, I — I get the
question.  It is a fair question to ask.  We are not taking that away. 
And that’s why the president certainly has spoken to this.  
  
As it relates to his medical records, we have been transparent.  We have
released thorough reports from his medical team every year since he’s
been in office.  That is something that we have been pretty consistent
about.   
  
As it relates to, you know, something like a cognitive test, to the
question that you’re asking me about what the speaker — former speaker
said — obviously, she can speak for herself.  His team, who has said —
the medical team said it is not warranted in this case.  We have put
forward a thorough, transparent annual report on his health.  So, they
have said that is not warranted.  It is not necessary.   
  
Again, we understand.  We understand.  We’re not taking away from what
you all saw or what the American people saw.  We understand it was a bad
night.  It is not uncommon for incumbents to have a bad night on their
first debate.  
  
And we are going to continue to do the work that we have been doing on
behalf of the American people.  I think the president rec- — record
certainly speaks for itself.  
  
Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  You just reminded us that President Biden had a
cold on Thursday.  What medications was he taking in the days or hours
leading up to the debate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I can — I know that question has come in a couple
of times to us.  He was not taking any cold medication.  
  
Q    Was he taking any medication that would have interfered with his
performance?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He was not taking any cold medication.  That is what I
can speak to.  I’ve asked the doc- — his doctor, and that’s what he
stated to us.  
  
Q    After the debate, did the president get exam-ed by a doctor, or did
he get a neurological scan?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A neurological scan?  Look, what I can say is that —
just to take a step back, it was a bad night.  We understand that it was
a bad night.  And the president has spoken to this, and he understands
that.  
  
And so, I cannot speak to anything beyond what I just shared.  The
president has regular annual physicals that we release in a thorough
report.  We’re going to continue to do that.  I don’t have anything else
beyond that.  
  
Q    So, was the last time he was seen by a doctor, then, in February?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything beyond that — beyond the
question of a neurological exam.  
  
Q    Okay.  Well, you continue to say it was just a bad night.  But is
there an explanation, then, for why it was so bad?  If it’s not his
stamina, if he prepared, as you guys say, for — for so long —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — if it’s not a problem with his mental fitness, what happened that
night?  What did we see?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will also add that the president also spoke to this
as well.  He said, “I’m not as smooth as I used to be.  I don’t debate
as well as I used to.  I don’t walk as easily as I used to.”  But one
thing that he knows is how to deliver for the American people.  He
understands that.  He understands that he’s not a young man, obviously. 
He said this.   
  
And — but his focus is going to continue to deliver for the American
people on — on the — on the issues that they care about: the economy;
expanding health care; fighting for Medicaid, Medicare, Social Security;
making sure that we continue to be leaders on the world stage, which is
something that this president has been able to do.   
  
And turn — you know, turn around the mess — the mess that this last
administration created — that’s certainly on — on — not just
domestically but on the world stage.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is anyone in the White House hiding information about the
president’s health or his ability to do the job day to day?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely not.  
  
Q    Given the fact that it’s more than a bad night when his political
future is threatened, would he be willing to provide more medical
information?  Would he be willing to have Dr. O’Connor provide more to
answer these questions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Kelly O, certainly understand the question,
appreciate the question.  But what we have provided has been very
transparent —  
  
Q    But it’s not recent.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — has been — has been —  
  
Q    And the country watched —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But February — February was this year.  It wasn’t too
long ago.  It was indeed this year.  And we were — we were — we provided
a transparent report, a thorough report —  
  
Q    But you recognize there are many Americans who were concerned about
his capacity — was he okay?  What happened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —  
  
Q    And we’ve now gone several days where he has only done teleprompter
comments.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    He has not taken questions.  I know you’ve announced a press
conference.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    We appreciate that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    An interview, we appreciate that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.   
  
Q    But there is a period of time here where the public is trying to
understand what happened.  And the president could help to answer that
by engaging with us in an unscripted way right now.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things.  There’s a
couple of things that you said that I do want to address.   
  
Number one, hours — I don’t know — less than an hour after the debate,
he went and he engaged directly with the American people.  Right?  He
went to a watch party.  He was in a room with hundreds of supporters who
watched the debate.   
  
And when he walked in, they cheered him on.  And he did a photoline with
them for some time.  Some — some of your colleagues had an opportunity
to speak to these supporters.  He did that.  And that was something that
he was able t- — that he was able to do right after.   
  
And then, we stopped at a Waffle House, as some of you all know, and
spoke to a — a full — a packed — a packed restaurant.  So, he spent some
time there.   
  
Then the next day, he went to North Carolina.  He spoke in front of
hundreds of supporters there who said, “We support you, Joe.  We love
you, Joe.”  And so, he was able to do that.  
  
In those two and a half days or so after the debate, he went to four
states and engaged with supporters, engaged with American people,
everyday people, heard directly from them.   
  
And let’s not forget, when we landed in North Carolina — I think it was,
like, 2:00 a.m. in the morning — he engaged with supporters there as
well.   
  
So, the president has been out there.  He’s been listening to
supporters.  It’s something that he loves to do — not just supporters
but American people out there — everyday people who appreciate what he
does, who wants to hear more from him, as you just stated, and got that
opportunity to do just that.   
  
I think it matters that he’s going to do an interview on Friday.  I
think it matters that he’s going to go to Wisconsin and do that — right?
— engage with everyday people.  We’re going to continue to do that. 
Nothing has changed in that regard.  We’re going to continue to be out
there.  He’s going to be in Pennsylvania as well this weekend, as I just
stated.  
  
Q    And one more.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    We’re reporting that Hunter Biden has been in some meetings with
senior advisers.  Why is the president’s son involved?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I do — I saw that reporting
as I was coming out.  So, a couple of things there.   
  
Look, the president, as you know, is very close to his family.  This is
a holiday week, Fourth of July.  He spent time with his family, as you
all know and reported, at Camp David.  Hunter came back with him and
walked with him into — into — into that meeting — that prep — that
speech prep.   
  
And, you know — and he ended up spending time with his dad and his
family that night.  That is basically what happened.  It is a week where
there’s going to be more family members who are going to come to the —
to the White House.  I’m sure you’ll see some of them on Fourth of
July.  Many more are expected to be here —  
  
Q    No issue with family being in the White House.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    The question, though, would be —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — is he participating in meetings with senior advisers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is that he came back with his dad from
Camp David, he walked him into the speech prep, and he was in the room. 
That, I can tell you: He was in the room.   
  
Anything else coming out of that reporting, I can’t speak to.  But I can
say that, you know, he’s close to his family, which is not unusual. 
They were together at Camp David.  They came back together.  You’re
going to see a lot more family this week.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I want to go back to that question that Pelosi
raised earlier today.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Pelosi asked — it is — Pelosi said, “It’s a legitimate question to
ask if this is an episode or is — this is a condition.”  Which one is
it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I can tell you is that he had a cold and a
bad night.  I would not see this as an episode.  I would see this as
what it was and what we believe it to be, which is: It was a bad night. 
And he did — on top of that, he had a cold.  And that is the reality of
the situation.  That is the reality of what happened that night.   
  
Q    You’ve certainly seen the reporting out there that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — this is not just a standalone instance, that other people are
saying that this has happened before.  
  
One, do you see these as legitimate questions?  And also, are you being
straight with the American people on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it — I see it as a — I’m — I see it as a
legitimate question.  I do.  And I — and I have said it is a fair
question to ask.  The president sees it as a legitimate question.   
  
And I — I think, also, the president saying, “I am not a young man.  I’m
not as a smooth — a smooth talker as I used to be.  I don’t walk as
easily as I used to be — I used to.  I don’t debate as well as I used
to.”  I mean, the president is admitting and saying — and this is not
the first time, right?  He’s talked about his age.  He’s joked about his
age many times before.   
  
And so, you heard that directly fr- — and we are acknowledging what —
what people are seeing.  But we do believe this was a — in — in this
instance, it was a bad night.   
  
Q    Is he disabled?  Is the president disabled?  
  
Q    One more — just — just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No.  And — let me — let me finish with your
colleague, please.  
  
Q    Okay.  You can come back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, but shouting out — come on.  You know better. 
You know better.  Come on.   
  
Q    Just — just one final question.  Immediately after the debate, we
started to hear the concern from Democrats on Capitol Hill, calling it
just flat out a disaster.  Why didn’t the president immediately
personally reach out to leaders on Capitol Hill like Leader Jeffries and
Leader Schumer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I can say this.  Right after the debate, we were
on a two-and-a-half-day swing, four states.  The president was out there
hearing directly from the American people, engaging directly from the
Amr- — American people.   
  
Obviously, he respects the Democratic leadership.  It is leadership
there that has helped him deliver for the American people an
unprecedented record on behalf of Americans across the country.  So, we
appreciate them for — obviously.   
  
But he was out there.  He was out there directly with supporters,
engaging with them, whether it was a tarmac, whether it was at a rally,
whether it was at a watch party or a fundraiser.  And I think that’s
important to note, too.  And he was hearing from them.   
  
But, at the same time, those leaders — Democratic leadership was hearing
from members of his team — high-level senior members of his team.  It’s
not like we were silent.  It’s not like we were quiet.  It’s not like we
were not engaging with them.  We were.   
  
And now that the president is back at the White House, he’s going to
have some time to talk to these Democratic leadership — the Democratic
leadership on the phone.  I mentioned Democratic governors.  He’s going
to do it with leaders o- — on the Hill as well.  And that’s important.  
  
And then, he’s going to go back out — out into the states, obviously,
and talk to — and talk to Americans there.   
  
So, he’s — he can — he’s going to do both.   
  
Q    What’s his message going to be to the Democratic governors and Hill
leaders when he talks to them?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get into a private conversation. 
We — we wanted to share these meetings.  I know it was getting out
there.  It was floating out there.  And I know it was — and we just
wanted to confirm that w- — that we were indeed having these
conversations.   
  
But we normally — as you know, our posture is not to dive into — dive
into private conversations.  He’ll have these conversations.  I think
they’ll be important.  They’ll hear from him.  He’ll hear from them.   
  
But I also want to note that there is a regular engagement with —
whether it’s Inte- — Intergovernmental Affairs or the Office of Leg
Affairs — regular engagement from my colleagues here with governors,
with mayors, and also, obviously, with congressional — congressional
leaders.  That is something that is a regular engagement.   
  
Obviously, the president himself will — will engage with them this
week.   
  
Q    Karine, does he still have a cold?  He seemed to be clearing his
throat a bit at the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He still has a cold.  
  
Q    — last event.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I asked — he still has a cold.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  You’ve said a couple of times now that the White
House has provided thorough medical records for the president.  The
White House released a six-page summary back in February.  I don’t think
that was a full accounting, necessarily.  And Dr. O’Connor, in that
memo, described the president as quote, “a healthy, active, robust
81-year-old male, who remains fit to successfully execute the duties of
the presidency.”   
  
I think that is clearly not what the majority of Americans are seeing. 
And we have a new poll from CBS News that says 72 percent of registered
voters say the president does not have the mental and cognitive health
to serve as president.   
  
So, are you saying that the majority of Americans are misguided and that
they just need to trust Dr. O’Connor and take him at his word?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things — and I want to say the
president is feeling better.  And you saw him last night.  You saw him
today.  But he does indeed still have a cold.  
  
Look, you know, I — I want to be very sensitive here, and I think it is
important to be sensitive here.  We understand how the American people
are feeling.  We get it.  We do.  And w- — I do not want to take away
from that.   
  
I’m not going to speak — I — I know that there was — you all did a poll
— CNN do — did a poll.  I’m not going to speak to every poll.  I’m just
not going to do that.   
  
And also, I’m — you know, constraints in — in doing that as we’re
heading into — header- — heading into an election in November, as you
know.  
  
What I will say is majority of Americans also support the work that the
president has doing in a sense of the — his agenda and what he stands
for and what he’s been fighting for, whether it’s reproductive rights,
whether it’s an economy that works for all.  And that is something that
the president is going to continue to do.   
  
And this is why we have said — and I have said this multiple times from
here — is that’s why the president acknowledges — we get it.  We get
what Americans are feeling.  That’s why he’s acknowledging he’s not a
young man.  That’s why he’s acknowledging he’s a little slower than he
used to be in — in walking and not as smooth at speaking.  We get
that.   
  
But we also want to make sure that we point to the successes that he’s
had, his record, and we want to continue to build on his unprecedented
record.  And I’m not going to discount what the American people see or
feel.   
  
What I can say is what we know from our side of things.  We could speak
to his record, and we could speak to what the president has been able to
acknowledge.  And I think that’s important too.  And that’s basically
acknowledging what Americans are seeing and feeling.  
  
Q    Well, if you get it, why not release more about his medical — his
physical and mental health?  Why not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — what we have released has been very
comprehensive.  It has been.  It has been transparent.  And if you
compare it — right? — it has.  We have put that out there.  And — you
know, and we’ll continue to do so: put that information out there.  
  
You know — and, M.J., I want to be very clear.  I get the question that
you’re asking me.  But this is also a president who has had a historic
administration — he has — in delivering on legislation, key policies. 
That is because with age comes wisdom and comes experience.  And I think
that matters as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Did — did Dr. O’Connor watch the debate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe Dr. O’Connor traveled with us to the debate,
so —  
  
Q    So, did he have any concerns after seeing the president’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  
  
Q    — debate perform- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Not at all.  
  
Q    I have one more question, actually, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure, sure.  
  
Q    The — the campaign’s theory of the case for the president staying
in the race has been that the president has a better shot of defeating
Donald Trump than any other Democrat.  We have a new CNN poll that shows
the vice president actually has a slightly stronger showing against
Donald Trump than the president.  So, how does the president explain not
passing the baton to his own 59-year-old vice president, given that kind
of data?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you know, I’m constrained to speaking
directly to your poll.  And I get it, and I — I hear the question.  I
got to be mindful.  That is something for the campaign, as you started
saying — the — the — what the campaign has laid out, their argument of
the case, that is something for them to take up, and that is something
for them to answer.  
  
What I can speak to is the president’s record.  What I can speak to:
what he’s been able to accomplish.  And the things that he’s been able
to do and get done is be- — is actually in line with majority of
Americans.  And I think that’s important, too, to note.  
  
And, again, I will say: with age, comes wisdom and experience, and that
certainly — it’s something that the president brings.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  We’ve seen some real anger expressed by donors and
democratic officials — sort of how you guys have handled the president,
shielding him away from impromptu settings and denying — excuse me —
until last week that there had really been any age-related slippage.   
  
So, I’m wondering if you guys have had a moment to reflect on that
strategy.  Any regret over it?  And if — you know, what you would say to
folks who — who think it’s arrogant for there not to be either changes
towards that strategy or with some of the personnel that are around the
president.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you — you’re talking about the strategy
specifically about who’s around the president?  Is that what you’re —  
  
Q    Well, I think it’s — it’s two parts, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    One is a kind of a small, concentrated group of aides that have
been with the president for a very long time, and the other is sort of
systematic decisions to shield the president from the impromptu moments
that we would see — that we’ve seen in previous administrations, whether
it’s press conferences or interviews or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you know, just being out in public more frequently.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, a couple things there too.  Look, I —
this year, the president has done more than 40 interviews.  And
unscripted — right? — those interviews are unscripted.  He has done more
than 500 gaggles — right? — of course, unscripted, talking directly to
many of you.  
  
Q    I —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, let — let me just finish.  
  
And so, he enjoys doing that.  He enjoys engaging with all of you, and
we’re going to continue making sure that happens.   
  
I will say this.  This is a — obviously, this is a president that was a
senator for 36 years.  He was a vice president, as you all know — I’m
just repeating things that you all know — for eight years.  And so, he
has longtime, you know, advisers that have been here with him for a long
time.  I don’t think that’s unusual.  
  
He also has people who have — who are new to — new to the administration
that also advise him.  Look, I’ve been in meetings with the president
where it’s been a diverse group of people, and he sees us and he — he
knows the reason why we’re sitting in front of him is that we have
something to share.  And he wants to hear from all of us.  
  
I’ve heard him say, “Hey, what is it that — what do you gu- — what do
you think?  What do you think?”  And so, my experience has been that
that — that world is indeed open and that he does get to hear from a
diverse group of people.  That has been my experience.  
  
And — but it is not unusual for someone who has been around for that
long of time to have a group of people that he — that’s been around him
for some — for — for a minute.  Right?  And I think that makes sense. 
There’s nothing about that that is nonsensical.  That actually makes
sense.  
  
And we’re going to continue to get him out in front of all of you to
take your — to take your questions at a steady — a steady — steady
drumbeat.  
  
Q    You mentioned NATO, and I have —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — two — two questions.  One is just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    — a logistical one, which is you mentioned the press conference.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Is that going to be kind of a real, big boy press conference that
we’re used to, or —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Did you say “big boy press conference”? 
(Laughter.)    
  
Q    Yeah, like one of these two-and-twos tha- — that might be a little
more limited.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I believe — and I know you guys are holding me to
it — it is a — I believe it’s a solo press conference.  We’ll certainly
have more to share with all of you as we get closer —  
  
Q    And then more —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to next week.   
  
Q    More thematically —  
  
Q    We should call it the big boy (inaudible).  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I was about to say “big boy” Justin over here
—  
  
Q    Yeah, yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — is asking some big boy questions.  Okay.    
  
Q    What do you — you know, the president is not the only leader —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that’s entering that NATO conference.  A little bit on the
backfoot: Emmanuel Macron has had some electoral losses.  The UK is
obviously going through a big election right now.  
  
With all these leaders kind of coming in to D.C. a little bit
diminished, is it’s — how are you guys — how is that changing how you’re
looking at — at the summit and what is possible to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.   
  
Q    — to accomplish with it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s — it’s a good question.  Look, I think one
thing, as I talk about the president’s record and what he’s been able to
do — right? — he’s been able to strengthen our — our worldview, the way
that people see us across the globe — other leaders, our partners and
allies — because of that experience.  
  
Again, with experience brings — yes, with age brings experience and
wisdom.  And I think because of that, the president has been able to
build a coalition.   
  
If you think about Ukraine and the aggression from Russia and what
Russia has done to Ukraine as they continue — as Ukraine take —
continues to — to fight that aggression, to fight for their freedom and
democracy, the president was able to bring 50-plus countries to support
Ukraine, to support their fight.   
  
And so — so, look, I will say that the president is looking forward,
certainly, to hosting the leaders of our 31 NATO Allies.  As you know,
there’s two additional — two additional countries have done — have
joined NATO.  And that’s because, again, of the president’s
leadership.  
  
And next week, in Washington, D.C., as you know, the historic summit is
to mark the 75th anniversary of NATO’s founding.  So, for 75 years, NATO
has kept us and the world safer.  And under the president’s leadership —
this president’s leadership, our Alliance is stronger, it’s — it’s
larger, it’s more united than ever.   
  
And so, I think what you’re going to see is that displayed next week
right here in Washington, D.C.  And I think I — I — I would — I think
you all would agree that the president played a very, very, very big
role in where NATO is today.   
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The administration strongly criticized the
media for clips showing the president appearing to be confused, freezing
at times.  And you called it “cheap fakes,” “misinformation,”
“disinformation” —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in one case, even implied that it was the product of artificial
intelligence, calling it “deep fakes.”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Do you have any regret over —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —  
  
Q    — using that language?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not at all.  Not at all.  And let me be clear, it was
a certain part of the media — I mean, you can speak to this better than
I can — a certain part of the media which was doing this.  
  
And, look, independent, mainstream fact-checkers in the press and
misinformation experts have been calling out cheap fakes.  And at the
end of the day, they’re fakes — that’s what they were — targeting the
president.   
  
They had said — the reporters and these misinformation experts said that
this president was being targeted.  And what we did was echo that. 
That’s what we did.  And, look, we’ll de- — certainly de- — continue to
call that out.   
  
And the “cheap fakes” didn’t come from me.  I didn’t — I didn’t coin
that.  That didn’t come from this White House or this podium.  That came
from the media.  They called it “cheap fakes.”   
  
And they said, this president, President Biden, was being targeted on
misinformation.  It was purposefully being done to this president.  And
what we did is we echoed that.  So, I don’t regret it at all.   
  
Q    Well, the administration also —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was just the facts.  
  
Q    — used that sort of approach to counter The Wall Street Journal
report, for instance, that interviewed 45 people over several months who
criticized, you know, the president’s handling of himself in meetings. 
And broadly —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which approach?  I — I’m — I’m not — I’m not following
the question.  
  
Q    Talking about the president’s age being a factor and a concern —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How — how was cheap fakes — I don’t understand —  
  
Q    The approach from the White House to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — where cheap fakes was —  
  
Q    — to criticize the reporting —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — was relating —  
  
Q    — to — to — to basically cast the reporting as not true.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    And — and broadly, this has been — the reason I ask is, like —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — the administration’s response to our questions often seems to be:
Don’t believe your lying eyes.  The border is secure, Afghanistan
withdrawal was a success, inflation is transitory.   
  
So, is that going to change?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you just laid out — Jacqui, you just laid out
a bunch of things.  So, just give me a second here.   
  
First of all, I think this is a give-and-take.  Right?  Even in this
briefing room, we go back and forth.  I go back and forth with you, with
your colleagues, that — everyone here.  And I think we have a right to
say if something we don’t think is true or something we think we want to
push back on.  That is a right for us to do, just like you have a right
to push me and say, “Actually, our sources, our reporting share — say
this.”  
  
I think it’s a give-and-take.  This is what makes — what we do in this
room almost every day.  This is an exercise of democracy.  This is an
exercise of freedom of the press.  That’s what we’re doing here.   
  
And I think if there is some reporting that we don’t believe to be true,
I think it’s okay if we go back and forth and say, “Actually, we don’t
think that reporting is true.”  Right?   
  
And so, I don’t see anything wrong with that.  That’s how — that is what
this is.  That is what this is.  This is what we actually do on a — on a
daily basis.  This is how we lead the world on making sure that
journalism exists and you all have the right to do your jobs.   
  
But, you know, we also have our right, as the press office here in the
administration, if we don’t believe something is true or we want to
share our side of things, that we do so.   
  
You know, look, on the other things that you just listed, you know — you
know, I’ve talked about this president’s record a lot — often here in
this just — however minutes I’ve been at this podium.  And, look, when
it comes to the economy, the data shows it.  When it comes to health
care, the data shows it.   
  
Afghanistan, obviously, it is a — it is a — an important conversation to
have.  And that is something that the president wanted to do and end a
year — a war — a forever war.  He wanted to make sure that we stopped
putting our young women and men in harm’s way.   
  
And that is a difficult decision to make.  It is not an easy decision to
make.  But he’s the president and commander in chief, and he wanted to
make sure that we got our armed troops out of harm’s way.   
  
And so, I — I honor and respect our back-and-forth.  And I — it is
always an honor and privilege for me to do this job, and I will continue
to do that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, Michael.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    Oh —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mic- — go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
Q    Come back to me?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I — I’ll get you.   
  
Q    I — I have two big boy questions.  (Laughter.)  Medium boy.  I
don’t know.  Whatever.  
  
First, does the president intend to spend most of his days in July on
vacation in Rehoboth and Wilmington?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We certainly will have more to share on what his
schedule is going to look like for the rest of the month.  I don’t have
anything to share at this time.  
  
I can assure you the president will be out and about talking directly to
the American people.  I just laid out the next couple of days.  I — I
don’t have anything to share beyond —  
  
Q    I g- — I guess the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — beyond Sun- — Sun- — well, actually, beyond NATO. 
Right?  As you know, there’s going to be the NATO Summit next week.  So,
I can’t — don’t have anything to share beyond that.   
  
But the president will be out there talking directly to the American
people.  I have to be mindful.  Obviously, we’re in campaign season. 
The campaign could speak more to what — what his schedule is going to
look like specifically.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And then the second question.  We just posted a story, which prob-
— I’m sure you’ve seen —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — because we just posted it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in the middle of briefing.  But in which many people that we’ve
talked to describe an accelerating series of episodes, moments when,
over the course of the last several weeks, the president appeared
confused or listless or would lose the thread of a conversation in
private meetings in — at the G7, in Normandy, at the White House — not
all the time, not — not saying that that’s the way he is all the time
and that there’s clearly moments people say that he’s forceful and with
it and all of that.   
  
But these people suggest that the — that what happened, what Americans
saw at the debate has a precursor.  What do you say to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be mindful and respect your reporting. 
I have not read it.  I have not seen it.  So, it’s hard for me to
respond to it directly.   
  
But what I can speak to more broadly is that I have — have engagement
with the president pretty regularly.  What I see is a strong, resolute
president who’s always willing and — and able to work on behalf of the
American people.   
  
I do not know who these folks are that you speak of, so it’s hard for me
to — to talk about that and to — and to speak to that.  I can just speak
to my experience and go back, again, on the president’s record and what
he’s been able to deliver on behalf of the American people.  So, I just
do wa- — I do want to be mindful.  
  
Q    And — and, I guess, just one follow-up —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  Sure, sure.   
  
Q    — is, you know — you know, 50-million-plus Americans —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — saw the debate last Thursday.  They get a very different story
from you.  You just described a very different-sounding president. 
Obviously, other administration officials describe him very differently
than what people saw.   
  
How do you reconcile those two versions of — of a president: one who
appeared the way they did to millions of people and the other who
appears always to be, you know, sort of very forceful and — and not have
any of those episodes?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the president spoke to this.  You heard
me speak to this.  We believe — and others have said this, not just me —
other folks who have been on networks and also, obviously, has talked —
spoken to all of you is — it was a 90-minute debate.  It was a bad
night.  That’s what we believe it to be.   
  
We’re not taking away what people saw.  We’re just not.  That is — want
to be very clear about that.  And, you know, we want to — to also make
sure people understand that the president realizes.   
  
You know, I keep saying this over and over again.  He said he’s not as
young as he used to be.  And he has —  
  
Q    I think it’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has addressed this over and over and over again. 
But you saw him last night.  Right?  You saw him last night.  You saw
him at these — at the rally.  You saw him at the w- — watch parties.  
  
There’s been many instances.  State of the Union, you saw him take on —
take on Republicans by himself and what was happening back and forth in
the State of the Union.   
  
There has been, also, many instances where the president has really
showed his strength and resolute that all of you have seen and commented
about it.  You know?   
  
And so, I think we cannot — we cannot forget that as well.   
  
And we also heard from, you know, President Obama, who — who himself has
said, you know, his first debate wasn’t great.  He talked about that. 
And most incumbents, their first debates aren’t great.   
  
And so, look, we’re going to continue to build on the unprecedented
record by continuing to fight for the American people.  That is our
commitment, and that’s what we’re going to continue to do.   
  
Q    Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thanks, Michael.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I have two questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    But to follow up on that, you talk about how you’ve spent time with
the president.  You know, when you’re looking at the time you’ve spent
with him, have you ever seen the president have a bad night like we saw
on the debate stage —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    — during your time here at the White House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    So, were you surprised by what you saw on the debate stage?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I know that he had a cold.  Many of you
were reaching out to — to us, to my team and myself directly.  You heard
the hoarse voice.  We — we were able to confirm he had a cold.  He was
under the weather, obviously.   
  
And, look, you know, we all have bad — bad nights — right? — or bad
moments.  It is not — it is not unusual.  I just said there have been
incumbents — most incumbents, for their first debate, you know, it
doesn’t go well.  So, it’s not also unusual in that regard as well.   
  
So, look, you know, we’re going to move forward.  That’s what we want to
do.  We want to look forward.  And we just announced some engagement
that the president is going to have.  We announced, obviously, the
interview with ABC and George Stephanopoulos.  He’s going to go to
Wisconsin.  He’s going to go to Pennsylvania.   We’re going to have a
press conference next week.   
  
We want to turn the page on this.  And we want to turn the page for the
American people as well, because we know that they need to see him out
there.  He’s going to continue to be out there.  He has been.  And we
understand how important that is.   
  
And so, we’re going to turn the page.  We’re going to get out — get out
there across the country.  Americans are going to see him for
themselves.  And I think that’s going to be very important as well.   
  
Q    And has the president had a chance to speak one on one with Vice
President Harris since the debate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t speak to any conversations that they’ve had. 
And so, I’ll just — I’ll just leave it at that.  I don’t have any
readout of a conversation between the two of them.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, I’ve spoken to a lot of donors since the
debate.  And, you know, they want to know what exactly happened that
night.  So, just to follow up on M.J.’s question, I know you said —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — he hadn’t taken any cold medication.  Was there any other
medication he had taken?  That’s — that’s what many of them are
asking.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I understand.  I was asked about the — I — I was
asked about the cold medicine.  I asked about the cold medicine.  He was
not taking any cold medicine.  And I don’t have anything beyond that.  I
— I don’t have anything beyond that to share.   
  
And, look, I’ve — I’ve answered this question multiple times at this
point.  I don’t have anything else to add beyond what I have shared with
your colleagues here in the room.   
  
We really, truly want to turn the page on this.  We really want to be
able to get out there and, you know, speak directly to the American
people, you know, speak directly to you all — the president will.  And I
think that’s important too.  
  
Look — and not forget what this president has been able to do the last
three and a half years, how he’s been able to deliver.  And there is a
stark contrast in what this presi- — president has done and what
Republicans in Congress are doing.  Right?   
  
He’s trying to protect our rights, as president.  He’s trying to protect
our freedoms.  He’s trying to protect, really, important programs that
matter to the American people.  He wants to protect women’s rights, Roe
v. Wade.  He wants to continue to build an economy that works for all. 
That’s what we’re going to focus on.  And that’s what Americans are
going to hear con- — continue to hear from this president.   
  
Anything else, I — I think I’ve litigated this a lot already in this
briefing room.  I just don’t have anything else to add.   
  
Go ahead, Andrew.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Two questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    You — you have repeatedly referred to the president’s outing after
the debate, the watch party; his remarks the next day in North Carolina;
his appearances at fundraisers; his appearances this morning at the D.C.
Emergency Operation Center.   
  
All those appearances were scripted events where he spoke —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not all.  
  
Q    — from a tel- — most spoke from a teleprompter.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  But you said “all.”  And not all.  
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s just be —  
  
Q    Well, if you’re correcting me, then “most.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s be —  
  
Q    They’re scripted, spoken from a teleprompter.  How are Americans
supposed to get the sense that the president is fully engaged and
capable and thinking off the cuff when he’s reading from prepared
remarks so often?  And why can’t he just come down here?  The briefing
room is 30 seconds away.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Why can’t he come down here and assure us and the American people
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that he’s okay?   
  
And — and I have a follow-up.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  First of all, it wasn’t all.  It was — it was,
you know, when he was speaking in front of the audience.  But it wasn’t
all.  When you think about the tarmac, when you think about — when you
think about engaging at the Waffle House, when you think about engaging
at the watch party and doing a very long rope line.   
  
And when he was at the tarmac, it was the middle of the night —
literally, 2:00 o’clock at night.  We w- — we all wanted to go to bed,
but the president — (laughs) — was certainly very focused and zeroed in
on the American people who were out there wanting to — cheering him on
and wanting to see him and take selfies and get a hug from this
president.  That’s what you saw.   
  
And I don’t know if you missed this, but I also shared that he has done
more than 40 interviews this year alone, and we’re going to continue
that.  He’s going to do an interview with ABC, George Stephanopoulos,
this week.  Those were unscripted.  Those were unscripted.  He’s done
more than 500 gaggles.  Those are unscripted.   
  
And we want to continue to do that.  We do.  We want to continue to do
that.  There’s going to be a — a press conference next week, a NATO — a
“big boy” press conference, as Justin has reminded us — next week.  And
so, that’s going to be important as well.   
  
Q    And I have a follow-up on —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.   
  
Q    One of — one of my colleagues behind me shouted a similar question
to what I’m going to be asking you.  But I think, given —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t remember the question, but okay.  
  
Q    Given what happened on Thursday, given the reporting in the New
York Times and other outlets about the president’s more frequent lapses,
losing his train of thought — all of us saw what happened on Thursday
where he simply could not form coherent answers to many or — or some, if
you will, of — of the questions and appeared to lapse into nonsensical
answers at the end.  “We beat Medicare,” for — for instance.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I’m going to ask something delicate, and you — you may not like it;
the president may not like to hear, if he’s watching.  But I think the
American people need to get a yes or no answer on this.   
  
Does President Biden, at 81 years old, have Alzheimer’s, any form of
dementia, or degenerative illness that would cause these sorts of
lapses?  And it’s a yes or no question.  And if you don’t know, why
don’t you, as one of his senior staff members, know the — the yes or no
answer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have an answer for you.  Are you ready for it?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a no.  And I hope you’re asking the other guy the
same exact question.   
  
Okay.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the — the statement that Congressman Doggett put out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Does the President feel like members, the Democratic Congressman
should be able to speak their minds on this?  Or does he think, you
know, calling for him to withdraw was hurting the party writ large?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, this is — that’s something about the
Democratic Party that we — we really respect.  It is a big-tent party. 
Many people are going to have their opinions.  And we are going to have
our disagreements.  And that is what is important.   
  
And we really respect other people’s opinions and thoughts.  I think
that’s what makes, you know, this party, different — right? — than the
other side.  Certainly, we see that with how it’s playing out in
Congress or how it tends to play out in Congress.   
  
So, the congressman is going to have his opinion.  He’s going to have
his thoughts.  That’s for him to speak to.  We are not — this is not a
president that’s about his personal politics.  That is not — this
president is all about.  He doesn’t care only about himself.  That is
not what this president is all about.   
  
And I also read — read out some su- — some supportive statements that we
have heard from leaders of — of Congress.  Former Speaker Pelosi, I read
out what she s- — she laid out.  I read out what — what Congressman
Clyburn has said.  And I think that matters as well.   
  
And you all have heard from multiple supporters over the past couple of
days since — since Thursday.  And I think that’s important as well.   
  
Q    And just to be clear —  
  
AIDE:  Karine, you have time for a couple more.  
  
Q    Sorry.  Just to be clear, the — the president has not spoken to
either Senator Schumer or Leader Jeffries?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is that the president plans to speak to
them this week.  I don’t have anything beyond —  
  
Q    Is there a reason, though?  It’s been five days.  I mean, you’d
think —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I ki- — I —  
  
Q    — they would have spoken.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I hear you.  I hear — I addressed this moments
ago.  The president was on the road for two and a half days, did four
states.  His — his advisers, his high-level White House officials were
talking to congressional members, as some of you have reported, over the
past couple of days.  I think that’s important.  They have regularly
engaged not just with congressional members, with governors, with — with
mayors.   
  
And so — and then there’s the campaign that does it on a political
level.  Right?  They’ve had regular calls.  I think some of you have —
have reported on — on that as well.   
  
Now, this week, the president is going to take some time and talk to
those congressional members.  And as you — as I stated, also to
Democratic governors tomorrow.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    You’ve mentioned that — sometimes that candidates have a bad first
debate.  There’s been a lot of discussion going around — and, of course,
no decision yet — but that maybe there isn’t a second debate.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be super careful.  That’s something for
the campaign to respond to.  But I do believe they did respond to this. 
And I — I — it’s not — I do believe they have responded to this, and
they said that there is going to be another debate.  But I — that’s
something for them to speak to.   
  
And I will just quote what President Obama has stressed.  Right?  “Bad
debate nights happen.  Trust me, I know.”  And then he praised President
Biden’s leadership and his agenda of fighting for the middle class, our
freedoms, and the rule of law.  And you heard the president speak to the
rule of law just last night.   
  
And so, certainly, that will continue.  But you’ve heard from a former
president about this — this particular issue.  
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Obama was 51 during that first —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I kind of knew he would say that.  
  
Q    — debate.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I knew you would say that.  But it ha- — but it’s —
he’s not the only one.  He’s not — it — it has happened in the past. 
First debates for incumbents, it — you know, it sometimes is not their
best.   
  
Q    I know you’ve said a couple of times that you want to turn the
page.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The issue — I think the core issue here is that you can’t turn the
page on age.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And —  
  
Q    Age and decline is a one-way street.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    So — so —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  
  
Q    — at the end of the day —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  
  
Q    — you know, if these are the questions you’re getting now, what are
the questions you’re going to be getting in two years or three years?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have thoughts about that — (laughs) — about two or
three years from now.  But — (laughs).  Look, I —  
  
Q    How — how can you or anyone —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — say that you have confidence that he can be in this job at that
time?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, here’s — here’s what I would say to that.  We
are not turning the page on age.  That’s not what we’re doing.  We
understand.  We get that.  Right?  The president said, “I am not a young
man.”  He said that.  We get that.  We understand how the American
people feel.  
  
What we want to continue to do is deliver for the American people. 
That’s what — that’s what we want to see.  That’s what the president
wants to do.  And that’s the turning of page.  Let’s continue on the
successes — on the unprecedented successes that this president has had
and on — and on issues that majority of Americans care about: health
care, economy — those are things that they care about — democracy,
freedom, fighting for the rights for women to make decisions on their
bodies.  That’s what the president wants to continue to — that’s the
turning of the page.  
  
But we get it.  Look, I — I — I’m not taking away from — from that.  I
don’t want to do that.  That is not — I do not want to walk off this
podium and that’s what you all think.  We’re not doing that.  And the
president doesn’t want you all to — to do that.   
  
But he can do the job.  He can.  
  
Q    But what’s the answer to the question about can — what gives you
confidence about two years from now or three years now or five years
from now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We believe — look, we believe that this is a president
that is able to continue to deliver and build on the unprecedented
success that he’s been able to do.  That’s what we believe.  We believe
and he believes it.  And he is determined and committed to doing
that.   
  
And — and, Michael — and I think the thing, too, that’s important is we
have been able to do things that most modern — modern presidents haven’t
been able to do.  And that matters as well.   
  
I know you guys are trying to get me to look into the future.  But what
I can say to you is this is a president that is committed to doing
that.  
  
Q    I’m not sure anybody —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — anybody doubts that commitment.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I think the question is given the performance — and I apologize
—   
  
Q    No.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, Michael is like, “No, no, no, you take this.” 
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    I mean, I — I — I just think the question, you know, it’s — it’s
about — it’s the way we look at our elderly parents and grandparents.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    It’s, you know — you know, you — you — you maybe visit them once a
year and you see troubling signs because you don’t live in the same
city, perhaps.  And the first question that you go to is, “Hmm, I wonder
if other — you know, I wonder if this is, like, a one-time thing, or if
it’s something that has been happening for a — you know, a longer time
that we need to deal with?”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And the second question is —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you know, what —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, you’re getting — you’re going — you’re going
—  
  
Q    — where are they going to be in —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — multiple times here.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Well — but where — where are they going to be in a year?  Where are
they going to be in two years?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah —  
  
Q    Do we need to put them in a ho- — like, you know, all of the
questions —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — that go through that.  And this is sort of the American ver- —
people’s version of that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear — and — and I — and I hear you.  And that’s
what I’m saying.  
  
Look, this is why the president goes through, you know, medical
examinations — right? — and we release those medical examinations. 
Right?  We’ve done that the past couple of years.  We’re going to
continue to do that.  This is why we’re going to go out there and
continue to be out there and do interviews and talk to the American
people.   
  
And at the end of the day — I got to be careful — right? — because we
are in a campaign season.  But the American — that’s — you know, the
American people will see for themselves, right?  And I just want to be
super — super careful.   
  
But, look, this is a president that has worked incredibly hard for the
American people.  And not just as president, as vice president, as a
senator.  And he is committed.  And we cannot — we cannot take away from
the fact of his three and a half years of leadership — what that has
been able to do, what he’s been able to get done.   
  
And that doesn’t — that — that doesn’t come from, you know — that
doesn’t come easily.  And he did it in historic fashion.  He did.  And
the data proves that.   
  
And so, look, he’s committed to getting — continuing to — to make that
progress, continuing to work — whether it’s climate change, whether it’s
the economy, whether it’s health care, that is what he is committed to
doing.   
  
And n- — he had a bad night.  He did.  And we are admitting that, owning
up to that.  You heard the president speak to that.  And I think that’s
imp- — important for the American people to hear from us and from him as
well.   
  
I know I have to go.  I’ll be back tomorrow.   
  
But go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I just wanted to go back to the Representative
Doggett statement.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    You know, part of his statement, he said that Biden staying in the
race could kind of work against helping to save democracy.  So, I know
you said it was a — a big-tent party, people have their opinions.  But
how do you corral Democrats when there are members of the party who —
who believe that about the president staying in the race?  And do you
have a response to that specifically?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Look, this — this is a president — he jumped
into this election — this, I can talk about, obviously — in — in 2020. 
And I — and I remind you all that he beat the other guy in 2020.  He won
in 2020.  That’s why he’s president.   
  
But he jumped in because our democracy, right?  He jumped in because of
what was happening; because he believed he needed to do everything that
he can to protect our democracy and to — and now protect our freedoms
because of what happened with Roe v. Wade.   
  
Obviously, that’s not — we don’t agree with that.  What we believe is
that this is a president that has had — that is going to continue to
fight for democracy and that is going to continue to focus on making
sure that, you know, we get Roe v. Wade into law — right? — make sure
that IVF is not taken away from families, make sure that contraception
is not taken away from families, make sure that we fight for our voting
rights.  Right?   
  
There are so many things that we need to continue to fight for.  And at
the end of the day, this is a president that has delivered, working
closely with Congress and doing some of these things in a bipartisan
way.   
  
And I think the reason why — that he’s been able to get some of these
legislation done — whether it’s the CHIPS and Science Act, the veterans
act, the bipartisan infrastructure legislation — is because of who he is
and because of how he has that experience to work across the aisle.   
  
That doesn’t happen with everybody.  And this president has been able to
do that.  So, we’re going to continue to do that work.  
  
Guys, I’ll see you tomorrow.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
3:42 P.M. EDT
