---
date: '2024-07-18'
modified_time: 2024-07-19 08:18:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-18 17:38:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/18/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-17/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:10 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  Kirby has a few words
here at the top, and then we’ll take as many questions as we can.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  I actually do have quite a bit here.  I
know it’s been a long time since we gaggled, so please bear with me. 

First of all, I’m sure you saw the news yesterday that the United States
is going to begin the process of transitioning away from the temporary
pier in Gaza to other solutions.  The Department of Defense has spoken
to this.  USAID have already spoken to it.  I’m not going to go through
all the details with you.  But I do think it’s important to just, again,
put all this into context. 

The first thing is that the pier was always supposed to be part of a
comprehensive response to the situation in northern Gaza in particular,
and it did help enable the development of Cyprus as a port that can be
used for inspections and for deliveries directly into Gaza.  Aid can now
also be inspected in Cyprus and delivered directly into Gaza through
Israel’s Ashdod port and crossings into the north.

Second, the pier accomplished a lot.  I mean, nearly 20 million pounds
of aid delivered.  That’s the highest volume of humanitarian assistance
that we have ever been able to deliver in the Middle East.  And that’s,
of course, 20 million pounds of aid that would otherwise have not
reached the hungry people of Gaza. 

And then third, the deployment of the pier certainly helped secure
Israeli commitments to open up additional crossings into northern Gaza. 
Since the opening of those crossings, we have seen a sustained flow of
trucks moving from Jordan directly into northern Gaza, averaging roughly
around 200 trucks a day overall.  I’ll stress again that that’s still
not enough.  We still want more.  And we’re going to continue to work
with the Israelis to see if we can get the number of trucks increased.

That underscores why we are working so hard to try to get a ceasefire
deal, because that would give us six weeks of a pause, which would allow
us a much greater flexibility in terms of increasing the ground flow of
vehicles and aid. 

From the very beginning, we said that the pier was going to be
temporary; it was not going to be permanent.  We said it was not going
to be an easy mission, and it certainly wasn’t.  It’s complicated stuff
to do that, and JLOTS is not designed for the permanent infrastructure,
additive capabilities.  And of course, we said it was going to be
impacted by the weather.  And, by God, it was impacted by the weather. 
And we saw that play out in the eastern Med in the summertime.  Again,
not a surprise. 

But we’re grateful for all the incredible work that was done by the
United States military, the men and women of the military, to not only
get the pier anchored on several occasions and operate it, but also
moving it into position and, of course, helping with the flow of aid
coming out of Cyprus onto the pier. 

So, an awful lot of good work was done, and the President is very
grateful for all the effort that went into it. 

And now we’re turning, as we should, to bolstering up the other kind of
capabilities that we have, including now Ashdod. 

But the pier not only enabled additional aid, it enabled us to work on
other initiatives.  It gave us some breathing time and space to get
Ashdod operational and to get other crossings opened up.  And I think
it’s — this is just a little bit of context that I think too often gets
forgotten when we talk about the pier and the difficulties that the pier
sometimes ran into. 

So if I could, quickly, turn to Sudan.  We continue to be deeply
concerned about the ongoing conflict there, which has forced 10 million
people to flee their homes.  It’s left more than 25 million facing
unacceptable levels of food insecurity and nearly the entire country now
facing unconscionable violence. 

We continue to be disturbed and, frankly, unambiguously condemn the
perpetrators of this conflict in the strongest terms.  And we call to
cease attacks on innocent civilians for unhindered humanitarian access
to get to the people that are so desperately in need. 

The United States continues, and we will continue going forward, to
support the Sudanese people, providing urgently needed lifesaving
humanitarian assistance and assistance for those that have been
internally displaced by the conflict. 

That’s why, earlier today, our Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda
Thomas-Greenfield, announced another $203 million in humanitarian
assistance for people affected by the conflict in Sudan, including
refugees and others who have fled to neighboring countries.

And the U.S. Agency for International Development is announcing $69
million in humanitarian assistance for crisis-affected people in Chad,
including more than 600,000 Sudanese refugees and 200,000 Chadian
returnees from Sudan who are in need of protection and lifesaving
assistance.  And that, of course, includes food, medicine, and
nutritional support.  So, a lot going on there. 

And then, if I could just turn quickly to irregular migration.  Since
President Biden announced the executive order to secure the border in
June, encounters at the southwest border have decreased by more than 50
percent.  We’re also taking steps to go after smuggling criminal
organizations that prey on and profit from the most vulnerable people. 

That’s why today, in coordination with our Mexican partners, Treasury
sanctioned the Abdul Karim Conteh transnational criminal organization,
and also sanctioned Abdul Karim Conteh, his wife, and two members for
supporting this human smuggling organization.  Yesterday, the Department
of Justice also unsealed an indictment against Abdul Karim Conteh.

We will continue to use all available tools to disrupt these criminal
organizations and ensure that they are held to account of the harm that
they are inflicting on innocent people.

With that, I can take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Steve with
Reuters.

Q    John, thank you.  Two things.  Could you give us an update on the
President’s health? 

And secondly, will he be able to meet with Netanyahu when Netanyahu is
in town next week?

MR. KIRBY:  Steve, I’m afraid I’m not a reliable source to speak to his
health right now and his COVID recovery.  I know that he is isolating as
appropriate and that the White House physician and the whole team is
helping him through this.  But I’m afraid I’m not a qualified individual
to speak to the recovery efforts on COVID. 

On Netanyahu, what I can tell you, Steve, is that, as we’ve said before,
we have every expectation that the two leaders will have a chance to see
each other while Prime Minister Netanyahu is in town.  I can’t tell you
at this point, Thursday midday, what that exactly is going to look
like.  But as we get closer, we’ll certainly be able to provide you some
more context.

Obviously, we need to make sure that the President’s health and his
recovery from COVID takes priority.  And if and how that might affect a
discussion with Prime Minister Netanyahu, we’re just not in a position
today to be able to know. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Colleen with the
AP.

Q    Hi.  Long time no talk.  I have a couple questions.  So, I wondered
if the White House is concerned about Ben-Gvir’s decision to visit the
hilltop compound, the mosque, today?  I wondered if it was, you know,
unnecessarily provocative?  Maybe it could disrupt hostage negotiations?

And then I had a question about whether or not you can speak to what the
threat matrix looks like right now regarding foreign actors and the
presidency, just in the days after the information about Iran, the
threat from Iran to Trump.  I just wondered if you could sort of talk
generally about what the threats look like today when it comes to
foreign actors and presidential candidates.

MR. KIRBY:  On your first one, I would just say we continue to be
concerned about rhetoric and actions that are counterproductive to peace
and security in the West Bank.  The President has been, I think, pretty
strident about his concerns over, for instance, the settler violence. 
And we have also expressed our concerns about activities and rhetoric by
certain Israeli leaders.  And those concerns remain valid. 

And what we would continue to urge our Israeli counterparts to do is
nothing that inflames passions or could lead to or encourage violent
activity one way or the other.  So I think I’d leave it at that. 

On your second question, there’s a — I hope you would understand — a bit
of a limit to what I can say.  I can tell you that we continue to
monitor and watch for any malign activity by foreign actors with respect
to our electoral politics in this country, and do everything we can to
reassure the American people that that process is safe and secure and
will be free and be fair.

With respect to physical manifestations of this — and I think we’ve
spoken to this before — we certainly have been mindful of and monitoring
the threat specifically from Iran when it comes to officials of the
former administration in particular.  We’ve been monitoring this for now
— for years, all tied to the strike that killed Mr. Soleimani and the
Iranians’ desire for retribution for that.  And this is something that
we’ve been very, very closely monitoring and will

continue to do so.

I don’t have any updates nor, if I did, would I necessarily believe it
would be the best thing, for the safety and security of those who might
be threatened, for us to speak to it in great granularity, except to say
that it’s not something that we have ever lost sight of or stopped
monitoring, and also that we continue to communicate as appropriate with
those who could be targeted.  I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Michelle with
Bloomberg.

Q    Thanks, Admiral.  Good morning.  Just two on Israel.  My colleagues
reported just in the last hour that Israeli officials are considering
transferring control of the Rafah border crossing to the EU and
Palestinians.  I’m wondering if you’re in position to confirm and
comment on that. 

And then separately, I wanted to get your reaction to news — it was a
bit of a different tone that the Israeli parliament passed a resolution
expressing formal opposition to establishing an independent Palestinian
state.

MR. KIRBY:  On the first one, I’m not able to confirm those reports.  I
saw the press reporting just before starting to gaggle, and I’m just not
in a position to confirm it. 

I would just say what we’ve said before, which is that we want to see
that crossing back open; we want to see it open in a sustainable,
credible way that can allow for the flow of humanitarian assistance into
Gaza specifically.  And we are in constant touch with our counterparts,
both in Egypt and in Israel, about trying to achieve that outcome.  But
I can’t confirm the specific reports.

On the second question, I think the best way I can respond to that is to
just reiterate our firm belief in the power and the promise of a
two-state solution.  And that is not something that President Biden is
going to give up on.  And we’re going to keep doing everything we can to
try to achieve that outcome.

We know it’s not going to happen tomorrow, and we know it’s not going to
be without difficulty.  And we also know that it requires leadership —
strong courage and leadership in the region to bring about that outcome.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks very much for taking the question.  Admiral, I
know this isn’t necessarily your bag, but in as much as it concerns
national security, do you have any more details on Saturday’s incident
in Butler in terms of the shooter, the threat profile?  Anything else
regarding that?  Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t, Danny.  I’m sorry. 

Q    Thanks anyway.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Lara with the Wall
Street Journal.

Lara, we can’t hear you if you — it looks like you muted yourself.

Okay, we will — oh, and it looks like we lost her. 

Our next question will go to Justin with ABC.

Q    Hi, John.  Thanks for holding this.  I wanted to ask about the
President again.  Can you say if he had department briefings this
morning?  Is he working while he’s also isolating?  Just anything along
those lines.  Or is he getting a briefing this afternoon?  And if so,
how did he sound, if you all spoke with him?

MR. KIRBY:  He’s — I mean, I think we can all understand that while he’s
certainly focused on getting better, as anybody who’s had COVID would
want to do, he’s being kept up to speed as appropriate by his leadership
team, and certainly that includes on the national security front. 

I don’t have any specific briefings to speak to or schedule items, but I
do know that he’s being kept updated and up to speed as he normally
would.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Patsy with VOA.

Q    Thank you.  Hi, John.  I have two questions.  The first one is: Can
you confirm reporting that the U.S. privately warned Iran over its
suspicious nuclear activities?  And is this something that will be
discussed with Prime Minister Netanyahu? If there’s anything else you
can share ahead of that visit, including the concerns of all-out war
between Israel and Hezbollah?  That’s my first question.  I know it’s a
bit cheating.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, there’s a lot.  There’s a lot to that.

I’d say, number one, the Iranians should have absolutely zero doubt
about where we stand on concerns about any advancement of their nuclear
weapons ambitions. 

Number two, we send messages to Iran when it’s in our interest, and I’m
not going to get into detailing what that looks like or how that feels.

Number three, I can’t think of any meetings that we have with Israeli
leaders where we don’t talk about Iran and Iran’s destabilizing
activities which continue, to include their ongoing support for groups
like Hezbollah and the Houthis and Hamas.

And I’m sorry, you had a question about Hezbollah specifically? 

Q    Yeah.  How concerned is the administration about the possibility of
an all-out war between Israel and Hezbollah at this point?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, heck, we’ve been concerned about escalation up there
at that border since the very beginning, and those concerns are still
valid now.  We’re not seeing signs that tell us that there’s, quote,
unquote, to use your words, an “all-out war” in the offing here.  But
there’s a reason why we’ve been applying a whole heck of a lot of
intense and personal diplomacy, is to avoid that outcome.  And that’s
still our concern, and we’re going to keep at that work. 

Q    Yes.  Thank you for that. 

And my second question, I guess, is that Turkish President Erdoğan and
Syrian President Assad have signaled that they are interested in
restoring diplomatic ties with Russia’s blessing. 

How does the administration view the possibility of this normalization,
considering the potential of Ankara and Damascus working together to
further curtail U.S. ally Kurdish groups?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  First of all, I think that was, like, your 17th
question. 

Q    (Laughs.)  Yes.  I’ve been away for a while, John. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  No, that’s okay.  It’s why we do these gaggles.

Look, we’ve seen the reports.  It won’t surprise you that we’ll refer
you to Mr. Erdoğan to comment on that. 

There have been similar reports like this in the past, and nothing has
come of them.  So we’ll see what happens here.  Each nation, you know,
of course, has to decide for itself what its foreign relationships are
going to look like, and they need to speak to that.

MODERATOR:   Thank you.  Our next question will go to Mike with
Washington Examiner.

Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  I’m going to try on Iran. 
When did the NSC first hear about this new intelligence?  And can you
say when it was transmitted to the Secret Service?  And does this threat
specifically focus on former President Trump, or is it including all of
the other officials who have previously been reported on?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  I appreciate your effort to try to get me to talk about
intelligence matters, and I hope you can understand that I’m just not
going to do that. 

We’ve been monitoring this threat, this credible threat, for quite a
while.  And we will continue to — we will continue to monitor it.  We’ll
also make the appropriate notifications, particularly to the U.S. Secret
Service, as needed.  And we did that.  And again, that process will
continue. 

But the last thing that I’m going to do here in a public setting is get
into a lengthy discussion about what the intel picture specifically
looks like and when and how we have obtained information that we have
felt we needed to act on and pass along.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with Politico.

Q    Yeah.  Hi, John.  Thanks for doing this.  First question: Knowing
that Vice President Harris will be in Indianapolis on July 24th, which
is the day of Bibi Netanyahu’s speech, so does that mean she will not be
attending his address and, therefore, she will not be sort of behind him
during that

speech?

And then secondly, have there been any NSC meetings, national security
briefings with the President, or anything like that, any delays in the
national security process since the President has been, you know,
preoccupied with his political future of being the Democratic nominee
over the last couple of days?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  On your first question, I’d refer you to the Vice
President’s Office.  I think they’re better suited to speak to her
schedule.  My understanding is that she will, as well as the President,
see Prime Minister Netanyahu while he’s here.  But as for her specific
schedule, I think I’d refer you to them. 

And I’m sorry, can you repeat your second question, Alex?

Q    Yeah.  Just, have there been any, you know, national security
briefings with the President, any national security processes, decisions
that have had to be delayed or moved or postponed in any way as the
President has been understandably busy with his domestic political
issues at the moment?

MR. KIRBY:  No, not at all.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jared with
Al-Monitor.

Q    Hey, John.  Thank you for doing this.  I know you’ve mentioned a
few times that it will take a lot of political courage regarding Israel
and, you know, a future Palestinian state.  But I guess my question is:
Israel’s political opposition hasn’t stepped up, and the Knesset just
broadly rejected a two-state solution with this resolution.  I mean,
what is the administration’s plan B moving forward on this Middle East
strategy here?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s not about a plan B, it’s still about plan A, which is
moving towards the possibility of a two-state solution.  And nobody —
nobody is blind here to how difficult that’s going to be.  We believe
that the first priority has got to be getting a ceasefire — getting the
ceasefire deal in place, getting those hostages back with their families
where they belong, getting six weeks of calm.  That’s phase one.

If we get phase one, then negotiations can begin on phase two.  And
phase two, as the President said himself last May, can get us to a
permanent cessation of the hostilities.  If you can get that, then you
can begin to really start to lay the groundwork for post-conflict
governance in Gaza that is free of Hamas but also free of challenges to
the security of the Israeli people.  And then you can really start
laying some tracks towards a potential two-state solution over the long
haul. 

I mean, one of the things that we were working on, as you know, before
the war was normalization between Saudi Arabia and Israel.  We have
indications that both sides are still interested in pursuing that
outcome.  And so, if you can do that, that’s another big milestone
potentially towards a more integrated Israel in the region and the
possibility of a two-state solution. 

So we’re still on plan A, and we believe that that effort is worth the
time and the energy to put into it.  And that’s what we’re focused on.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Gabby with the
Jewish Insider.

Q    Hey.  Thank you for doing this.  A couple of questions.  First, to
go back to the pier: Yesterday at the briefing, the folks at DOD were
calling this “mission complete.”  And so, hoping you can say more if
that’s your assessment as well, and also where you think things stand
right now in terms of what Israel is doing to bring aid in.  Are they
doing better?  You know, you’re going through Ashdod now, so does that
mean that you guys are feeling that Israel is being cooperative?

And then also, there’s reports that I’m just seeing now about Brett
McGurk in the Middle East, and so I’m hoping you can speak about what
he’s doing there.

MR. KIRBY:  Brett is traveling in the region, primarily stops in UAE and
Jordan.  Not unusual for Brett to travel to the Middle East.  Of course,
that’s kind of his job.  So he’s in and out all the time.

On mission complete, “mission complete” meaning the temporary pier, that
the work of using and deploying the temporary period is over.  And it’ll
be disassembled and retrograded, as we say in the military, back to the
United States or back to wherever it came from.  But that’s what
“mission complete.” 

What is not complete, as I tried to allude to in my topper, is the
effort to get humanitarian assistance into Gaza and to work hard to find
— to not only identify additional avenues to do that, but to
reinvigorate those avenues that are open.  And as I said in my opening
statement, the use of the pier gave us time and space not only to make
Ashdod now an acceptable alternative for the reception of goods coming
from Cyprus, but also working with the Israelis to open up additional
crossings.  As I said, we got a couple of hundred trucks that are going
in every day; not enough. 

And so, to your second question about whether Israel is being
cooperative or not, they have been.  And we have every expectation that
they’ll continue to be.

But we’re not resting on laurels here.  We’re going to continue to work
with them every single day to increase the flow of ground traffic into
Gaza to try to get it above what we’re achieving now — about 200 trucks
a day. 

And if you don’t mind, I’ll take this opportunity to underscore, again,
why the ceasefire deal matters so much and why we’re still working so
hard on that, because that can give you, at least in phase one, six
weeks of calm, no fighting in Gaza, which will dramatically improve the
confidence level of aid workers and truck drivers to move around inside
Gaza, because it won’t be a combat zone. 

So all of this ties into the efforts that we’re working so hard —
working so hard on to secure the ceasefire.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nathan with KAN.

Q    Hi.  I hope you can hear me now.  I wanted to go back to President
Biden.  Given the fact that he is so involved right now with his
political campaign and that he’s not feeling well, can you reassure
people in the Middle East — can you commit to the fact that he is still
fully involved in the issue of the Gaza war, of the hostage deal?  Is
there any attempt to pass that on to someone else in the administration,
or is the President involved directly in that?

MR. KIRBY:  Of course, he is.  Of course, he is.

And the fact that he’s got mild COVID symptoms and the fact that he’s
obviously running for reelection doesn’t obviate his responsibilities as
Commander-in-Chief or his leadership over

the national security team, here at the NSC or throughout the
interagency.  All of that remains absolutely 100 percent in place. 

And as I said earlier, even though he’s home recovering from COVID, his
team is keeping him up to date and up to speed as appropriate.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Jonathan with Nine
Australia.

Q    Can you guys hear me there okay?

MODERATOR:  Yep, we can.

Q    Thanks very much, Admiral.  I just wanted to ask you, in relation
to how it impacts national security and the administration as a whole,
there’s reports in the Washington Post that Barack Obama is talking to
allies about his concern over the President’s path to victory.  How do
reports like these, like the ones we’ve seen about Chuck Schumer and
Nancy Pelosi, how does that impact the day-to-day work of the
administration?  And what was the President’s mindset the last time you
spoke with him?  Thank you. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about my personal conversations with
the President.  I would never do that.

And I can’t confirm or speak to reports that you’re alluding to in terms
of what former officials may or may not be talking to allies about. 

I think the way I’d approach this is just based on, you know, our
experience last week at the NATO Summit, where leader after leader
approached President Biden and thanked him for his leadership, thanked
him for the way that he helped pull NATO together and advance NATO’s
capabilities, including increasing in size now by two extra countries.

Leader after leader expressing even more broadly how important American
leadership is on the world stage, not just in the Alliance but across
the globe. 

I mean, you had four countries that weren’t even — that aren’t NATO
partners, from the Indo-Pacific, coming to that NATO Summit.  You had
President Zelenskyy there.  It was a demonstration of how much U.S.
leadership actually matters.  And as the President said, it’s not just
American leadership; our partnerships matter. 

And this is a president who believes in those partnerships, believes in
those alliances, and has invested an incredible amount of energy over
the last three and a half years in strengthening them and making them
stronger. 

And so, I think it was on display for everybody to see that the
President’s approach to alliances and partnerships not only is
appreciated and respected around the world, it’s needed.  And he has
every expectation that he’ll continue to lead in that regard.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll try Lara one more time, and then we have
to close it out.

Q    Hey, can you guys hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep, we can. 

Q    Okay, good.  So, two questions.  First, on the pier.  Is Ashdod
really a viable alternative to the pier?  My understanding is only 40
trucks a day are getting through the Erez Crossing.  So if you could
address that, that would be helpful. 

And then secondly, has the administration discussed the Israeli strike
against Mohammed Deif the other day, that used 2,000-pound bombs and
killed scores of civilians, with the Israelis?  Is this in line with
producing civilian harm?

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question: Yes.

On your second question: Have we discussed their airstrike targeting
Mohammed Deif?  Yes, of course, we have discussed that with them.  I’m
not going to detail the discussions or talk about what the Israelis have
briefed us or not briefed us.  They can speak to their operations as
appropriate.

And, look, the reports of civilian casualties obviously give us great
concern.  We have said time and time again the number of civilian
casualties as appropriate in any operation is zero.  We understand that
that’s a difficult benchmark to meet, particularly in a populated area
like Gaza, but that doesn’t mean that our expectations for the Israelis
aren’t that they’re going to try to have zero.  And that’s not a new
conversation.  We’ve been having that with them for a very, very long
time now. 

But I’m not going to detail what the Israelis have shared with us about
that strike in particular or how they executed it.  They should speak to
their operations.

Q    Is there a sense that the operation was disproportionate,
especially since they did not even get the target?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to go any further than I just did there,
Lara.  We continue to talk to the Israelis about their operations.  We
continue to make sure that they have what they need to defend
themselves.  And we will continue, as we have, to stress that they do so
in the most discriminant and careful of ways when it comes to causing
civilian casualties.

Q    And on the pier: Do you acknowledge that sending it through Ashdod
is going to drastically reduce the amount of aid that goes through?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s going to be an added development.  I mean, you know —
look, I think what we want is to be — get caught trying here when it
comes to getting aid into Gaza.  And we never said the pier was going to
be a panacea for everything.  We said it was going to be hard.  We said
it was going to be — that there were going to be physical limitations in
the amount of cargo that could flow across that pier.  And you know
what?  It turns out there was. 

Ashdod is not a panacea.  Ashdod is not going to fix every humanitarian
assistance problem in Gaza.  But it’s going to be additive; it’s going
to give us another way, another venue, another vehicle to get aid in. 
And it’s going to particularly be valuable in terms of facilitating the
flow from Cyprus.  Because now, because of the temporary pier, we’ve now
established this process in Cyprus that we don’t want to let go of; we
want to stay and keep that going.  And Ashdod gives us a way — a
terminus, if you will — for the humanitarian assistance that will be
flowing in and out of Cyprus. 

So, all that’s to the good.  All that’s to the additive.  All that’s to
the positive.  And it doesn’t obviate or take away the fact that we
still need the additional crossings that the Israelis have opened to
stay open.  It doesn’t reduce the need to continue to work with the
Israelis to increase the flow of trucks across those new crossings.  It
doesn’t take away our desire to see the Rafah crossing back open again —
in the question I got before.  And, if I might, it doesn’t take away any
sense of energy or effort that we’re applying to get this ceasefire deal
in place.  Because, my goodness, if you can get six weeks of no
fighting, man, you can make a big difference in terms of moving trucks
around in Gaza. 

So all of those things are going to continue.  Ashdod will be added to
that effort, but it’s not going to be — not going to be some big, old
Band-Aid that’s going to solve all the problems.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone, for joining.  As
always, if we weren’t able to get to you, feel free to reach out to our
distro.  Thanks.

12:50 P.M. EDT
