---
date: '2024-07-05'
modified_time: 2024-07-06 00:34:05-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-05 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/05/background-press-call-previewing-the-nato-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the NATO\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:51 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, and thank you all for joining us today for
our NSC background call to preview the NATO Summit. 

As a reminder of the ground rules, this call is being held on background
with the contents attributable to a senior administration official.

For your awareness, but not for your reporting, our speaker today is
\[senior administration official\].

The contents of this call will be embargoed until the call concludes. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to our senior administration official for
some opening remarks, followed by Q&A.  If you’d like to ask a question,
would just ask you to please indicate so by raising your hand via the
Zoom feature.

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks.  And it’s good to be
with all of you.

President Biden is looking forward to hosting the leaders of our 31 NATO
Allies, as well as a number of our NATO partners, next week in
Washington for a historic summit to mark the 75th anniversary of NATO’s
founding. 

I’m going to go over the schedule in a minute, but I first want to take
some time to discuss the context in which NATO leaders will be gathering
at such an important moment in transatlantic security.

For 75 years, NATO has kept America and the world safer.  NATO is the
strongest defensive alliance in history, and it’s been truly
indispensable to Euro-Atlantic security, deterring threats to the United
States and our allies. 

Today, our Alliance is larger, stronger, better resourced, and more
united than ever before, and that’s in large part due to President
Biden’s effort over these last three years. 

When President Biden assumed office, he made it his mission to restore
America’s standing on the world stage and revitalize and rebuild our
alliances and partnerships, most especially NATO.  He’s worked to expand
the Alliance by welcoming two new members, Sweden and Finland.  And he
rallied the Alliance to build a global coalition to respond to Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, which has shattered peace in Europe and shaken the
rules-based international order, posing the greatest threat to
transatlantic security in decades, if not longer. 

Under President Biden’s leadership, the United States and our NATO
Allies provided critical support to Ukraine and enhanced our global
partnerships.  NATO Allies are also making significant investments in
our own defense and deterrence capabilities. 

When the Biden-Harris administration took office, only nine Allies were
spending at least 2 percent of their GDP on defense.  Today, a record 23
NATO Allies are at or above the minimum level of 2 percent of GDP for
defense spending, more than twice as many as in 2021 and nearly eight
times higher than when Allies first set the 2 percent benchmark a decade
ago. 

Cumulative defense spending for European Allies is also collectively
exceeding the 2 percent spending mark for the first time, and these
numbers will continue to improve. 

Our Allies are not just spending more on their defense, they’re also
spending more on American platforms and munitions.  This spending is
helping to revitalize production lines across the country and securing
jobs for American workers. 

We’re manufacturing weapons that improve our military readiness and make
the United States and its allies more secure while at the same time
strengthening our economy.  This is something you’re going to hear more
about from us on Tuesday afternoon, when Jake Sullivan addresses the
Defense Industry Forum ahead of the summit. 

Next week, you’ll also see a strong demonstration of U.S. and Allied
support for Ukraine.  Allies will reaffirm that Ukraine’s future is in
NATO; will make significant new announcements about how we’re increasing
NATO’s military, political, and financial support for Ukraine.  This is
part of Ukraine’s “bridge to NATO.” 

And on the sidelines of the summit, President Biden will host an event
with President Zelenskyy and nearly two dozen other Alli- — excuse me,
and nearly two dozen of our Allies and partners who’ve signed bilateral
security agreements with Ukraine, which, of course, President Biden did
last month for the United States while at the G7 Summit in Italy. 

The United States will also announce new steps to strengthen Ukraine’s
air defenses and military capabilities to help Ukraine continue to
defend themselves today and to deter Russian aggression into the
future. 

Together, the Washington Summit will send a strong signal to Putin that
if he thinks he can outlast the coalition of countries supporting
Ukraine, he’s dead wrong. 

We’re also going to send an important message to the rest of the world,
including through our partnerships in the Indo-Pacific, as we stand
together united and in support of democratic values. 

Now, turning to the schedule, quickly I’ll go through some of the
topline highlights.  I know that many of you will be receiving a more
detailed schedule for the week with the exact timing and logistics
information, but let me just tick through a few items now. 

On Tuesday evening, President Biden will welcome NATO leaders, and he
and Dr. Biden will host a 75th anniversary commemoration event at the
Mellon Auditorium, which is the site of the original signing of the
North Atlantic Treaty, which of course established NATO on April 4,
1949.  It’s also the site of the 1999 50th anniversary commemorative
event hosted by President Clinton. 

On Wednesday, the President will welcome Sweden as the newest member of
the Alliance at a meeting of NATO’s 32 Allies.  And that evening, he and
Dr. Biden will host NATO leaders for a dinner at the White House. 

On Thursday morning, NATO will hold a meeting with the EU and with
NATO’s Indo-Pacific partners — that’s Australia, Japan, the Republic of
Korea, and New Zealand — to deepen our cooperation.

In the afternoon, also Thursday, there’ll be a meeting of the
NATO-Ukraine Council, after which the President will host an event with
nearly two dozen Allies and partners who have negotiated and signed
bilateral security agreements with Ukraine, which is the event that I
mentioned earlier. 

After that, the President will hold a press conference and take
questions from the media. 

And while the President will have quite a busy schedule given his
commitment as the host of the summit, we’re working to set up several
bilats and meetings with various world leaders on the margins of the
summit, including President Zelenskyy, again, as I mentioned earlier. 
And we’ll have more information on those to share in the coming days. 

So with that, I’m happy to turn to your questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you so much.  For our first question we’ll go
to Aamer Madhani with the Associated Press.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, Sean.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\]. 
Two things.  On the air defense announcement, what specifically will the
President be announcing?  Will this be on Patriots?  And if so, where
will those Patriots be coming?

And then secondly, more broadly, how will the President be addressing
with the other leaders their concerns about, you know, the elephant in
the room, about his performance at the debate and whether, you know,
just more broadly, that he remains up to the job?

And then finally, you know, I know these summits are busy, but this one
seems busier than usual.  A packed schedule for President Biden.  Is
this extra packed because the President wants to show that he has the
vigor and stamina to do these things?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  So, a three-part question. 

On air defenses: This is part of a number of historic and far-reaching
deliverables for Ukraine that we’ll be announcing at the summit.  So we,
together with some of our Allies, will be highlighting our support for
Ukraine’s air defenses.  I have more — or we will have more to share
with you in the coming days about how our Allies are continuing to work
to strengthen Ukraine through various military, political, and economic
support.  So, stay tuned on the specifics, but this is one of a number
of areas where we’re going to be looking to announce significant
enhancements for Ukraine’s defense capabilities. 

Look, on the second question you asked, I mean, here’s what I’ll say:
Look, foreign leaders have seen Joe Biden up close and personal for the
last three years.  They know who they’re dealing with, and, you know,
they know how effective he’s been.  What the President has done over the
last three years is to reinvigorate the NATO Alliance, including
expanding it, making it more capable.  He has stood up to President
Putin’s unprecedented aggression against Ukraine by mobilizing a
coalition of — minimum of 50 Allies and partners to provide capabilities
to Ukraine.  And he has worked to invigorate our partnerships around the
world, including in the Indo-Pacific and in other regions.  So, I’m just
going to leave it at that. 

And of course, the schedule has been planned for a long time in advance,
and it is fairly characteristic of NATO Summit events.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  For our next question we’ll go to Nick Schifrin
from PBS.

Q    Can you talk about the efforts to help Ukraine in the long term? 
Obviously, their defenses, weapons are designed both for defense, as you
put it, and deterrence in the long term.  What are the priorities in
terms of giving Ukraine structure with NATO that can outlast the U.S.
election?  And to be even more blunt, are any of these efforts — how
many of these efforts are to essentially Trump-proof Western support for
Ukraine?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the question.  So, as
you rightly said, a lot of the defense capabilities that we’re currently
surging to Ukraine are designed to enhance Ukraine’s short-term efforts
to defend itself.  But the longer-term effort is what we’re calling the
“bridge to membership,” which includes the Ukraine deliverable that
we’ll be announcing at the NATO Summit, which will help Ukraine with
training coordination, equipment coordination, logistics, force
development.  It will have a political overlay to it, which will focus
on defense institution building and interoperability with NATO.  And
it’ll have a financial pledge associated with it as well. 

And so, all of that is precisely designed to help NATO — or to help
Ukraine, via NATO, to build its future force.  Right?   And so, in
combination with the, we expect, over 20 eventually, maybe even 30,
bilateral security agreements that NATO Allies and other partners around
the world signed with Ukraine, this is part of the effort to
institutionalize this longer-term trajectory for Ukraine’s armed forces
but also for its larger defense enterprise to include its defense
industry, to include the institutions that make up the Ministry of
Defense so that when there is consensus among the 32 Allies for Ukraine
to join the Alliance, Ukraine is ready — truly ready on day one to plug
and play with the rest of the Alliance. 

So that is, in brief, how we’re looking at this bridge to membership
that we’ll be unveiling at the summit.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  For our next question we’ll go with Jenny
Hansler from CNN.

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for joining the call.  I appreciate it.  You
keep referencing a bridge.  I assume that means that the irreversible
language for Ukraine’s path to NATO is not going to be included in the
leaders’ statement.  Is that correct?

And then, more broadly, on sort of future-proofing NATO, we saw Viktor
Orban in Moscow today talking about peace plans with Putin.  How are the
Allies going to confront this challenge from not only a potential future
President of the United States, but also members of the Alliance that
are already in power?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, sure.  So let me take your second
question first. 

So we’re concerned that Prime Minister Orban would choose to take this
trip to Moscow, which will neither advance the cause of peace nor will
it promote Ukraine’s sovereignty, territorial integrity, and
independence. 

Look, at the end of the day, we believe that Russia could end this war
today by ceasing its aggression against Ukraine.  So I’ll just stop
there on that part of your question. 

On the question of the language: Look, I expect that the summit
declaration, which is still being negotiated — or at least the final
pieces of it are being negotiated — will include very strong signals of
Allied support for Ukraine on its path to Euro-Atlantic integration. 
And it’s going to also underscore the importance of Ukraine’s vital work
on democratic, economic, and security reforms. 

The declaration will, as I already mentioned, also reference NATO’s
efforts to support Ukraine as part of this bridge to membership. 

So, look, I don’t want to get ahead of what appears in the communiqué,
but I think we’re going to have very strong language that testifies to
what the President has said before, which is that — and I’m going to
quote him now — quote, “I believe that Ukraine can get there.”  And,
quote, “It’s not about whether or not they should or shouldn’t join. 
It’s about when they can join.  And they will join NATO.”  End quote. 
So that’s the President.  And I think the declaration will amplify that
sentiment.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  For our next question we’ll go with Alex Ward
from Politico.

Q    Yeah, thanks.  Very quickly, just to put a fine point on it — and
sorry for going into politics too much — but will the President be
hosting any events that go beyond 8:00 p.m.?  That’s one question. 

And then, will there be any movement on commitments for F-16s? 

And also, what kind of conversations have you had with the Ukrainians to
avoid a Vilnius-like dustup that we saw last year in terms of, you know,
here’s what you’re getting, so, you know, there’s no anger about not
seeing the irreversible language or anything like that?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, off the top of my head, I’m
not familiar with when each of the various events and the dinners is
ending.

On the F-16s, as you know, the United States has for more than a year
now been training Ukrainian pilots on the F-16 platform.  And we’ve been
making good progress, and I expect that we’re going to have more to
announce on this next week. 

And then, I’m sorry, what was the third part of your — oh, Vilnius. 

Look, we’ve been in constant communication with our Ukrainian partners
as we have with all of our Allies.  And what I described in terms of the
bridge to membership and the deliverable that NATO will be unveiling for
Ukraine is quite substantial.  I mean, we’re not talking about some sort
of plan for how they’re going to get from here to there.  We’re talking
about standing up an entire command at Wiesbaden that will look at how
we do these various pieces that I mentioned earlier of trading
coordination, equipping coordination, logistics, force development. 
This is a very serious effort to get Ukraine in a position, as I said
earlier, where it will be ready to assume its roles and responsibilities
within the Alliance on day one. 

And I think — you know, I’ll let the Ukrainians speak for themselves,
but I think they understand the value of what NATO will be doing for
them.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And, Alex, just on the logistics piece, we will
have FPPO guidance going out to you all in the next couple of days, but
the answer to your question about events going past 8:00 p.m. is yes.

Next, we’ll go to Michael Birnbaum with the Washington Post.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I wondered — you know, we’re having a
summit of leaders who — many of whom are pretty weak at the moment. 
Macron is going to be coming fresh off his second-round parliamentary
results.  Scholz has a growing far-right in his country.  Keir Starmer
is brand new.  And President Biden is, you know, whatever he’s dealing
with. 

How does that impact the summit?  I mean, I know this is an emphasis on
celebration and strength, but what kind of message does that general
weakness send to NATO adversaries?

And I was wondering if there’s anything you could tell us about the
negotiations right now or the communiqué.  It sounds as though they’re
still in motion.  How close are you?  And what are the biggest sticking
points right now that you’re still haggling over?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, Michael, first of all, I’m going to
challenge your presupposition here, which is that leaders of the
Alliance, or at least some that you referenced, are somehow weaker.  I
think there are any number of leaders in the Alliance that are extremely
popular, that are very strong, delivering for the Alliance, delivering
for Ukraine, delivering for our transatlantic defense industrial base. 
I think you see that in a range of countries.  So I just don’t buy it. 

I think, collectively, the Alliance is, of course, stronger, more
capable of deterrence and defense, better postured with more precise
planning that is aligned to its strategic vision and the strategic
concept that was unveiled a few years ago. 

So I think the Alliance is in great shape.  I think the leadership of
the Alliance — something I also forgot to mention at the top, which is
that we have consensus on a new Secretary General, which is fantastic. 
We’ve had a very, very strong leader in Jens Stoltenberg over these last
10 years.  But I just don’t see how leaders within the Alliance are
somehow weakened.  So, just future premise there. 

On the communiqué, look, I’m not going to get into the details of
diplomatic conversations behind closed doors.  I will say that I think
we’re very close on almost all of it.  So just typical last-minute
discussions of a few paragraphs in the communiqué, and we should be done
soon.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We have time for a couple more.  We’ll go to Ed
Wong with the New York Times. 

Q    Hi, thank you.  I have two questions.  One is: Obviously, a lot of
NATO leaders are worried about the prospect of a Trump presidency.  We
know what he said about cutting off aid to Ukraine as well as
withdrawing the U.S. from NATO.  What will you do in this summit, in
terms of actions, to try and reassure the NATO Allies?

The second thing is: You’re obviously having a meeting with the eight
leaders of the Asia Pacific nations.  NATO has been more forceful in its
language on China in some of its recent statements.  But what actions —
concrete actions — will we take coming out of the summit on China,
especially given the recent emphasis on the Russia-China nexus where
China is helping rebuild Russia’s defense industrial base, in your
assessment?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  All right, Ed.  Well, one of the
benefits of my job is I don’t do politics, so I’m going to leave that
aside. 

What I will say, while I have the mic, is that we have NATO Allies that
are fully committed to the Alliance.  As I pointed out at the top, in my
opening remarks, we’ve gone from having nine Allies spending 2 percent
of GDP on defense, at the start of this administration, to 23 spending 2
percent of GDP on defense today.  That direction of travel is
significant. 

And just since — to put a dollar figure on it — just since 2020, NATO
collectively has spent an additional $180 billion, so — on a yearly
basis.

So, look, I think there’s a lot that’s going on.  On your — that is
positive, that shows positive trajectory for the Alliance, also
reassurance for our eastern flank allies in terms of the capabilities
that we’re positioning in the east. 

On the Indo-Pacific element of your question, I will say that the draft
communiqué text on the PRC I think is very solid.  You’ll see that when
it’s unveiled. 

And of course, we’ve got the North Atlantic Council meeting with the EU
and Indo-Pacific partners, which will also take up this critical issue,
which you rightly pointed to, of the PRC’s support for the Russian
defense industrial base, with something like 90 percent of Russia’s
semiconductors coming from the PRC; 70 percent of its nitrocellulose,
which is used for propellants — and a lot of it’s optics, machine tools,
et cetera — all of this not only fueling Russia’s war against Ukraine
but also creating a long-term challenge for European security that,
obviously, our Allies recognize.  And so we will have, I think, strong
language on this to address.

But also, I will say that we’ve got some new projects that we’re going
to be talking about at the summit with our Indo-Pacific partners on
resilience.  So, resilience in the region; supporting Ukraine, as I
mentioned; countering disinformation; cyber; and then also on tech
cooperation, emerging technologies. 

So, yeah, I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  I think we have time for about two more questions.  I will
go to Fraser Jackson with France 24.

Q    Thank you, Sean.  I read the readout of POTUS’s call with the new
British Prime Minister, Starmer, earlier.  I just wanted to know whether
there’s been a date confirmed for a bilateral meeting between them yet. 

And secondly, Mark Rutte takes over the Secretary General role on
October 1st.  We’re not expecting any formal engagement from him in that
role during the summit, but will he be meeting with President Biden to
discuss his upcoming tenure?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I don’t have any bilats to
announce today.  But you’re right that the President had a very
constructive and productive call with Prime Minister Starmer earlier
today, in which they talked about the importance of the special
relationship.  They talked about our cooperation on Ukraine, around the
world, including on upholding the gains of the Belfast or Good Friday
Agreement.  So, very good, productive conversation there.  I fully
expect that the leaders will interact at some point during the summit,
but I don’t have anything to announce for you today. 

And on Mark Rutte — similarly, we welcome, of course, the consensus
around Mark Rutte as the new Secretary General to take over on October
1st, but I don’t have anything to announce in terms of meetings with
President Biden in the coming future.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll next go to Marek from Polskie Radio.

Q    Thank you, Sean.  Hello, \[senior administration official\]. 
Polish President Duda said that during the summit he would push NATO to
increase the spending threshold from 2 percent to 3 percent GDP.  So, my
question is: Is it going to be a topic of the discussion?  And can we
expect any decision on that?

And also, are you concerned that this idea, this proposition may
undermine the message of the NATO Summit, which is a success, and change
the narrative from NATO members are stepping up, paying more and more,
to a different narrative which is Europe doesn’t pay, which is former
President Trump’s narrative?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, thanks, Marek.  Look, I’m not
concerned about the narrative.  I think, obviously, any NATO Ally is
welcome to come to the table and articulate whatever points they want to
make.  And the reality is that some Allies are spending well upwards of
2 percent of GDP on defense; some are spending as much as 3, 4 percent,
or even higher. 

Obviously, different Allies have different circumstances.  We’re going
to continue to press for equitable burden sharing and for credible plans
from all Allies that haven’t yet met the 2 percent commitment to be able
to reach that commitment as soon as possible in the coming years.  And I
think a number of Allies will come to the table with credible plans for
achieving that benchmark in the near-term future. 

Look, it’s something that it’s natural and normal for Allies to have
this conversation, to hold each other’s feet to the fire.  I expect that
to continue, and I expect Allies to continue to resource the strongest
alliance in history that is contributing so much to deterrence and
defense in the Euro-Atlantic area.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And we have time for one final question.  We’ll
go to Paris from VOA.  And, Paris, over to you.

Q    Thank you very much for doing this.  So, follow-up on the question
on the Indo-Pacific.  Of course, you mentioned about there’s going to be
strong language regarding that China is fueling Putin’s war machine. 
But I’m also wondering, of course, the reason that you invited
Indo-Pacific allies — Japan, Australia, South Korea — to join is
President Biden is going to establish a coalition with NATO and those
allies to counter China’s threat, not just its efforts to help Russia
but also in the region, in the Indo Pacific region, including South
China Sea, (inaudible) in Taiwan, and also China’s economic conduct that
also trouble European and NATO Allies.

And can you also preview a little bit just what kind of strong message
that is expected to be sending in the agreement, you know, what the
language in the joint statement to China?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so let me just say that the
events with the partner countries, with the Indo-Pacific partners
specifically, that the North Atlantic Council meeting at the leaders’
level will also include the EU.  So, we’re bringing together our closest
— or some of our closest non-NATO partners to have a discussion around
issues like resilience and cyber disinformation, technology and the
like. 

In terms of deterrence and defense, of course NATO is focused on the
Euro-Atlantic area, and that’s where its capabilities are being
deployed.  And so, not in the Indo-Pacific.

But the United States has a range of partnerships with countries around
the world, which you might call variable geometry, with different
partners including in the Indo-Pacific.  And this particular grouping of
the IP4, as we call them in NATO lingo — Australia, Japan, New Zealand,
ROK — these are some of our closest partners that we work with in the
region. 

So I think I’ll leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you very much.  And thank you, everyone, for
your questions.  That is all the time we have for today.

As a reminder of the ground rules, this call was held on background,
with the contents attributable to a senior administration official.  The
embargo on the call is now lifted.  Thank you so much, and hope everyone
has a wonderful day.

    4:22 P.M. EDT
