---
date: '2024-07-15'
modified_time: 2024-07-16 15:18:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-15 18:16:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-new-actions-to-make-renting-more-affordable-for-millions-of-americans/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on New Actions to\
  \ Make Renting More Affordable for Millions of\_Americans"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:26 P.M. EDT

MR. EDWARDS:  Hi.  Thank you for joining us this afternoon.  My name is
Jeremy Edwards.  I’m with the White House Press Office. 

In a moment, you’re going to be hearing from several speakers about new
actions we will be announcing tomorrow to make rents more affordable for
millions of Americans that the president will announce.

Today, you’re going to be hearing from National Economic Adviser Lael
Brainard, Domestic Policy Adviser Neera Tanden, and Congressional Black
Caucus Chairman Steven Horsford from Nevada.  After those opening
remarks, we’re going to switch to a Q&A that will be on background and
that — attribution for that portion will be to a “senior administration
official” who will be participating in the Q&A. 

With that being said, we are going to jump in.  But before so, I just
wanted to make sure that folks are reminded that this call and its
contents and the background materials you receive will be embargoed
until tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.  That’s tomorrow 5:00 a.m. is when the
embargo lifts.

All right, and with that, I’ll kick it over to National Economic Adviser
Lael Brainard. 

MS. BRAINARD:  Thank you.  And thanks to everyone for joining us. 

President Biden knows that high rents are making it hard for young
people to set out on their own and for families to live near good jobs
and good schools.  One third of Americans are renters, and the share of
renters is even higher for young people and for lower-income
households. 

In places like Las Vegas, institutional investors are buying up homes
with cash, turning them into rentals and raising rents.  Some corporate
landlords are raising rents by more than their costs, expanding their
profits at a time when millions of Americans are struggling to cover
rent each month. 

To address the high cost of rent, the president believes that corporate
landlords should either cap their rent increases to no more than 5
percent or lose their special tax breaks.  This would apply to landlords
with over 50 units in their portfolio, who account for roughly half of
the rental market. 

Under this policy, only corporate landlords that keep annual rent
increases to no more than 5 percent for the next two years would be able
to take the faster depreciation write-offs that all owners of rental
housing currently benefit from. 

This policy wouldn’t affect new construction and units that have
recently undergone substantial rehabilitation so as not to discourage
new supply. 

The proposal to condition corporate landlords’ tax breaks on capping
rent increases builds on actions the administration is taking to make
rents more affordable.  The administration is capping rent increases on
the rental units financed with federal tax credits, cracking down on
price-fixing by landlords that use special software to raise rents, and
banning misleading and hidden rental junk fees like move-in fees. 

And the president’s budgets and American Rescue Plan have contributed to
the largest issuance of new Housing Choice Vouchers in decades. 

The president previously announced a plan to address the high cost of
homeownership through a mortgage relief tax credit for two years.  The
cap on rent increases would be in place for two years and serve as a
bridge until more housing units are built and housing units currently
under construction become available. 

The president’s housing agenda prioritizes building more new units to
bring down the cost of housing over time.  Already, state and local
governments have invested nearly $20 billion from the American Rescue
Plan’s State and Local Fiscal Recovery Fund for housing.  And those
federal investments have contributed to the 1.7 million housing units
under construction, which is a 50-year high. 

In what experts have called “the most consequential” housing plan and
more than 50 years,” the president has called for the construction of 2
million new affordable units across the country. 

The Senate could get started on the first 200,000 new units right away
by passing the tax legislation that had strong bipartisan support in the
House.  But we can’t afford to simply wait for Congress to act.  The
administration is using all available tools and taking a number of new
steps to unlock more affordable units. 

And I will pass to Director Tanden to discuss these new actions. 

MS. TANDEN:  Thanks so much, Lael.  As noted, the Biden-Harris
administration is focused — seriously focused on bringing down rental
and housing costs for good.  And we know they have to rapidly boost
supply of affordable housing to do that. 

That’s why the President likes to characterize his plan as “build,
build, build.”  And we know that we’re already making major progress
across the country.  More units are under construction during this
administration than in the last 50 years.  And the rate of new housing
starts is up 17 percent compared to the previous administration.

But we do know we need to do a lot more.  The cost of rent and housing
is too high.  That’s why the president has put forward what experts
call, and as Lael just said, “the most consequential” housing plan in a
generation.  And we’re very focused on — on the fact that it will build
2 million new affordable homes across the country. 

Congress needs to pass the president’s plan now.  It has critically
important proposals, and it’s — some that he’s outlined in the 2025
budget, including the $20 billion Housing Innovation Fund, as well as
additional low-income housing tax credits.  Both of these combined can
really drive additional housing, which we — we know we need. 

Today, we are announcing a new government-wide effort to repurpose
federal land and other properties to build more affordable housing. 
This is a crucial component of our agenda.  The federal government is
the biggest landowner in the country, and some of its land is currently
underutilized or entirely unused. 

The president is asking federal agencies from the Department of the
Interior to the Department of Defense to identify opportunities to
repurpose surplus property to build more affordable housing.  We know
this is a critical national need and that is why it is this priority
across agencies. 

I do want to say agencies are already taking action.  And I’m pleased to
announce that today the Bureau of Land Management is announcing
forthcoming sales under the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management
Action Program, the biggest-ever sales under the program, which will
create hundreds of affordable units for sale and for rent. 

And BLM is now working with local governments in Southern Nevada on an
additional 562 acres that have been identified as to appropriate for
housing, which could support an additional 15,000 affordable units or
more in Southern Nevada. 

We are — the federal government is the biggest landowner in the country,
and some of its land is currently underutilized or entirely unused as I
said.  The president is asking federal agencies to address this
problem.  BLM is now working with local governments in Southern Nevada
on additional support, as I noted, and that the Biden-Harris
administration is also calling on state and local governments and other
public entities to follow our lead and consider whether land they hold
may be suitable for housing development. 

The opportunity is massive.  New analysis released today estimates the
development potential of underutilized state and local government plant
— land near transit — transit locations at roughly 1.9 million units. 

Additionally, tomorrow, HUD is announcing $325 million in Choice
Neighborhoods Implementation Grants, which is funding to communities
across the country to build more homes and revitalize neighborhoods that
have been left behind.  That funding will go towards Choice
Neighborhoods.  They — this funding goes to the largest place-based
program that exists within the federal government. 

Choice Neighborhoods — the Choice Neighborhoods program has transformed
communities nationwide.  With each year’s annual appropriations, HUD is
looking to expand the program’s reach to as many communities as
possible. 

So, with that, we are thrilled with the work that has been undertaken. 
The private and public sector are stepping up, but it is really critical
that we move this ball forward.  And that is why the president is
excited about making these announcements tomorrow.  And Las Vegas Choice
Neighborhoods funding will help provide low-income housing along the
historic Jackson Avenue strip. 

And as I said, our focus is on “building, building, building” additional
units.  This will continue to be a major focus for the administration in
the weeks and months ahead as we do everything we can to build more
housing and lower housing costs. 

And with that, I am pleased to turn it over to a great leader and my
friend, Congressman Steve Horsford. 

REPRESENTATIVE HORSFORD:  Thank you so much, Director Tanden.  It’s
great to be on with you.  And, Lael Brainard, thank you for your
leadership and work on this as well. 

And good afternoon, everybody.  I’m Congressman Steven Horsford.  I’m
proud to represent Nevada’s 4th Congressional District.  And I
appreciate very much the opportunity to discuss just how important these
housing announcements are and its impact to my constituents here in
Nevada’s 4th District. 

Now, we know housing is a fundamental issue that affects all aspects of
our lives, from economic stability, to health and education.  Today’s
announcement by President Biden is a significant step forward in
addressing the housing crisis here in Southern Nevada, as well as all
throughout the country. 

But we must continue to push for more comprehensive solutions to ensure
that everyone has a fair shot at being able to afford the rent — because
I agree with many of my constituents who think that “the rent is just
too damn high” — as well as to get in the position to own a home and to
live in a safe and secure environment. 

Now, President Biden is taking a stand against corporate landlords who
exploit the national housing shortage by raising rents unfairly.  The
president is calling on Congress to pass a law to cap rent increases at
5 percent.  Similar to some of the executive powers that were — that are
provided for in my bill, the HOME Act. 

This policy targets large landlords with more than 50 units and
encourages rent stabilization by making it less attractive for corporate
landlords to raise rents because they would lose valuable tax benefits
if they chose to do so. 

My HOME Act would give the president the fex- — flexibility to define a
housing emergency and to protect renters from the egregious price
increases that we’ve seen in the last few years. 

Also, the Federal Housing Finance Agency is working to implement new
renter protections, which I applaud, for properties that are financed by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  These include 30-day notices before
increases and lease expirations take effect and a 5-day grace period for
late fees.  These are essential renter protections that are also part of
my HOME Act, which aims to prevent unfair rent hikes and ensure basic
renter protections in federally backed properties. 

Our advocacy and dialogue with key stakeholders helped to make these
protections a reality, and I’m pleased that they’re included in today’s
announcement. 

I also want to commend the administration’s plan to include using
federal land to build thousands of affordable homes focusing here in
Nevada.  The largest-ever sale under SNPLMA, the Southern Nevada Public
Lands Management Act, will help Clark County develop nearly 150 homes,
and similar efforts that are pending in Henderson will provide nearly
300 affordable units. 

The Bureau of Land Management is considering over 562 acres of land to
be designated and prioritized for affordable housing here in Las Vegas. 
This could potentially support up to 15,000 more affordable units. 

I’ll continue working with local authorities and stakeholders to
identify and advocate for more land for housing because we know that
this is a top priority.  These are crucial steps that are being taken. 
And, again, we need quicker and more decisive action to free up public
land and to streamline the development process to meet our housing
needs. 

The administration will continue to work with us to provide the
resources that are necessary to ensure an accelerated transfer and
development of these lands. 

Finally, let me commend the work that’s being done around the Choice
Grants.  I’m excited that as part of a national award that, after years
of advocacy, the Department of Housing and Community Development has
awarded or will award $50 million to restore and expand Marble Manor in
the historic Westside neighborhood of Las Vegas. 

This is the neighborhood that I grew up in.  I have friends that lived
in — lived in and residents and constituents who live in Marble Manor
today.  This investment will restore 235 affordable units and build 400
more.  Let me say that again: It will restore 235 affordable units and
build 400 additional units. 

It will also fund infrastructure improvements: a co-op market, something
that we desperately need to address the food desert shortage of not
having adequate supermarkets in our neighborhood.  It will provide for a
preschool, additional parks, a health and wellness center, as well as
support business expansion and economic development. 

Our efforts have helped to bring an additional $212 million in public
and private resources for these projects — projects, showing that there
really is power in partnerships to revitalize our communities. 

This is not something that we can do through government alone.  But this
$50 million investment from the Choice Grants will definitely help us
advance these projects further. 

Finally, I’ll conclude by thanking the Biden-Harris administration and
their actions which reflect a broad approach to tackling the housing
crisis by building more homes, tapping rent increases, and investing in
community development. 

While today’s announcement is a big step, we will continue to work with
the administration to find other ways to take it executive action and
legislative support.  And I’m calling on my Republican colleagues on the
Financial Services Committee — I’m a member of that committee — to work
with the ranking member, Maxine Waters; the subcommittee ranking member,
Emanuel Cleaver; and myself to continue to support and to fully address
the housing shortage and affordability issues.  There’s a lot of good,
bipartisan bills that we could work on, even now, if Republicans would
come to the table. 

So, I remain committed to pushing for stronger measures and ensuring
that our community’s needs are met.  I’ve long called for an
all-of-government approach to confronting our housing crisis.  And I’ll
continue to utilize every tool that’s available to us to provide
Nevadans with the relief that they need. 

Today’s announcement is a victory for Nevada and a testament to what we
can achieve through persistent advocacy and collaboration.  Our work is
far from done, but I look forward to the partnership with the
Biden-Harris administration and those of us who see affordable housing
as a priority for all Nevadans and Americans. 

So, thank you for allowing me to participate today. 

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you, Congressman.  With that, we’re going to turn
over into our background portion of the call for some Q&A. 

We have speakers who are from HUD, as well as NEC and DPC.

So, with that being said, please use your “hand raise” function.  We’ll
get a queue going, and we’ll get started I think in, like, 30 more
seconds.  Thanks.

All right.  Thank you, again.  Reminder that this is going to be on
background, attribution to “senior administration officials,” and that
this will also be embargoed until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow. 

So, with that, I am going to take our first question from Josh Boak with
the Associated Press.  Josh, you should be able to unmute.

Q    Hi.  It’s Josh Boak with AP.  Thanks again for doing this.  Could
you walk us through the timing of how this came together, and why now? 
Some affordability advocates say that had policies like this been in
place, you would have reduced homelessness post-pandemic, while some of
the industry look at this and say this is tied to election messaging.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, everyone.  It’s \[senior
administration official\].  I can take that.  So, as you know, we have
been deeply focused on this issue of housing affordability since the
president came to office.  It is one that has evolved in the time that
the president has been to office.  So, early in the administration, we
were deeply focused on doing everything possible to keep families in
their homes during the pandemic, a historical provision of rental
assistance and support to state and local governments to help keep
families in their homes.

We then, you know, really aggressively turned to the issue of building
more housing, you know, addressing the long-standing shortfall in
housing supply — in the supply of housing in this country both through
putting out a Housing Supply Action Plan that included concrete steps to
increase housing supply, administrative actions wherever we could take
them — things like improving the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit,
improving Rescue Plan funds to make it easier to use those to build
housing, including land use and zoning as important criteria that would
make it easier to get federal funding from the Department of
Transportation and other entities. 

And, you know, then, I think, really, to build on that, have focused on
what else we could do to help provide aspiring homeowners and renters
relief in a kind of bridge period as it takes time for that new supply
to come online.  So, one of the things you’ll see in today’s propo- — in
today’s proposal is it really is — we think of it as a bridge to, you
know, additional supply coming online: the 1.6 million units that are
under construction now, the 2 million units that would be built if the
pre- — if Congress passed the president’s proposal, and now this
legislative proposal that, you know, would be an important bridge to
that new supply coming online.

You know, this is an area that, you know, the — the president, in the
lead-up to the State of the Union, encouraged his team and asked his
team to do more on.  He spoke to housing issues in the State of the
Union and, since then, has continued to — to push the team to do more. 

This specific proposal is one that, you know, we’ve been working through
for several months.  The president has kind of teased at this issue
twice in the last several weeks.  So, this is not a new issue to us;
it’s one that we’ve been working through.  And, of course, the housing
issue generally is one that this administration has been deeply focused
on for three and a half years.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you for that response. 

Before we take our next question, I just want to note that we also have
a representative from the Bureau of Land Management on as well to be
helpful there as needed.

Our next question is going to come from Emily Peck from Axios.  Emily,
you should be able to unmute now.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Thanks for doing this.  I think you might have
already answered my question.  But just to be clear, the — the proposal
to cap rents for the next two years, that’s something you’re asking
Congress to do?  Is — do you have any indication that Congress would be
able to do something like that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, this is a legislative proposal. 
It would deny depreciation deductions over the next two years for
corporate landlords, so above 50 units — they hold — that hold above 50
units that are raising their rents by more than 5 percent. 

You know, this is an issue that is affecting households across the
country, families across the country.  Housing is an issue that we
absolutely must do something about. 

The president has put forward plans to build more housing.  This plan
goes along with that, and we think that Congress absolutely should be
taking action here.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\]. 

We’re going to go to Jeff Mason from Reuters.  Jeff, you should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q    Thanks so much.  Follow-up on Emily’s question.  So, just to
clarify, it’s a legislative proposal, but I think we all know that
there’s — it’s very unlikely that Congress is going to be doing anything
between now and November.  What gives you an- — other than saying they
should do it, what — what gives you any sort of sense that they will? 

And as a second question, can you just clarify the second part of the
proposal that you guys are walking us through?  Where does the money
come from for that, for the housing piece in — in Nevada?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take your second question first. 
So, the — the — of the announcements from today, the public lands piece
is administrative and then the — the money for — really, around the
country, but the specific $50 million piece for Nevada, that comes from
funds that were already appropriated by Congress. 

On the — on the first part of your question, you know, when the
president, you know, teased at this issue in Michigan on Friday, you
know, he laid out that this is a proposal that he would fight for in a
second term.  It’s one that we think Congress shouldn’t wait to act on. 
You know, we put out a budget every year that includes proposals that
really reflect the president’s vision and what we believe Congress
should be doing.  This is one of those proposals. 

I’ll leave to you all the precise chances for Congress acting now, for
Congress acting later. 

But I think the bottom line is that this issue of housing affordability
is one that is felt in communities across the country — urban, rural,
suburban, Democratic districts, Republican districts.  It’s one that we
need to do more on.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you.  Our next question is going to come from Brian
from NBC.  Brian, you should be able to unmute now.

Q    Thanks, Jeremy.  Thanks for doing this.  I wanted to ask just for a
little bit more just projections on what the impact of that cap would be
on landlords.  I was reading that, you know, it would apply to landlords
with over 50 units in their portfolio, covering more than 20 million
units across the country.  So, is 20 million units the estimate of how
many units would be affected by that cap or beholden to that cap?

And then is there any sort of other economic analysis — not asking for
an exact CBO score here — but just on, like, how much in aggregate this
could lower rental inflation in the United States?  Like, any estimate
on the economic impact of a cap like that being taken into effect? 
Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, the 20 million or the, you know,
somewhat less than half of all rental units nationwide, that’s held by,
you know, property owners with 50 or more units.  Look, our expect- —
our hope and our expectation would be that, you know, there wouldn’t be
a significant, you know, revenue raising here because — in terms of a
kind of CBO-type estimate — because landlords would comply with this. 

We — we’ve had a period of substantial rent increases in prior years. 
We have a lot of supply coming online.  We think there’s every reason
that landlords would comply with this proposal.  And that’s particularly
true if the depreciation deduction would be denied if they don’t. 

So, we don’t have a precise budgetary estimate.  But I think that this
is a choice — if landlords are faced with this choice in this next
two-year period, you know, many, many, and hopefully most landlords
would be compliant here.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thanks for that answer.  We’re going to go to Jacob from
Scripps.  Jacob, you should be able to unmute now.

Q    Thanks, Jeremy.  And thanks so much for all the folks doing this
call.  Just a couple of questions, one trying to get at something some
of the folks had asked about earlier and then another on a different
topic. 

You know, thinking about the feasibility of this proposal actually
having any sort of, you know, ability to become law through Congress,
does the president have any plans to perhaps, you know, use the bully
pulpit a little bit more?  Can you preview any conversations he may have
had or may have with lawmakers trying to push for action on this — the
proposal — the rent cap one, specifically? 

And then, secondly, just hoping you can provide a little bit of
background perhaps about this engagement you’ve had with stakeholders
thus far — both, you know, perhaps affordable housing advocates, also,
you know, developers and construction companies — and those who might
not be too happy with this.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, I’ll — I’ll take the second one
first. 

So, you know, as part of our policy development on housing in general,
we are, you know, consistently seeking advice and feedback from experts
that range from, you know, academic experts, to housing developers, to
renter and tenant advocates.  We — we’re in touch with a range of
expert- — experts across the spectrum in designing this proposal, as was
the case for our proposals to build 2 million units.  So, you know,
you’ll — you’ll see that, obviously, the idea of trying to put in place
a cap is one that a number of renter advocates have advocated for. 

We also — in consulting with industry, we’re really adamant in this
proposal to make sure we were exempting new construction, exempting
substantial rehabilitation, really emphasizing that this is a proposal
that’s paired with new supply proposals, because we wanted to make sure
— based on their feedback, but also the kind of economic needs out there
— that we weren’t having a negative impact on supply. 

On your first question, I don’t have any conversations to read out to
you on this proposal, specifically.  Obviously, he’ll announce it
tomorrow.  But, you know, we — we look forward to further conversations
on this proposal with key stakeholders, with members of Congress. 

You know, we will continue to advocate for additional investment in
housing.  We’ll continue to advocate for policies that lead to the
construction of more housing across the country.  And tomorrow, you’ll
hear from the president discussing that he thinks that this proposal
could be a really helpful bridge to getting to that additional supply.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].

We have time for a couple more questions.  So, I think we’re going to go
over to Elizabeth from ABC.  Elizabeth, you should be able to unmute
now.

Q    Thank you so much.  I just wanted to get at that question about the
practicality of this.  Have there been any conversations at this point
between the administration and members of Congress about how this could
get done?  Thank you so much — the rent cap, of course.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Again, I don’t have a specific
conversations to read out to you, but we are constantly — across the
administration, at the level of the president — have had, you know, many
conversations over the last months, in particular, on what more we can
do to address the housing affordability challenges that folks across the
country are — are experiencing.

MR. EDWARDS:  Thank you.  We’re going to go to Amy next from CBS.  Amy,
you should be able to unmute.

Q    Yeah, thanks.  Thanks for taking my question and hosting this
call.  I just wondered if you can talk a little bit more about the
faster depreciation that you’re targeting with this proposal.  I’m
wondering, you know, how much of a financial impact would this — losing
that really have on corporate landlords?  And why wouldn’t they just
say, “Well, you know, I can raise the rent 10 percent.  It will offset
losing that depreciation”?  Or, you know, is it not equal?  I’d love to
hear a little bit more about that. 

And, secondly, do you have any sense of whether corporate landlords have
been increasing their rents more than 5 percent a year on average in the
past few years?  I’d love to hear a little bit about that, too.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  (Inaudible.)

So, the second, obviously, you know, it depends.  There’s significant
(inaudible).

MR. EDWARDS:  Hey, \[senior administration official\].  \[senior
administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah?

MR. EDWARDS:  Sorry to jump in on you.  I — I just — I was getting,
like, a lot of feedback.  Yeah.  If you could — sorry.  Sorry, to jump
in late there, but I wasn’t — if you’re able to, like, fix your phone or
jump back into that question again, I think that would helpful for our
folks here.  Sorry.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Is this better?

MR. EDWARDS:  Not really.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  What about now?  What about now?

MR. EDWARDS:  That’s a little better.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  (Inaudible.)

MR. EDWARDS:  Yeah, I’m sorry — I’m sorry, but it’s still — it’s just
getting, like, robot voice. 

And we’re actually kind of towards time.  So, I think we can split the
diff, or if \[senior administration official\] wants to jump in perhaps,
that could be helpful.  Do you have a — do you have an answer to provide
here, \[senior administration official\]?  Otherwise, we can always
offline with you and get you a response to that question. 

So, I’ll give \[senior administration official\] a moment to maybe jump
in.  But otherwise, I think we can just leave it there and —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Ye- — yeah.  Can you hear me okay,
Jeremy?

MR. EDWARDS:  Yeah, yeah.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, probably — probably best for
\[senior administration official\] to get back to you. 

What I — what I can say is that, you know, certainly during the pandemic
— 2021, 2022 — we saw, you know, many instances across the country of
landlords raising rents, you know, far exceeding — exceeding 5 percent
in a way that we saw, you know, as egregious. 

And so, but in terms of year over year, we can — we can probably follow
up with you on, you know, the last, you know, five or eight years in
terms of what we’ve seen in terms of average annual rent increases.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And is this better?  I’m on my phone
now.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, that’s much better, \[senior
administration official\].

MR. EDWARDS:  (Inaudible.)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  I’ll go.  And so, I don’t have
anything to add to — on that part of the question that \[senior
administration official\] covered.

And then, on the other part, so, right now, residential real estate has
an accelerated depreciation schedule as compared to other forms of real
estate.  It’s 27 and a half years compared to 39.  We would, under this
proposal, deny depreciation deductions altogether in the year that the
rent was increased by more than 5 percent. 

It’s, you know, a relatively complicated calculation to understand what
the kind of break-even point for a landlord is.  But — and it — and it
varies based on things like the — how valuable the land is as compared
to the property, how — what the current tax rate is of the landlord,
whether they’re a corporation or a partnership. 

But if you look across scenarios, our analysis is that it’s – it’s the —
the break-even point is going to be well above 5 percent and often
significantly above 5 percent.  So, that — it will be a better deal for
the landlord to comply with the cap and not give up depreciation.

MR. EDWARDS:  All right, thank you for that.  And at the risk of any
more technical difficulties, I think we’ll call it there. 

So, folks, if we weren’t able to get to you, I do apologize.  Feel free
to follow up with us over email.  You have my email.  You can reach out
to \[redacted\].  So, again, feel free to follow up, and we do
appreciate your time and covering this. 

And as a final reminder, background was attributable to “senior
administration officials” for the Q&A portion and the embargo will lift
tomorrow at 5:00 a.m.

Thank you, again, and have a great evening.

6:01 P.M. EDT
