---
date: '2024-07-15'
modified_time: 2024-07-16 13:24:00-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-15 15:21:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-secretary-of-homeland-security-alejandro-mayorkas-july-15-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Secretary of Homeland\
  \ Security Alejandro Mayorkas, July 15,\_2024"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:58 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, last night, President Biden spoke directly
to the American people about the urgent need to come together and lower
the temperature in our politics. 

We must remember that while we may disagree, we are not enemies.  We are
fellow Americans, and we must stand together.  We must stand together in
the wake of an attempted assassination on the former president of the
United States.

Over the past several days, the president has been briefed regularly by
key members of his homeland security team and senior law enforcement
officials, and he has spoken directly to the American people.

As President Biden has said, we are thankful the former president is not
seriously injured.  And President Biden, the first lady, and the entire
White House are keeping him and his family in our prayers.

We also extend our deepest condolences to the family of the victim who
was killed.  Corey was a husband, a father, a volunteer firefighter, and
a hero who lost his life shielding his family.  Our prayers are with
Corey’s family during this unimaginable time.

The president spoke about an ongoing investigation.  And as he said, “We
do not know the motive of the shooter yet.  We don’t know his opinions
or affiliations.  We don’t know whether he had help or support or if he
communicated with anyone else.  Law enforcement professionals are
investigating those questions.” 

And we urge that everyone avoid jumping to conclusions.  Let the law
enforcement professionals do their job.

But as President Biden made clear, what we do know is that a former
president was shot in a senseless act of violence, and a fellow American
was killed while simply exercising his freedom to support a candidate of
his choosing.  

We must not go down this road in America.  

There is no place in America for this kind of violence ever.  We cannot
normalize this.  Right now, the most important thing we can do is unite
against this type of political violence and reject it.

That’s what the president is going to focus on.  As he said last night,
“While unity is the most elusive of goals right now, nothing is more
important than standing together.” 

Now joining me today to answer your questions is Secretary Mayorkas.  W-
— normally, would have done a gaggle because the president would have
been on the road, but we wanted to make sure that we did this briefing,
get an on-camera briefing, and also have the secretary here to take any
of your questions.

So, he has been alongside the president and — and — and the president’s
entire team as they work to get the answers for the American people.

Secretary Mayorkas, thank you so much for joining us today.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank you very much, Karine.  Good afternoon.

At the very outset, I want to echo what President Biden said last
night.  Our entire administration is grateful that former President
Trump is okay.  Our hearts and prayers are with the family of Corey
Comperatore.  We pray for the full and swift recovery of those who were
injured on Saturday.

We are thankful for the heroic agents of the United States Secret
Service who so quickly and bravely responded to the threat at Saturday’s
campaign event.  We unequivocally condemn in the strongest possible
terms the violence our nation witnessed that day.  Such acts are
unacceptable in our country and in our democracy.

Both President Biden and former President Trump are constantly the
subject of threats.  We are in a heightened and very dynamic threat
environment.  The United States Ser- — Secret Service — we, including
the FBI and our other partners across the federal government, take the
threats very seriously and adjust security measures as warranted.

Maintaining the safety and security of the president, the former
president, and their campaign events is one of our most vital
priorities.

In light of this weekend’s events, the president has directed me to work
with the Secret Service to provide protection to Robert Kennedy, Jr.

Both prior to and after the events of this past weekend, the Secret
Service enhanced former President Trump’s protection based on the
evolving nature of threats to the former president and his imminent
shift from presumptive nominee to nominee.  This includes enhancements
related to securing the former president during the Republican National
Convention this week.

I cannot discuss specifics of the producti- — protection or the
enhancements made, as they involve sensitive tactics and procedures.  I
can say, however, that personnel and other protective resources,
technology, and capabilities have been added.

At the RNC, we have steadily increased implementation of significant
physical and technical enhancements at every protective venue in support
of protectees, including miles of anti-scale fencing, screening
technology, and tactical support.  We are also leveraging strong
relationships across the law enforcement community, including agents and
officers from Homeland Security Investigations, the Transportation
Security Administration, and state and local law enforcement agencies,
all of whom have been deployed at the convention.

Since the attempted assassination of former President Trump, we across
the government are focused with urgency to understand how it happened. 
At President Biden’s direction, an independent review of the incident
will be conducted, one that will examine the Secret Service’s and other
law enforcement actions before, during, and after the shooting to
identify the immediate and longer-term corrective actions required to
ensure that the no-fail mission of protecting national leaders is most
effectively met.

The men and women of the Secret Service have one of the most solemn and
difficult jobs in government.  Their work involves tremendous sacrifice,
risk, and bravery.  We saw those qualities in action on the stage at
this past Saturday’s event.

With respect to the tragic event of Saturday, the FBI is leading the
criminal investigation, which is ongoing.  An independent review will be
conducted to understand the facts regarding protection of the event and
make findings and recommendations accordingly.  I will therefore not be
able to comment on the facts subject to investigation and review at this
time.

With that, I will take your questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  On that independent review.  Who will lead
that independent review?  What is the timeline for how long it will take
to understand the failings that happened on Saturday?  And will those
findings be made public or at least a summary of those findings be made
public?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  We are indeed in the process of selecting who will
lead the independent review.  The findings indeed will be made public. 
It is very important that we achieve transparency so that the American
people have confidence in the work of the review and in — in its
findings and recommendations.  And we need to move with swiftness and
urgency because this is a security imperative.

Q    And — sorry, Mr. Secretary.  On that, does — do you — does the
president have confidence in the Secret Service director after
Saturday’s failures?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I have 100 percent confidence in the director of
the United Stetes — States Secret Service.  I have 100 percent
confidence in the United States Secret Service.  And what you saw on
stage on Saturday with respect to individuals putting their own lives at
risk for the protection of another is exactly what the American public
should see every single day.  It is what I indeed do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  Is the Secret Service stretched too thin?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  The Secret Service in — in times like this calls
upon other resources and capabilities to handle a — a campaign of this
magnitude.  This has been the case each and every presidential
campaign.  We draw upon resources not only across the federal government
but with state and local law enforcement.  And I do intend to speak with
members of the Hill with respect to the resources that we need.

Q    And a few House Republicans have suggested that this was an inside
job, that this administration or the Secret Service wanted Donald Trump
to get shot.  There are conspiracy theories proliferating online.  How
do you feel, how does the rank and file feel when they hear that?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, let me — let me — let me just say this.  First
of all, that is preposterous and it is also dangerous to propagate
rumors that are so unequivocally false and provocative.  And as the
president so powerfully said to the entire nation, we have to tamp down
the rhetoric in this country.  The rhetoric itself creates a threat
environment that really is quite dynamic and evolving.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly.

Q    Mr. Secretary, what concerns you about the fact there were
witnesses who had identified a gunman on the building, there was local
law enforcement assigned to that building, and, of course, the Secret
Service having the overall responsibility?  Where do you think a
breakdown may have occurred?  Is it because you had to rely on local law
enforcement, maybe not having the kind of synergy you might need?  Where
do you see the breakdown, with witnesses saying, “There’s a gunman,” and
action not happening fast enough?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, there ha- — there have been

statements by many people with respect to what did and did not occur. 
We’re going to let the investigation and the review deliver th- — the
factual findings, and we’ll act upon those. 

We rely upon local law enforcement and other assets, resources, and
capabilities every day.  And we are incredibly proud to do so, and we’re
incredibly proud of the courageous law enforcement officers upon whom we
rely.

Q    And, sir, in the time that you’ve been here, the former president
has selected J.D. Vance.  What can you tell us about the security for
the running mate? 

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, the United States Secret Service, when a
selection is made, will provide the appropriate level of security. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    When you say we’re in a heightened threat environment, what’s the
underlying reasoning for that?  What — what’s — what can you tell us
more about that?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, this is — this is something that both Director
Wray of the FBI and I have communicated publicly, both in hearings and
outside the hearing context.  The threat landscape is very dynamic, both
domestically with the rise of domestic violent extremism — the rhetoric
to which one reporter referred only contributes to that — and, of
course, we have seen the foreign threat environment increase as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jenny.

Q    Thank you, sir. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jenny.  Jenny.

Q    Thank you.  You just said that you have 100 percent confidence in
the Secret Service.  Does the president share that confidence?  Have you
talked to him about it?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I will — I will not speak for the president.  What
I know, as a protectee, he’s incredibly —

Q    Well, if Karine can —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’ll — I’ll —

Q    — answer —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s — I’ll speak to that when we — when it’s my
turn.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Secretary.  Thank you.  Can you speak to any enhancements to
the president’s security for his trip to Las Vegas this week and other
locations?  I mean, how has that changed, if it’s changed at all?  And I
have a second question as well.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, I’m not in a position to share particulars,
because we do not disclose tactics, techniques, and procedures.  But let
me say that adjustments have been made to the former president’s detail,
to the current president’s detail, as well as to the vice president’s
detail.

Q    And with social media companies, I mean, terms like “deep state”
have been one of the most viral terms over the weekend on platforms like
X, on Meta.  Has there been any outreach to these companies from
administration officials to try and stop the disinformation or to kind
of quell it in any way?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Well, the rhetoric that we hear — you know, we are
very mindful of the First Amendment right that is one of the
underpinnings of this country.  And so, the balance between respecting
the First Amendment and actually rhetoric that is — that can be
addressed by these social media companies is something that we deal with
on an ongoing basis.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks so much.  Law enforcement officials tell ABC News that the
building where the shooter was on the roof was actually the staging area
for local — for the local police tactical team who was watching over the
crowd.  I understand you can’t comment; you have an independent review. 
But why would the Secret Service not be tasked with overseeing that
building with a direct line of sight at the former president?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, once again, I will not comment on — on specific
facts or asserted facts with respect to the subject of the independent
investigation, both the review and the FBI’s criminal investigation. 

But remember something: that local law enforcement, with whom we work
all across the country — including, for example, at national security
special events, such as the NATO Summit that concluded successfully —
that is something that we do all the time.  It’s a very well-defined
protocol and regime.

Q    Was the local law enforcement in direct communication in real time
with the Secret Service?  Or was there some sort of breakdown there?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Again, I’m — I’m not in a position to speak of
particular facts of what did and did not occur on Saturday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Mr. Secretary, would the President dismiss his
Secret Service director if this investigation returns findings of
failures by that agency that could have been prevented?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I am not in a position to speculate, nor — nor
should I.

Q    Can you — how is it that we are now about 48 hours out from this,
ju- — just shy of that, and we still don’t have any information on a
motive?  Is it that the investigation — investigators are withholding
any information out of sensitivity to this heightened threat environment
that you mentioned or the political events that are happening right now?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  So, remember s- — remember something: that the —
the assailant is deceased.  He was shot and killed by the United States
Secret Service.  The ability to identify a mo- — a motive is something
that, in this situation, is a result of extensive and intensive
investigation.  And so, it is, in fact, only 48 hours after the — the
tragic events of Saturday. 

And you will recall, I think, in the very, very tragic shooting in Las
Vegas quite a number of years ago, because of the fact that the
assailant then was shot and killed, a motive was not identified at all.

Q    And we still don’t have a motive there, Mr. Secretary.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Correct.

Q    Are you suggesting that we might never find one?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I’m not suggesting anything.  I just cited that as
an example of the difficulty in identifying a motive. 

Q    And one more, sir.  At least eight Republican lawmakers have blamed
President Biden for this.  An additional 21 blame Democrats, the left,
and the media critical of Trump for driving the rhetoric that led to
this outcome.  How does the White House respond to that blame coming
from some Republican lawmakers?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I will let Karine answer that, but I think the
president’s comments with respect to the rhetoric that we need to tamp
down in this country is —

Q    Will that start here at the White House?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  — is responsive.

Q    Sir, will that start at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Matt.  Go ahead, Matt.  Go ahead, Matt.

Q    Thanks.  Mr. Secretary, you — you’ve said that there was a failure
here.  There’s a criminal investigation up and running.  What is taking
time for the independent investigation to be up and running?  And — and
it didn’t sound like you were giving a timeline of when and that will
occur.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  We’re going to commence the independent review as
quickly as possible.  We are going to be reaching out very, very shortly
to individuals who will hopefully lead that independent review.  And I
will communicate to — to those leaders the need for swiftness of action,
in light of the fact that we are dealing with a security protocol. 

Q    But if that’s the case, is — this is, like, days?  Weeks?  Wh- —
what is your sense of timing of when this review will be up and running
given the security imperative?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Days.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Can you — to follow up on Matt’s question.  You say an “independent
review,” you’re reaching out to people who will lead that.  Are you
talking about people outside of government?  Are you committed to
somebody who does not work for you or for President Biden to — to lead
this review?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I am committed to going externally of the dep- —
the department and externally of the government so that no question of
its independence can be raised.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Secretary, I understand —

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  If I — if I may, Peter.

Q    Yeah.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  It’s very important that this independent review
have the confidence of the people.

Q    Thanks.  Secretary, can you give us any — any details at all about
what areas this review will be looking at in terms of the failures that
— that happened on Saturday?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I would rather not until this review is — is
underway.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We’re going to start wrapping up.

Go ahead, Annie.

Q    Just quickly, if I may.  Secretary, can you fill out any more of
the timeline of what loc- — loc- — excuse me, local law enforcement knew
or didn’t know before the shooting?  Just — this is in reference to this
interview with a individual who said that he saw somebody crawling up
the building, and we’re still a little unclear on the timeline of how
that information was communicated.

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I hate to — to end this session on an answer — on a
question that I cannot answer.  And so, perhaps Karine will reach out
for another question — (laughter) — because as I’ve mentioned — as I
mentioned before, I — I cannot speak to what did and did not occur.  The
facts are the subject of an independent review — or will be — and also a
criminal investigation is underway.

Q    I would like another one, then, in that case.  Is there any
progress on hacking into the suspect’s cell phone?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Same answer.

Q    Sir, what do you tell —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    — Americans who —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, no, no, no, no, no.

Q    Can I get one —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Nope.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.

Q    Thank you, Mr. Secretary.  Thank you for coming to this briefing. 
You said that you have 100 percent confidence in the Secret Service.  Do
you have 100 percent confidence in Director Cheatle specifically?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Yes.

Q    And, Mr. Secretary, since Saturday, has anyone been reassigned or
removed from Donald Trump’s security detail?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  I don’t have knowledge of that.  I do not believe
so.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last question.  In the back, go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Mr. Secretary, are — is the U.S. Secret Service —
they’re responsible for, of course, protecting a wide variety of
events.  Are they considering changes to the type of outdoor events that
will be coming up in the next, you know, four months of campaigning for
candidates on both sides?

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  We are constantly — the Secret Service and the
entire community is constantly assessing the threat environment, the
threat landscape, and making adjustments accordingly.  And so, that is a
factor in our assessment of the landscape.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, sir.  Thank you, sir.

Q    Sir, what do you tell Americans who may feel —

SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thank you, sir.

Q    Sir, what do you tell Americans who may feel nervous about going to
political rallies now?  Sir?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Secretary.  Appreciate it.

I just have one more thing, and then we’ll continue.  So, I want to take
a minute to thank Kelly O’Donnell, your outgoing president of the White
House Correspondents’ Association.  Kelly, the past year has presented
no shortage of news — (laughter) — opportunities, and challenges. 
You’ve been a great partner day — day to day here at the White House,
and we’ve closely worked together on major events, minor logistics, and
travel, both domestic and foreign.

I — I want this room and the many members of the WHCA to know that you
have had a trusted ally, friend, and leader in Kelly O.  And you have
always — always advocated heartfel- — heart- — heart- — heartedly on
behalf of your fellow journalists.  And we are grateful for your
service, and we are relieved you will still be on — on the beat here at
the White House and in the briefing room.

It has been — it has been a joy.  And — and I have had — I have had the
opportunity to know you for some time, even before being at the White
House, and I really appreciated, more personally, your guidance, your
mentorship in tough times.  And so, thank you so much, Kelly. 

And we are also looking forward to working closely with Eugene Daniels,
the new president of WHCA.  And we congratulate him as well.

It has been a joy.  And thank you so much.  Thank you so much.

Q    Thank you.  That’s very kind of you.  (Applause.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Zeke, let’s go.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Following up on Jenny’s question there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the president have confidence in the director of the Secret
Service?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  Yes.  So, the answer is yes. 

But I do want to say the director is working hard to examine what
happened and to ensure protectees have needed security.  And she has
committed to cooperate fully with the independent review that the
president obviously announced and directed to — to move forward with
just a day or so ago.  Everything is com- — is moving so quickly.

The men and women at the Secret Service have a — a hard job, as you
heard the secretary mention.  They work tirelessly every day to protect
the president, former presidents, and other people.  Their mission is
critical, and we need all hands on deck in this moment.

Right now, we are focused on getting all the facts so we can get to the
bottom of this, of what happened.  It is important for the American
people to know what happened.  That’s why the president directed a
independent review.  And, you know, the — direct the — direct a
independent review — that’s what the president asked for: direct the
Secret Service to provide Donald Trump and all other protectees the
resources needed to ensure safety and ordered the Secret Service to
review all se- — security measures for the Republican Convention, which
is what you’ve heard directly from the Secret Service — speak to in the
past 24 hours or so.

But, yes, he has confidence.

Q    And does he have confidence in — Secretary Mayorkas — obviously
(inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    Okay.  And does the president have plans or has he spoken with the
family of the — of the man who was killed at the rally?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you heard me at the top and you heard the
president speak in — in his Oval address, and then — and one time before
that, obviously.  And he gave a heartfelt condolences to — to Corey’s
family and — and the families, obviously, who were affected by the
horrific shooting on Saturday. 

And so, the president kn- — understands loss, obviously, as you all
know.  He understands what it means to lose someone that you love.  Our
condolences, our prayers go out to — to Corey’s family.

I don’t have anything else to add.  I — we want to be really, really
mindful and — for their privacy — protect and respect their privacy.  I
just don’t have anything else to add to that.

Q    And then, lastly from me, the president last night said it’s time
for everyone in the political space to tone it down, to cool the
political rhetoric.  Does the president regret anything that he has said
in the course of this campaign about his Republican rival or anybody
else in the political space?  Does he plan to adjust his rhetoric or is
it just a call for other people to make changes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to just be very clear, and you know this. 
I’ve been asked about — anytime there’s violence, sadly, that — that
comes up across the country, we have — the president has always — always
spoken out forcefully against violence — always.

Political violence has no place in America.  You’ve heard the president
say this.  He re- — repeated — repeated his thoughts in the Oval address
last night.  He repeated his thoughts multiple times before then and
obviously throughout his presidency — throughout his entire — throughout
his entire career.

We want to make sure that we are not pol- — politiciz- — politicizing
this.  At this moment, it is not a time to do that.  We want to make
sure that we bring Americans together. 

When you think about why the president ran in 2020, the cornerstone of
his presidency is uniting this country — is uniting this country.  And
he also said that it is okay to have disagreements on agendas.  It is
okay to have disagreements on character or record.  But we cannot —
cannot have violence in this country.  And that is something that he’s
going to continue to be very, very clear about.

Q    Does he — so, does he or does he not regret anything that he has
said about former President Trump or any of his other political rivals?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is the president has forcefully spoken
out against violence.  That is something that he has done over and over
again.  And he believes that — and he feels strongly about the stakes of
the — of — of this campaign.  He feels very, very strongly about that. 

He wants to bring the temperature down.  He wants to lower the
temperature.  It is important that we do that.  And it is a moment that
we come together.  And that is what this president is all about, and he
wants to continue to work on uniting this country.  That’s what he wants
to focus on.

Go ahead.

Q    Follow-up on that.  Just last week, in Michigan, President Biden
called Trump “a threat to this nation.”  Should we expect that he will
not be calling out Trump with that kind of rhetoric going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is that it is important — right? —
we believe it is important to continue to forcefully speak against any
type of political violent.  That is what the president believes.  And we
do not want to politicize this moment.  Politicizing this moment is
unacceptable. 

We believe and the president believe — you heard from him, in very clear
— in — in a very clear statement last night, about the importance of
uniting this country, the importance of continuing to do so, and that we
cannot tear America apart to score political points.  We cannot do
that. 

And so, we don’t want to politicize this moment.  We want to unite.  We
want to continue to focus on that.  And that’s what the president is
going to focus on right now.

Q    So, will his messaging change this week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His messaging is going to be really clear.  He’s going
to continue to engage with the American people.  That’s what you’re
going to see in the next upcoming days, upcoming weeks.  Nothing
different than what he’s done in the last almost four years.  And lay
out his agenda, highlight his agenda. 

There are differences.  There are differences in our agenda and what
Republicans believe, right?  There are differences.  And that is okay. 
And it is okay to speak to someone’s record and someone’s character. 
But we cannot accept violence.  We cannot accept that. 

And so, the president is going to continue to do that: highlight his
agenda.  It’s important for the American people to hear directly from
him what he d- — has done in the last three and a half years and how he
sees the future of this country.  That will not change. 

Go ahead.

Q    Speaking of that agenda, the president told a group of Democratic
lawmakers on the phone this weekend that he has been working with
experts on some Supreme Court reforms that he will be unveiling at some
point in the future.  Can you tell us anything about those reforms —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — when he might unveil them, and what he is seeking to achieve?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I appreciate the question.  I’m not going to get ahead
of the president.  So, I don’t have anything to share at this time.

Q    He also said in his press conference last week that he is looking
at rent caps.  What can you tell us about his policy when it comes to
rent caps?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m going to let the president speak to that
when time comes. 

Thanks, J.J.

Q    To follow up again on — on the Oval Office —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — address and lowering the temperature. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Does the president want to see any concrete actions from former
President Donald Trump to show that he too is working to lower the
temperature?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to let the — the former president speak for
himself and move forward with how he wants to move forward with his
campaign, with how he sees the country — the future of this country.  He
has to speak to that.  I — I’m not going to get into that from here.

Q    And is there anything else you can tell us about the call between
the president and the former president?  What the tone was?  Did the
race come up at all?  Did the former president mention anything about
politics?  Or was it just well wishes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to stick to what we have been able
to confirm for all of you.  Obviously, the president — and the president
said this as well, that they spoke on — on — the president said this on
Sunday, yesterday; he spoke with Donald Trump on Saturday.  He is
sincerely grateful that he is doing well and recovering, he had a good
and respectful conversation with him, and that the president and the
first lady will continue to keep them — keep Mr. Trump and his family in
their — in their prayers. 

I just don’t have anything else to add.  It was a private conversation. 
But we were able to confirm to all of you what was put out by the
campaign.

Go ahead.

Q    Was it a matter of minutes, this phone call?  Wh- — how long was
it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it happened on Saturday.  Don’t have — don’t have
a timeline for you.  It was a respectful call.  It was a good
conversation.  And the president is going to continue — and the first
lady is going to continue to — to send well wishes.

Q    Does the president feel like this effort to get him to step aside
is now fizzled out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re not going to politi- — politicize this moment. 
We’re just not. 

The president is going to continue doing what he’s been doing for the
past couple of weeks, for the past three and a half years, which is
going out there, engaging, talking directly to the American people about
his record, what he’s been able to do on behalf of the American people
in the past three and a half years; the economy; health care, continue
to expand health care; continue to make sure that the wealthy corporate
— corporate and billionaires are paying their fair share; and make sure
that we’re building an economy from the bottom up, middle out.

That is what the president is going to focus on.  We’re not going to
politicize this moment.

Q    And — and lastly, we saw reports that he had met with Chuck Schumer
over the weekend.  Is that true?  What — anything you can say about
that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say about that is that — and I think
Chuck Schumer put out a note on that.  It was a good meeting, like —
like the senator said.  And I’m not going to read out beyond that.  And
the president is looking forward to continuing to work with Leader
Schumer, continuing to work with Leader Jeffries in how we can — how we
can focus on the American people, do the work that we’ve been able to do
— that historic work, building on unprecedented record.

That’s the pr- — the president wants to focus on: focus on the American
family, the middle class.  And that’s what I can say about that. 

Go ahead, Michael.  Michael.

Q    Oh, I’m sorry.  Senator J.D. Vance, who Donald Trump has just
picked as his running mate, put out a message on social media Saturday,
about two hours after the shooting, blaming President — President
Biden’s rhetoric for the shooting.  In fact, he said, “That rhetoric led
directly to President Trump’s attempted assassination.”  What’s your
response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, this — I’ve kind of gotten this question in
many different ways.  I’m not going to politicize this moment.  We are
not going to politicize this moment.  It is wrong to politicize this
moment.  We have been, you know, very clear on how sick — the president
said this word.  Saturday’s events were sick.  It’s not acceptable. 
Political violence is not acceptable.  And we have said that over and
over and over again, and we will continue to be very clear about this. 

We need to lower the temperature.  That’s what we need to do: lower the
temperature and — and unite the country.  That’s what this president —
that’s the cornerstone of his presidency, is uniting the country. 
That’s what he wants to do.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  This assassination attempt happened right after
the NATO Summit, where the president wants to show the world about the
American leadership.  Are you concerned this incident may damage
America’s international image?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it’s really r- — repeating what the president
said: Now is the time to focus on uniting the country.  You heard
directly from NATO leaders just — just last week on how they appreciated
and respected the president’s leadership, especially over the last two
years — more than two years, as we think about the war in Ukraine
because of Russia’s aggression, as we see what’s happening in the Middle
East. 

And, in particular, NATO — this is a president that has strengthened
NATO and has helped to expand NATO. 

And so, that’s what you saw from the leaders.  That’s what you heard
from the leaders.  And that’s what you saw from this president,
obviously, in — in his term here at the White House.

We’re going to continue to — you hear from — directly from the
president: We’ve got to lower the temperature.  We’ve got to unite the
country.  That’s what the president is going to continue to focus on.

Go ahead, Anita.

Q    Thank you so much.  Have the tragic events of this weekend shifted
the president’s sense of urgency or position on gun control legislation?

And then, secondly, there’s been a lot of right-wing chatter about the
female agents guarding the former president, specifically whether women
are up to job.  People are noting that they’re smaller, that they
weren’t able to cover the president.  But, I mean, this — this is a
talking point —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — that is circulating.  So, what’s your response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s ridiculous.  Your — to your second question,
obviously, it’s ridiculous. 

Q    I’m not — I don’t think —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No, wait.

Q    — it was a ridiculous question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  No, no, no.  To your — not to your
question.  I understand why you’re asking the question.  I — the — the
sentiments coming from that about women and not being able to do the
job, that’s ridiculous.  Just to be really clear about that.

And, look, you heard from the secretary.  These men and women put their
lives on the line.  What they’re doing is brave.  And we should not
discount that.  We should not discount that if it’s a man or if it’s a
woman.  And to have that sentiment out there is unfair and it’s
ridiculous.

Now, to step back, there’s going to be an independent review here.  This
is something that the president directed and asked for.  We got to get
to the bottom of this, of what happened.  And the American people
deserve an answer, and that’s what the president wants to see. 

And so, getting into these types of speculation is just ridiculous. 
It’s just ridiculous.

Yeah.

Q    Gun control.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yes.  Look, the President has been, obviously, a
strong advocate on gun control.  He has been throughout his career as a
senator, as vice president, and now as president. 

As you know, we were able to get a bipartisan legislation done — the
first bipartisan legislation to deal with gun — gun control that we
hadn’t seen in about 30 years.  And the president led on that effort and
was able to get that done.

There’s a lot more work that we need to do.  That is on Congress.  We
have to continue to get Congress to ban assault weapons, for example,
and to do a lot more. 

The president has done — signed more than two dozen executive actions
because we understand and he knows that guns are an epidemic in our —
sadly, in our country.  It is an epidemic.  The number one killer of our
children is guns.  And that should not be.  That should not be.

And so, the president is going to continue to be steadfast on this.  We
have the White House Office for Gun Prevention, which the vice president
leads on.  That is something that was created here in this White House —
never existed before.  And that shows the president’s commitment on
dealing with this epidemic.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, speaking of the Office of Gun Violence Prevention, in the
past when there’s been, you know, mass shootings or casualty incidents
with gun violence, they’ve sent resources and — and had folks on the
ground.  Are there any plans to do that for the (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, right now, as you know, it’s an FBI investigation,
so they got to get to the bottom of it and see what occurred and see
what happened and get answers to that. 

I don’t have any information at this time on how the White House Office
of Gun Prevention is — is — is assisting in — in — in the families and —
and obviously the folks who attended.  I would have to speak to them
directly about that.

But we need to get to the bottom of this.  That’s why there’s an
independent investigation.  That’s why we brought the secretary here to
answer your questions, to be as — you know, as — as trans- — you know,
transparent as we can be at this time.  We got to let the investigation
move forward.  But it’s important to do that.  And hopefully, we’ll have
more to share with you on your question.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Is it the White House Counsel’s view that the attorney
general has the legal authority to appoint special counsels?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, if you’re speaking to the announcement that came
out, I have to refer you to Department of Justice.  I don’t want to have
an opinion from here.  The Department of Justice is independent, as the
president has said.  Even during his 2020 election, he said that he
would want to restore the independence of the Department of Justice. 
He’s done just that.

They make the decision on their cases independently.  So, that’s a
question that I would have to — refer all of that to Department of
Justice.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.  (Inaudible.)

Q    After — the president paused his campaign events over the weekend. 
Obviously, he didn’t go to Texas.  Now he’s heading to Las Vegas this
afternoon.  Can you give us a preview of what to expect?  Are we
anticipating a different tone out on the road than we’re used to seeing
with the president when he’s out on the trail?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I mentioned a couple of times before and as the
president has said, we have differences in our agenda.  We do.  What we
— what we believe is very different than what Republicans believe and
how we see the future of this country.  And that is important to have
differences.  It is important — it is okay to have differences. 

And so, we will — he will talk about each of those differences.  It is
crucial, though — it is important that we bring the temperature down. 
That’s what the president has said.  That’s what he wants to see.  And,
you know, he’s going to live to those values.  And that’s what you’re
going to see.

Talk about his agenda, highlight his agenda — that’s what you’ll see in
the next couple days.

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Taking another stab at the question you’ve
answered — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — several different ways.  But I guess, more simply, are we going
to continue to hear the president in official events or on the campaign
trail use the phrase “threat to democracy” specifically?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I want to be very clear.  The president is always
going to denounce violence, forcefully delo- — denounce it.  Be- — he’s
always been against this — throughout his career, throughout the last
four years.  We do not want to politicize this.  It’s unacceptable to do
that.  That’s what the president has said.  It is time to bring this
country together, to bring American people together.  That’s what he
wants to see.

And so, that’s where I’m going to leave it.  He wants to unite this
country.  And that is something that he’s been saying since 2019. 

Q    That could be really hard to do, though, if you’re trying to make a
shift away from what has been the platform of this administration, of
his campaign, in that the view is that Trump and the MAGA Republican
agenda is a threat to democracy.  So, how do you get that message across
while bringing the temperature down?  How is that phrasing going to be
replaced?  Is it going to be replaced?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, what I can say is this.  We have our
differences and it’s okay to have our differences.  And it is okay to
speak to someone’s record, to speak to someone’s character.  That is —
that is the difference of — that is important to be able to do to show —
right? — what — the American people what you’re all about. 

We’re just — we’re just going to continue to denounce violence.  It is
important to do that — forcefully be against violence.  Political
violence has no place in America.  It should not be.  It does not have a
place here.  The president is going to continue to be very, very
forceful about that. 

But we have a difference of agenda.  That is the truth.  That is the
truth.  And we’re going to continue to speak to that difference, and the
president is going to highlight his agenda.

Q    Does the president view Trump’s agenda as a threat to democracy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I will say is, right now, we’re not going
to politicize what happened on Satur- — what happened on Saturday was
horrific.  It was.  It was sick, as the president said.  And we got to
move forward in a way that — where we — we respect each other, that we
don’t have —

Q    (Inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that we don’t have this type of discourse.

Q    Can you bring us inside the room, though, in a way that you’re —
you’re asking to bring down the temperature and have people consider the
language that they use in order to dial back where we’re at.  So, how
are those discussions going on inside? 

Is there a reflecting on language that’s been used?  What should — what
example is the president setting for others?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think the president has set an example.  On
Saturday —

Q    How does that look, though?  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but the — look, we can’t also discount what’s
happened in the past three days.  Right?  We can’t discount what the
president did on Saturday.  Right?  We can’t. 

He — he spoke to the former president.  He was briefed by his team.  He
addressed the American people the same night — right? — came back to
D.C. 

Yesterday, he had another briefing with his team.  He — right after that
briefing, he went into the Roosevelt Room, spoke to the American people,
and then used the Oval Office, one of the most important tools to use —
important places to make a — to make an — to — to give an important
address to the American people in primetime on a Sunday. 

I think that’s important.  He wanted to make sure that he — that the
American people heard directly from him, from the president of the
United States, and also wanted to lay out that we should be able to have
differences.  Violence shouldn’t be a part of that.  Right?  He wanted
to lay that out and say, “We have to bring the temperature down.” 

That was — tha- — I feel like those three moments that we’ve seen in the
last three — three days shows how the President is moving forward.  It
does. 

And it is lowering d- — lowering the temperature, saying violence has no
part in our — in our democracy in — in America, and saying it is okay to
have differences.  He also said that.  He also said it’s okay to have
differences. 

Go ahead, Annie.

Q    Thank you.

AIDE:  Karine, you have time for just one more.

Q    Can we just take Jacqui’s timeline — the timeline that you just
referenced and move it back to four days before —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — today?  When the President was in Michigan, he said, “Over my
dead body it will happen,” referring to Trump becoming president.  He
also said, “Another four years of Trump is deadly serious — deadly
serious.” 

And I think that’s the type of language that we’re — we’re referencing
here.  And would it be possible to get some sort of indication about
whether that kind of language is what we’d expect to continue to hear
from the president? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I would refer you to is basically what
I told Jacqui is the last three days and what the president has said —
you heard directly from him — what he’s — what he’s laid out, how he
sees the future, how it’s important to be able to speak to different
agendas.  It is.  It is important to speak to someone’s record,
someone’s character. 

Violence has no place in America.  Political violence is not okay.  It
is not.  It is just not. 

The president said what we saw on Saturday was sick.  I’ve said this
about three times — used that word three times in this press briefing. 

It is not something that we should condone.  We have to condemn
violence.  And that is something that this president has done — has done
throughout his career. 

Q    And I think we’re clear on that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    It’s just: Will the language shift from the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will s- —

Q    — given what you’re talking about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is you’ll hear the president highlight
his agenda over the next couple of days.  He will continue to do that. 
He will speak to the importance of — of the American people
understanding the differences of where he stands and where Republicans
stand. 

I got to be mindful here because it is a campaign that we’re speaking
about. 

And I think, though, if you look at what the president said, if you
heard what the president said the last three days and how he’s led this
country in this horrific time that we saw coming out of Saturday, I
think that’s important.  And I think that’s what the American people
want to see. 

Toning down the vi- — toning down the — the rhetoric and condemning —
condemning violence. 

I got to wrap it up.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m being pulled.

Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Karine.  So — so, then given the language from the
leader of the free world, how — does the president or the administration
bear any of the responsibility for the environment that we’re in?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is — and this is just a re- — re- —
repetitive of what I’m saying here: We have to lower the temperature. 
You heard that from the president.  There is no — no place in America
for violence.  It is important that we are really clear about that. 

We do not know — we do not have the answers to what happened on
Saturday.  What we know is a former president was shot.  That is not
something that should be accepted here.  Right?  That is something that
we have to condemn.  That’s what we know. 

There are a lot of questions that are still out there.  There are a lot
of questions that are still out there.  But we have to lower the
temperature. 

AIDE:  Karine —

Q    But the president, from the Oval Office, said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  We have to — we have to —

Q    — yeah, the president, from the Oval Office, said we have to lower
the temperature, but he never said, “It starts with me.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When it comes to political rhetoric out there, when it
comes to being mindful of how we are moving forward with our politics
here, it takes all of us to lower that temperature, and I think that’s
important.  That’s important to note.  Right? 

And I think that’s what the American people want to see.  They wanted to
hear what the president said in the Oval yesterday.  They wanted to hear
what the president said on Saturday.  Right?  It is important to speak
to the moment that we’re in and say, “We got to condemn this type of
violence.”  We do. 

Now, there are a lot of open questions here.  We don’t have answers to
those open questions.  The independent investigation will be thorough. 
That’s what the president wants to see.  We want to get to the bottom of
it because there are questions that the American people should know as
to what happened, what led to that awful, awful night in Saturd- — on
Saturday. 

I have to actually — the president is waiting for me.  So, I have to
actually go. 

I’ll see you guys on the road.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

3:44 P.M. EDT
