---
date: '2024-07-25'
modified_time: 2024-07-26 16:12:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-25 15:25:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-7/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:59 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, bear with me.  I have a few things at the top. 

So, I want to start by saying that what the country witnessed last night
was historic.  We saw the leadership we always see from Joe Biden.  We
saw a man who, as he has always done, put country first.

Surrounded by his family, you heard the president say, “I revere this
office, but I love my country more.”  He went on to say the defense of
democracy is “more important than any title. I draw strength and find
joy in working for the American people.  But this sacred task of
perfecting our Union is not about me.  It’s about you, your families,
your futures.  It’s about ‘We the People.’”  And “I have decided the
best way forward is to pass the torch to a new generation.  That is the
best way to unite our nation.”

This is a selfless act — something that very few politicians would ever
do.  President Biden will go down in history as one of the nation’s
greatest presidents, accomplishing more in nearly four years than most
presidents do in eight years. 

To quote him again, “I have given my heart and my soul to our nation,
like so many others have.  And I have been blessed a million times in
return with the love and support of the American people.” 

He made clear last night that over the next six months, he will be
focused on doing his job as president of the United States and building
on his historic results for the American people.  That is his focus. 

And I will end by saying that I am so proud to work for this man, who
has served his country for more than 50 years with honor and dignity. 
And I look forward to working — continuing to work with him again for —
ahead — ahead in the next several months. 

Today, the Department of Homeland Security released additional data on
the impacts of the ex- — executive action President Biden announced on
June 4th. 

Since then, encounters at the border between ports of entry have dropped
more than 55 percent.  Average daily encounters are now lower than they
were at the end of the previous administration and lower than at this
point back in 2019. 

But we know the only way to bring lasting solutions to secure border —
to secure the border and to begin to fix the broken immigration system
is to pass the bipartisan border security agreement. 

Sadly, congressional Republicans have decided to put partisan politics
ahead of our national security and twice voted against the bipartisan
agreement and badly needed resources to hire additional Border policy —
Patrol agents and fentanyl detection technology at the border. 

In the absence of legislation action — legislative action, the
Biden-Harris administration has taken decisive actions to secure the
border. 

Recently, the administration has taken action to hold criminal
organizations accountable, including sanctions against different gangs
and smuggling organizations that are responsible for various criminal
activities.  That includes human smuggling and trafficking, gender-based
violence, and money laundering. 

We have also taken concrete steps to make our immigration system more
fair and more just and to keep families together. 

That is why, in August, eligible spouses of U.S. citizens and their
children who have lived here for 10 years or more will be able to apply
for legal status while remaining in the United States with their
families. 

We’re also helping young people who have been educated in the U.S.,
including DREAMers and DACA recipients, receive work visas more
quickly.  These actions will help more young people use their talents to
enrich our communities and strengthen our economy. 

This administration will continue taking action to secure our border and
fix our broken immigration system. 

Now, when President Biden took office, we were in the midst of the worst
economic crisis since the Great Depression.  But as the president said
last night during his Oval Office address and as today’s GDP report
makes clear, the United States has the strongest economy in the world. 

This did not happen by accident.  Under the leadership of President
Biden and Vice President Harris, we saw the economy grow a strong 2.8
percent last quarter, with business investments mo- — up more than 5
percent.  Nearly 60 million jobs have been created, and wages are up
higher than before the pandemic, with inflation down to 3 percent. 

But as the president said, we have more work to do.  Over the next six
months, the president and vice president will keep fighting to lower
costs for hardworking families, from lowering health care and housing
costs to making billionaires pay their fair share and cutting taxes for
families with the Child Tax Credit.

While congressional Republicans side with special interests and threaten
Social Security and Medicare, the president and vice president will
continue fighting for the middle class. 

Today, we are praying for the thousands of Americans under mandatory
evacuation orders out West as widespread wildfires burn hundreds of
thousands of acres across Oregon, California, and elsewhere. 

We are grateful for the brave firefighters and first responders who are
working to protect people and save lives. 

We urge everyone in the — in the affected areas to remain vigilant and
heed the warnings of local officials, especially those who have been
ordered to evacuate.

And the president has been briefed on the fires, and we are in close
touch with the governors’ office — offices in affected states to ensure
they have all that they need. 

White House and federal officials are also in close contact with state
and local officials on the frontlines of these fires.  And 6,800 federal
personnel from the U.S. Forest Service and the Department of Interior
are on the ground, helping to fight the blazes and keep people safe. 

The Department of Defense has also mobilized four of its C-130 modular
airborne firefighting systems to support fire suppression effort. 

FEMA also issued several fire management assistance grants to help
reimburse states for firefighting costs. 

As always, we stand ready to provide further support as needed. 

And finally, on Monday, Iowa’s extreme abortion ban will take effect,
banning care before a lot of women even know that they are pregnant. 
Iowa will be the 22nd state with an abortion ban in effect.  All of
these bans imposed by the Republican elected officials put women’s
health and lives in jeopardy. 

The president and the vice president have been clear: This should never
happen in America.  Yet, this is exactly what is happening in states
across the country since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. 

And it’s not stopping at the state level.  Republican elected officials
in Congress have proposed four — four national abortion bans, while
refusing to protect nationwide access to IVF and contraception. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris believe that women in every
state must have the right to make deeply personal decisions about their
health care.  They continue to call on Congress to restore the
protections of Roe v. Wade into federal law and fight efforts by
Republican elected officials to undermine our fundamental freedoms. 

And with that, I will turn it over to the admiral, Admiral John Kirby,
who is here to take questions about the prime minister of Israel’s visit
and meeting with the president today and take any questions on the
Middle East. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon, everybody. 

As you all know, the president and the prime minister are meeting right
now in the Oval Office.  There is a lot on the agenda, but first and
foremost will be discussing how deeply and how strongly the president
feels, we feel that we’ve got to get this hostage deal in place so we
can get a ceasefire also in place, at least for phase one for that first
— those first six weeks. 

There are gaps that remain, and our team continues to work with our
counterparts in the region to see if we can’t close those gaps.  We
believe that they are of a nature where they can be closed and that we
can achieve a deal, but it’s going to require, as it always does, some
leadership, some compromise, and an effort to get there. 

The president will be reaffirming for Prime Minister Netanyahu that he
believes we need to get there and we need to get there soon. 

Today is the 293rd day that these hostages have been held captive by
Hamas.  And you just have to assume that it is the most horrific of
circumstances.  Sadly, we know that not all of them are alive.  Still —
hostages still need to get home to their families.  Two hundred and
ninety-three days, there ought not to be a two hundred and
ninety-fourth.  And we’re going to keep working on that. 

I do anticipate that the two leaders will also cha- — also have a chance
to talk about other substantive issues, in terms of the blue line up at
the north and making sure we don’t see an escalation of the conflict
between Israel and — and Lebanon and make sure that we’re providing
opportunities for both Israeli and Lebanese citizens to return to their
homes, as well as, of course, the need — the critical need for stability
in the West Bank.  We’re still seeing violence in the West Bank that the
president has been absolutely steadfast calling out as unacceptable.

They’ll also discuss the United States’ ironclad commitment, of course,
to Israel’s security, including countering the very serious threats that
Iran and its proxy groups continue to demonstrate throughout the
region. 

The president and the prime minister, of course, after their meeting
today in the Oval, will have a chance to meet with families of the
Americans that are being held hostage by Hamas.  This will be this
president’s second in-person meeting with these families.  As you all
know, we have kept up a regular drumbeat of interaction with them. 

Since the 7th of October, Jake Sullivan has met with them 10, 12 times —
something like that.  And other members of the team have also kept in
touch with them to make sure that they know everything that we’re doing
to get their loved ones home. 

Just quickly before we go to questions, a quick word on Venezuela.  We
support the peaceful elections that we expect and hope will come on
Sunday — elections that will reflect the will and the aspirations of the
Venezuelan people for a more democratic, stable, and prosperous future. 

Any political re- — repression and violence is unacceptable.  And, of
course, regardless of who wins, we encourage both candidates to commit
to a peaceful outcome and to work together for the good of all
Venezuelans.

With that, I’ll take some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, John.  First, in ter- — one, the president is meeting with
Prime Minister Netanyahu right now.  Does the president believe that
Prime Minister Netanyahu wants to get a hostage deal that — given his
political consideration at home, in Israel, that he’s actually capable
and willing to bridge those gaps that you say remain?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, yes, and yes.  He has said so publicly himself, Zeke. 
He wants to get the hostages home. 

And the Israelis, the — the government, Prime Minister Netanyahu has
been working with us to try to get that — that deal over the finish
line. 

That said, as I — as I mentioned at the top, there’s still some gaps
that remain, and we’re going to be talking to the prime minister today
about the — closing those gaps. 

Q    And just on a broader note: The president mentioned last night that
he plans to spend the next six months in — of his time in office focused
on some foreign policy issues.  How does the president’s announcement
change what the White House, what the NSC has planned for the balance of
the year through January 20th, in terms of an issue of the president —
travel by the president?  Will we get to Africa?  You know, what — what
are the — the —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — to-do list of things that maybe hadn’t been planned for the
second term that he now has to — has less than six months to get done?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, now that — that he’s not running for reelection,
certainly, you can expect that there’ll be opportunities on the calendar
that may not have been before.  And so, we’re all exploring what those
opportunities can look like in terms of advancing his foreign policy
agenda and national security opportunities here and around the world. 

But I don’t have anything on the schedule to speak to now.  But I mean,
you know, stay tuned.  I think there’ll — there’ll be some opportunities
that the president is going to want to explore.

Look, I mean, still got a war in Ukraine, still got a war in Gaza.  You
still got climate change to deal with.  You still got a very restless
Indo-Pacific.  I mean, I could go on and on.  There’s plenty of things
for the national security team to try to continue to get done. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    John, we heard from the vice president earlier with comments stric-
— sorry, strong comments related to the vandalism and the protests that
we saw yesterday.  We haven’t heard yet from the president or from the
White House at large.  Do you condemn what you saw yesterday?  How do
you characterize the protests, including what we saw at Union Station?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we did put out a statement last night from the White
House.  But absolutely condemn any violence in protest activity.  I
mean, it’s a First Amendment right to peacefully protest.  We fully
support that.

We know that there are strong views about what’s going on in Gaza.  And
some of those views are in opposition to some of the policies that we’re
pursuing.  We get it.  That’s democracy. 

But when it turns violent and when you burn an American flag and pull it
down off a U.S. government site, that’s just absolutely unacceptable. 
And — and obviously, we condemn all that.

Q    Are these protests pro-Palestinian, pro-Hamas, anti-Israel?  How do
you characterize what we’re seeing?

MR. KIRBY:  I think it’s a little bit all those things.  I mean, I can’t
speak for the protesters.  Obviously, I don’t share their views.  But,
obviously, they took great exception to the prime minister speaking on
Capitol Hill.  And as I said, many of them have taken exception with our
— with our policies with respect to Gaza.

Q    Today, we heard from one of the family members who is going to be
meeting with both the prime minister and the president a short time from
now, Aviva Siegel.  She was a former hostage of Hamas.  She says, “I
want to ask President Biden, if Bibi is not able or willing, to agree to
the ceasefire and hostage deal to bring the Americans home.”  Is there
anything more that President Biden is prepared to do unilaterally to try
to bring those hostages home?

MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t get into hy- — hypothesizing and speculating
about options one way or the other.  We want to get all the hostages
home — clearly, the Americans in particular.  And that’s why this deal
was so important, Peter. 

And we are close.  We are closer now, we believe, than we’ve been
before.  The gaps are closable.  No question about that.  And we
believe, the president believes that getting that hostage deal in place,
getting that six-week ceasefire — that’s the best way to get all these
loved ones back with their families.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thanks, John.  Did the U.S. find any of
Netanyahu’s remarks yesterday to be false or misleading?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to parse everything he said or, you know, do a
factcheck here from — from this podium.  He — you know, he should speak
for himself about what his — his views are.

Q    He should, but he had a powerful stage: a joint address before
Congress.  Do you agree with assertions that Iran financially backed
some of the protesters; that if there are Palestinians in Gaza who
aren’t getting enough food, it’s not because Israel is blocking it — as
two examples.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on the first example, we’ve said ourselves — the
director of National Intelligence came out publicly and said that we do
know that Iran has been funding and encouraging some of the protest
activity here in the United States — some of it.

We do not believe that all the protest activity out there on a daily
basis is being fully funded by Iran.  There’s a lot of organic concern
out there in the American people about what’s going on in the Middle
East.  And most of these protests are — are formed and fashioned in that
regard. 

On the second question, it’s a — there has been an — a steady increase
of humanitarian assistance getting into Gaza.  The problem isn’t getting
it to Gaza right now.  The problem is getting it around Gaza.  And one
of the reasons why it’s so dang difficult to move things around inside
Gaza is because there’s a war going on and bombs are dropping. 

And, regrettably, in the conduct of some of their — their recent
operations, the Israeli military has, in fact — not on purpose; we have
no reason to believe they did this deliberately — but there has been
accidental strikes on some of the — the trucks and the convoys that have
been moving around. 

So, there’s — it’s a — it’s not — it’s not one or the other.  There’s a
lot of reasons why it’s not moving around.  And some of that is, of
course, the military activity of the Israelis inside Gaza. 

Q    And then, now that the vice president is the likely Democratic
nominee, has she communicated with the president whether a Harris
administration’s Israel policy would be the same or different as his?

MR. KIRBY:  You would have to talk to the vice president’s office and
the campaign for that. 

I would just — before we leave that, though, just want to remind: She’s
been a full partner in our policies in the Middle East, particularly
with our policies towards Israel and the war in Gaza — a full partner,
been involved in nearly every conversation that the president has had
with the prime minister, and very much engaged throughout.

Q    Okay, before I get to my questions, can I just — a quick follow-up
on that.  Can you j- —

MR. KIRBY:  Sure.

Q    Can you explain to the American people who might think it just
looks odd that she is having her own private meeting with the prime
minister, separate from the president’s, that suggests that they aren’t
speaking with one voice.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I reckon if she was here, she’d be in the room right
now.  But she’s not physically here.  There’s nothing unusual about
that.  And the vice president has — has and I fully expect over the next
six months will continue to have meetings of her own with foreign
leaders.  She’s met privately with President Zelenskyy as well and
others.

Q    It was 20 days ago that the administration first said that they
were really optimistic about finding — really closing the deal.  Has
nothing changed in 20 days?  Is that still where we are?

MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t say nothing has changed.

Q    What — what are the remaining gaps?  What are the sticking points?

MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  Yeah, I’m not going to negotiate in public. 

I wouldn’t say nothing has changed.  I mean, there’s the last 20 days
that you talk about, and we’ve been working really, really hard to try
to get those gaps closed. 

There are — there’s still more work to be done.  But

we believe, as I said earlier, we’re closer now than we’ve been before. 
And we think it’s absolutely achievable to get this over the finish
line.

Q    Just sort of following up what you just pointed — there’s one other
thing that the prime minister said yesterday that’s getting a lot of
attention — is that the conflict has had one of the lowest ratios of
combatant-to-noncombat casualties in the history of urban warfare. 
Obviously, our own State Department has found it reasonable to assess
that the Israeli’s actions at times have been inconsistent with
international law.  So, who is correct here?  And is the United States
comfortable with the ratio of deaths between combatants and civilians?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m not going to go line by line through the prime
minister’s speech and debate it here from the White House podium.  He
should speak for his comments.  He should speak for his views. 

What I can do is speak for ours.  And the right number of civilian
casualties is zero.  And there has been too many civilian casualties in
this fighting in Gaza.  And as I just indicated in my previous answer,
there continue to be civilian casualties in this war in Gaza.  There
continues to be desperate need for food, water, medicine because it’s a
combat zone, in many places.  And we need to bring the war to an end.   
  
And one of the principal things that the president — president is going
to talk to the prime minister about today is how we get there, how do we
end this war.  And the best way, in his view, is to get this deal in
place, get a six-week ceasefire, get phase one going so you negotiate to
phase two, get a cessation of hostilities, and, more critically, get
those hostages home.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Admiral.  You mentioned in your topper the
word “compromises.”  Does the president believe that — specifically that
Prime Minister Netanyahu needs to make compromises to achieve a
ceasefire deal and that it’s not just Hamas?  And also, what are those
compromises that Netanyahu would have to make, if so?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Both sides have to make compromises.  And because we still
have gaps that haven’t been closed, I think you can surmise from that
that there are still compromises that need to be made.

  
The Israelis already have made many compromises to get us to this
point.  Hamas, through their interlocutors, have made compromises to get
us to this point.  And yet, we’re still not there.  
  
So, there’s still — there’s still a need for compromise.  
  
Q    And will the president be saying to Prime Minister Netanyahu, “You
need to make compromises”?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, we’re going to do a read out, and we’ll — we’ll tell
you how the meeting went after it’s over.  But as I said in — in the
opening statement, this will be a — a prime topic of discussion: that
it’s time now to get these compromises in place.  It’s time now to get
the negotiation in place and get the hostages home.  It’s time to end
the war.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Asma.  
  
Q    Thank you.  How does the administration reconcile the comments that
the president has made about the fact that Hamas has been decimated; its
military objectives achieved, as he said, some weeks ago; and the fact
that we heard the prime minister again reiterate that he wants total
victory?  How do you all reconcile those two visions?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think they need to be reconciled.  I think they’re —
they’re — both things can be true.  We do believe that, from a military
perspective, Hamas has been very, very badly beaten and — and
denigrated.  No question about that.  Doesn’t mean they’ve been
eliminated.  They still have leadership in place.  They still can direct
operations.  They still have fighters at their beck and call.  And we’re
seeing that every day.  
  
And we also still believe that they need to be defeated; that the threat
to Israel needs to be eliminated from Hamas; and that whatever the
post-war situation looks like, it can’t end with Hamas being in — in
control over Gaza.  
  
So, I don’t think that the two things are necessarily irreconcilable or
— or at odds with one another.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Lalit.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  To what extent the war in Gaza has
impacted that president’s ambitious project, IMEC Corridor?  And is I2U2
being discussed today in the bilateral meeting?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  For the IMEC Corridor?  I think it’s too soon to know
whether there’s going to be a big impact on that.  The president is
absolutely still committed to it.  We still got the teams pulling
together and working on that.  It’s got great promise for infrastructure
and investment opportunities across that whole corridor not only just
for the movement of — of commerce but the jobs that it will create just
in — just in its establishment.  
  
Q    And, secondly, the president’s another key initiative has been the
Quad.  Is president still committed to attending the Quad summit being
hosted by India this year?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re still committed to there being a Quad leaders’ summit
this year.  But there’s nothing on the calendar right now for it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jeff.  
  
Q    Thank you.  John, the meeting with the hostage families this
afternoon that you referenced — can you just give us a sense of what
message the president and the prime minister want to bring to those
families?  What are they going to say?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I won’t speak for the prime minister, but the president
intends to tell them how seriously he is still committed to getting this
deal in place and getting their loved ones home.  He is going to tell
them that we’re going to maintain the contact with them that we have
had, that there’s not — not going to be a gap in communication as we get
— as we get closer here, hopefully, to the end, and that he’s not going
to rest until all their loved ones are back.  
  
Q    The — the pool was in the Oval Office briefly for the beginning of
their meeting, and the two men were friendly and cordial.  And President
Biden was joking about how old he was when he first had a meeting with a
— a previous prime minister. 

But we know that there have been tensions between Prime Minister
Netanyahu and President Biden.  What’s your — can you talk a little bit
about the state of their relationship right now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s a healthy relationship.  And by “healthy,” I mean
they’re not going to agree on everything.  They haven’t.  They haven’t,
through the long political lives that both of them have — have enjoyed,
always agreed on everything.  They come from two different political
traditions.  But they know one another.   
  
I beli- — I can — I’m only speaking for President Biden that — that he’s
very comfortable in the relationship that he has with the prime minister
and the ability that he has — he would do it anyway, but certainly with
— with Prime Minister Netanyahu — the ability that he has to be candid
and honest and lay it all out there.  And he’ll — he’ll do that today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Tyler.  
  
Q    Did the president watch the — the prime minister’s speech yesterday
or see anything that he —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know if he — I don’t know if he watched it.  I — I
don’t know that.  
  
Q    And you didn’t — do you have a sense of his reaction?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t.  
  
Q    Okay.  And — yeah, okay.  Thanks.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You’re welcome.  That was easy.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On Venezuela.  Do you think that Maduro has the ability to kind of
fully rig the election?  Or do you think that he wo- — it’s more likely
that he would just contest the results?

  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s difficult to know exactly how this is going to play
out, so I can’t really answer that specifically.  That — but — well, the
reason I mentioned it in my opening statement is to make it clear to Mr.
Maduro that we’re watching.  We’re watching closely.  They need to be
free and fair elections — free of repression, free of voter
intimidation.  
  
And, again, no matter who wins, our expectation is that the winner is
going to continue to look after democratic institutions in Venezuela.  
  
Q    But — and so, if the opposition does win, are you concerned about
violence that might break out?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  If we weren’t concerned about the possibility, I wouldn’t
have mentioned it in the opening statement.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Admiral, two questions on Iran.  How is POTUS Biden
going to deal with Iran?  I mean, which aspects of dealing with Iran is
he going to prioritize in the next six months in office?  And which one
of them would he be recommending to VPOTUS Harris if and when she gets
to the White House again?  
  
And my second question —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, she’s already at the White House.  She’s already a key
partner in our foreign policy objectives.  
  
Q    As a commander in chief.  If —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would tell — tell you that you’re going to continue to
see, over the next six months, the same focus by this administration,
this team, which of course includes the vice president, on holding Iran
accountable for all their destabilizing activities — support to the
Houthis, to Hezbollah, to Hamas; the merchant attacks that they’re
allowing the Houthis to continue to perpetrate and that they’re
perpetrating themselves in the Gulf region; as well as their support to
Russia in Russia’s war in Ukraine.  I could go on and on.  
  
We have sanctioned Iran some 600 different times just in the last three
and a half years of this administration.  We’ll continue to hold them
accountable.  That will be a steady focus for the president.  
  
Q    Israeli prime minister yesterday labeled those — part of the
protestors as “Iran’s useful idiots.”  What is the administration’s
method of dealing with them?  I mean, what is it —

MR. KIRBY:  First of all, that’s not a phrase we would use.  As I
mentioned, I think, to Peter’s question, we know that Iran certainly has
tried to meddle here.  They’ve tried to sow discord.  They’ve obviously
contributed to some funding of some protesters. 

But I — I think to — to paint everybody with that brush is unfortunate
and not — and not an accurate reflection.  Most of the protest activity
here in the United States is peaceful.  Most of it is — the vast
majority of it is organic; it comes from people who have real concerns. 
And that’s what a democracy is all about. 

Q    And do you agree with the — with the prime minister’s assertion
that basically that Israel is protecting U.S. — I mean, why — is it sort
of an overt criticism from leader of an ally?  And what does U.S. need
protection from an ally?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, can you —

Q    Yeah, well, he said, “When Israel fights Hamas, Hezbollah, Houthis,
we are fighting Iran.  When Israel acts to prevent Iran from developing
nuclear weapons, we are not only protecting ourselves, we’re protecting
you.”  So, why does the U.S. need protection from an ally?  Isn’t U.S.
doing enough? 

MR. KIRBY:  It is clear that — that Israel and the United States share a
concern about Iran’s activities.  And the prime minister is not wrong. 
When you — when you’re going after groups like Hezbollah or Hamas, in
this case particularly, or when we together try to defend each other
against the Houthi missiles and drones that continue to fly, that — that
is also because of the proxy nati- — nature of it, also countering
Iran’s activities.  I mean, together, that’s what allies and partners
do. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, John.  Just to take the long view of this.  Pretty early in
President Biden’s presidency, February the 4th, 2021, he spoke at the
State Department about his priorities in foreign policy.  And he said
that one of those priorities was “reclaiming our credibility and moral
authority.” 

The prime minister of Israel is, in the judgment of the chief prosecutor
of the International Criminal Court, a war criminal.  Isn’t hosting an
alleged war criminal in the Oval Office undermining of credibility and
moral authority?

MR. KIRBY:  No, because we don’t consider him a war criminal. 

Q    But the International Criminal Court does. 

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t agree.  And as we’ve said before, we don’t find the
ICC’s finding to be relevant or appropriate in this case.  We don’t find
him to be a war criminal.  He’s an ally and a partner and a friend. 

Q    Well, the — the chief prosecutor says that Israel does have
legitimate war aims, of course.  But the way Israel chose to achieve
these in Gaza, namely intentionally causing death, starvation, great
suffering, and serious injury to body or health of the civilian
population, are criminal. 

MR. KIRBY:  Is that a question?

Q    I —

MR. KIRBY:  Because if it is — if it is, I’ve already answered it.  We
don’t consider him a war criminal. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Janne.

Q    Thank you, Karine. 

Q    Thank you — thank — yes, she called me. 

Q    I thought she said “Jake.”

Q    And thank — thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I said “Janne.”  I said “Janne.”

Q    Oh, Janne?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    My bad.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s all good. 

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, John.  I have two
questions.  Recently, American families who were victims of Hamas filed
a lawsuit against North Korea (inaudible) in the U.S. Federal Court
demanding $1 billion in compensation from North Korea, claiming that
North Korea was responsible because the weapons used by Hamas were
weapons supported by North Korea.  What is your comment on this?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, Mr. Kim continues to export military capability.  And
we continue to work with allies and partners and counterparts to hold
them accountable for that.  They’re also exporting technology and
weapons systems to Russia so they can kill innocent Ukrainians.  And
we’re going to continue to hold them accountable for that kind of
behavior. 

Q    Also, second question.  If Vice President Kamala Harris is elected
the next president, will she continue (inaudible) keep going on between
U.S. and South Korea or (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I am not going to speak for a hypothetical electoral
outcome, and I’m certainly not going to speak for the vice president in
this regard.  You really should talk to her team and — and her
campaign. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, the president has been pushing for a peace
deal, a ceasefire for weeks, if not months.  Now that he has announced
that he’s not running for another term, how, if in any way, that
complicates those efforts to reach a peace deal?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t believe it does.  And in the conversations that
we’ve been having in just recent hours, there’s no reason to suspect
that his decision not to run for reelection is going to have an impact
on our ability to get the deal done. 

What’s going to have an impact, as I said before, is leadership —
leadership on all sides and the ability to continue to compromise.  We
are close.  We just have to finish it. 

Q    The president also last night spoke about his goals in his
remaining six months in office.  One of those goals is to get back those
wrongfully detained Americans, people like Evan Gershkovich from the
Wall Street Journal. 

MR. KIRBY:  And Paul Whelan. 

Q    And Paul Whelan.  Exactly.  The president has been described by
some as a “lame duck president.”  Does it complicate those efforts to
get back those wrongfully detained Americans?

MR. KIRBY:  I can assure you that we continue to work extremely hard at
getting all wrongfully detained Americans around the world, including
those in Russia that we’ve been talking about, getting them home where
they belong.  They don’t need to — there’s no reason for them to be
detained.  The whole team is working on this around the clock.  I can
absolutely assure you that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to have to start wrapping up.  Go ahead,
Annie.

Q    Thank you.  And thank you for the answer, also, on the last
question.  Yesterday, Netanyahu asked the U.S. to fast-track weapons in
his speech.  I’m wondering if the president is considering lifting his
pause on the 2,000-pound bombs that the Israelis have requested?

MR. KIRBY:  No change to that policy at this time.  And I would just add
that that is the only shipment of the only type of weaponry that has
been held up, that all the military security assistance that had been
going to Israel continues to go to Israel.  They are still getting the
tools, the capabilities, and the weapons that they need for the fight
that they’re in. 

Q    Thanks, John.  Thanks, Karine.  What conversations has President
Biden had with Vice President Kamala Harris ahead of her meeting with
the Israeli prime minister?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t speak to private conversations between the president
and vice president.  I wouldn’t do that on any given day, and I’m
certainly not going to do it starting today.

The vice president — I’m sure her team will give her a readout of how
the conversation with — between the president and the prime minister is
going right now.  And then that will, I’m sure, inform her
conversation.  But I’m not going to give more detail than that.

Q    And just second question.  What additional pressure is the
president willing to exert upon Netanyahu, just given that the
framework, as my colleague mentioned, was just submitted about a few
weeks and still nothing has come of that?

MR. KIRBY: The framework for the deal?

Q    Mm-hmm.

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, my goodness, there’s — you know, I know it’s — I
know we don’t — we’re not there yet, and I — I get that there’s more
work to be done, but think about what has happened since he laid that
out on the 31st of May.  We went from that framework proposal to getting
the framework itself agreed to now by both sides. 

There’s some haggling that’s being done over some of the details.  Some
of that haggling has had positive results, and we have closed some
gaps.  There are still gaps that remain to be closed, as I said earlier,
some details that need to be worked out. 

There’s an awful lot of energy and effort being put into this —
certainly, by our team, but I’d — I’ll go so far as to say by — by our
counterparts as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jake.

Q    Thank you.  I’ve got two questions.  But first, can you tell me the
backstory behind the — the nice bling you’ve got around your neck there?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I — I had a chance to meet with some of the hostages’
families myself back in December.  And the father of one gave me this to
wear, and I try to wear it as much as I can just to remember that —
again, 293 days.  They need to be home with their families.  And since
they’re here at the White House and this is going to be a prime topic of
conversation, I thought it was appropriate to wear it today.

Q    Does the president have one?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know.

Q    Okay.  I’ve got two questions.  Is it or is it not the U.S.
government’s position that UNRWA is complicit in terrorism?

MR. KIRBY:  UNRWA does some things that no other agency can do on the
ground in Gaza.  You and I both know that. 

Now, there has been an investigation done to some of their employees. 
And I understand that there’s been some additional

claims or charges against additional employees to — that had been laid
out there.  But it’s clear to us that UNRWA has taken this seriously. 
They fully investigated it.  They eliminated the employment of those
that they believe were involved in terrorist activities. 

It’s absolutely unacceptable — not just to us, but it should be, and we
believe it is, unacceptable to UNRWA.  But UNRWA is still — you know,
and, yes, I know, we’re not providing funding to them now because of
legislation, but I think it’s important for people to know that there
are things that can’t get done without UNRWA’s cooperation and support
on the ground. 

Q    And the government’s position is that those are claims and charges,
right?  Nothing more than claims and charges?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, some of them have been verified because they did their
own investigation — UNRWA did — and — and terminated some of those
employees.  So, clearly, there was something to it. 

Q    My second question.  Hezbollah has been firing thousands of
rockets.  At what point does that violate the president’s “don’t, don’t,
don’t” warning?

MR. KIRBY:  We are working, as I said in my opening statement, to try to
resolve the differences at and around the blue line.  We haven’t seen —
although there has been firing back and forth across that blue line and
we want to see that stop, we haven’t seen it escalate into an all-out
war here nor do we want that to happen, which is why we’re working so
hard, diplomatically, to try to find a solution.

One of the things that the prime minister and the president will talk
about today is what we need to do — what more do we need to do to
stabilize the situation on the blue line so that families, both Lebanese
and Israeli, can start to move back to their homes. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Let’s let the admiral go.

Go ahead, Jared.  You have the last question.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon, Admiral.  The progress that you
cite as it relates to sort of the phase-one hostage and ceasefire deal,
does that signal that there has also been progress in the day-after,
post-conflict Gaza and sort of what that government looks like?

MR. KIRBY:  No, those are two different processes.  I mean, we’re — when
I’m talking about progress made and gaps that can be closed, I’m talking
about the ceasefire deal itself, which, as you know, has mul- — has two
phases to it.  Phase one gets you six weeks of — of a ceasefire and the
return of the most vulnerable — but not all — but the most vulnerable of
hostages. 

That’s a separate process than what you call “the day after,” which is
something, frankly, that Secretary Blinken has been working on since
almost the day after October 7th in terms of trying to figure out — with
our partners on the ground, including the Israelis, but Arab partners —
what does governance look like when the war is over and how are the
aspirations of the people of Gaza actually met by a governing body and a
governing authority that has an interest in meeting their aspirations
for peace and security.

Q    How would you characterize that process right now?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s ongoing and still a lot of work is being done.  I mean,
if you want me to give it a, you know, report card, I can’t do that. 
But I can tell you that Secretary Blinken, Jake Sullivan, the whole team
is still very much dedicated to that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

Q    Hey, John.  Pope Francis reiterated his call today for a — an
“Olympic truce.”  Can you comment on that?  Karine, could you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Yest- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Admiral.  I forgot to thank him.  (Laughs.)

Q    And yesterday, you were asked a couple of times about the — the
rationale for the president’s decision.  You said, “Tune in.”  One thing
the president did not say was explicitly why he stepped aside.  He s- —
you know, you talked about how he believed it was in the best int- —
interest of the country to step aside, but why did he?  Did he believe
he was going to lose to Donald Trump?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think that the president actually answered
this question. 

Q    He didn’t.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — no, no, no.  I think the American people think
he answered the question.  He said, “I revere this office, but I love my
country more.”  He said, “I draw strength and I enjoy in working for the
American people, but this sacred task of perfecting our Union is not
about me.  It’s about you, our families — your families, your futures. 
And I’ve decided the best way — the best way forward is to pass the
torch to a new generation.  That’s the best way to unite our nation.” 

He talked about unity.  He talked about passing the torch.   
  
“I know there is a time and a place for long years of experience in
public life, but there’s also a time and a place for new voices, fresh
voices — yes, younger voices.  And that time and place is now.”   
  
That is what he said.  That is why he laid out why he’s passing the
torch, why it’s time to give — give it over to new, fresh voices.  And
he also talked about unity. 

And I would also refer back to his letter where he talked about also
wanting to unify his party.

Q    Did the president believe that his presence in that race was
divisive?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into more than what the president
laid out.  He talked about unity.  He talked about bringing the — the
party together.  He talked about putting the country first.  He talked
about passing over the torch, bringing in new voices. 

I think he laid out very clearly why he decided to make this decision. 
And I believe the American people got it.  They understood it. 

Q    If it was clear, I wouldn’t be asking the question, but I’ll — I’ll
move on.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s clear.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do.   
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think that the American people do.

Q    For several weeks, the White House has said — had said multiple
times that the president was not going to leave the race.  He ultimately
did. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You’ve also said several times that — that the president would not
pardon or commute the sentence for his son, Hunter.  I just want to make
sure that that is not going to change over the next six months.  The
president is saying —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s still —  
  
Q    — he would not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s still — it’s still a no.  It’s still a no.  
  
Q    It will always be a no?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s still a no.  It will be a no.  It — it is a no. 
And I don’t have anything else to add.  Will he pardon his son?  No.

  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, picking up on Zeke.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Sure.  
  
Q    For such a monumental decision, the president did address why he
left the race, but —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thank you.   
  
Q    — but — but he left a lot of it for us to read between the lines. 
He did not make clear why he’s leaving the race.  Even in the excerpts
that you bring up —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — he says that, you know, “the best way forward is to pass the
torch to a new generation.”  Is he saying it’s because he was too old?  
  
You know, in another one, he said that it was for the sake of
democracy.  That does not answer why he thought he was in the way of
democracy.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —  
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, go ahead.  Sorry.  
  
Q    Why did he make this decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, a new generation — and he also said the
next seten- — sentence was to unite — is also to unite the nation.   
  
Look, the president has talked about this twice — one in a letter that
he addressed to the American people on Sunday, laying out a very
monumental — to your point, it is.  It is a monumental decision that he
made, and he thought very long and hard.   
  
He also said that he’s been serving this country as a public servant for
more than 50 years.  It is not an easy decision to make.  He talked
about unity.  He talked about the next generation.  He talked about
passing the torch.  
  
I was asked in this room a couple of da- — I don’t know, maybe two weeks
ago — all of these days are coming together — that when the president
ran in 2020, he talked about passing the torch, he talked about the next
generation, he talked about being a bridge to the next generation.  And
I was asked, “Is that something that the president still wants to do and
still cares about?”  And I said yes.   
  
And so, this is part of that.  Right?  This is part of what he said in
2020.  He talked about unifying the nation.  He talked about unifying
the party.  And he believed the time was now.  The time was now to step
down from his reelection and to move — you know, to move ahead with the
next six months, the end of his term.  And that’s what he decided to
do.   
  
Q    Before he made the decision, he said that there were three things
that could sway him: the Lord Almighty, a medical condition, and if his
team showed him that he could not win.  So, was it because of the
polling?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I could just — I can tell you it’s not a medical — it
was not a medical decision, because I’ve been asked before and we
answered that very straightforward and in a — in a very direct way.  I’m
just not going to get beyond that.   
  
Q    And then, finally, President Biden spent much of his speech talking
about the choice that Americans face in November.  Trump’s campaign
manager called it a campaign speech.  Your response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  My response that it’s not a campaign speech.  I would
remind my friends on the other side that the president is no longer a
candidate.

  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Democrats on Capitol Hill are being handed this
card with talking points about the vice president and the border.  Do
you know who’s handing this out?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have no idea.  You probably should ask her campaign.

  
Q    So, the first one says, “Vice President Harris was never appointed
border czar.  There’s never been such a position.  It doesn’t exist.” 
Why are Democrats so sensitive about the vice president and the
border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Why are Republicans so sensitive about actually not
owning up to them getting in the way of a border deal?  Why?  Why won’t
they own up to that?  Why won’t they own up to the last president told
them not to move forward?  
  
It was a bipartisan deal on — just right there, available to them, and
they voted twice against it — twice against it.   
  
Why are they so sensitive to moving forward and actually dealing on an
issue that majority of Americans care about — is dealing with what’s
going on at the border?  
  
Q    Do you think that the border would be less of a talking point now
if there was less migration to the border, say, if somebody had
addressed root causes of migration —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    — sooner?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on a second.  Did you not hear the
beginning of my — it was — I know there were a lot of toppers, but one
of the toppers I talked about: what we’re seeing at the border.  It’s
down by 55 percent.  Not because of Republicans in Congress and what
they did — it’s because what this president and this vice president
did.  They s- — they — he moved forward and took actions to deal with
what’s going on at the border.   
  
Republicans continue — continue to block getting resources to the Border
Patrol agents.  They continue to block actually dealing with an
immigration system.   
  
So, yes, we are going to debunk the false — the false, you know,
characterization of the vice president.  She was not a border czar.  Are
it’s not just us.  Independent fact-checkers have said the same thing —
that that did not exist and that is not true.  
  
Q    And a different topic.  Russia and China are teaming up in the
skies near Alaska for the first time ever.  Are you getting a sense yet,
based on everything that’s been going on, that some of America’s enemies
might be looking at what’s happening here and think there’s nobody in
charge?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say this.  There is very much someone
in charge.  The president is the president until the end of his term. 
So, that — that statement is certainly false.  And we have seen the
president bring together our allies and partners.  He reinvigorated NA-
— NATO.  He got more than 50 countries behind Ukraine to make sure that
they were able to defend themselves against Putin.  He stood up to
Putin.  And he’s done a lot more.   
  
And now — right now, as we’re speaking, I believe it’s still happening,
the president is having a bilateral conversation, meeting with the —
with the prime minister of Israel.  So — who, by the way, the prime
minister of Israel thanked the president for the work that he’s been —
he’s been able to do in helping to make sure that Israel is able to have
an ironclad security.  Right?   
  
And so, that’s that.  
  
But let me be clear — I want to actually address your — I guess, the
basis of your question, outside of saying there’s no leadership.   
  
Our Department of Defense did not see this activity in Alaska air
defense identification zone as a threat.  North American Aerospace
Defense Command, NORAD, continues to monitor PRC and Russian activity
near North America.  And to meet — to meet presence — and to meet
presence with presence, U.S. and Canadian aircraft detected,
<s>trackted</s> \[tracked\], and intercepted the Russian and PRC
aircraft.   
  
And, more broadly, the U.S. remains concerned about the PRC and Russian
collaboration across all instruments of national power that do not
promote global stability and security, not just the — in the Arctic.   
  
But the President, if anything, if you look at his foreign policy
objectives and what he’s been able to do and what the last
administration did, they — the last administration ruined our
relationships with our partners and allies.  This president had to fix
that and make sure that we — we actually mended our relationship with
our partners and allies.  And that’s what we’ve been able to do.  And a
perfect example is what we’re seeing with Ukraine being able to defend
itself against Russia’s aggression. 

Go ahead.

Q    So, yesterday and again today, you insisted that the president
didn’t make this decision because of a medical condition.  It wasn’t
about his health.  Yesterday, you said that he could have finished a
second term if you — if he won one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, was this decision to step out of the race just a political
calculus?  He just didn’t think he could beat Trump? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to add to what the
president said himself last night, to what he penned and released to the
American people on Sunday.  Don’t have anything more to add to that. 

He wanted to unite the country.  He wanted to pass the torch.  He felt
after 50 — 50-plus years of public service, the time was to do just
that.  I don’t have anything else to add.

Q    Do you have anything to add on what he teased about proposing
reform to the Supreme Court? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that is something, certainly, that the president
would talk to — more about in the ho- — in — you know, in the upcoming
weeks, just for so- — folks who may have missed that.  He said — last
night, he said, “I’m going to call for Supreme Court reform because this
is critical to our democracy — Supreme Court reform.” 

And I answered this question — this part — I said this part of — to a
question yesterday.  He believes if you are serving in — at the high —
in high office, you should be held to a transparency, accountability,
and you should be held to a high ethics. 

That’s what the president believes.  I’m certainly not going to get
ahead of the president.  And he will have more to share with all of you
soon. 

Go ahead, Tyler.

Q    Just — I know many of my colleagues have asked these questions. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    And just given the historic nature of the announcement and the
decision, I think it’s important to get some more transparency.  You
just said that the president thought long and hard about the decision to
exit the race.  But also, yesterday, you said that he made a decision on
Saturday night.  And prior to that, the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s — that — there’s — there’s — I — you could
still think about something long and hard if he started thinking about
it on Saturday night and finally made his decision on Sunday. 

Q    Okay, that doesn’t seem like a long time period.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s — that’s your — that’s your — that’s
your assumption. 

Q    I just wanted to clarify —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, you know — but that’s your — that — that is your
assumption.  Not everybody will have that same assumption or thought,
right?  I mean, it is — it is a decision that he felt that he needed to
make and that was — that was — that was the tick-tock of it, if you
will. 

We were laying out to you how it happened, and that’s how it happened. 
That’s how the president said it happened. 

Q    And do you expect the president to address any further his
decision-making process?  As my colleagues have asked —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — we don’t feel that we have gotten the clarity about how he made
this monumental decision.  And so, obviously, we’d love an opportunity
to ask him questions himself.  But barring that, do you think we should
expect any more clarity from him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to — the president is going to
make his decision on his own on how much more he wants to share. 
Obviously, he gave an Oval address and addressed the American people, as
he said he was going to do in his letter back on Sunday.  And he had a
letter on Sunday as well. 

Maybe there’s — there’ll be more than he wants to share.  We have six
months.  Certainly, the president enjoys taking all of your questions. 
He’ll continue to do just that.  I don’t have anything to share beyond
what you’ve heard from the president on Sunday and his Oval address to
the American people last night.

Q    And just one last one on sort of the next six months.  We just
asked Kirby about this.  But is there anything you can tell us about how
operations at the White House may change, the president’s schedule may
change, anything else that reflects — obviously, he has a lot more time
now that he’s not going to be a full-time candidate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean — I mean, you’re right.  He has a lot more
time.  Now he won’t be a candidate.  That is true.  And the president
said he wants to continue his — obviously, as he was doing before,
continue and solely focused on being president and what that means and —
for the American people and delivering and building on unprecedented
successes that he’s been able to get done.  Right? 

We still have a lot more to do.  We still have to make sure there are —
I was just asked about the Supreme Court.  Right?  He mentioned that in
his speech.  I won’t get ahead of that.  That is something that he cares
about: the ethics — right? — and transparency, something he wants to
make sure that that is addressed. 

Again, not going to get ahead of the president.  But he gave a little
bit of that.  He laid out what he’s done for almost four years and
making sure we’re building on that, whether it is continuing to lower
costs — he talked about that — bringing down inflation, creating
good-paying jobs.  All of these historic legislation that he was able to
get done, they still have to be implemented.  Right?  Whether it’s the
s- — the — the CHIPs and Science Act, whether it’s the infrastructure
bill, whether it’s the Inflation Reduction Act, there’s still a lot of
work to get done to make sure that we deliver the good things — the good
components of those — those now laws to the American people. 

Still a lot to get done, he’s focused on it, and we’ll certainly — we
will certainly have more to share.  As you know, he’s going to be going
to Austin on Monday.  And so, you know, stay tuned.  Stay tuned. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, after President Biden said he was going to
step aside and endorse Vice President Harris, Democrats quickly
coalesced around Vice President Harris.  I was wondering if President
Biden sought assurances from other leading, you know, Democratic
candidates that they would challenge her — that they wouldn’t challenge
her? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to get into specifics or
behind-the-scenes conversation.  I’m just not.  And also, that’s kind of
on the campaign, the political side.  So, going to be careful from
here. 

Look, I think it’s important that what we saw the first 48 hours — 24
hours, 48 hours after the president decided not to run, the coalescing
of support behind the vice president, which is not surprising.  She has
been a partner — a critical partner to this president in — in everything
that we have been able to successfully get done, some historic items
that we’ve been able to get done. 

She’s been the critical partner to this president.  She has four years —
almost four years of experience as vice president, also as a senator,
also as attorney general.  She has an impressive résumé. 

And I have said this before, and I’ll say it again: I do not see — and
the president obviously did not see anyone else who would be more
qualified to step in.  And so, it is not surprising that she got the
support that she has and continues to get.  And the president certainly
is going to continue to support her. 

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The president praised Vice President Harris last
night in his address as a good partner and a strong leader.  Will he
have any objections as she starts creating a little bit of distance with
him on any policy areas?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, certainly, I can’t speak to how she’s going to
move forward with her campaign on policy issues.  That’s something that
the campaign would have to address directly. 

I would say — again, kind of repeating myself but saying this in a
little bit different way: The last four years has been very successful
policy-wise.  They’ve been able to get things done.  They’ve been able
to turn around the economy. 

We have — not to forget — we should not forget what happened when the
president and the vice president stepped into their roles.  Right?  They
stepped into the presidency, the admin- — administration.  We had a
once-in-a-century pandemic that the president turned us around and with
the help of the vice president.

You think about the American Rescue Plan, you think about the Inflation
Reduction Act, many of these legislation, she played a role in getting
it across the aisle.  She also presides — right? — in the Senate. 
Right?  She — she really gave us some really important — important votes
in getting things done. 

So, they’ve been partners in this.  You know, I don’t want to get into
hypotheticals here about what — how she’s going to move forward with her
campaign.  But you think about crime, you think about health care, you
think about the economy, you think about immigration and the successes
that we have seen in those particular areas — and that’s just a few —
foreign policy, she’s been in part — a partner of tha- — in that.

Q    Sure.  And she’ll no doubt have to run on the

record that they have together.  But the relationship has changed a
little bit.  She’s not just a supportive vice president; now she’s also
the candidate and — the candidate for the party going forward in the
election.  So, if she decides to show a little bit more of her own views
on Gaza, for example, is the president okay with that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, a hypothetical that I don’t want to go down a
rabbit hole in.  What I say is that the president respects the vice
president.  He endorsed her, believing that — as I said, pashing —
passing the torch to the next generation of new voices — that she was
more than qualified to do the job, more than qualified to step in on day
one, as he said himself.  I’m just repeating him. 

And I think that says volumes, coming from a president who’s been a
senator, who’s been a vice president — right? — who knows how this place
works, who knows how Congress works.  Now, who knows what it’s like to
be president of the United States.  I think that is — I think, coming
from this president, says a lot. 

I don’t want to get into hypotheticals here. 

They are — pretty much have been a hand in glove, if you will, these
past four years on getting things done, on the different policy issues. 
And I suspect that will continue. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You mentioned now about what the president said
last night about the vice president, but one thing he didn’t do was
explicitly tell Americans to vote for her.  He said, “Now the choice is
up to you, the American people.”  Why not use that moment, when he had
millions of people tuned in, to say that message flat out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because he was being mindful.  This was an Oval
address.  This was not a campaign political address.  This was an Oval
address.  And he thought it was important, as he is — he said it: He
started off his remarks talking about being at the Resolute Desk, talked
about the space and the portraits that were in the room, the busts that
were in the room, the importance — the heavy weight of that office.  And
he believed this was a monumental decision, as many of you have reminded
me today, that he made. 

And he wanted to take that opportunity to talk through what he’s been
able to deliver; to talk about what it meant for him to be president, an
honor of a lifetime; and, you know, to lay out what this next six months
is going to be.  And so, that’s what he wanted to focus on. 

There will be many — plenty of times — plenty of times for him to go out
on the campaign trail and talk about choices and talk about what it —
what’s — what’s at stake.  I’m going to be very careful here, but there
will be plenty of time to do that. 

He didn’t feel like that was — the time to do that was last night.

Q    And can you tell us a little bit about the — after the speech? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    We know from some social media posts, we could hear it here —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.

Q    — that the president walked out into the Rose Garden —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and several hundred staff were out there.  But what was that
like?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    What did he do afterwards, private time with family? Just tell us
how his mood was afterwards.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, it was — look, it was a beautiful, beautiful
moment.  The president went to the Rose Garden.  There were hundreds of
staff cheering him on.  I’m very proud to have been part of this
administration — many of us for — since the beginning of this
administration, almost four years. 

And he also wanted to appreciate the staff.  He knows how hard it’s been
— not just the past three and a half years, but certainly the past
couple of weeks. 

And so, I think it was a very special moment, a very powerful moment for
the staff here.  I was there, out in the Rose Garden.  I got to listen
to him speak off the cuff and say thank you and talk about, you know,
the work that we have been able to get done — the historic amount of
work that we’ve been get- — able to get done and what’s ahead the next
six months.

So, yes, there were hundreds of staff here in the Rose Garden.  We —
some — some of us — I was able to be in the Oval and — and watch the
president deliver the remarks.  Many of the staffers were able to watch
together, here, at the White House in the Residence. 

And afterwards, we all came together and cheered on the president and
thanked him.  And so, I think — and he was able to thank us and
appreciate us as well.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Just following up on that, Karine.  What’s the mood of the staff
right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think —

Q    Is it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m sorry.

Q    No, that’s all right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry.

Q    I’m just curious: Is there melancholy? What — what’s — what’s the
exact mood right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s a little bit of what I just said to
Karen.  I think there’s a lot of pride in the work that we’ve been able
to get done on — under this leadership of this president.  I think that
there’s a lot of understanding there’s a lot more work to be done in the
next six months.  We’re energized. 

And, look, I mean, I’m not going to — I’m going to be very honest.  It’s
been hard.  It’s been very hard.  You know, when you — when you do these
jobs, you believe in the work ahead.  You believe in the leadership of
the person that you’re working for.  This person being Joe Biden. 

And so, it was — it has been a tough couple of weeks.  But we are so —
we are so full of pride of what we’ve been able to get done.  And now,
there’s six months left. 

Q    I — I noticed — and maybe I — I misread it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — but when you had your prepared remarks at the very top, it seemed
as if you got a little emotional —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — talking a little bit — no?  I missed that?  I misread that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no.  I mean, no.  I mean it is emo- — I mean,
I’ve said it.  It’s an emotional moment for everyone, you know,
including me.  It’s an emotional moment, you know? 

This is a — you know, you do these jobs; they don’t — they don’t pay all
that well, as you know.  (Laughs.)  You guys have tough jobs as well. 
And it takes you away from your family.  You don’t sleep as much. 
(Laughs.)  They are, you know, 24/7 jobs, for sure.  And you do it
because you believe in the work. 

Whether you’re — whichever side of the aisle you’re in — right? — I
would hope and think that people who do these jobs believe that you’re
going to make people’s lives better — right? — or you’re very much
connected to the issues that you’re working on.  I think that’s
important. 

So, yes, it’s emotional. 

Q    Follow on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s emotional.

Q    In the back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  What would the president say to those who have
increased their attack on vice president based on the color of his skin,
her gender?  They’ve been caught using terms like “lunatics.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, there’s something I do want to say about
that.  When you have the lead — the speaker of the House — obviously,
he’s a Republican — and this is something that you all have reported —
set up a meeting to tell Republican leaders to stop being racist, to
stop being misogynist, to stop being sexist, I think that says a lot
that they have to be told to not do that. 

But, more broadly, I think it’s — I think it’s desperate, I think it’s
disgusting, and I think it’s a dog whistle. 

And we ha- — we should not forget that she is the vice president of the
United States.  She’s the vice president of the United States.  She
should get that respect.  She has been doing this job with the president
for almost four years.  She’s a former senator and has been a critical
partner in getting the economy re- — restarted and making sure that —
that we deal with the pandemic.  And to hear that is frankly disgusting.

Q    I have one more question, a follow-up on the — your topper about
illegal —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that last part.  On —

Q    I have one more question to follow up, basically, what you said
about the legal immigration system at the top of your remarks. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    There are around 200,000 American kids who came to this country at
the age of maybe six months, two years.  But they’re all facing
deportation as they age out at 21 years of age.  Around 40 senators and
congressmen wrote a letter to the administration that — coming out with
some legal mechanisms so that they can stay in this country, that many
of them are doing quite well.  What would the president be doing for
them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — I — certainly, we don’t have any
policy announcements to make at this time. 

But, again, I talked about the bipartisan agreement that came together
from the Senate, where we negotiated a process to help the so-called
“documented DREAMers,” and sadly, Republicans, and I’ve said this many
times already at this podium today, which is that they voted it down
twice.  They voted it down twice. 

And as I said at the top, you know, we are going to provide protection
to more than 500,000 people and keep families together in the U.S.  That
is something that the president announced back in June, and that is
something that we’re going to continue to do. 

Look, the way to get — to deal with a broken immigration system is to
get legislative process done and move forward.  We started that. 
Republicans voted it down twice.  We had a bipartisan option that would
have been the toughest and the fairest way to move forward in dealing
with the immigration system, something we hadn’t seen in years, and they
voted it down twice. 

And so, that is how we’re going to move forward is making sure Congress
gets done — the work done that they need to. 

I know, I think I have to — right? 

Go ahead — (laughs) — go ahead, Ed. 

Q    Thanks — thanks, Karine.  Two topics, the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And, Jenny, I’ll come back.

Q    — the economy first, if I could.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    There’s a new CM — CNN poll out that says 39 percent of adults
worry most of the time or all of the time that their income will not be
enough to meet expenses.  Prices are up 19 percent since President Biden
and Kamala Harris, the vice president, came into office.  How long do
Americans have to wait until this worry goes away?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, too many — too many families are still
struggling to make ends meet.  That is something that the president
understands, and that is why he works every single day to make sure that
we address these issues for hardworking Americans. 

I talked about the historic accomplishments that this president has
done.  You think about the Inflation Reduction Act, which only Democrats
voted for.  Insulin is now capped at 35 bucks a month for seniors.  The
president wants to see that go more broadly.  This goes into the
question that I was asked, “What else does he want to do?”  Continue to
lower costs, right? 

You think about — you think about what he’s been able to do to get
housing assistance for Americans who are having a hard time with rent,
with getting a house.  And so, he’s — he is — he is — has taken actions
to deal with tha- — with that issues that Americans have.  We get it. 
We get it.  Over the next six months, that’s what we want to continue to
focus on as well.

And we know that Americans, again, have — are — are having a difficult
time, but our stance and where we — how we see this country is very
clear.  Republicans want to give a tax break to corporations — a big tax
giveaway to corporations and billionaires.  They want to actually go
after Social Security and Medicare.  That’s not what we believe.  That’s
not what we want to do.  We want to protect those important programs
that Americans need. 

Q    So, if I could, the other topic: Last night, the president kept
with the theme of “saving democracy,” alluding to the fact that maybe
former President Trump is a threat to democracy.  The vice president is
using the same language.  Is this a dangerous rhetoric?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, it is important that we continue to talk about
unity.  It is.  Saving democracy, making sure that we’re unified as a
country.  And he called on the country to come together.  That is
something that — that is a — that is a theme that he’s talked about
since 2019.  Since 2019.  Nothing new here.

And I’ll quote, “Keep calling out hate and extremism… make it clear
there is no place — no place in America for political violence” — that’s
something that the president said last night — “or any violence ever,
period.  I’m going to keep speaking out to protect our kids <s>and</s>
\[from\] gun violence.”  This is something that the president truly
believes in.  But bringing the country together is a big part of — that
is actually the theme.  Unity is the theme that you heard from his — his
remarks last night.

Go ahead, Jenny.

Q    Yeah, but he still — but he still talks about “a threat to
democracy.”  I mean, there were now three public attempts that were — or
threats to the former president that we know of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Iran, being of one of them.  There was the shooter the other
night.  So, how many threats are enough to lower the temperature?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president has called on lowering the temperature. 
But here’s the thing, Ed, it takes on all of us to lower the
temperature.  All of us.  I hope you can read between the lines of what
I mean by “all of us.”  It takes all of us to take that action and to
lower the temperature. 

And I think when you have a president that uses the Oval address to talk
about unity not just once — he did it right after — sadly, right after
the former president — the attempted assass- — assassination on the
former president.  He talked about lowering the temperature then, and
also talked about really denouncing, condemning political violence and
how it has no place in this nation.  He talked about it.  Used the Oval
Office to do just that.  And we’ve been condemning political violence
for some time.

Go ahead, Jenny.

Q    “Passing the torch,” obviously, was the central theme yesterday of
— of the address —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Many themes.

Q    Okay.  One of the central themes. 

And you just mentioned his commitment in 2020 to run as a bridge
candidate.  Two weeks ago, at the NATO press conference, he was asked
exactly that: And what changed, why he’s not doing this anymore.  He
said, “What changed was the gravity of the situation I inherited in
terms of the economy, our foreign policy, and domestic division.” 

Obviously, since the presser none of these factors have changed, so I
think it’s a fair question for all of us to ask you if you can help us
understand —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s the thing —

Q    — his shift in thinking that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — no, I’m sorry.  Go ahead.  No, I’m sorry.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m sorry.  Go ahead, Jenny.  Go ahead.

Q    — made him arrive at this conclusion that passing the torch now is
the right time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And it is a fair question to ask.  I don’t have
anything else to add to what the president said.  I’m not going to get
ahead of this president.  I’m just not. 

He’s — he put out a letter, and he said what he wanted to say about the
situation last night. 

I’m not going to get ahead of it.  I’m not saying it’s not a fair
question to ask.  I do not have anything more to add than what the
president said. 

Yes, he talked about passing the torch.  He talked about unity.  He
talked about bringing the country together.  That is what he wanted to
share to the American people. 

If there’s more to say, he certainly — I will leave that to him to say
that. 

Q    And — and then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to add.

Q    — one other quick thing.  Obviously, Kirby just teased that there
might be opportunities for trips or legacy engagements in the next six
months.  Is there anything you have talked to him about, something that
he wants to do before he leaves office?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think he’s still thinking through it.  You know, I
think that — I think that it’s going to be a process.  We have a lot of
things that we want to get done domestically, in foreign policy space. 
NSC is thinking through it.  The president is thinking through it.

And when we have more to share, we certainly will share that with all of
you. 

Thanks, everybody. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

3:10 P.M. EDT 
