---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-11 10:21:33-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 23:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/10/background-press-call-previewing-the-new-trilateral-icebreaker-arrangement/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing the New Trilateral Icebreaker\_Arrangement"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:02 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Hey, everyone. Thank you all for joining today’s call. This
is Michael Feldman with the NSC Press team.

Today’s call is to preview the new trilateral Icebreaker Collaboration
Effort between Canada, Finland, and the United States.

On today’s call we have Deputy National Security Advisor for
International Economics, Daleep Singh, who will provide opening remarks
on the record.

Following Daleep’s opening remarks, we will move into the Q&A portion of
the call, which will be on background, and speakers will be attributed
as senior administration officials.

Today’s call will be held under embargo until 10:00 a.m. Eastern
tomorrow morning. And by participating in the call today, you are
agreeing to these ground rules.

With that, I will turn the call over to Daleep to do opening remarks.

MR. SINGH: Thanks, Michael. And thanks, everybody, for joining.
Tomorrow, the leaders of the United States, Finland, and Canada —
President Biden, Prime Minister Trudeau, and President Stubb — will
announce their intent to form a trilateral arrangement to collaborate on
the production of icebreakers.

We’re calling this partnership the Icebreaker Collaboration Effort, or
ICE Pact. The objective is to advance a shared and strategic interest.
That is, each of our countries want to strengthen our shipbuilding and
industrial capacity. And by collaborating on this effort together, we’ll
deepen our economic and security ties.

The pact has three components.

First, enhanced information sharing on polar icebreaker production, as
well as on Arctic and other polar capabilities.

Second, collaboration on workforce development so workers and experts
can train in yards across all three countries.

And third, an invitation to our allies and partners to take advantage of
the significant investments we’re making in highly complex shipbuilding
capacity by purchasing polar icebreakers from American, Finnish, or
Canadian shipyards for their own needs.

For the United States, what’s the value proposition? Well, it’s to bring
world-class expertise and experience to our shipyards that helps them
attract demand, scale up their capacity, and compete on the world stage.

As the President has emphasized, we’re committed to revitalizing our
capacity to build American ships in American shipyards with American
sailors.

And to repeat, this is a strategic imperative. Polar icebreakers are
exactly the kind of high-complexity, high-tech market segment in which
America is well positioned to thrive and lead, particularly with added
expertise in technology. And this will help build out our industrial
capacity but also provide benefits to our Allies, consistent with the
message you’ve been hearing this week at the NATO Summit.

There’s also a signaling benefit. The ICE Pact will reinforce the
message to Russia and China that the United States and its Allies intend
to, number one, doggedly pursue collaboration on industrial policy to
increase our competitive edge in strategic industries like shipbuilding.
Two, to build a world-class polar icebreaking fleet at scale. And three,
to project power into the polar regions to enforce international norms
and treaties that promote peace and prosperity in the Arctic and the
Antarctic.

Said differently: Without this arrangement, we’d risk our adversaries
developing an advantage in a specialized technology with vast
geostrategic importance, which could also allow them to become the
preferred supplier for countries that also have an interest in
purchasing polar icebreakers.

So we’re committed to projecting power into the high latitudes alongside
our allies and partners, and that requires a continuous surface presence
in the polar regions, both to combat Russian aggression and to limit
China’s ability to gain influence.

In terms of next steps, we intend to sign a formal memorandum of
understanding by the end of the year with Finland and Canada, and then
implementation will begin. Once we’ve signed the MOU, we’ll consider
adding additional allies and partners to the ICE Pact.

I’d be happy to take your questions.

MODERATOR: Thank you, Daleep. We’ll now move into the Q&A portion. And
as a reminder, again, this portion will be on background and attributed
to senior administration officials.

If you have a question, use the “raise hand” feature, and I will unmute
you. And then when I call on you, please state what outlet you’re with
as well. Thank you.

Our first question will go to Dan. You should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q Yes, thank you. Dan Lamothe with the Washington Post here.

For some of us who have spent time on these ships, who have spent time
around this, we’ve heard for years concerns about a growing gap,
particularly with Russia. There has been plans to build more polar
icebreakers for the Coast Guard for some time, but they seem to continue
to slide back to the right. Do you see this concrete (inaudible)
creating a schedule that people can stick to? How quickly might we see
more icebreakers actually come online? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah. Thanks, Dan. I mean, for the first
part of your question, you’re right. I mean, taking Russia in
particular, they’re an Arctic nation. They have a fleet of over 40
icebreakers; they have more in production. And we know Russia and the
PRC signed an MOU last year to strengthen their collaboration and their
joint operations in the region. And actually, Russia conducted two
combined naval patrols with the PRC in the Bering Sea in recent years,
and as you know, that’s right along our maritime border.

And then, on China — and I think it was in 2018, the PRC declared
themselves, as well, a near-Arctic state. They set out the ambition to
launch what they called a Polar Silk Road. And since that time, they’ve
also increased icebreaker production. They’ve sought investment
opportunities in many Arctic nations. And they’ve increased
collaboration and partnership with Russia, as I mentioned before.

So we intend to scale up our capacity using the expertise and the
know-how from Finland and Canada.

I can’t give you a specific timeline, Dan, but right now, you know, we
have only two polar icebreakers, and they’re reaching the end of their
usable life. And we intend to scale up by multiples of the current
amount as soon as we can.

Q Relatedly, can you speak at all to the need to get after shipyards on
the American side and, you know, create more opportunities to build
these things quickly?

And also, just as we’re looking at this, those shipyards have run into a
lot of problems over the years, and there aren’t very many of them. Do
you see increased investments in shipyards here?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, so we’ve — you may know, Dan,
we’ve already appropriated almost $2 billion to our icebreaker program
of record, the Polar Security Cutter Program. And, you know, the
shipbuilder for that program has made additional capital expenditures on
top of that. So, we — look, the scale that we want to build out, it
could cost as much as $10 billion to fully deploy the fleet that we
want.

Part of the effort here is going to require interoperability of vessels
between the U.S., Finland, and Canada. So that could involve operational
interoperability, communications, maintenance. We think that’s important
because it’ll increase the incentive for Finnish and Canadian companies
to invest in American shipyards but also to train American workers.

We have tentative agreements with them to fund a workforce development
exchange. We’ve also made tentative suggestions from our Coast Guard and
Navy to sponsor personnel exchanges of the officers who lead
shipbuilding for the U.S.

We think that kind of collaboration is going to speed up and accelerate
our deployment at scale. And that’s what this is all about, is — you
know this is an industry that requires heavy upfront investment. Being
competitive requires generating economies of scale, and so that’s why we
can’t do this alone. And Finland and Canada are best in class. That’s
why we’ve chosen to partner with them.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Our next question is going to come from Cal.

Q Can you hear me?

MODERATOR: Yeah, I could hear you before. I think you just muted
yourself.

Q Okay, now you can hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes.

Q (Laughs.) What a klutz I am.

All right, you said $10 billion investment, $2 billion already made. And
I think the $2 billion funds the first two polar security cutters. And I
think the program record is three, maybe four. So what numbers are we
talking about in terms of polar security cutters and/or polar security
cutters slash — I think they call the other one the medium-type
icebreaker that would replace the Healy. So if you could start with
that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah. Again, I think Dan had a similar
question. I can’t give you a specific number that we’re targeting.
You’re right, we have two working icebreakers. They’re both past their
usable service life. So we need to build — we need to build — the
problem we’re trying to solve is we need to build our icebreaking fleet
faster and more efficiently than we can right now.

And, you know, look, we’d originally appropriated funds. You mentioned a
third ship that is still being built. There’s a long lead time
associated with it, especially for the materials. And so, funding has
been difficult to come by. But we think with this announcement, we’re
going to be able to scale up much faster with private investment and
potentially demand coming in from countries other than Canada and
Finland. And that’s what’s going to allow us to meet our targets. I
mean, I would just say the targets are multiples of what we currently
have in our fleet.

Q Okay, so the — I guess — I mean, I know we’re already working some
with Canada; we have used their test facilities on polar security cutter
designs, if you will. I’m not sure what we’ve done with Finland,
although I thought the original contract was based on, at least, a
European design.

I’m not sure — why would somebody — other countries that have, I think,
have maintained a more robust industrial base for building icebreakers
want to buy from the U.S.? And are we open to buying foreign-made
icebreakers?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, so just to clarify on, kind of,
the mechanics of how this will work: Each government is going to
identify participating yards in their own country; Canada and Finland
have already done so. And then we’ll refer allies and partners to the
shipbuilders themselves. And so, that’s the way this is going to work.
We’re going to basically have a consortium of shipyards across all three
countries in this pact. And the idea is let’s pull demand from
governments and partners all across the world so that we can create a
stable order book.

And if you have a stable order book, if you have a demand signal that’s
large enough, we think the investment will come and will generate the
scale that we want.

MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Our next question is going to come from
Suzanne Kelly. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Thanks, everyone. Suzanne Kelly from the Cipher Brief.

This might be somewhat of a stupid question, but as I kind of get my
head around this story — I haven’t been following for years — but I
really want to augur in a little bit on the funding with private
investment. Is it correct to assume that once you identify the shipyard
partners, that the funding will come to those shipyard partners to be
able to get the facilities, the materials they need to produce these
faster via private investment? Is that — am I kind of on the right track
with understanding that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, you’re on the right track. I mean,
we want to attract private investment in order to build American
icebreakers in American yards. And we think if we have a big enough
demand signal that really comes from beyond our borders, that’s going to
create a different equilibrium in the market than we have now. Right
now, it’s too small, it’s taking too long, and we’re not generating the
production that we need. So we’re trying to break that current
equilibrium. Yep.

Q Okay, got it. Sorry, just as a very quick follow-up, any idea on kind
of a timeline for when you, you know, kind of need this to happen from a
national security perspective?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Well, I mentioned some of the activities
that are taking place in the Arctic from Russia and China. So we view
this as an urgent strategic priority.

I mean, I can go back a little bit to your first question and just give
you a bit of a sense. I mean, if we’re trying to build a long-term order
book to create the demand signal we need to have the investment that’s
required to generate scale, really, like what we’re trying to do is to
leverage the global order book. And our sense is if we look at Allied
nations that are trying to purchase icebreakers over the next decade,
it’s 70 to 90 vessels.

And so, what we want to do is have American yards compete for a sizeable
share of that total order book. And if we do so — you know, we think we
have the requisite expertise and experience to really thrive. This is a
specialized portion of the icebreaker — of the shipbuilding market. And
once we generate economies of scale, we’ll also be able to have an
ecosystem in which our design, our construction, our delivery, they all
work together and we generate a leading position along with our
partners. That’s what we’re trying to do here.

MODERATOR: Thank you very much. Our next question will go to Michael
Martina. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Michael, you can go ahead.

Q Hi, can you hear me?

MODERATOR: I can hear you.

Q Okay, thanks. So, just so I’m clear: Allies and partners will have a
choice of country from which to procure, you know, different models of
ship? Or are we talking about a consortium that’s together going to
create, you know, a similar model?

And if I could ask a second: You mentioned China’s self-labeling as a
near-Arctic state. I’m wondering if you see that as a legitimate framing
for China’s role in the region. Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, I mean, I’ll leave them — you
know, I won’t comment on their label of what their activities are on the
Arctic, but certainly their activities are ramping up. Their
collaboration with China \[Russia\] is also intensifying. And we do view
this as a strategic challenge.

In terms of, you know, how our efforts will be compatible with Finland’s
and Canada’s, I mean, maybe I can give you a bit more detail.

The first part of this is we’re going to have an increase in information
exchange on our polar icebreaker production. And again, the idea is to
increase interoperability across icebreaking platforms for all three
countries. That’s going to improve joint operations. It should lower the
cost of vessel repair. It should also reduce the cost of design and
construction.

The second piece is workforce development. And the idea here is to train
workers that can operate in each of the three countries. So American
workers might take advantage of opportunities to learn from Finnish or
Canadian shipbuilders, and then Finnish and Canadian designers could be
sent to the U.S. to learn from American shipbuilders. That’s what helps
to create the interoperability I was just referencing.

And then, the last bit is we’re going to encourage Allies outside of the
pact to build — really to help us build economies of scale in American,
Finnish, or Canadian shipyards to create polar icebreakers. As I
mentioned, the global order book from Allied countries is quite large,
and it’s very difficult for each country to develop their own industry
of this kind. We’re offering that opportunity to our partners now, as we
think they’ll be quite interested in taking advantage of it.

MODERATOR: All right, and our last question is going to go to Daniel
Olin. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Daniel, I think you’re on mute.

Okay, we will go to Robert Delaney. You should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q Hey there. Can you hear me okay?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I can hear you.

Q Great. Yes. Thanks for doing the call. This is Robert from South China
Morning Post in Washington.

Could you comment just a little bit on the timing of this? Obviously,
this announcement is coming out during the NATO Summit. Could you give
us a sense of how much — to what extent this particular initiative was
discussed in the broader NATO Summit context? Or is it something that —
you know, that we should consider sort of like a sideline initiative
attached to NATO? Or is it more accurate to characterize this as just
something completely separate from the goings-on at NATO?

And then, one of the questions was just — you mentioned — when you said
“we” have only two polar icebreakers, I’m assuming that’s just the U.S.
Can you give us — and my apologies if you mentioned this before, but how
many do Canada and Finland have? Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Sure. So, I mean, it is important that
this announcement is happening during the NATO Summit because — I mean,
I think the message you’re probably getting from the proceedings,
really, it’s — military collaboration and our defensive alliance are
always going to be at the forefront of the Alliance, but also economic
security and industrial capacity are key, increasingly prominent themes
coming out of this week’s discussions.

And so, this initiative actually fits very nicely. We want to enhance
our shipbuilding capacity. We want to reduce the costs of building
scale. We know we can’t do that alone. Finland and Canada have
world-class expertise and experience that we want to leverage. And we
think we can attract investment that will benefit our partners as well.
We’re trying to put all that together really in the context of a
blurring line between economic security and national security.

In terms of your — I think your first question as to how directly does
this fit into the NATO conversation: The President has discussed with
Prime Minister Trudeau and Prime Minister \[President\] Stubb on the
margins of the summit, this deal. But it’s occurring on the sidelines
rather than this being a direct deliverable from the summit itself.

And in terms of the number of icebreakers that Canada and Finland have
in operation, Canada has about 20 icebreakers and plans to build more,
and then I believe Finland has 9 icebreakers. But I would refer you to
both countries to confirm.

MODERATOR: Okay, thank you, everyone. Thank you \[senior administration
official\] for doing this. Thank you, everyone, for joining.

Just a reminder that today’s call will be held under embargo until 10:00
a.m. Eastern tomorrow morning. And if you have any further questions,
feel free to reach out to myself or the NSC Press team distro and we
will get back to you. Thank you very much. Have a great afternoon.

3:23 P.M. EDT
