---
date: '2024-07-29'
published_time: 2024-07-29 23:38:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/29/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-office-of-public-engagement-director-stephen-benjamin-en-route-austin-tx/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Office of Public Engagement\
  \ Director Stephen Benjamin en Route Austin,\_TX"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Austin, Texas

2:44 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Indulge me on my topper here. 

Good afternoon.  We are on our way to Austin, Texas, where President
Biden will deliver remarks and commemorate the 60th anniversary of the
Civil Rights Act during a visit to the LBJ Presidential Library
<s>and</s> \[with\] civil rights advocates, leaders of the LBJ
Presidential Foundation, and members of the Johnson family.  
  
President Biden will commemorate this historic anniversary, talk about
his administration’s work to advance civil rights for all, and discuss
his newly proposed reforms for the U.S. Supreme Court.   
  
We’ll then head to Houston where the president will pay his respects to
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.  No matter the issue — from delivering
racial justice to building an economy for working people — the
congresswoman was unrelenting in her leadership. 

She demonstrated that leadership in her work to reauthorize the Vi- —
Violence Against Women Act — Women Act, make Juneteenth a federal
holiday, and reintroduce the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. 

As the president said in his statement last week, “She spoke truth to
power and represented the power of the people of her district in Houston
with dignity and grace.”  And he looks forward to honoring her legacy
and life.   
  
We are honored to be joined by Lynda and Chuck Robb, Cecile Richards,
Reverend Al Sharpton, Marc Morial, and members of the Co- — of Congress
on our flight to Austin today.  
  
And I am thrilled to have the director of the Office of Public
Engagement, Steve Benjamin, obviously the former mayor of — of Columbus
— no — Columbia — Columbia, South Carolina — (laughs) — I gave you a
whole new state — here with me to take questions on the president’s
actions on how — what he’s been doing to move forward with civil rights
actions.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Sure.  Well, thank you, Karine.  The — the president and
vice president continue to travel the country to discuss the
extraordinary progress the American people have made in the past three
and a half years and ensure the promise of America reaches all
communities.   
  
Today, the president will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Civil
Rights Act during his visit to the LBJ Presidential Library in Austis —
in Austin.   
  
He’ll also discuss the Biden-Harris administration’s progress advancing
civil rights and continued efforts going forward. 

From his first day in office and every day since then, President Biden
has taken ad- — action to advance civil rights, strengthen American
democracy, and protect the rule of law.   
  
He’s assembled the most diverse administration in the nation’s history;
taking executive action on key issues, including police accountability
and voting rights; and he’s signed two first-of-their-kind executive
orders to advance racial equity and support for underserved communities,
catalyzing a whole-of-government equity agenda.  
  
As you’ve likely seen today as well, in today’s Washington Post, the
president penned an op-ed calling for three bold reforms to restore
trust and accountability in the face of increasing threats to America’s
democratic institutions: no immunity for crimes for a former president
committed in office, term limits for Supreme Court justices, and a
binding code of conduct for the Supreme Court.   
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris are committed to ensuring that
no one is above the law and, in America, the people rule.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Colleen.   
  
Q    Mayor, can you tell us a little bit more about what the office will
be focused on over the next six months — what your office will be
focused on over the next six months?  Do you have targets in mind?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Well, I will tell you, the president is — he’s focused
like a laser beam on making sure that the next six months matter to the
American people.  He is soliciting the ideas and thoughts of the best
and bi- — brightest people in this administration but also from across
the country, asking people: What — what is left undone?  What else do we
need to work to secure?  And I expect that we will see a very clear
articulation over the next several weeks as to which issues those are.  
  
But they’re — I mean, obviously, all the issues he’s been working on. 
He’s been working to make sure we have accountability in our courts, the
— what — obviously, what we’re talking about today.  We’re working to
make sure we continue to fortify the strongest economy in the world. 
And the — that’s according to not just Joe Biden and Kamala Harris but
to the — the world’s top economists.  We expect to see more news and — I
think in that — going in that direction this week with the jobs report
as well as the Fed meeting as well.   
  
We — he’s going to continue to focus on lowering costs for families,
everything from his whole-of-government, whole-of-society approach to
lowering food prices, lowering gas prices, making sure — making sure
homes are more affordable.   
  
Many of you were with him in Vegas when he announced his — his housing
plan and his — he is focused on making sure that —  
that everyone, especially corporate landlords who’ve watched profits
double over the last several years — that they’re making sure they take
care of hard day — hardworking families across this country as well.   
  
So, he’s been doing the right things for the last three and a half
years, and he’s going to do more of it.  But I — I expect you’ll hear a
very clear articulation as he continues to gather the very best thoughts
and ideas from the best, bright — best and bright minds across the
country over the next several weeks.  
  
Q    Has your office been getting phone calls from allies who want to
weigh in on a VP selection for Kamala Harris?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  No.  No, I don’t think I’d get those calls.   
  
What we have gotten, however, is an — I mean — I mean, many of — many of
you see the — you know, what they’re saying — reports.  We’ve — we’ve
gotten hundreds, if not thousands, of — of thoughtful input from those
who lead in civil society.  
  
Many of you know our office, Public Engagement.  We don’t necessarily —
although, I probably spent a disproportionate amount of time just with
my former colleagues as mayors, with some of our key members of
Congress.  They interface with the — with the White House.  But we deal
with civil society: the people who are out there every single day making
sure that these policies that have come through, under the president’s
leadership, work.   
  
So, all of our different business leaders, tra- — trade associations,
our civil rights groups, our labor unions; those who fight hard for the
L- — the LGBT community, for old people, young people, veterans, those
in the disabled community — there’s been one common thread through all
of them: It’s been “thank you” to President Biden.  It’s been a deep and
profound respect for his service.   
  
And, back to the previous question, I think a sense of urgency.  There’s
a whole lot more we’ve got to get done.   
  
And so, we’re going to focus, again, like a laser beam and running
through the tape.  
  
Q    When — when this visit was first scheduled, the — the president was
still running for reelection, the — the sense of his campaign was
different, and this trip was different.  Can you talk a little bit about
how he’s thinking about this?  He now shares other similarities with LBJ
in getting out of a race.  Is he thinking about that at all on this
trip?   
  
You know, how have you guys sort of reoriented today as opposed to what
it looked like when he was initially going to go about two weeks ago?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Well, I — I — you’ll have a chance to hear the
president’s speech, and I’ll let you in- — interpret that as — as you
will.   
  
But I will say the similarities were already there in terms of passing
sweeping pieces of legislation that fundamentally changed life for
Americans all across this country, particularly a focus on lifting
people up, creating ladders of opportunity, creating a true sense and
tangible sense of fairness in this country.  It was also against the
backdrop, just a few weeks ago, of some pretty serious Supreme Court
decisions.  That — and that — that constant remains clear.   
  
So, his announcement today — certainly, he’ll have a chance to interact
with the Johnson family.  As — as we — we mentioned, we have the former
senator and — and Governor Robb and — and his wife here on Air Force One
today and several members of the family.  There are a significant number
of — of leaders from civil society and the civil rights community there
as well.   
  
But — but this — this fundamental sense of decency — that we are a
government of people, by the people, and for the people that should be
ruled by the people; we are not a government to be ruled by kings or
queens or monarchs or authoritarians — is something that was very clear
weeks ago and even is more clear today.  That’s been the constant thread
in Joe Biden’s life, the entirety of his — of his career.   
  
So, I think you’ll see those themes through, but I’ll let you hear his
speech today.  But if — if you — I think the greatest constant or — or
thread of — of contiguity I’d say is that — you — you had two amazing
presidents who probably have had the most fundamental impact on the — on
this American experiment, this idea the president talks about — this
great republic — more than anyone else in the last 100 years.  
  
Q    You mentioned the Supreme Court op-ed and what he’s going to say
about that today.  Can you give us a sense of what he sees as his next
steps on that?  Making a call for reform is one thing; actually getting
that reform to have any sort of traction in Congress is another.  The
speaker said today it would be “dead on arrival in the House.”   
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Well, obviously, we’ve watched — while we — while we
still are pushing — and back to the original question, there are
significant pieces of legislation that the president has pushed for
that’s successfully passed Congress and some that are still wanting: the
John Lewis Voting Rights Act, the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act
that he’s chosen to try and address through executive order.   
  
This will require some type of — of legislative action.  And I think the
— the great thing about Supreme Court reform is that a significant
number of Americans feel very strongly about the issue as well.  
  
The rules that apply to every other federal judge should also apply to
the Supreme Court.  And I think we’re going to have to count on members
of Congress on both side of the aisle — sides of the aisle listening to
their constituents here.  And I expect that you’ll see a strong campaign
asking for a code of — a code of conduct.   
  
The — the issue around — around term limits, obviously, we’ve gone 75
years of term limits for — for a presidents — the president of the
United States.  There is — there’s the — the idea the president has
proposed is something that speaks fund- — to fundamental fairness: every
president, regardless of party, being able to nominate two people to the
court.  And we’ll see if we’re able to get the amount of support also
needed in Congress for that.   
  
We also — we know — we know, obviously, we’re in the last several months
of the year, but that’s never stopped Joe Biden from fighting — for
fighting the — hard for the American people.   
  
But there’s also this — this fundamental issue around the idea that
anyone should be exempt from being held accountable for crimes
committed, regardless of what position you hold in the United States of
America, is something that I know Americans also feel very strongly
about.   
  
And I expect that the president will lean strongly on that sense to try
and create the — the support that he needs in the — in the Congress to
make it happen.   
  
Q    To bounce on that —  
  
Q    Just to follow up on Jeff’s question — again, not — to follow up on
Jeff on the Supreme Court reform.  Do you think that this is a realistic
goal for this year, or do you think people should view this more a
legacy-building measure at this point?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I think it’s important.  I believe it’s timely.  And I
know it’s important to the president because it’s important to the
American people.   
  
So, I mean — I mean, you think about all the times people have told Joe
Biden “no” over the course of his career, and he’s still moving
forward.  He can’t stop, and he won’t stop.   
  
So, we’re going to give it — we’re going to give it the old team try.  
  
Q    On the timing of this, how long has he been thinking about this? 
And then, why do this now?  Kind of bouncing off of what they were
asking, just give us a sense of why roll this out at this point.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I’d have to defer to the president on that.  But,
obviously, there’s a deep sense of — of attachment to this process.  I
mean, he talked about his time as — as a senator, as vice president, as
president.  I mean, literally has been involved in more judicial
nominations probably than any other person maybe in the last 100 years,
maybe in the — in the history of — of the republic.   
  
So, I know he feels very deeply.  We — we spent a great deal of time
advising him on judicial nominations, so — so I know this is something
that’s probably been ruminating in him for quite some time.  So, you
have — obviously you have a collective sense of — of items that have
come across over the last several years, but just over the last several
months, we’ve seen some real red flags in terms of judicial conduct that
have — that have become very real.   
  
And then, certainly, the Supreme Court’s ruling this past month, I
think, would probably say — in terms of, you know, say maybe an
immediate cause, certainly, probably brought it to the — to the fore.   
  
Q    And will he continue —  
  
Q    Mayor —  
  
Q    — talking about this or is today a one-off speech?  Like, should we
expect him to keep going out there?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I — I expect he will.  I expect he will.  
  
Q    How — how involved was Vice President Harris in the Supreme Court
decision-making on this?  Did she play any role at all or was this
really more of the president’s own making?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I’ll — I’ll have to let the president answer that.  I
know they spend a great deal of time together and they confer.  They’re
very close, as you can tell, on any number of issues.  I’ll have to
defer to the president on that.  
  
Q    Just on the term limit issue.  Does the president envision this
getting accomplished through legislation —  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Yes.  
  
Q    — or is that something that would have to be done through —  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Through legislation.  
  
Q    — a constitutional amendment?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Through legislation that would lead to a constitutional
amendment, yeah.  
  
Yes.  
  
Q    We’re heading to Congressman Doggett’s district.  There’s a long
list of people on this plane.  He is not among them.  He was also one of
the first Democrats to ask the president to not run for reelection.  Do
you guys have any sense of was — was he asked?  Was he not asked to be a
part of the delegation?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I — I have no idea.  I do know he’s — he’s greeting the
president on his arrival into the district.  
  
Q    Oh, okay.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Am I — I am correct in that, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say what?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Congressman Doggett is —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I be- — I (inaudible).  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Yeah, he’s — he’s on the tarmac there.  So, he’s
(inaudible).  Okay.  
  
Q    Just in the final six months, do you think the president is going
to use executive action more frequently to accomplish some of his goals,
just given, you know, that not much is likely to get through Congress?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  The president has not been reticent about when he
believes something is right and he has legal authority to get it done,
he moves forward, especially when it’s in the interest of — of
hardworking Americans.  I mean, he’s done that by executive order when
he — when it’s been clear he has the authority.  And I — I don’t expect
that to change one bit.   
  
Joe Biden is Joe Biden.  Thank God he is.  
  
Q    You told Colleen we’ll hear more in the coming weeks about some of
the things your office will be doing now until the end of the term.  But
does that game plan change with Kamala Harris as the top of the ticket? 
Do you guys have different issues that you would put forward to help her
in the campaign?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Well, we’ve been — no.  No, we’ve been focused on — we’ve
been — even the last several weeks that the — the direction we’ve gotten
from the president and his chief of staff is that — they said, “Keep
your head down; keep your head up.” You know, keep your head up and keep
your head down and run though the tape.  I mean, that — that’s it. 
We’re going to run through the tape either way.  There’s so many
important things to get done.  And that — that advice and counsel hasn’t
changed.  
  
Obviously, now we’re — we’re going to be focused very intently on — on
some things that have to get done now.  But that’s — that’s the focus,
just getting the work done for the American people without — without
focusing on the politics of this.  
  
Q    What has to get done?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  That’s going to be up to the boss.  That’s going to be up
to the boss.  And — but when I say that we’re literally spending time
ideating over — conferring with a lot of folks whose opinions he values
the most on — on what should be on that list, it’s — it’s happened as —
as recently as on this plane.  So — (laughs) — yeah, some people shared
ideas.  
  
Q    Can you give us a clue?  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  No, no, I mean, I think — I think there’s — there are any
number of different items from — you know, continue to deploy the
amazing resources from the Inflation Reduction Act and the — and CHIPS
implementation; you know, some of the amazing work around the Climate
Corps.  But, really, housing.  I mean, hou- — housing — housing
affordability and housing supply and making sure that each of these
things that he’s focused on the last several weeks that’s just
fundamentally important to the American people — you’re going to see
more and more of that.   
  
You’re going to see a — even a continued focus on — on driving down
costs for everyday Americans as well.  
  
Is that enough?  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    That’s good.  That’s good.   
  
Q    Great.  Thanks.  
  
Q    I’ll take more.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  I owe you a reply email as well.  
  
Q    I’ll take more.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    You did say a couple “You’ll have to ask the president.”   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, if you want to bring him back —  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  Yes —    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Mayor.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MR. BENJAMIN:  All right.  Thank you all so much.  All right?  Be well. 
Godspeed.  All right.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you, guys.  Godspeed.   
  
Q    A good try.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  A couple of things I do want to weigh in on
that you all asked — I think a question that — that you asked, Jeff. 
So, there has been conservative support, GOP support for this: term
limits.  And just — I just want to just read off a couple of thing — a
couple of voices that spoken to this.   
  
For example, last year, a bipartisan group of legal experts included —
including retired judges and Charles Fried, Ronald Reagan’s solicitor
general, endorsed term limits to the Supreme Court.  Then you had Steven
Calabresi, the chairman of the Federalist Society, who served in the
administrations of President Reagan, George H.W. Bush and also endorsed
term limits.  And you also had Senator Marco — Marco Rubio has also
supported term limits, among other congressional — other congressional
leaders.   
  
And, you know, I — I know there’s a question why this is doo- — this is,
like, doomed on arrival, as — as I think you were just stating for what
the speaker —  
  
Q    “Dead on arrival.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Dead — dead — doomed, dead — dead on arrival.  
  
Look, the — the president and the vice president believe that no one is
above the — above the law, right?  The rule of law is part of our
democracy.  And the debate begins.  We see this as a debate, a beginning
of a conversation.  And, look, as I just read, there are bipartisan
support for this.  And so, this is important.   
  
The president is meeting the moment.  We saw this — some decisions from
the Supreme Court just the past several weeks, and he’s meeting the
moment.  And I think that’s when you’re asking about “why now?” and —
and, obviously, he kind of answers this in his Washington Post op-ed. 
There — we saw what happened the past several weeks.  So, that’s
that.   
  
And then one more thing.  I know, Colleen, you have something that you
want to ask about the vice president being involved.  Yes, she has.  She
was indeed involved in this.  The president consulted her closely. 
Let’s not forget that she — that — that she was a former member of the
Senate Judiciary Committee, as well as a former attorney general.   
  
So, he certainly — he certainly, you know, was — listened to her
expertise in this — in this arena as well.  So, she was definitely
involved in this decision.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, I guess I wonder if this is important to the president.  You
know, he convened the Commission on the Supreme Court sort of right when
he took office at a time when he had a much more sympathetic Congress. 
So, I guess I wonder — I know you were sort of answering why now.  But,
you know, if this was such an important thing for the president to do,
why not do it when he had a better chance of getting it across the
finish line?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the best way to answer this is just really quote
the president himself.  And he said:  
  
“I — I served as a U.S. senator for 36 years, including as chairman
<s>or</s> \[and\] ranking member of the Judiciary Committee. I have
overseen more Supreme Court nominations as senator, vice president, and
president than anyone living today. I have great respect for our
institutions and \[the\] separation of powers.  
  
What is happening — what is happening now is not normal, and if — it
undermines the public’s confidence in the court’s decisions, including
those impacting personal freedoms. We now stand in — in a breach.”  
  
And so, President Biden is concerned about the extreme decisions —
right? — that we have seen just recently — really recently, including
granting presidents immunity for committing crimes while in office.  And
this also comes after investigating reporting that raise serious
questions about judicial ethics at the court.   
  
And this is what I was saying at the — at the beginning.  He’s meeting a
moment, especially what we’ve seen the court do the past several weeks. 
And this is what we’re seeing right now.  
  
Obviously, he did have a commission.  It took them some while.  He
respects the commission and — and certainly the feedback that they gave
him.  But, certainly, this was a process.   
  
But what — what made him act now is what he has seen in the past several
weeks.  
  
Q    To follow up on Ken’s question from before on executive orders.  Is
it possible we’ll see more executive orders — I don’t know if you can do
an executive order on the Supreme Court, but, you know, on any of these
other sort of top issues for the president?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I ca- — I don’t want to get ahead of the president
on any particular — spec- — any potential executive actions that he
might take.  Obviously, the next six months is going to be important to
this president.   
  
As — as the mayor said himself, the president is going to articulate
what his plan is.  He’s going to take it all in.  I think, as well,
let’s not forget, there are some historic pieces of legislation that
he’s been able to get done in the past three and a half years that needs
to continue to get implemented.   
  
We talk about beating Big Pharma, Medicare, and negotiating with
pharmaceutical companies.  We’re talking about, you know, CHIPS and
Science Act.   
  
There are a bunch of things that need — the bipartisan infrastructure
legislation, that’s still going on.  There are thousands and thousands
of projects out there across the country.  So, that’s going to be
important.  
  
The economy is going to be important.  We’ve always said that we
understand that the American people are still feeling the squeeze.  He
wants to do everything that he can to continue to lower costs.   
  
So, there is a — there’s an array of issues to continue to focus on and
talk about.   
  
The Supreme Court, obviously — this reform that he’s going to speak to
today in — in Austin, Texas, is — is part of that.  It is something that
he has been working on and looking at for some time — obviously, the
commission.   
  
So, there’s going to be much more.  And I — as I like to say: Stay
tuned.  
  
Anything else?  
  
Q    Karine, a — just a question about something that the former
president said a few days ago in a set of remarks to a Christian group. 
Yeah, he said to them: Vote now, and you won’t have to vote again in
four years.  Just curious if the White House has a response or a
reaction to that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m going to be really careful since that was
said in a — in a campaign format.  I’m not sure if the campaign
responded to that.  So, I would certainly refer you to the campaign.   
  
And I’m going to be super careful here and just look at this in a more
broad stroke.  And the president has said this: There’s so much at
stake.  Our democracy and our freedoms are at stake.   
  
And I think the American people are very much aware of that.  This is
something that majority ca- — of them care about.  We saw that in the
2022 elections — right? — the midterms.  That was a top issue for
Americans.   
  
And so, this is something — when you think about our democracy, you
think about our freedoms, as it’s really conne- — kind of connected to
the Supreme Court reform announcement today, he’s going to do everything
that we can to protect our democracy, and rule of law is at the center
of that.   
  
And so, just going to be — keep it there and be really mindful.   
  
Q    The FBI said that they’re going to interview former President Trump
as part of their investigation into the assassination attempt.  Does —
is the president satisfied with the progress of the investigation so
far?  And do you have an update just on his search for a new director of
the Secret Service?  Is that something we’re going to see in a week or
two?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, obviously, that’s a — a position that the
president understand is — is critical and important, so he’s going to do
his due diligence and make sure, you know, we get the right person for
the job.   
  
As I — as the investigation goes, the president called for an
independent investigation right after the assassination attempt of the
former gov- — of the former president, pardon me.  And he wants to get
to the bottom of this.  He believes that the review needs to be
independent and is calling for independent investigation and that the
American people needs answers.  We need to get to the bottom of what
happened.   
  
The investigation is not done yet.  It’s still going.  So, I — I don’t
want to get ahead of it.  A- — and once we have that, certainly, we’ll
share that with all of you.  And — and I can’t speak to anything beyond
that.  
  
Q    Have the president and the vice president spoken since his remarks
last Wednesday?  She was obviously traveling a lot last week; Thursday
was busy with Netanyahu.  But can you talk about their engagement after
her first week on the trail?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is they have a very close
relationship.  They engage regularly.  As you know, they — they meet for
lunch; they — they talk on the phone.  
  
I don’t have a specific call to read out at this time.  But they do
engage each other pretty regularly.  And the president strongly
supports, obviously, his vice president and continues to look forward in
working — working together as partners in the next six months as she’s —
continues her duties, as well, as vice president.   
  
I don’t have a specific call to read out.  
  
Q    And can you tell us what his next couple of weeks might look like
in terms of getting out on the campaign trail and when we might see him
at the DNC in Chicago?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, I’m going to let the convention speak to
that — to — to the specific — the Democratic National Convention.  So,
I’ll let them speak to that — and the campaign, obviously, speak to any
campaign travel.  
  
Don’t have anything to read out to you at this time.  Obviously, the
president supports his vice president immensely and — and is going to
continue to focus on partnering with her on the six months ahead.  I
just don’t have anything specific right now —  
  
Q    Along —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — on campaigning.  
  
Q    I’m sorry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Along those lines —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — on the schedule.  Beyond today, we don’t have much of a sense for
this week.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Does the president have any other plans this week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more — we’ll have more to sh- — to read out
to you as the — as the days go by.  But there’ll be more to share.  
  
Q    And — well, I guess a follow-up to that is: Is there any
calibration on the president’s side to have a lighter schedule as the
vice president’s schedule ramps up and she’s doing a lot more public
events?  We have a sense of her over the next few days.  We have no
sense of schedule for the president for the next few days.  Is there —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I mean —  
  
Q    Is there a calibration there on the schedule?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I totally understand the question, but a major
change happened — right? — (laughs) — in the past week.  And so, we — we
do have to recalibrate and figure out what the next six months are going
to be.  I mean, that’s just fair — right? — for us to just figure that
all out.   
  
Obviously, this trip was on — was — was on the books two weeks ago. 
We’re — I think two weeks ago exactly today, we were supposed to go. 
Now we’re — we’re back on track.  We’re going to go to Houston,
obviously, to honor the former congresswoman — or congresswoman who
passed away recently, obviously.   
  
And so, we will have more, I promise.  You will see the president.  He
will be out there.  We have to — to your word, we have to recalibrate
and — and get a sense of, you know, what the next several months are
going to be.   
  
But the president will be out there, as he has been the last three and a
half years, focusing on delivering for the American people.  That has
not changed.   
  
All right.  We’re good?  
  
Q    One last one.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Did the president have a reaction to Vice President Harris’s
statement about her meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu?  She came out
and gave a pretty strong statement that people viewed as a different
tone from the ones that President Biden has made.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think when it comes to foreign policy more
broadly, the vice president and the president have been aligned.  When
it comes to Israel, the president and the vice president have been
aligned.   
  
Our support for Israel’s security is ironclad.  That has not changed.   
  
The president, as you know, has also had a very long — decades-long
relationship with the prime minister.  We have said, because of that
relationship, they are able to have serious, honest conversation.  That
is still the case.   
  
And so, look, they’re — they continue to be aligned when it comes to how
to — what — what is the right thing to do, when you think about our
national security, when you think about foreign policy for the American
people.  That has not changed.  There is no daylight in that — in that
regard.   
  
Go ahead, J.J.  
  
Q    Do you have visibility on Vice President Harris’s search for a
running mate?  Is she keeping the White House team fully apprised on
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is not my — that my — that’s not in my
portfolio.  That is for the campaign to speak to.  That is her decision
to make.  And so, we leave that to the campaign to — to answer any of
those questions about her pick for a running mate.   
  
Q    Just on Venezuela.  Is — is the president concerned about the — you
know, the outcome of the election and whether or not the will of the
voters there had —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — was fairly reflected?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I don’t know if you guys were — you guys were out
here waiting for us at JBA.  But there was a — there was a press call
with the National Security Council and the State Department — my
colleagues there.  And so, that’ll be the latest.  So, certainly would
refer you to that.  
  
A couple things that I will say is that we — the United States applauds
the Venezuelan people for their participation in — in yesterday’s
presidential election.  We commend their courage and commitment to
democracy in the face of repression and adversity.   
  
We have seen the announcements by Venezuelan electoral authorities, and
we have serious concerns that this result does not reflect the will and
— and the votes of the Venezuelan people.   
  
It is critical that every vote is counted fairly and transparently, that
election officials immediately share information with the opposition and
independent observers without delay, and that the electoral authorities
publish the full, detailed tabulation of votes.   
  
We will hold judgment until then.  We and the international community
are watching, and we will respond accordingly.   
  
All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you on the ground.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.    
  
   3:15 P.M. EDT  
  
  
  
