---
date: '2024-07-09'
modified_time: 2024-07-09 22:57:10-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-09 22:57:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-july-9-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, July 9,\_2024"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:34 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi. Good afternoon, everyone. Really sorry for the
delay. I just got out of the Oval Office with the president, who wanted
me to relay a few me- — a few new messages to you all on Hurricane
Beryl. This is important to him, and he knows it’s important to the
people of Texas, so he wanted to make sure that, be- — before I came out
here, I had all of this information.

So, the president spoke with Houston Mayor Whitmire and Harris County
Judge Lina Hidalgo about the impacts of Hurricane Beryl, and they both
asked for help from the federal government.

Because of — the governor of Texas is currently out of the country, the
president then called the lieutenant governor of Texas to ensure that
Texans are getting the resources they need and deserve following this
devastating storm.

On the call, the president raised the need for a Major Disaster
Declaration and immediately approved it while on the call when the
lieutenant governor requested it.

With this Major Disaster Declaration in place, we will be able to
provide lifesaving and life-sustaining activities.

The president and his team have been working around the clock for the
past two days to ensure Texas has the resources and tools needed to
respond to Beryl and keep Americans safe.

Officials from the U.S. Coast Guard and FEMA have been on the ground,
and senior White House officials have been in constant contact with
their counterparts.

While the storm has passed, our greatest concern right now is power
outages and extreme heat. So, we want to encourage residents to remain
vigilant as temperatures rise, especially older adults and those with
underlying health conditions.

Fortunately, 800,000 have had power restored overnight, and we expect
another 1 million to have their power restored today.

The federal government has also offered generators to help reduce the
impact of the power outages.

The president continues to take decisive action to help the people of
Texas recover, and he looks forward to working with the state to get
more critical resources to the people that need them.

I also want to share one additional scheduling item with all of you, as
well, at the top. In addition to many NATO meetings we announced
yesterday, on Thursday afternoon, President Biden will meet with
President Zelenskyy of Ukraine to discuss our unwavering support for
Ukraine as it continues to defend itself from Russian aggression.

That meeting will be at 1:30 p.m. at the Convention Center, which, as
you all know, is where the NATO sessions are being held, and it will
take place just before the NATO-Ukraine Council meeting.

This will be the third meeting between both presidents in recent weeks,
following their sit-down in France and also a sit-down at the G7 in
Italy, and it will further demonstrate the strength of the partnership
between our counties.

And, finally, just a personal note here, I want to say a few words about
Sam Michel here, who served as acting deputy press secretary for the
part of — a good part of this year.

We are sad that today is indeed his last day, but we are so grateful for
his service. And he has been incr- — an incredible colleague. He is — we
were lucky to have him on our team — on our press team. His sharpness,
his ability to stay calm under pressure, and his strategic thinking has
been a real asset to us all.

Sam, you will be greatly missed. Thank you so much for being on the team
and stepinning — stepping in when we really needed you.

Okay. All right. Seung Min.

Q Thank you. I just want to get a clarification on the letter that was
sent last night on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure, absolutely.

Q — from Dr. O’Connor. And you can correct me if I’m wrong, but it
didn’t seem to explicitly describe the nature of Dr. Cannard’s meeting
with Dr. O’Connor. So, can you say whether that one meeting was related
to care for the president himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I can say that it was not.

Q It was not. Okay, great.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

And can I just ask why that information that was released last night —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — just wasn’t said at the briefing yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What — no, actually, a lot of what is in the letter was
said at the briefing, to be very, very clear. I said — many of the
things that were laid out in the letter was actually repeated right here
behind this lectern, at this podium yesterday.

It was —

Q But the letter said that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, hold on.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I said “many of the things.”

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: “Many of things.” And we got claricafi- — claricafi- —
clarification, obviously, from Dr. O’Connor, but it was in line with
what I said.

When I said “only three” — right? — I said “only three” visits that this
particular doctor had. I said “a neurologist.”

What I was not able to confirm is the name and the reason why — is
because we do not share private information. That is something that we
respect. And we wanted to make sure that we protect the — our
consultants here that work with the White House Medical Unit — their
security as well.

And so, that is the one thing that I was not able to confirm. Obviously,
Dr. O’Connor’s letter confirms that. But we had to get permission from
Dr. Cannard and also the president in order to put that information —

And it is not normal. And that also states that in Dr. O’Connor.

But many of the things that I said right here at this podium is in the
letter.

Q And could I just also ask a little — this is the second time in less
than a week where the briefing had prompted a need for later
clarification on questions about the president’s health. And I’m just
wondering if you could speak to wh- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I disagree. I disagree, Seung Min. It’s not.

Yesterday, a lot of the things that I said right here in this briefing
room — I know you were not in the briefing room — I actu- — it’s in the
letter. It was in the letter.

It was being incor- — incorrectly assumed and insinuated that the
president had seen Dr. Cannard more than three times. I said that it was
only three times that the president had seen a neurologist. I didn’t
confirm the name, but I did say it was only three times.

It was being incorrectly assumed and insinuated that the president was
being treated for Parkinson’s. I said right here that the president was
not being treated for Parkinson’s. I actually went a step further and
said he wasn’t taking medication for Parkinson’s. I said that right
here.

It was also being assumed and insinuated that Dr. Cannard was someone
who only worked on Parkinson’s, when, in fact, he is a general
neurologist. That was something that Dr. O’Connor was actually able to
confirm, that he was a general neuro- — neurologist — not — in fact, a
general neurologist.

And we also wanted to set the — we just wanted to set the record
straight. And so, you know, it is important — we believe it was
important to all of you — I actually even said here at the podium: If
there was more information that we could provide, we would do that. We
would do that. And we did.

But many of the things that I said right here is in the letter — is in
the letter.

Go ahead.

Q Does the president feel like he’s beat back this effort to force him
to step aside?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, you know, you heard the president yesterday when
he called in to “Morning Joe,” did about 18 minutes of Q&A yesterday
morning. He sport ver- — he spoke very — very, I think, forcefully,
passionately about where he stands, about how he sees things moving
forward.

And we also have said many times, we respect — we respect members of
Congress, we respect their view. But I also want to say there’s a long —
also a long list of — of congressional members who have been very clear
and — in support of this president, whether it’s the CBC, who gave a
full — full support — the Congressional Black Caucus, for folks who are
watching and are not sure what CBC is. They were very much supportive.

They said, “We think that” — this is Representative Joyce Beatty, to —
to be clear — “We think that the call went extremely well. The president
was very responsive.”

Representative Troy Carter, who’s also a member of the CBC, he was
“elated to hear directly from — from the president” and “that he is all
in, and we are all in with him.”

You hear from — you got a Congressional Hispanic Caucus — they put a
statement in full support of this president. And there — there are
others.

And so, look, he is going to focus on continuing to work on behalf of
the American people, continuing to build on an unprecedented record that
he’s been able to get done with many of these congressional members that
he’s proud to be — to have worked with. But that’s his focus right now.
That’s his focus.

Q Is he still talking to more people, more lea- — more —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s going to —

Q — members of Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — continue to engage. As you saw him in Pennsylvania
when he was on — you know, when he was in the Commonwealth, h- — on the
road, he — he had two of th- — two of the senators, two of the
congressional members with him — the House members with him.

He’s going to be traveling later in the week. He’s going to be engaging.

I have mentioned a l- — I mentioned yesterday his robust schedule for
the next two weeks. When he’s in state, he certainly will continue to
engage. I don’t have a list of additional — additional calls to — to
read out. But he did CBC last night — Congressional Black Caucus — and
he’s going to continue and engage as he has been.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q To follow on that. The president has made clear he’s done talking
about the debate; it is time to move on.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q But some of his allies have made clear they’re very much still in this
wait-and-see mode.

I mean, Senator Patty Murray said he “must do more to demonstrate he can
campaign strong enough to beat Trump.”

Senator Durbin saying he’s concerned whether this is just a one-off or a
larger issue.

So, I guess, you know, how worried is the president that despite his
best efforts, he’s not going to be able to close the book on these
concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And, Mary, I appreciate the question, but as you know,
there are hundreds of members in Congress — hundreds. And I laid out a
list of folks who have supported him. We’ve heard from Senator Coons. We
heard from Senator Fetterman. There is support there as well for him.

And so, just want to make sure that we put that out there as well.

Q But he wants the party united behind him, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely. Absolutely. And, look, Representative
Gregory Meeks said — coming out of the congressional Democrats meetings
— said that they’re united.

And you just saw the Dem Caucus leadership take questions from some of
your colleagues over at the Capitol. So, that is important as well to
note.

But, look, he had a bad night. We’ve talked about it. He understands
people’s concerns. We have been out there — as we have been in previous
months, but out there, obviously, in the past 10 days — more than 10
days now since — since the debate. And you see from his engagement with
everyday people on the ground. You see him with congressional members
having — who are showing their support, speaking on behalf of this
president while we’re on the ground in — in that respective state or
Commonwealth, being where we were in Pennsylvania on Sunday.

And so, we’re just going to continue that. But, look, what we can say —
what I can say is: Look, we respects — we respect people’s opinion.
These are — you just mentioned two senators that we were very proud
working with over the past three and a half years to get historic —
historic legislation done, and that’s what we want to focus on.

You’re right. We do want to turn the page. You heard me say this last
week. We want to get to the other side of this. We want to continue
doing the work, and that’s what the president is going to do.

Q And just to be clear, does he have plans to talk with leadership again
soon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any calls. We don’t have calls to read out
or — or to preview. He is going to continue to engage. I just don’t have
anything right now to share at this moment. He talked to CBC — again,
the Congressional Black Caucus — members yesterday. They had a very,
very good call. And so, he’s going to continue to engage.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. The White House has obviously fielded a lot of
questions in recent days about the president’s health, whether the White
House has been forthcoming or not about that issue. And I just wondered:
Have the last 12 days made you reconsider any specific statements that
you might have made in recent months on — on that issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — look, I appreciate the question — I really do — and
the opportunity.

I think there has been moments here when I have said — and I —
especially in the gaggle, I think — and a- — and actually yesterday, if
I — if I have, you know, said — misled in something that I’ve said or
haven’t had the full information, I actually own up to that and I
actually say, “I will do my best to get you the information.” Hence, the
letter — hence, the letter for Dr. O’Connor. Right?

And so, I will — you know, I have always said I’ve always been committed
to doing the best I can to give you the information that we have. That
is a commitment from the team.

It has been an unprecedented time. I think you guys can admit that.
(Laughs.) Right? It is an unprecedented time. And so, we are meeting the
moment — a new moment that has never really existed before. And so, we
want to make sure that we get you all the information that we have. And
when we don’t have it, we do try our best to provide that information.

And so, that is something that I’m going to continue to do, and I’ve
always said it is an honor and a privilege to be standing in front of
you every day, exercising in the freedom of the press. This is — this is
a briefing that is watched around the world, because we lead in
democracy. Right? We lead in the freedom of the press and what that
looks like.

Honor and privilege, and I will continue to do my best to do just that.

Q And — and we certainly understand —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — you know, you speak on behalf of the president and you defend him,
his actions, his positions — his policy positions included.

Could I just ask you about one example just going back that comes to
mind? September 20 —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: In the past — you’re talking about the last 12 days?

Q I’m — I’m talking about recent —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, you’re —

Q — recent months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, well, you just said recently. It’s been — you know,
we’ve been going back and forth, and so in the last, you know, 12 days
or so, that was — that’s how — I believe that’s how you asked me the
question.

Q Yeah, I — I was talking generally.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q But if I could just ask you about one example.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, if you’re going to ask me about something
from months ago, it probably would be fair for me to — I probably won’t
be able to answer that right away — whatever it is that you’re — you’re
going to say to me.

Q You can come back to us if — if you need.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, yeah, I’m happy to do that.

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But — but it’s also to — to say, “Hey, from September
of whenever year” — right? — that is — that is something that I probably
should get a little space to kind of see exactly what you’re speaking
about.

Q Okay, and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right?

Q — that’s fine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — if that ends up being your an- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — you know, I just want to —

Q — your response.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — make sure that we —

Q Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — kind of give some context here.

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And you’ll remember this. This was an event where the president called
out Congresswoman Jackie Walorski —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — looked for her in the room even though she had recently died.

You told multiple reporters at the time, and this —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — was asked in multiple —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: She was top —

Q — different ways.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: She was top of mind.

Q Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q And it was because she was top of mind —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — for the president. I mean, would you — on — on that example, would
you offer a different explanation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I would not, because, honestly, I spoke to the
president right before coming out that day, and that is what the
president told me. It’s not something that came from me. That is
something that came from the president.

Q So — so, he was saying even as he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: She —

Q — was looking for her in the moment, it wasn’t a misspeak.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: She was top — she was top of mind.

Q Okay. Could —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is coming — as you just said in your question, I
speak for the president. I — I speak on behalf of him. That was coming
from him, and I was delivering, directly from the president, what he was
thinking at the time.

Q Great.

A very different kind of example. And this is more recent.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, sure. Sure.

Q When the president was in Italy for the G7 and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q — you’ll remember he skipped one of the leaders’ dinner, which was a
major event for the summit. And I remember you were asked about it by
reporters, and you said, “You know, we shouldn’t read too much into the
fact that he is skipping one dinner.” I mean —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — what — would the explanation actually have been that he was tired
and that he needed to skip something that was happening so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I wouldn’t — and my — my —

Q — late in the evening?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And my answer stays the same. I wouldn’t read too much
into it. It’s not the first time that he has. He has a really busy
schedule, and there is a lot going on.

As you know, when the president is abroad, he has continued to do
domestic stuff as well as — as well as meeting with global leaders. And
so, I truly would not read too much into it, and I will leave it there.

Q Okay. I have a very final question on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Okay.

Q — the annual —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Okay. Sure. Sure.

Q — letter from Dr. O’Connor.

He said that the president “continues to be fit for duty and fully
executes all of his responsibilities without any exemptions or
accommodations.” Just because it’s been a couple of months, do you know
if that statement is still accurate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s still accurate.

Q So, no exemptions, no accommodations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No exemptions. No accommodations.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s accurate.

Thank you.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, there was a — an announcement from the Department of Justice
today about a crackdown effort to interrupt a Russian state-sponsored
bot operation, an AI-fueled operation to denigrate politicians in the
United States and elsewhere.

Have — have you — do you have any concerns right now that this is the
leading edge of any part of a Russian effort to interfere in the
election? Has the president been briefed on this?

And have you seen any evidence that the Russians or other foreign powers
have tried to seize on the debate performance to repeat some of the
president’s most embarrassing moments?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, that’s a very good question. I would have to talk
to our team about those particular questions that you just asked. There
were multiple questions in your statement there. I would leave it to the
Department of Justice as — what they announced. Obviously, that’s for
them to speak to.

Look, AI has always been a concern. That’s why the president made some
announcements recently — an executive — to take executive action on how
we can deal with AI. We want to see more — more action — more fulsome
action legislatively from Congress. That is something — it is a — it is
a technol- — a cutting-edge technology that we need to get our hands on
and make — get a better — you know, better understanding of what it
could potentially do. And so, that is something that the pr- — the
president is certainly — is looking — is looking to make sure that we
deal with this in a full — a whole-of-government way.

On those particular questions, I would have to check in with our — of —
with our team here. And, obviously, what’s — whatever is related to the
Department of Justice in that — in that — in that statement, I would
refer you to them.

Go ahead.

Q Yeah, thanks, Karine. You said just a minute ago that the president
wants to turn the page on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — on the last couple of weeks and get to the other side of this, or
the White House wants to.

You know, has President Biden seen enough support over the last 36 hours
from fellow congre- — or from fellow Democrats in Congress to now start
turning the page and look ahead? I mean, what’s his reaction been to —
to what — to what he’s seen since Congress has gotten back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, it’s very similar to how I answered your — the
question to one of your colleagues. He’s very much focused on what’s —
what’s ahead. Right? He’s very much focused — he has a fulsome, robust
schedule the next two weeks that we laid out for all of you. He wants to
focus on that, the messages that he wants to come out when he goes to
Texas next week, when he goes to Vegas next week. He’s going to — to —
going to be on the road on Friday as well.

And I also want to say, look, you know, he is proud of — of the
Congressional Black Caucus, who said they have — he — he has their
support. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus did the same. And other — and
other members of Cong- — of Congress, obviously.

And so, look, he wants to move forward, as your colleagues said;
definitely, unite the — unite — unite the party, continuing to unite the
party.

We heard from Representative Meeks, who said that Democrats — the
congressional Democrats came out of the meeting today united. I think
that’s important to note.

But the president is going to move forward. He’s going to move forward,
and he’s going to continue to go out there, engage — engage with the
American public like you saw him do in Pennsylvania. And he’s going to
stay focused on that.

Q But do you feel — does he feel like he’s weathered this storm, so to
speak?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I think that he is more determined than ever to
continue to get the — the job done; to continue to build an economy that
— that works for all; to continue to make sure that we have a middle
class — right? — that is — that is strong — right? — that we don’t have
a trickle-down e- — economy. That we have an economy that’s built from
the bottom up, middle out. That’s what he wants to continue to do.

I think this week, with the NATO Summit — the 75th year of NATO — let’s
not forget NATO has helped to protect Americans and pro- — and also
protect the world and what it’s been able to do for the past 75 years.
You’re going to see the president engaging with 32 leaders of this
Alliance. I think that’s really important. That’s — again, on behalf of
the American people. So, he wants to do that.

He has a lot on his mind as — as it deals with making sure we deliver
for the American people. That’s what he’s going to focus on.

Go ahead — go ahead, Peter. I know — I know we had our chat yesterday.

Q Yes. Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, go ahead.

Q Does President Biden commit to serving a full second term if
reelected?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q Thank you. We know the president says that his health is fine, but
it’s just his brain, and that he’s sharpest before 8:00 —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He was joking, by the way. I just want to make sure
that that’s out there. And people — people —

Q What’s the joke?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Pe- — he was making a lighthearted joke as he was
speaking off —

Q That he has a problem with his brain?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He was speak- — he was speaking off the cuff, and he
was making a joke. You know the president. He likes to joke a lot.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s the same guy who says, “I know I look 40.” Right?
So, he likes to make jokes.

Q That’s a joke?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It is a joke. He —

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I think people laugh when he says it.

Q Well, he also said he’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, it’s a joke.

Q — he’s sharpest before 8:00 p.m.

So, say that the Pentagon at some point picks up an incoming nuke; it’s
11:00 p.m. Who do you call? The First Lady?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He has a team that lets him know of any — of any news
that is pertinent and important to the American people. He has someone —
or — that is decided, obviously, with his National Security Council on
who gets to tell him that news.

Q So, Kevin McCarthy just said that when he was the speaker, “Many times
when we had meetings in the Oval Office, Jill was there as well.” When
the First Lady is in these meetings, is she making decisions, or is she
just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — advising the president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No. The president in the president of the United
States. He makes decisions.

Q Okay. Another family member. President Biden has told me before he and
his son don’t have any business dealings together. So, what is Hunter
Biden doing in White House meetings?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Are you talking about the meeting where they came
together from Camp David and the two of them walked to the president’s
meeting and he was there?

Q There is a report that aides were struck by his presence during their
discussions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I can’t — I’m — I’m certainly not going to get
into private conversations that o- — that occur. What I can say is — and
I talked to this — I spoke to this before — is that when they came back
from Camp David — the president spent a couple of days at Camp David
with his family. He is very close to his family, as you know. It was the
week of Fourth of July, which is why his family members were here last
week. They walked together and — they walked together into the meeting.

Q Can you say if Hunter Biden has access to classified information?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q And are you guys just not, since February, testing President Biden for
Parkinson’s or for dementia because if he gets a bad result, it’s all
over that day?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, as I’ve said many times before, the president
has had a fulsome, comprehensive — what we said — what we shared with
you was comprehensive, but he’s had a full physical. We’ve sh- — we’ve
shown the results of those physicals this past three years. We showed it
just four months ago.

And it is in line with what we have done similar to President Obama,
similar to George W. Bush. We are committed to continue to be
transparent. We are committed to continue to show the results of those —
of those physicals.

And, look, it’s the president’s medical team that makes the decision. We
are not — with all due respect, you’re not a doctor. I’m not a doctor.
It is the president’s medical unit that makes the decision on what the
president needs.

Q Not a doctor —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — just play one on TV.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s — that’s scary.

Q But I know that — that is scary. (Laughter.)

But I know that, especially as adults get into their 80s, health
conditions can pop up more than just once a year when he’s getting his
physical. I think if my wife saw me on TV misspeaking or saying the
wrong thing or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — seeing a change in my appearance, she would probably say, “Let’s go
to a doctor just to make sure that you are okay. You have a family. You
have an important job.”

Why doesn’t anybody in the president’s family urge him just to go to get
checked out to say the coast is clear?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. So, just to step back just a little bit, because
I think you weren’t in the briefing room last week. I — I don’t want to
go backwards, but just to share a little bit about that night.

The president said it was a bad night. He talked about it. He had a — a
cold, right? He talked about his schedule — right? — being abroad. And
so, we’ve spoke about what that night was like for him. And we
understand what the American people saw, what you all saw. We’ve spoken
to that.

And I also would say — and I think you know this, Peter. You’ve — you’ve
covered a couple administration at this point — a couple administrations
at this point — that the president — every president has a White House
Medical Unit that is with him 24/7 — that is available to him 24/7.

That is unlike any other American, right? That is not the norm. That is
uncommon. Just down on the other side of the colonnade is where the
medical unit is. And I did share in the — that the president checks in
while he’s exercising with his doctor on — a couple times a week.

And so, he has that. He has something that most — majority of Americans
— all Americans, I would probably argue, don’t have, which is a full
medical unit that is with him at all times.

And he gets a full — full, full physical — annual physical that we share
with all of you. And that is very different — very different than an
everyday American who — sometimes they’re lucky if they can go get a
physical. They have to get into a car. They have to take public
transportation. The president has, again, a medical unit that’s with him
here at the White House and travels with him.

Q So, I guess the question is just — this is not — you’re saying this is
not a situation where you would rather just not know if there is an
issue —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I will tell you —

Q — with the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — is —

Q — because if he does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look —

Q — get a bad result, it is all over.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: First of all —

Q He has to leave office right away.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: First of all —

Q He can’t run for reelection.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: First of all, it’s a hypothetical — right? — that —
you’re giving me a hypothetical. But I will also say — just to clear
this up — hi- — the White House Medical Unit, his — his doctor, they
don’t believe that he needs anything more than what we have been able to
provide: a full — full, detailed, very comprehensive physical that he
had four months ago.

That is their decision to make. It’s not yours. It’s not mine. It’s the
White Hou- Me- — White House Medical Unit.

Go ahead.

Q Hi, Karine. You mentioned that the Democratic Party was united.
Perhaps leadership, but a lot of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — rank-and-file Democrats have a lot of concerns. And one of them,
Steve Cohen, said today: Not only are they not on the same page, but
they’re “not even in the same book.” How does the White House — is the
White House concerned about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look, we — I’ve said before — right? — we respect
congressional — congressional members. They have their opinions. We
respect their opinions. Many of them that — we’ve g- — we had t- —
opportunities to deliver really, really good results on behalf of the
American people.

But there is — the whole Congressional Black Caucus — they support the
president. The Congressional Hispanic Caucus support the president.
Those are pretty impressive numbers.

Senator Coons, Senator Fetterman support the president. There’s also
another list here that shows support for this president.

You’re going to have some congressional members who feel differently. It
is — that is — that is up to them, right?

The president wants to continue. He’s going to have those conversations.
He’s going to engage with congressional members. He’s going to continue
to do that, as he has. That’s not going to stop.

Obviously, the campaign is doing their work. We’re doing — continuing
our engagement with congressional members, as we do pretty much all the
time on whatever issue we want to work with them on.So, that’s not going
to change.

You heard from AOC, the co- — the congresswoman from New York. She said,
“The matter is closed… and I support him.” Right?

You heard from Maxwell Fro- — Frost, who was on CNN today, gave — was
very supportive on CNN. So, you do have other out there just today —
just today or yesterday giving support to the president.

I can’t — you know, you’re mentioning one person, but there are others
as well.

Q Well, Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — I’ll — on a separate topic, slightly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q Cedric Richmond, this morning — he said that the — that the debate
stage was words and the debate stage was performance, “I would say look
at actions and accomplishments.” The president’s allies have made some
version of that argument to not pay attention to what he said on stage
but what his accomplishments are. But when you’re — when you’re the
president of the United States, don’t words matter?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, when you’re the president of the United States, I
think any ki- — any leader — right? — especially including a former
president, their words do matter. You’re 100 percent correct.

The president has owned up to that night. He said it was a bad night. He
said this. He’s said this many times. He has even said he “screwed up.”
So, those are the president’s words. That’s all I can give you at this
time.

We do believe that we should not just look at the 90 minutes. The
president has had — has done more than any other modern-day president’s
administration. Historic — historic things have gotten done.

When I was watching the Democratic Caucus, they talked about 35 dollars
insulin — right? — capping that. When you think about seniors who were
paying hundreds and hundreds in dollars. We were able to get that done
because of — of a very important piece of legislation that we m- — we
moved through, right? And only Democrats made that happen. That’s also
because of the leadership of this president.

And that’s just one. That’s the bipartisan infrastructure legislation.
There’s the CHIPS and Science Act. There’s the — the PACT Act for our
veterans.

I mean, there are things that he’s been able to do that elected
officials, presidents before him have been trying to do and could not
getting done — get done: beating — beating Big Pharma.

So, there is a long list of impressive things that this president has
been able to get done — getting us out of the pandemic — that we do
believe is important to note here as well as an accomplishment of this
presidency.

Q Another question that I don’t think has been asked — correct me if it
has.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The White House and also the campaign has said that he had a cold that
night. He then went to a watch party afterwards, which you have brought
up. I was a that watch party. If he did have a cold, why then push him
to another event where he spent some 45 minutes along the rope line?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, and not just a — and I would add to that: It
wasn’t just a watch party. We landed at 2:00 a.m. in the morning in
North Carolina. He greeted hundreds of North Carolinians in North
Carolina. He woke up the next day in North Carolina, gave a speech in
front of — in front of thousands of North Carolinians —

Q But my point is: Wasn’t he contagious? (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no, I — I’m just — I’m just trying to lay — you’re
giv- — you gave me an opportunity, and I’m just using that opportunity,
obviously, to lay out what the president did in those two and a half
days.

Look, you know, one of the reasons that we shared that he had a cold is
because during the debate, in real time, everybody heard his — his
hoarse voice, and folks asked. And we were able to c- — we were able to
confirm right away that he had a cold and that — and that he was also —
tested negative for — for COVID. So, we were able to share that in real
time, so just also want to share that.

Look, he pushed forward. Right? Many of us have colds, and we still push
forward. He’s the president of the United States. He understand how
important it is to continue to get up every morning regardless of how
you feel — right? — to get things done. That’s how this president is.
I’m su- — I’m sure that’s how many presidents before him were as well,
when it comes to really not letting a cold get you down. And — and I
think that’s also why he pushed forward in the debate also on that
night.

So, look, he pushed forward, tried to get things done, wanted to make
sure that he had opportunity — people who watched him do a debate, who
were waiting for him; people at 2 o’clock in the morning in North
Carolina who were waiting for him — he wanted to make sure that he
engaged with Americans.

Q And finally, Karine, this morning, House Speaker Mike Johnson said, as
he has before, that Democrats have been covering up the president’s
mental acuity for years. How do you respond to that? And has the White
House misled Americans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And so, I’ll say this. Americans out there, folks who
are watching who are not normally in the day to day of what’s happening
in this world, there’s a comprehensive medical — full comprehensive
medical report on the website, WhiteHouse.gov. I would encourage them to
take a look — to take a look. Read — read that report.

And they can also read for themselves what his — his, you know,
specialist — a group of specialists — of — coming out of the medical
unit decided on, what they examined, what they saw, what they reported
on. I think that matters as well. It is a group of them that come
together when it comes to doing their physical. It is extensive
physical.

And so, there is something there for them. It’s transparent. It’s out
there. It’s for them to read. It’s for the American — not just for you —
for the American people to take a look. And I think that’s important to
note as well, and that’s what I would share with them.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And I’ll come to you, Ed, in a second.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. The president said yesterday in his letter, in his
interview that he talked to a wide range of voters. He overwhelmingly
heard from people that they wanted him to stay in the race.

Our polling shows that 76 percent of Democrats think he is too old to
run this year. How is he coming to this conclusion? Are you sure that a
handful of events is giving him a representative view of swing state
voters?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — I mean, look, that has been — you all have
asked me about polling and his age for, I feel like, a year now. It’s
come up many, many times. And, you know, I’m not going to speak to
polls. It’s not something I’m going to do from here. I’m just going to
let the experts, the pundits, and all of you —

Q But he’s saying he conducted his own poll —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no. We —

Q — effectively.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I was — I was about to answer your question. Just give
me — give me a second.

Look, for the past three and a half years, the president has been out
there talking to voters. And if you think about — and I think what he
was referring to, when we to — when he went to Atlanta right after the
watch party, he saw — he — he literally did a rope line. Some of your
colleagues were there. Some of your colleagues spoke to some of the
folks who were there and heard from them directly. He heard from folks
at the rope line.

I mean, these are everyday — engaging with everyday people. That’s what
he did. Landed at 2:00 a.m. in — in the morning in North Carolina —
hundreds of people there. He did a rope line, engaged with everyday
people. The next day, thousands of folks — thousands of people were at
the North Carolina event, and you heard chants, “Let’s go, Joe!” “We
love you, Joe!”

I mean, that’s something that you feel, right? That’s something that you
feel out there, and that’s what he feels out there.

The next day, he went to New York, and he was able to — spoke to — to
speak to some supporters there and then went to New Jersey. So, it is a
continuation.

On Sunday, 600 people at the church. The whole — if you watch that —
that service, you hear- — you heard from that congregation. If you
watched him in Harrisburg, you saw people — you saw him engaging with
people.

I mean, that — there is nothing that takes away — all respect to the
polling out there, but nothing takes away, I don’t think, from engaging
with everyday Americans. I think that matters too. And that’s just — I’m
just laying out the last 10 or 12 days, right? That’s just the last 10
or 12 days.

Q One more. Over the weekend, the New York Times reported on a senior
White House official who apparently worked with the president in his
vice presidency, in the 2020 campaign — said he shouldn’t seek
reelection. They thought he was not up to it; he was showing signs of
his age. Does — does the White House know who this person is or made an
effort to find out? Are you comfortable having someone who apparently is
traveling with him and working with him in this way who thinks this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, that is — that is the first time I’ve
ever heard that was in that reporting. You know, we — this is not — this
is not the last administration, where we try to find who is, you know,
speaking or leaking. That’s not something that we do here.

Everybody has their opinion, but that is the first time I’ve ever heard
anything like that. I’ve never heard any speak — anyone speak in that
way from here.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q To follow up on something you were saying to Gabe about congressional
outreach, has the president spoken to — does he plan to speak with any
of those that have publicly called for him to go?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I don’t have a list of people that the president
is going to call. He’s going to engage with congressional members.
That’s something that he’s going to do. I can say, you know, I — I’m
sure folks here in his Office of Leg Affairs has had regular
communication with everyone. I just don’t have a list of who he’s going
to speak to.

But the president is always willing to speak to people who agree with
him and don’t agree with him. You know that about him, if you’ve covered
him. He’s very much that type of — of president. I just don’t want to
get ahead of — of his decision on who he’s going to call and how that’s
going to look.

Q One thing I don’t think we’ve gotten public clarification about yet.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q In the interview Friday night, he was asked, “Did you watch the
debate?” And he said, “I don’t think I did, no.”

Did he watch the full debate or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know —

Q — what of it has he watched?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know, that’s a good question. I should — I did- —
never followed up with him, and I meant to. I — I have not asked him
that question. I was there in the room when he was being asked that
question. I just never followed up. You know, that is something that,
you know, we can follow up with him on. I have not.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m sure he’s seen clips. I’m sure he’s seen clips. I
just haven’t — I just haven’t had — asked him that full question.

Q It’s hard — it’s hard to avoid them, so I can — yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q Okay. One other thing that’s come up just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, it’s getting round — round-the-clock coverage —
right? —

Q That’s one way —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — from all of you. (Laughs.)

Q One other thing that’s come up in the last little bit. The Director of
National Intelligence, Avril Haines — I don’t know if you’ve seen this —
issued a statement a little while ago —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — saying, in part, “In recent weeks, Iranian government actors have
sought to opportunistically take advantage of ongoing protests regarding
the war in Gaza using a playbook we’ve seen other actors use over the
years. We’ve observed actors tied to Iran’s government posing as
activists online, seeking to encourage protests, and even providing
financial support to protestors.”

She goes on later to urge Americans “to remain vigilant as they engage
online with accounts and actors they don’t personally know.”

But that’s a pretty big charge to make —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So —

Q — that Iran may be trying to influence these protests in the streets
of the United States.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, yes, I know what you’re speaking of, what the DNI
warned about. Obviously, for any specifics, I would have to refer you
back to Director Haines and her statement.

But broadly speaking here, just bear with me for a second, Iran is
seeking to opportunistically take advantage of protests. So, I want to
echo the DNI’s remarks today. Americans across the — the political
spectrum, acting in good faith, have sought to express their own
independent views on the conflict in Gaza. The freedom to express
diverse views, when done peacefully, is essential to our democracy.

At the same time, the U.S. government has a duty to warn Americans about
foreign malign influences and activities. This is — this is important to
help Americans guard against efforts by foreign powers to take advantage
of or co-opt their legitimate protest activities. We will continue to
provide these warning as they arise.

And, today, I just want to convey and — and — a firm message from here
to Iran and any other foreign actor that seek to conduct these types of
influence activities: Meddling in our politics and seeking to stroke
\[stoke\] division is unacceptable, and we will continue to expose
attempts to undermind \[undermine\] our democracy and our society, just
as we are today.

That is something that we will continue to do. The U.S. government will
continue to vigorously support and defend Americans in their exercise of
their First Amendment rights to protest and express political views
peacefully.

At the same time, we will continue to warn against, expose foreign
efforts to meddle in our inter- — internal affairs and attempt to
amplify conflict.

The former is an essential part of a robust, functioning democracy. The
latter is a threat, and it will not — it will not — will not be
tolerated.

Q And the president has been read into all this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s been briefed.

Q There’s no problem with it being shared publicly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s been briefed. He’s been read — read in. He is
aware. And it — we believe, as I just stated here, it is our duty — it
is our duty here, as the U.S. government, to share that.

Q In the back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q I have a question about the NATO Summit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q There has been a lot of discussion about Ukraine but also the southern
flank of NATO, countries like Italy and Spain. They want the summit to
approve a new strategy to improve relations with countries in North
Africa, the Middle East, and work together on challenges like migration
or instability.

So, does the U.S. support this? And is the president trying to — or
planning to meet with any leaders of the southern front?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I think we announced some of the bilateral —
we announced the one with the UK prime minister; I just announced with
President Zelenskyy. We will do our best. You know, the president is
hosting the 75th NATO Summit, so he is going to be pretty busy engaging
with global leaders and, obviously, hosting the event.

So, if we have anything more to share, I know my colleagues at the
National Security Council will do our best to share that with you.

I’m not going to — we’re going to have some deliverables. We’re going to
have some — you know, some statements to make, declarations. I’m not
going to get ahead of any of that, so I’m just going to let this — let
this summit begin and let the president actually lead — lead these next
couple of days.

Q But does the president support this strategy? It has been out there
for months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I — what I’m saying to you, I’m not just — I’m not
going to get ahead of the summit. We’re going to have many
conversations, many, many meetings here. I just want to be super
mindful.

You also asked me about any other bilateral engagements. We have — we’ve
already announced two. And — and so, just don’t want to get ahead of
anything else.

I — you know, things happen when the president is there. He gets pulled
to the side. We do pull-asides. We try to share them in real time as
quickly as possible. I just don’t have anything to share outside of
that.

Go ahead.

Q Sticking with NATO, are there any details you can share on President
Biden’s meeting with President Delen- — Zelenskyy? Just any, you know,
details on potentially what they might discuss, if Biden had said he
would announce new air defense for Ukraine. Will that come up at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We will definitely — there will be more air defense
that we will be announcing. Don’t want to get ahead of the president.

Look, you saw — as I announced as the top, you saw the president do a
bilat with President Zelenskyy in France and also at the G7. It is
always — obviously, part of those conversations is to continue to show
our unwavering support for the Ukraine.

The president has led in this effort globally. Right? If you think about
NATO and how st- — the strength of NATO and how it has — it has grown
plus two and how we have been able to have a stronger alliance than
we’ve ever had before. That’s because of this president. And backing,
obviously, behind Ukraine — that’s because of this president.

So, our support continues to be unwavering. And we will have more to
read out from that — from that bilat.

Q And as it’s the 75th anniversary, you know, by — it’s here in D.C.,
obviously. But what does the success look like for Biden, given
everything that is going on in, kind of, the debate aftermath? Kind of,
what — what is he measuring?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I will say this, and I’ve said this many times
before as it relates to foreign leaders — and, look, I will say that the
foreign leaders have had an opportunity to see what the president has
been able to do in the last three and a half years. They’ve seen that,
certainly, up close and personal the last three years, and they know
that they are dealing with a president who has been effective and has
just — has been able to get things done.

I just talked about NATO and the president’s leadership and how we’ve
been able to strengthen NATO, ma- — make sure that we invigorated the
NATO Alliance, and that has — that we’ve been able to — to see in the
last three and a half years.

So, the president was — continue to strengthen those — that partnership
and strengthen those alliances. Obviously, it’s not going to just be
NATO — NATO Allies here. We’re going to see others. For example, Japan
will be here on Thursday and other — other heads of states. I believe
there’s going to be 38 heads of states that will be here.

And so, we want to str- — continue to strengthen those relationship, and
that’s what the president wants to see. It is an important year, the
75th anniversary, and I think all of the work that the president has
been able to do will be on full display.

Q And just one last question. If the president’s health were to decline
rapidly next week just kind of out of the blue, have you had any
conversations with — with him? Or has he made any comments —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — on if he would —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Absolutely not.

Q — step aside?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a hypothetical. No.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Staying on the NATO Summit. While the summit, of
course, is being held in Washington, China is criticizing NATO as the
relic of the Cold War. It’s causing a higher security risk to the world
and the region. What is the White House response to this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, Russia’s aggression against Ukraine poses a
threat to transatlantic security. That’s what it does. And it shows how
critical the NATO Alliance is and how important it is to continue to
make sure that it is strong, and that’s what the president has been able
to do.

I am not surprised — we are not surprised that China doesn’t understand
that through — that, though, considering how they are actively enabling
— right? — they are themselves enabling Russia’s war in Ukraine, so it
doesn’t surprise me — or surprise us that that statement was made.

But, look, NATO is an — is an important alliance. It’s been around for
75 years, protecting, here, U.S. Americans — American citizens but also
the world. And so, we are going to continue to strengthen that alliance.

Q And my second question. Indian Prime Minister Modi is visiting Russia.
We’ve all seen the footage that he’s hugging, being friendly with Putin.
Also seeking to deepen bilateral relationship. We see that — saw the
Ukrainian President Zelenskyy already express his disappointment. Is the
U- — the United States concerning that India, as a U.S. ally, might be
actually aiding Russia either intentionally or unintentionally.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I believe my NSC colleagues have spoken to this. And
I’ll just add that — and just reiterate that India is a strategic
partner with whom we engage in full and frank dialogue, including their
relationship with Russia. And we’ve talked about this before.

So, we think it’s critical that all countries, including India, support
efforts to re- — to realize an enduring and just peace when it comes to
Ukraine. It is important for all our allies to realize this.

And so, we also believe India’s long-standing relationship with Russia
gives it the ability to urge the — the president — President Putin to
end his brutal war — an unprovoked war in Ukraine.

It is for President Putin to end. They star- — President Putin started
the war, and President Putin can end the war.

Go ahead.

AIDE: Karine, time for one or two more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q A couple questions on unrelated subjects. First, there’s been some
reporting by my colleagues in the British press that His Majesty King
Charles would like to visit his grandchildren in California and could do
so in conjunction with a state visit. Has there been any discussion or
will there will be any discussion between President Biden and Prime
Minister Starmer about such a visit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have anything to share. That is something,
obviously, that the State Department and NSC would certainly engage on
if that were to be the case. As you know, the — the new prime minister
will be here for the NATO Alliance. I just mentioned that there will be
a bi- — bilat between President Biden and the new prime minster, so the
president looks forward to that.

An upcoming visit that involves the king — King Charles. I don’t have
anything to share at this time.

Q Okay. Next question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q The president yesterday on “Morning Joe” said he wanted to make sure
that the — the average voter out there still wants Joe Biden to be
running for president. And you’ve rattled off a long list of — of
campaign engagements that he’s had over the last 10 or so days since the
debate.

Those engagements — whenever the president travels, whether it’s part of
the campaign or official travel, there are advance teams. People who get
near him are screened either by the Secret Service or the campaign or
both.

So, how are these groups of people he’s meeting with, supporters of his
— that they are supporters, they — they get to these official events —
these official campaign events. They are — they are known to be
supporters of the campaign. They self-select by coming to his events.
How is a — how are groups of people that come to his events, make the
time out of their day to do that, and are — are vetted by the campaign
and are allowed into these events representative of the average voter?

And then, I have one more for you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to be really careful because you’re
asking me a political question. You would have to talk to the campaign
on how the process works.

Q I’m not asking you about the process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, wait. No, hol- — give me a second. Give me a
second.

On how — on how that process works on who is in — who is — who is at the
— these campaign events. So, I just want to make that clear, because I
have to say that from here and — and make that clear.

I would — I would remind you that 14 million people — this is something
that I can talk about — voted for the president in the primary. That’s
87 percent of the vote. That matters. Those numbers matter.

And so, that is kind of a reality, a datapoint that matters as well. And
so, I’ll just leave it there.

But I think it does matter — I hear the question that you’re asking.
He’s still engaging with everyday people. He’s still hearing directly
from them. They’re still sharing information, sharing how they feel,
sharing how they see the future of the — his presidency. And I think
that matters as well.

As far as who is in the room, how that’s — that — how that comes
together, who is in front of him, you would have to speak to the
campaign about that.

Q Okay. And one last thing. You’ve described his — his engagements with
Dr. O’Connor on a regular basis as — as “check-ins.” That’s what you’ve
described him having after the debate — a “check-in” versus an “exam.”
Can you elaborate on what the difference is between a check-in and an
exam? At these check-ins, does — does Dr. O’Connor or another staff
member take the president’s vitals or — or anything like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ve talked about this on Friday. They’re verbal
check-ins with the president. They check in. As the president is
exercising, that’s usually how this happens. And they are not a medical
exam. I’ve said this already. I’ve cleared that up. They’re not phy- —
it’s not a physical.

It is a verbal check-in that the president does multiple times with —
with his doctor. It’s normally as he’s working out.

Q Does anyone from the Medical Unit take the president’s vitals on a
regular basis?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — what I can tell you: He gets regular check-ins — he
does regular check-ins, a couple of times a week, with — with Dr.
O’Connor. And that is for his doctor to decide on. That is not something
that I can speak to from here.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thank you. The president has come out very aggressively in the past 24
hours, from that letter to Democrats, the call-in to MSNBC, the phone
call with donors, the CBC last night. Was that his decision —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q — personally to step up that outreach (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It has been. He is — he is — he’s ready. He’s — he’s on
fire. He’s ready to go. And he wants to get out there and continue to
show that he has more work to do. Right? He has more — more important
issues for the American people to get done.

And so, he wants to get out there. He always has, though. I mean, the
last two, two and a half years, three years, three and a half years, he
looks forward to getting out there, speaking directly to the American
people.

And he — and I know we say this, and I know sometimes you guys don’t
believe us, but he does want to engage with you all. He does want to
talk more to the press. And so, now we’re — we’re certainly going to
continue to create opportunities to do that.

He’s done interviews 47 times in this year alone. And we’re going to
continue to create opportunities to do this. We’re going to get out
there so he can engage with the American people more directly. So, we’re
going to continue to do that.

Q But in terms of — you know, especially in the last 24 hours —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — that type of outreach to ease concerns among Democrats about his
campaign continuing, was there something specific that he heard or read
that prompted this — what seemed more like a flurry over the last 24
hours — that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — didn’t happen last week.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah —

Q We really saw him doing more —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I get it.

Q — since yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I get the question. Look, I — I wouldn’t say
there’s anything specific. This is something that he wanted to do. And
if you — if you think about it, you know, he was — he’s been on the road
a lot since — since the — since the debate. He was on the road on
Friday; he was on the road on Sunday. And then right out of the debate —
right? — he did about two — he did two and a half days of going into
about four states.

So, he’s just been on the road, busy engaging with — with — with
Americans.

But — and he did the ABC interview, as you know, obviously. And so, he
wants to do more. He wants to do more. There is nothing specific, but he
understands — he understands what — what you all saw. Right? He
understands he had a bad debate. He understands that Amer- — what
Americans saw.

So, he wants to go out there and continue to prove to all of you that,
you know, he continue to — can continue to do the work —

Q And does he feel —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — and the job.

Q — that outreach is working to ease those concerns after the bad
debate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, I think he’s — you know, this is kind of
the question that I got from other colleagues. He’s hearing directly
from the American people. And I think that matters. You know, I think —
I think him being out there and them — Americans seeing him directly,
being able to touch him and ask him questions and see him face to face,
I think that matters.

And so, look, we’re going to continue to move forward and do — and do
what we have to do.

All right. I think I can take one more. Go ahead, Aurelia.

Q Thank you so much. So, we’ve seen the president, like, being on the
ground more, but we’ve also noticed a slightly new tone from him. He
said he was frustrated with the elites of his party. He dismissed polls.
He criticized media coverage, saying that journalists get election
results wrong. So, is this the kind of tone we should expect to hear
from him going forward? And does he believe this is the kind of tone
that the average voters, as he says, expect from him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I would say this. I think what we’ve seen the
last 10 to 12 days is certainly fundamental to wh- — the Joe Biden
story. He is someone that is certainly counted out many, many times in
his career. People tend to — tend to knock him down, and you heard him
say he gets back up.

This is the story. This is the story of him standing up for himself,
standing up for millions of Americans and — and, certainly, millions of
Americans who back his leadership and, like him, care — they care about
working people. They care about getting things done.

And I — you know, it really, truly is who he is at his core to fight —
to fight not just for himself but what he believes in.

And he has seen this over and over again: People count him out. People
say he’s not going to win. People say, you know, all of the — (laughs) —
all of the — the negative things that they want to put at his feet, and
he proves them wrong over and over again.

You think about 2020 — folks said the same thing. “He’s not going to
win. He’s not going to make it.” And he won.

In 2022, we had a midterm election. And going into that midterm
election, it was supposed to be a “red wave.” There wasn’t a red wave.

It happened in 2023.

Now we’re in 2024, and he’s going to continue to fight. That is his
commitment. That is quintessential Joe Biden’s story. That is
fundamentally who he is — is continuing to fight.

All right. Thanks, everybody.

Q Thank you, Karine.

3:32 P.M. EDT
