---
date: '2024-07-31'
published_time: 2024-07-31 20:21:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/31/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-secretary-of-agriculture-tom-vilsack-and-national-security-advisor-john-kirby/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Secretary of Agriculture\
  \ Tom Vilsack, and National Security Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:38 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I do have a couple things at the top. 
I’ll get to it.  Today, the Biden-Harris administration announced the
next major step to cancel student debt for approximately 30 million
Americans when combined with the administration’s prior actions,
providing them with information about how they can stand to benefit from
upcoming debt relief programs. 

In April, the president announced his administration’s new plan to
deliver relief to millions of Americans, including those whose balances
have grown due to runaway interest and those who have been repaying
their loans for a very long time.  This is in addition to the nearly 5
million Americans who have already received relief.

Despite attempts by Republican elected officials to block our efforts,
this administration is committed to fixing our broken student loans
system and giving Americans a little bit more breathing room. 

Next, I want to highlight our new announcement to address the overdose
epidemic and save lives. 

Since day one, the administration, President Biden, Vice President
Harris have prioritized action to combat the scourge of illicit fentanyl
and beat this crisis, leading to the first decline in overdose deaths in
five years.

These actions include stopping more illicit fentanyl at ports of entry
in the last two years than in the last five years combined; sanctioning
over 300 persons and entities engaged in the illicit drug trade; making
naloxone, a lifesaving opioid overdose — overdose reversal medication,
widely available over the counter; and mobilizing global leaders to join
the fight against this global epidemic.

Today, the Biden-Harris administration is announcing two new initiatives
to build on these ongoing efforts, including a new national security
memorandum directing every federal agency and department to do even more
to stop the flow of narcotics into the United States and a call on
Congress to pass legislation that would close key loopholes drug
traffickers ex- — exploit — drug traffickers exploit, increase penalties
on drug traffickers, and more.

    We also continue to call Congress to pass the bipartisan border
security agreement, which would deliver funding for thousands more
border agents and 100 more high-tech drug detention machines. 
Congressional Republicans must stop putting partisan politics over
American safety and national security. 

And today, as you can see, we have two guests joining us to speak on
both domestic news and foreign de- — and foreign developments. 

First up, we have — we are joined by Secretary of Agriculture Tom
Vilsack to discuss new actions the administration is taking to address
the efforts — the effects of discrimination in farming and ranching
thanks to the president’s Inflation Reduction Act. 

This historic action delivers on a promise the president made to help
farmers and ranchers who were unable to access federal resources due to
discrimination in farm loan programs. 

Farmers and ranchers work around the clock to put food on our tables and
steward our nation’s land, so it is critical we do everything we can to
support them, especially when they suffer the injustice of
discrimination. 

President Biden will continue to ensure that all Americans — all
American farmers, specifically, and ranchers have the tools and
resources they need to be successful. 

And, with that, Secretary Vilsack, the podium is yours. 

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Thank you.  Karine, thanks very much. 

As I briefed the president today, the Department of Agriculture has just
completed an important step in advancing a key commitment that the
president made.  We’re able to announce today, thanks to Section 22007
of the Inflation Reduction Act, that more than 43,000 individuals in all
50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
and American Samoa are receiving direct financial assistance in response
to discrimination that they reported to have experienced at USDA farm
lending programs prior to 2021. 

This action advances a key priority of President Biden and Vice
President Harris when they laid out an executive order signed on day one
to advance racial equity and to support for underserved communities
through the federal government. 

Now, this financial assistance is not compensation for anyone’s loss or
the pain endured, but it is an acknowledgement by the department.  And
our hope is and the president’s hope is that this financial assistance
will help many farmers stay on the farm, contribute to our nation’s food
supply, and continue to do what they love. 

The culmination of this program is an important marker in our effort to
rebuild trust and to make USDA an equitable and accessible department
that truly serves all of its customers.  And it’s the result of a lot of
really hard work by many, many people deeply committed to that effort
and as well by 30 par- — third party organizations that directly
administered this program. 

So, the announcement is significant.  It represents USDA acknowledging
and responding to reported past discrimination, such as racial, gender,
or disability discrimination. 

I’m grateful to the individuals who took time to complete applications
and, in doing so, relived their stories — which I know, for many, was
not an easy task. 

Our priority has been getting the assistance out the door.  The work
will continue as we analyze the information provided, dig into details,
and assess what it tells us about ways in which we can continue to break
down barriers at USDA. 

Now we’re committed to releasing additional information about these
awards as our analysis continues.  This is also a milestone in
connection with our implementation of the Inflation Reduction Act, which
has made historic investments across dozens of USDA programs to keep
farmers farming, to invest in climate-smart agriculture, and we’ve
worked hard in ways that reach historically underserved and new and
beginning farmers.

We’re supporting the development of a clean and more affordable energy
infrastructure, and we’re improving the health of our country’s forests
and making them more resistant to wildfires. 

To date, we’ve obligated over $12 billion of that funding, which, in
many cases, reached the smallest, most rural, and often most
under-resourced communities. 

What the Inflation Reduction Act has done in many cases is to give us
the tools at USDA not just to help people but to show to them that USDA
is open for business to them. 

A lot of these changes have been informed by our work implementing
another section of the Inflation Reduction Act, Section 22006, which
allotted $3.1 billion for farmers in financial distress. 

Through the 22006 program, we’ve been able to work directly with over
43,000 farmers as well who had loans through USDA but who were
struggling to repay them, providing them some relief. 

Under Section 22006, in two years, we’ve distributed $2.4 billion to
those nearly 43,000 farmers who were in financial distress.  Because of
that assistance, many of them have given a second chance at farming are
now able to pass their farms down to the next generation. 

Our experience in implementing this section of the IRA has also informed
many changes at the Farm Service Agency, where our farm loans are made. 

Changes at FSA under this administration have included but not
necessarily been limited to diversifying the agency leadership and
county committee membership; the ability to apply for farm loans and
make loan payments online, which is new this year; a streamlined and
shortened paperwork requirement; and new processes that have reduced the
need for human discretion in loan decision-making. 

While the discrimination payments of nearly $2 billion today are a look
at the past, what all of this broader work boils down to is learning
from that past so we can create a better future — one where everyone who
wants to participate in farming and agriculture has a fair shot of doing
so and continuing to do so and that all of America’s communities,
regardless of how rural or remote they may be, are getting the
investments they need to thrive. 

We’re truly working to live up to our moniker, the “People’s
Department.” 

And with that, I’d be glad to respond to questions if there are any.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)  Go ahead.

Q    Hey, Secretary Vilsack, thanks for being here.  About a month ago,
the Secre- — USDA released a sort of comment period on climate-friendly
— assessment of climate-friendly policies. 

I realize that’s not what you’re here to talk about today, but it is
about a month since it came out.  And I want to ask you, you know, what
the comments have been.  But also, looking at the possibility that, in
fact, former President Trump could be reelected and — you know, how do
you secure the changes that you’ve been able to enact and avoid them
from being reversed when — if a new administration came in?

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Let me answer the question generally without going
into specifics about the election because, as I mentioned to Karine, I
don’t really want to get arrested for violating the Hatch Act today. 
(Laughter.) 

What I would say is this.  The reason we asked for these comments was we
want to inform the Treasury Department’s guidance on the development of
a new and exciting industry that this administration is fostering, which
is the sustainable aviation fuel industry. 

It is an industry that’s twice the size of the current biofuel industry,
and it opens up the opportunity for many — as many as a million new job
opportunities in rural America. 

So, we want to make sure that farmers and farming and ranching are able
to fully participate in that process.  So, we asked for information
about commodities and/or practices that could potentially be established
as having a positive, climate-smart benefit. 

Because the Treasury Department, for purposes of 45Z — a tax credit that
was established under the Inflation Reduction Act — has got to make
guidance by the end of the year to provide the industry an awareness of
how to qualify the sustainable aviation fuel that’s going to be made in
the future for that tax credit, which is extremely important because
it’s what’s going to make it cost-effective to produce the fuel. 

So, opportunities here for large new income sources for farmers, new
products being produced in rural America, and b- — and continuing this
administration’s commitment to manufacturing in rural places. 

So, that’s why we ask for the information.  And I think it’s information
that I th- — that I hope the Treasury Department takes into
consideration as it makes a very important decision. 

Q    What — what’s the timing for the 45Z clean tax fuel credit?

SECRETARY VILSACK:  I think the goal is to try to get this done by the
end of the year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kayla.

Q    Thank you.  Secretary Vilsack, you detailed many of the programs
that USDA is administering under the Inflation Reduction Act.  But I’m
wondering how much funding the agency has remaining from that
legislation and whether you feel any pressure to spend that or disperse
it before November.

SECRETARY VILSACK:  There’s not pressure.  You want to make sure that
you’re investing those resources wisely. 

I will tell you, for example, we have yet to obligate all of the
renewable energy resources.  And the reason we have is because we are in
the process of completing the evaluation of the applications for that
funding. 

When you talk about the transition of — of rural electric- — electricity
from fossil fuel-based transition and generation to more renewable
sources, it’s complicated.  So, it takes a while for us to basically
analyze those contracts.

I’m e- — I’m expecting that we will be able to make awards in that
program by the end of the year — significant awards — and have a better
— general sense of what awards will be made in 2025 and 2026. 

The Inflation Reduction Act was structured so that you would be making
payments o- — and investments over a period of time.  The Forest
Service, for example, was given resources to invest in forest
restoration and hazardous fuel buildup removal over a period of years. 

And so, we’re on track.  In fact, I’d say we’re probably a little bit
ahead of schedule in terms of our obligations under the Inflation
Reduction Act.  So, I’m confident that we’ll meet the goals that were
set by Congress — probably exceed them — and, in doing so, create a lot
of new opportunities out there in the countryside.

Q    But Congress sought to rescind some of the unspent stimulus money
during negotiations over other issues.  And I’m wondering if you worry
that there’s a possibility that unspent IRA money could get rescinded —

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Well —

Q    — in future negotiations as well?

SECRETARY VILSACK:  — that would be a serious mistake on the part of
Congress to do this because there is genuine interest.  The level of
applications we’ve received under the IRA would suggest that there is
interest above and beyond the amount of money that was provided by
Congress.  And in that normal — in that circumstance, I think the
message that’s being sent by rural America is: This is resources that we
need, that we want, and we should preserve.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Thank you for being here, Mr. Secretary. 

I think, if I’m not mistaken, earlier this week, you and the USDA
announced that there were going to be about 25 separate counties — at
least ones in our area — Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland — that
qualified as primary natural disaster areas due to drought conditions. 
Clearly, we’ve been keeping an eye on this in keeping with the
conversation about climate change. 

Can you give us a better understanding of where you have seen this go
and what the impact has been in terms of the American investment
required to help sort of accommodate these communities and where it is
going?

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Well, I can tell you that the — we have a number of
programs.  And if you’re interested in knowing all of the programs that
are impacted by drought or any other disaster, we have a tool on our
website, “Disaster at a Glance,” which will tell you, based on the
criteria — whether it’s a tornado or a flood or whatever it might be —
what programs are available. 

The fact that we have that document would suggest that we are aware of
the fact that there is an ever-increasing number and intensity of these
events, and they are, in some cases, horrific.  And they are
extraordinarily expensive because they impact not only the ability to
make a living for farmers, ranchers, and producers and forested
landowners, but it also results in devastations of homes and
businesses. 

We’re now seeing floods that are supposed to be hundred-year floods
occurring every six months.  We’re — we’re seeing droughts that are
supposed to last for a year la- — lasting for multiple years — in fact,
over a decade.  We’re seeing tornadoes that are just incredibly
powerful. 

I didn’t know what a derecho was until a couple of years ago, so the
very — the fact that we have things that I’ve never heard of in my life
now coming up on a regular basis in the Midwest tells you that there’s
something going on here, which is why it’s important for this
administration and for future administrations to continue to invest in
climate-smart practices. 

Frankly, it isn’t just about dealing with the climate issue; it’s about
creating a whole new American economy that creates new job opportunities
and, as the president likes to talk about, rebuilding that middle
class.  Because when you do climate-smart practices, you are essentially
creating supply chains, you’re creating new industries, you’re creating
new and innovative ways to do things — all of which is going to require
people that work with their head and their hands. 

So, whether you’re concerned about climate or whether you want to build
an American economy that’s stronger, you got to continue to invest in
these — in these practices.  And — and, you know, I think, fortunately,
we have the tools through the Inflat- — Inflation Reduction Act and the
infrastructure law and the American Rescue Plan to do a lot of that work
right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Mr. Secretary.

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you for your time.

Q    Thanks, Mr. Secretary.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  And now I’m going to turn it over to
Admiral John Kirby to talk about the Middle East developments that we’ve
seen over the last 24 hours or so.

Go ahead.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Hey, everybody.

Just a quick note on Venezuela, too, before we can get into any of that.

I want to note that our patience and that of the international community
is running out.  It’s running out on waiting for the Venezuelan
electoral authorities to come clean and release the full, detailed data
on this election so that everyone can see the results.

You may have seen, the Carter Center, an independent observer, just
earlier this morning released a report stating that, quote, “Venezuela’s
2024 presidential election did not meet international standards of
electoral integrity and cannot be considered democratic.”

They concluded that the, quote, “electoral authority’s failure to
announce disaggregated results by polling station constitutes a serious
breach of electoral principles.”

We share those concerns.

Matter of fact, this afternoon, the Organization of American States’
Permanent Council is going to hold a meeting to address the results of
the electoral process in Venezuela.

I’m not going to get ahead of that meeting, of course.  I would simply
reiterate that the United States joins other democracies in the region —
and actually around the world — in expressing serious concerns about
these subversions of democratic norms.

Now, as you all know, the Venezuelan people have taken to the streets to
demand that their votes be counted.  You can’t very well blame them for
that.

We have serious concerns about the reports of casualties, violence, and
arrests, including the arrest warrants that Mi- — Maduro and his
representatives issued today for opposition leaders. 

We condemn political violence and repression of any kind.  And our
hearts, of course, go out to all the families that have lost a loved one
or are facing injuries they’ve got to try to recover from. 

Alongside the international community, we’re watching, and we’re going
to respond accordingly.

Now, as Karine alluded to, I know that you’re all interested a whole
heck of a lot in everts that occurred in the last 24, 48 hours in Iran
and Lebanon.   I want to manage expectations here and let you know that
there’s going to be a — a significant limit as to the operational detail
or anything else that I can talk about today. 

So, I just — as — as that as precursor, I just want to — (laughter) —
let you know I’m —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Have fun with that.  (Laughter.)

MR. KIRBY:  I’m happy to — I’m happy to take your questions.  I don’t
know that you’re going to like all the answers. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) have fun with that one.

Go ahead, Seung Min.

Q    Well, with those — with our expectations tempered, can you talk
about whether the United States had any previous knowledge of the
assassination beforehand?

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    Or —

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m not —

Q    Or di- —

MR. KIRBY:  — in a position to — just want to s- —

Q    “No, you can’t say that we had knowledge” or “no, we had no
knowledge”? 

MR. KIRBY:  Well, you throw your voice pretty well, all the way to the
back of the room.  (Laughter.)

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) just need a puppet.

MR. KIRBY:  Let me just clarify here.  I am —

I’m not in a position to confirm the reports coming out of Tehran.  I’ve
seen the statement that Hamas put out.  I can’t confirm or — or verify. 
We have no independent confirmation.

But I can — but I can state that I also have no conversations around
that reporting that I can speak to today.

Q    And can you talk about the White House’s view on a potenti- — on an
impact on a potential ceasefire and how much this complicates and delays
the prospect of one?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s always been a complicated process.  I mean, my
goodness, how many times have we talked about it in the last few months
and even in just the last few weeks?

I think it’s too soon to know what any of these reported events could
mean for the ceasefire deal.  But if I could add two points: One is that
doesn’t mean we’re going to stop working on it.  In fact, we have a team
in the region right now as we speak to try to continue to work with our
counterparts to move this forward because it’s that important. 

And number two, as I kind of alluded to earlier, it’s always been
complicated work.  And it’s not like the complications with every
passing day get easier, and that includes today.

Our job since the beginning of this conflict — in addition to making
sure Israel has what it needs to defend itself, in addition to making
sure the people of Gaza aren’t suffering more than they already are — is
to manage risk in the region. 

One of the things the president has been very focused on is trying to
prevent escalation here.  That work is complicated and difficult every
day, and that includes today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Admiral.

Admiral, earlier this week, you said that fears of an all-out war in the
Middle East were exaggerated.  Is that still your assessment and the
White House’s assessment of the situation following the — these latest
strikes?

MR. KIRBY:  We don’t believe that an escalation is inevitable.  And
there’s no signs that an escalation is imminent.  But I also said that
we watch it very, very closely.  I also said, just — and — and said
again today that this is something that we’ve been concerned about since
the 7th of October. 

It’s not like we’re brushing off concerns at all.  We’re watching this
very, very closely.  And it’s been a — a chief concern of the
president. 

Q    And will the White House be urging restraint from Israel following
this —

MR. KIRBY:  I’m — I’m not going to talk about our diplomatic discussions
with our Israeli counterparts.

We have been working hard to keep this war from escalating, just as
we’ve been working very hard and are today to make sure Israel has what
it needs to defend itself.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks.  Can you tell us was the president briefed on this last
night as the reports started coming out and how he’s been informed about
this throughout the day?

MR. KIRBY:  The president was briefed on reports coming out of the
Middle East.  He routinely —

Q    Last — last night, was he —

MR. KIRBY:  I — I’m not going to get into the specific timing or the
parameters of it.  But he has been kept fully informed, as you would
expect that he would be, from the national security team.  And that
means on a continuous basis as well.

Q    Egypt’s foreign minister said in the statement that the
assassinations “undermine the strenuous efforts made by Egypt and its
partners to stop the war in the Gaza Strip.”  You had just said in an
earlier answer that it doesn’t mean that the United States would stop
working toward a ceasefire deal.  But can you talk about the concerns
about the negotiators continuing that work and what this means about
that going forward?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just tell you, as we’re standing here today, they’re
still at that work, and we’ve got a team in the region.  And we’re going
to — we’re going to keep the shoulder to the wheel.  It’s that
important.  And we still believe the gaps are narrow enough to be
closed.  We still believe the details can be hashed out. 

It’s too soon to know, based on the reporting over the last 24 or 48
hours, what impact any of this is going to have on the ceasefire deal. 
It was always complicated.  It remains complicated.  And — and reports
coming out of the region, as we’ve seen, again, over the last 24 to 48
hours, certainly don’t make it less complicated. 

Q    Has there been contact with Egypt and Qatar to reassure them to
stay in these conversations right now?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just say that we have and maintain routine
communications with our counterparts in Egypt and in Qatar and with
Israel.  Those com- — those communications are ongoing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Just to be clear about that, has the U.S. reached out or had
contact either directly or indirectly with Iran since the occurrence in
Iran?

MR. KIRBY:  I have no diplomatic conversations to speak to — certainly
none of that type. 

Q    So, just to be clear, you — there have not been with them or with
any of their — any intermediaries?  Or you can’t tell us that there have
or haven’t been?

MR. KIRBY:  I have no conversations to speak to.

Q    Okay.  Fundamentally, is an Iranian response here inevitable?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, you’ve seen the comments by the supreme leader and
what he said publicly.  It’s out there for everybody to see.  I’ll
certainly not speculate about whether and to what degree Iran does
anything.

What I can tell you is we have and will maintain a level of readiness to
preserve our national security interests in the region.  It’s not like
we take a blind eye to what Iran is capable of doing and has shown their
capability of doing in the region.  It’s not like we’ve demonstrated an
unwillingness

to defend Israel from threats in the region, including from Iran, if
that happens.  And we maintain that capability and that readiness to do
so now. 

I would also say, lastly, Peter, what I said earlier: We don’t want to
see an escalation.  And everything we’ve been doing — since the 7th of
October, we’ve been trying to manage that risk.  Those risks go up and
down every day.  They are certainly up right now.  They don’t make the
task of de-escalation, deterrence, and dissuasion — which is the goal —
any — any less complicated.

Q    So, to be clear, does the U.S. think this action was escalatory,
provocative, justified? 

MR. KIRBY:  As I said earlier, I’m not in a position to verify the — the
accounts.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Paris.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  John, I have two questions on Middle East and
then on Russia and Ukraine. 

So, on the Middle East, besides Egypt, we see Qatar, China, and Russia
all condemn the killing, saying the killing would jeopardize the
ceasefire talks.  What is the White House response to those countries’
reaction on this?

And also, is United States worried China is expanding its influence in
the Middle East and may not be using its in influence for the purpose
that U.S. and allies believe to be positive?

MR. KIRBY:  On the first thing, I — I believe I’ve already kind of
addressed this.  I’m not in a position to verify the reporting —
certainly, the statement by Hamas.  I’m just not going to do that.

On China, we’ve said many times we would welcome any credible role by
China or any other nation, whether they’re in the region or not, that —
that want to help get involved and de-escalate the tensions and help us
bring this war to a close and make sure that Israel’s security is
guaranteed going forward.

Any other nations contributions that can be done in a credible,
transparent, and sustainable way would be welcome.  We’ve simply not
seen that coming out of the PRC.

Q    And on Russia and Ukraine.  Does United States know the whereabouts
of Paul Whelan?  And can you confirm the report that the first delivery
of F-16 jets in Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, on your first one, all I’ll say is that we have been
consistently, since the beginning of this administration, working hard
to bring home Americans that are wrongfully detained overseas and the —
the attention that the president has paid personally to the cases of
Paul Whelan and to Evan Gersh- — Evan Gershkovich from the Wall Street
Journal is very, very high, as is the whole team.  And we continue to
work at that very, very diligently.

On the second question, you’d have to talk to the Ukrainians.  I’m
certainly not going to talk about weapons capabilities. 

I will only add that — to remind — as we have said and said at the NATO
Summit, that the process of providing F-16s to Ukraine continues to move
forward.  We said that they will be operational by the end of the
summer.  We have no reason to doubt that.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Raquel.

Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  Hi, John.

On Venezuela, two questions.  One about the call with President Lula
yesterday.  Did President Biden ask anything specific from the Brazilian
president, any kind of help to moderate the situation in Venezuela?

MR. KIRBY:  The president was grateful for the time with President
Lula.  They obviously talked about the electoral results in Venezuela
and our concerns about where that’s leading to.

I won’t go beyond the readout, though, in terms of specific asks.  The
president was grateful for President Lula’s time.

Q    And another one because, as you were saying, the United States and
other countries like Brazil are asking for the full release of the
voting count.  But three days later, as you were saying, the patience is
running out.  There is no indication that Maduro will release — give in
to this international pressure and release the data.

On the opposite, as you were saying, there’s violence now.  They’re
persecuting people protesting against —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — the results.  So, does the U.S. still believe that Maduro can be
convinced to release this data?  And how long is the U.S. willing to
wait?  What is the strategy?

MR. KIRBY:  They — they need to release it.  We’ve been calling for it. 
As I said, our patience is running out.  Those — those electoral
authorities, which obviously work for Mr. Maduro, they need to release
the — the data, the tabulated data so the world can see exactly what
happened here.  And we’re going to continue to call for that.

And as for consequences, I won’t get ahead of policy decisions that
haven’t been made yet.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  A couple —

Q    Does the White House recognize that Edmundo González won the
election?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, we want to see that full tabulated data from the
polling places.  We want to see something that’s — can be verifiable and
can — can — and can convince not only the United States but the
international community about what the results actually were.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, a couple more.  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Hi.  Hi, John.

Two Al-Jazeera journalists were killed today in Gaza, Ismail al-Ghoul
and his cameraman Rami al-Rifi, in an Israeli airstrike.  It was obvious
they were journalists.  Everything was clear that they were
journalists.  They were targeted.  Are you condemning this?  And do you
have any other reaction regarding the killing of journalists that is
continuing since October 7th?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any specifics about this particular strike to
speak to.  So, dif- — difficult for me to get into any detailed
discussion of it.

We obviously continue to not only recognize and honor the service that
journalists do around the world, particularly in places like Gaza, which
is very dangerous; it’s a combat zone.  We know that that takes a
special kind of bravery for a journalist to go on the ground in — in a
place like that.  And we want to make sure, as I think Karine has
mentioned herself in just the last day or so, that press freedoms are
observed and recognized and respected and that reporters are allowed to
do their job, and that includes covering the war in Gaza.

But I just don’t have any detail on this particular strike to be able to
— to characterize it one way or the other.

Obviously, our hearts go out to the families and — and all those who are
touched and affected by this — by this terrible loss.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    John, just — I know — I know we’ve talked about what you’ve said
before about the temperature going down, but Secretary Austin also spoke
about this and said that the sense was that the temperature was going
down in the Middle East.  So, can you say to what extent this —

MR. KIRBY:  This doesn’t help.

Q    — this was a surprise?  Like, was — was —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  These reports over the —  
  
Q    — the U.S. caught off guard?

MR. KIRBY:  These reports over the last 24, 48 hours certainly don’t
help with the temperature going down.  I’m not going to be Pollyannish
about it.  We’re obviously concerned about escalation. 

And, again, without confirming the reports over the last 24, in terms of
Tehran, certainly, the IDF has already spoken to operations that they’ve
conducted elsewhere. 

All of this adds to the complicated nature of what we’re trying to get
done.  And what we’re trying to get done is a ceasefire deal that can
get you six weeks in phase one, get a lot of hostages — the most at risk
— out of there and home with their families, and get some more
humanitarian assistance in there. 

And I know I keep coming back to that.  But it’s important that we do
keep coming back to that, because that’s what we’re really trying to
drive at.  And if we can get to phase one, by God, we maybe get to phase
two.  And if you can get to phase two, maybe you can get a cessation of
hostilities.

When you have events — dramatic events, violent events — caused by
whatever actors, it certainly doesn’t make the task of achieving that
outcome any easier.

Q    But, you know, who is Israel supposed to negotiate with if the
leader of Hamas is dead?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I can’t confirm the reports coming out of Tehran or
Hamas’s statements. 

We still believe there’s a viable process.  We still believe there’s
interested counterparts.  And we still believe that there are meetings
and discussions to be had.  We wouldn’t have a team over there right now
if we didn’t believe that it was possible to — to try to gather — gather
together and — and push this forward.  
  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Just got to wrap it up.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Follow-up on her question.  What is the U.S. strategy
for Venezuela if Maduro still be considered the winner?  I- — is the
U.S. planning to impose more sanctions?  Or what is —

MR. KIRBY:  It’s a terrific hypothetical question that I’m not going to
answer.

I would simply say that we will reserve our rights and our abilities in
terms of consequences one way or another based on what we see coming out
of electoral authorities in Venezuela.  It’s in their interest, too, to
be fully transparent and credible about what happened on Sunday.  So,
we’ll see — we’ll see where this goes. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrew.

Q    But if he — if he considered to be the winner, what — what the U.S.
planning to do?

MR. KIRBY:  Let’s see the results.  Let’s see the results.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrew.  And then we got to — we got to —

Q    John, two questions for you.  You said there’s a team in the region
from the U.S.  You’ve said there are interested counterparts to — to
speak to.  Who are they?  And why would they show up to these talks
given that the guy who was heading the talks for Hamas is — is now
dead?  What reason do they have to — to poke their heads up above
ground?   
  
And then I have a second one.

MR. KIRBY:  As I also said, it — it’s too soon to know what these
reports are going to mean for the ceasefire deal.

What we do know is we have a team in the region.  What we do know is we
want to keep having these conversations, and we believe they’re still
worth having. 

We also haven’t seen any indications at 2:07 on Wednesday afternoon
here, the 31st of July, that the process has been completely torpedoed
and it ain’t worth pursuing, so we’re going to keep pursuing it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right —

Q    So, on — on the process being torpedoed completely or otherwise. 
My colleagues and I have spoken to family members of hostages who are
still being held, and the view among many of them is that Netanyahu and
his government do not want to deal, and Netanyahu in particular does not
want to deal, because if there is a deal and the war ends, his
government collapses and he possibly continues on trial for corruption
and goes to prison.  Does the president still believe that the prime
minister is acting in good faith here?

MR. KIRBY:  Based on the constructive conversations that we had with the
prime minister last week, we still believe that this is a worthy
endeavor.  We still believe that the gaps can be narrowed, the details
can be flushed out, and a deal can be had.

Now, again, it’s too soon to know what these recent events over the last
24, 48 hours are going to do to the process. 

I don’t want to sound overly sanguine here, but we still believe the
deal on the table is worth pursuing and the hostages need to come home. 
And — and we’re not going to stop trying to work on that.

Q    Those conversations of — all of them took place before the events
of — of the last few days.  Is the president open to changing his view
based on what has happened?

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, I’ve never known President Biden to ever not be
willing to — to look at things with a fresh set of eyes.  And as I said
earlier, it’s just too soon to know, with the reports coming out of the
region, what kind of impact there’s going to be on the ceasefire deal. 

What I can tell you he hasn’t changed his mind on is we got to — that we
want to get the deal, that we want to pursue it, that the deal on the
table is a good one.  Both sides ought to accept it.  They ought to sit
down in earnest and hash through these details that have to be fleshed
out and — and close the gaps that we believe can be closed, and let’s
move forward.  Let’s get phase one in — in place.  He hasn’t changed his
mind on that.  Not at all.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Admiral. 

  
MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it. 

Okay.  Just have one thing at the top. 

So, I wanted to mention that the president and the first lady and the
entire administration are proudly cheering on Team USA. 

The women of USA gymnastics brought home a gold medal with an
unbelievable performance.  And Simone Biles now has more Olympic medals
than any U.S. gymnast in history.  And the U.S. men’s gymnastics team
brought home their first medal in 16 years. 

And it’s not just our gy- — gymnasts that are winning big.  The U.S.
swim team have scored gold in two contests, and the women’s rugby team
won their first-ever Olympic medal with an incredible win. 

From tennis, soccer, and basketball to fencing, track, and volleyball,
our nation’s athletes are making us all proud.  Our athletes are, as the
president said, the big reason so many of us believe we can do big
things. 

And not to brag too much, but USA — (laughs) — is also currently leading
the Olympic Games with the most medals. 

As the first lady said ahead of the opening ceremony, and I quote, “Our
athletes carry more than just our flag.  They carry our nation’s heart
and our hopes with them too.”

So, we wish the team all — the team of — the Team USA, all of them, good
luck as they continue to make us proud.  We are especially excited to
see the women’s soccer team and the men’s basketball team in action
today. 

I’m wearing my Olympic Team USA gear.  So, go Team USA.  But we wanted
to lift them up from — from the briefing room today.  Hopefully, you
guys didn’t mind. 

Go ahead, Seung Min.

Q    We don’t mind at all.  (Laughter.)

I know —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — you typically don’t discuss the lunches between the president and
the vice president.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But since we’re kind of in a unique time —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    — do you have any sort of details or color or what the president
planned to talk about with her?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, I — I just want to be — and I — and I —
you’re right, we are in a — a different time.  And I get the question. 

Always are — are very respectful of the president and the vice
president’s private conversations.  And, obviously, they do regularly
meet and — and — whether it’s for a lunch or meetings about the national
security, and they do that regularly, whether — even White House events
and just many — much more.  They have ta- — stayed in touch regularly
over the past coup- — couple of weeks, but they — couple days, couple
weeks — but they do that normally as well.  So, it’s nothing new there. 
But I don’t want to get into their private discussion. 

As you know, the president is incredibly proud of the vice president and
what she has been able to accomplish, their — their partnership
together, and is going to continue to support her. 

Q    And I know you’ve said that we would continue to see President
Biden at work on the job.  But he’s had a lot of —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — things on his calendar just today that were all closed press. 
Some of them seem like things we would have seen, at least at the top of
the — top of the meeting.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, is that going to be the standard operating procedure going
forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s not. 

You’ll — you’re going to — I can tell you right now: You could expect to
see from him and hear him tomorrow.  The president — or later this week,
I should say, to be more specific, but tomorrow is already Thursday. 
(Laughter.)  But you’ll hear from him later this week.  I promise you
that. 

Look, every — every event is access- — is — we assess it differently, as
it relates to press access. 

The — Secretary Vilsack, we brought him to the podium because <s>you</s>
\[we\] wanted to make sure you heard directly from him on their
conversation.  They met, obviously, this morning to talk about this new
announcement as it relates — relates to the Inflation Reduction Act. 

And he’s going to continue to get briefings all day.  We — I talked
about the fentanyl announcement. 

But it will not be the norm.  It will not.  You will s- — you will hear
from the president later this week.  And he definitely wants to continue
to — to have — to make sure you have access. 

He had a, you know, little bit of a — a press conference, if you will,
at 1:15 in the morning the other day.  And so, he certainly wants to
continue to take your questions and see all of you.  And so, that’s —
that’s not going to stop.

Q    And what is the event later this week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to share at this time.  But,
certainly, we will — as — as you all know, when — when we lock things
in, we certainly will share that.  But we — you will see him.  You will
see and hear from him for sure later this week. 

And your — this is your first time in the front row.  Hi.  (Laughter.)

Q    I appreciate it.  Thanks for the warm welcome.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wi- — Will?

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, Will.

Q    Good to see you.  Good to see you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.

Q    Just staying on the vice president.  I know you can’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — talk about their meeting and whatnot.  But in terms of medical
records and a physical, are we going to see a little bit of sunlight on
the vice president’s health as we get closer to election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know there was a lot — we were getting some
incoming on this, and I know there’s a lot of interest.  The vice
president’s office asked that you refer those qu- — we refer those
questions to her office.  And so, they will be gla- — gladly able to
take those questions from all of you.

Q    And just one other question I wanted to ask as well.  The president
had previously committed to talk to Black journalists at NABJ.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I don’t know if you’re attending or going to Chicago for NABJ.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    We’ve seen you there before.  He’s no longer a candidate.  And
there’s some back-and-forth between the Harris campaign and NABJ. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But does the president have a message for those Black journalists
there at the conference?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, April Ryan asked me a question about this
yesterday.  And, look, when it comes to Black journalists, we want to
make sure — and — and, obviously — and all Americans, including Black
journalists — that we have an opportunity and — obviously, talking to
Black journalists is obviously talking to the community.   
  
And so, it’s important that we do interviews, as we’ve normally done,
with Black-owned publications.  And we have done that, from the
president to the vice president to myself to other senior members of his
team, because we understand how important to have that — that kind of
entry point into the community. 

And so, that is something that we have been very proud of doing the past
three and a half years.  And we will certainly continue to do that.

As it relates to NABJ, that was a campaign decision.  So, I would have
to, obviously, refer you to the campaign. 

The president, as you know, is no longer a candidate, which is why he’s
not speaking this year.  And so, as it relates to the vice president as
well, that is something for her office to — to speak to. 

But it is important for us to — to speak to — whether it’s a radio host,
a TV host, or a newspaper reporter, we do that on a regular.  And it is
something that we have been proud to do because we believe that we have
been able to deliver for the community — all communities — whether it’s
the economy, health care — issues that they really, truly care about. 

And so, we’re going to continue to do that, certainly, for the next six
months.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just following up on Seung Min’s question. 
Could you sort of give us an idea of how much the president’s schedule
has changed since the ticket changed? 

Because if you look at what —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — we look at — the big event on Tuesday was a phone call; big event
today is a lunch; tomorrow, we don’t know what he’s doing; Friday, he
heads to Delaware —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — it lends itself to the appearance that he’s done governing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  He’s not done governing at all.  I think that
appearance would be false.  It would be a misled appearance.  

I — I understand the question.  What I will say: We were in Austin on
Monday.  We were — obviously, in Texas.  We went to Austin, went to
Houston.  He went to pay respect to the late congresswoman.  He went to
Austin to make a very important announcement, as we went back and forth
on this yesterday, on SCOTUS reform, which something that majority of
Americans want to see.  We got back — we landed on Marine One on the
South Lawn at one o’clock in the morning, took some questions.  That was
something that he wanted to do.  Took a couple of questions from press. 
We were out for about 12 hours.  He continues to meet with his team
today.  And as I said, you will see him later this week.  You will hear
from him directly later this week. 

And I think — again, I’m going to throw Matt Viser here into the
conversation — we are recalibrating.  I mean, that is very true.  I
mean, there — there is — there is a change in — in just him stepping
down for reelection.  He’s still very much the president.  And we’re
trying to figure out what the next six months are going to look like. 

But we are committed.  The president is steadfast on continuing to build
on the unprecedented record that he has had with the vice president over
the last three and a half years.  That doesn’t change.  But just give us
a beat, and we certainly will be — will be out there. 

And the president does want to continue to — to speak directly to the
American people.  You will see him. 

Q    Why haven’t we heard from him, for instance, on the news unfolding
in the Middle East?  We heard from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Secretary Blinken.  We heard from Secretary Austin.  We heard
from the vice president.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    It would be something that, ordinarily, we’d expect to hear from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Stay tuned.  Stay tuned.  I just said that you’re
going to hear from the president later this week. 

And — and, look, I think when it comes to the Middle East, when it comes
to foreign policy more broadly, this is a president that has a record to
stand on when it relates to making sure we’re putting the national
security of the American people first. 

This is something that he’s done — making sure that we — you know, that
we reengage with our allies and also our partners.  We saw what happened
in the past administration.  The president had to fix those
relationships.  And he did that in the last three and a half years, when
you think about reinvigorating NATO, you think about how the people of
Ukraine have — has what it needs now to defend itself against Russia’s
aggression so they can fight for their democracy and freedom. 

This is a president that has a long list of foreign policy
accomplishments that he’s incredibly proud of.  And when it comes to the
Middle East, the president has been incredibly engaged from — from —
certainly, from day one of what we have been seeing, the developments
there over the past — just under a year. 

But he’s going to continue to do that.  You’re going to continue to hear
from him.  That will not change.

Go ahead, Andrea.

Q    So, on the potential comment from the president on the Middle
East.  Can you say anything more about what the venue would be?  And —
and then I’ve just got —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just said he will — you’ll continue to hear
from him.  And I said you’ll see him, certainly, later this week. 
That’s what I can — I can speak to.

Q    So, next week, Vice President Harris is going to Detroit.  The UAW
has just endorsed her ahead of a rally that will be taking place in
Detroit. 

The administration began work on an Islamophobia strategy last year.  Do
you a- — have any kind of an update for us on what’s going on with
that?  Like, when are we seeing results? 

This — you know, next week might be a good opportunity to sort of give
an update on that, especially since Vice President Harris will be
speaking then, you know, in a — in a community where there are a lot of
Muslims and a lot of people who’ve been very concerned particularly
about the Gaza policy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, that — I — I have to be careful on that
because it’s a campaign event, so I can’t speak to what exactly she’s
going to be doing.  You just mentioned the endorsement.  So, that’s
certainly for the campaign to speak to.

But as you ask me about the — the strategy that we have put forward,
look, our — the strategy that we’ve put forward on antisemitism,
anti-Islamophobia is the first of its kind.  We took — we are taking
that incredibly seriously.  And we wanted to put together an
all-of-government effort to make sure that we — we are — to make sure
that Americans here feel safe and to know that this administration is
taking — is certainly taking awareness and doing everything that we can
from an all-of-government approach to deal with this, whether it’s
through — at the Department of Education, Homeland Security, and — and
Department of Justice. 

This is a — this is an issue that is — is incredibly important.  And we
are going to condemn — continue to condemn any type of hatred against
any community.  That is something that we believe that is — there’s no
place in — in this nation for any type of violence. 

And so, the president continues to be steadfast on this, continue to
speak on this. 

I don’t have an up- — update on — on any of this at this time.  But we
have, throughout the past year or so, announced new actions.  We’ll
certainly continue to do that.  But as for today or even next week,
don’t have anything specifically to — to point out to you.

Q    I just want to follow up on that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The president has met, obviously, with, you know, various people
who are interested in this issue and the unfolding — I mean, just the
violence in the Middle East.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    With the escalation that we’ve seen, with the concerns about an
all-out war rising now — you know, the risks that John just outlined too
— is the president intending to carry out any further outreach or is the
White House planning further outreach to affected communities?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are in — in regular touch.  The — we have a —
as you know, we have the White House Office of Public Engagement,
Intergovernmental Affairs here, and they are in regular touch with
communities out there.  And we understand that communities are fearful. 
They are feeling some pain here.  And we get that.  And that’s why, as
an administration, we’re trying to address the rise of reported antis- —
-semitism; the rise of — of reported, and what we have seen,
Islamophobic incidents.  And we’re — we’re talking about, sadly, at
schools, right?  We’re talking about at college campuses and in
communities. 

And so, this is something that we take very seriously.  As you know, not
too long ago, we did make some new announcements on actions that we were
taking here in the administration.  And so, we’re going to continue to
work towards that. 

And to your — but to your question, we are in regular touch with
communities, hearing them out; hearing, also, how can we be helpful,
any- — anything that they want to share with us that would be helpful to
us and how we continue to provide assistance and — and, you know, come
up with actions that’s going to be helpful to them. 

I mean, we’ve — we’ve announced more than 100 new actions in the past
year to deal with this type of hate.  And so, we t- — we’re taking this
very seriously.  And it’s an all-of-government approach here.

Go ahead, Kayla.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  You said that with each event the president
does, there’s a discussion about whether to open it up to press and in
what way.  I’m just wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the
rationale behind not showing the president on two days where the vice
president now has public events of her own.  Is there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — a desire to not have the president out there publicly while she’s
campaigning?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m — I’m not going to get into — I’m
not going to get into the campaign specifics here. 

What I will say is that you will — you will get this — the president
later this week. 

And, look, it’s a case-by-case basis.  And that’s kind of how we’ve
always moved forward with — with — when we think about these different
events that we do here.  The president will be out later this week. 
You’ll get to see him.  He will speak directly to all of you and to the
American people, obviously.

I just don’t have anything to share beyond that.

Q    But specifically yesterday and today — the rationale for not having
him appear publicly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have any specifics here.  It is assessed
by an array of people, not just by my office.  We try to — to figure out
what’s the appropriate way of getting — of giving briefings to the
president. 

And so, you know, he and Secretary Vilsack, for example, had a
one-on-one conversation.  They wanted to — to check in.  They wanted to
talk about this particular piece of the Inflation Reduction Act and how
it’s going to certainly help communities — obviously, Black farmers, in
— in this regard. 

And so, that is — was part of the conversation.  But I just don’t have
anything else specifically. 

You all — you will see the president later this week.  You saw thi- —
the president — he was out for 12 hours on — on Monday, spoke to all of
you, took a couple of questions.  And you’ll con- — you’ll certainly
continue to see that.

Q    And in that 1:15 a.m. discussion with — with press where he
answered a few —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — questions, he was asked about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — whether he would weigh in or — or have a discussion with the vice
president on her running mate —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and he said, “We’ll talk.”  Is today that talk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    Has it happened — (laughter) — in the interim?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I appreciate you all trying.  I — I really do not have
more to add to what the president said to — to your colleagues, a- — as
you said, at 1:15 in the morning on, I guess, Tuesday morning.  I just
don’t have anything else to add. 

Q    To the back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is obviously — when it comes to that particular
decision, that’s something for her to make, and — and we trust that she
will make that decision for what works for the American people.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Yeah, thanks.  Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, no —

Q    No, Joey.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Joey.

Q    You’ve never called me “Michael” before.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  It’s been — (laughter) — I know.  It’s been a
while.

Q    Well —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s been a while.

Q    It’s all right.  It’s all right.

Hey, what’s President Biden’s reaction been so far on the strong initial
enthusiasm the Democratic voters are showing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — for Kamala Harris’s candidacy?  She had a rally in Atlanta last
night with over 10,000 people, raised more than $2 million — $200
million in a week, has improved on polling in battleground states from
where Biden was. 

Does the president feel reassured about his decision to drop out of the
election by what he’s seen so far from Harris?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to ask you: Wouldn’t you — what would you —
wouldn’t you be reassured? 

Q    Well, I’m asking you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  No, but you just listed out what’s occurred
the past week — I don’t even know; everything is just coming all
together — past week or so. 

Again, campaign.  Don’t want to get into specifics of — of numbers that
you just ticked off and — and what we’ve seen.  But, I mean, look, you
just listed off some pretty incredible moments that we’ve seen with her
campaign over the last week or so. 

And so, look, I think at the end of the day, what I can say — and I’ve
said this before, and I’ll repeat it — is the president is incredibly
proud of the vice president, Vice President Kamala Harris.  And he has
said — he has said that the reason why he chose her, the reason why he
picked her to be his vice president back in 2020, almost — gosh, almost
four years ago, is because he believed she could lead on day one. 

And that — we have to remember who the vice president is.  She’s been
vice president for almost three and a half years.  She’s helped be a
partner in really big decisions that we’ve had to make here, whether
it’s domestic or foreign policy. 

She was a senator.  She was an attorney general.  She is incredibly
qualified.  And he could not think of anybody else who — who could have
done this job that he could have made this decision and — to — to take
over the campaign, obviously. 

And so, he’s very proud of her, and I will just leave it there.

Q    And so, he does feel reassured by that decision, from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he’s proud of his decision.  He’s proud of his
decision.  And you’ve just listed out a long list of reasons of why. 

Go ahead, Peter.

Q    If I could ask you about something that’s happening at the NABJ
right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Donald Trump is speaking to some of the reporters who were
assembled there, and right out of the gates, there was what can best be
described as a contentious exchange, where the former president said —
and I’m asking this through the lens of someone who represents the
president and vice president, not someone who has to speak as a campaign
question. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    He says of Kamala Harris, the vice president, “She was always of
Indian heritage, and she was only promoting Indian heritage.  I didn’t
know she was Black until a number of years ago, when she happened to
turn Black,” he said, “and now she wants to be known as Black.  So, I
didn’t know, is she Indian or is she Black?”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow.

Q    “She has always” — this is unclear — “I respect either one.  But
she obviously doesn’t, because she was Indian all the way, and then all
of a sudden, she made a turn and she went Black.”  Your response to
those comments. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  He is a candidate.  So, I’m going to be
super careful. 

Q    You’re —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  No, no, no —

Q    Maybe you can speak — okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.  Hold on.  I have more to say.  I certainly
have more to say. 

As a person of color, as a Black woman who is in this position, that is
standing before you behi- — at this podium, behind this lectern — what
he just said, what you just read out to me is repulsive.  It’s
insulting.  And, you know, no one has any right to tell someone who they
are, how they identify.  That is no one’s right.  It is someone’s own
decisions. 

It is — I’ll add this.  Only she can speak to her experience.  Only she
can speak to what it’s like.  She’s the only person that can do that. 
And I think it’s insulting for anybody — it doesn’t matter if it’s a
former leader, a former president — it — it is insulting. 

And we have to put — she is the vice president of the United States,
Kamala Harris.  We have to put some respect on her name, period. 

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.  Go ahead, Jon, all the way in the
back. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you talk about what efforts are being
undertaken as it relates to those wrongfully detained Americans, people
like Evan Gershkovich and Paul Whelan?  Are there renewed efforts in
terms of trying to win their release right now? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to just repeat a little bit of what my
colleague said just moments ago — admiral — the admiral.  And, look,
what he said was spot on, which is: This is a president that has made it
a priority to get home wrongfully detained Americans, back to their
families, back to their loved ones. 

It is something — and all you have to do is look at his record and what
he’s been able to do in getting home wrongfully detained Americans.  And
so, he’s committed to that.  He will continue to be committed to that
through these — the next several months — the next six months. 

We are careful here.  We do not negotiate in public.  We cannot
negotiate in public, because we want to make sure that we get this job
done, get this work done.  I do not have any specifics.  I would not be
able to do that from here, because we want to be mindful, we want to be
careful. 

But the president is committed to make sure that we get wrongfully
detained Americans home to their friends and families and loved ones,
obviously.

Q    Those efforts —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — in terms of trying to get those wrongfully detained Americans
home, could they possibly involve a third country — a prison swap
involving Germany, for instance?  Is that a possibility?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just cannot get into specifics from here.  You have
to understand that what we’re trying to do is on behalf of Americans who
are detained.  The president is committed.  He is committed and will
continue to do everything that he can to get Americans home to their
loved ones. 

And you’ve seen that.  You’ve seen that over the last three and a half
years.  I’m not going to get into specifics.  I’m not going to get into
details.  I can’t confirm anything from here or lay out.  What we’re
going to do is continue to do the work. 

Go ahead.

AIDE:  You have time for two or three more. 

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Just a follow-up on the scheduling question. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    As the president dials back a bit, of late, the public events —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — are we to read into that either now or in the near future that
the vice president should be the kind of primary messenger of the
administration’s policies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, the president is going to be certainly the
messenger of the policies.  He’s the president of the United States. 
He’s going to continue to do that.  They both will be, as she’s out
there, as well, as vice president.  That is not going to change. 

You will hear from the president.  You will hear from the president.  He
wants to be out there.  He believes there’s still a lot of work to get
done in the next six months.  He wants to lay out what it is that he
would like to get done, building on our successes.  Whether it’s the —
whether it’s health care, whether it’s the economy, there’s still a lot
of more work to do in the economy, even though we’re leading the world
in what we’ve been able to do here to turn — to restart the economy. 

And so, look, you’re going to hear from the president about this in a
short order.  You’re going to see the president later this week.  You’re
going to hear from him.  And so, I would say stay tuned.  And the
president certainly is looking forward to the next six months continuing
to — to lay out his plans on behalf of the American people. 

Okay.  Go ahead.  Last one.

Q    Yeah.  When are we going to see the president and vice president
together?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a good question.  I don’t have anything for you
right now at this time.  But obviously, they were together today having
lunch.  That was a private discussion — private — private lunch.  But I
— I could assure you, you all will see them together at some point.

Q    I do want to ask you about the border security legislation that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the president still wants and that the vice president, Harris, is
also talking about.  Would the president be willing to make a deal on
that in the — in the lame-duck session when Congress is back?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I — I get the question.  But he did make a
deal.  That was what we did — what? — two months with Republicans in the
Senate.  We ma- —

Q    Yes, but they — they stopped agreeing to that deal, so — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s — it’s so wild because we worked with
Republicans and with Democrats.  And if this deal in Congress, obviously
— in the Senate, to be more specific — and if this deal would have gone
through, it would have been the toughest, fairest bipartisan border
security legislation in modern history. 

And congressional Republicans decided to block it because Donald Trump
felt like it would make Americans safer, so do not move forward with it;
that’s what he felt.  Or it — and it would harm him politically; that’s
what he felt. 

And so, look, we did a deal.  It was a very good deal that — that
Republicans agreed on, Democrats agreed on.  The president reached
across the aisle to make this happen when people told him that that
wouldn’t be possible.  And the former president got in the way. 

And it was — he got in the way not because it was the right thing to do
for the American people.  It was the right thing to do for himself. 

And so, the president would love — would love to move forward with that
deal — with that deal that we were able to get done.  But they
themselves, Republicans, voted twice against it. 

And so, the president has taken executive actions, and — and we want to
make sure that we continue to reduce unauthorized crossing to lower —
and we’ve been able to do that — to lower than any other — any — under
any other prior administration.  We have been able to do that through
actions here. 

But in order to deal with this, we have to have legislation.  And there
was a deal.  There was a deal on the table that we were able to
negotiate with Republicans and Democrats in the Senate.  The former
president got in the way.  You know?

Q    Will that deal still be on the table after the election?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — it’s on the table right now.  We want to make that
deal move forward.  We do.  We are ready.  The president is ready to
sign it.  It’s Republicans. 

This is really — I appreciate the questions, but this is really a
question for Republicans in Congress to — to answer to. 

Okay, guys.  We’ll see you tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Go Team USA!  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go Team USA!

2:40 P.M. EDT
