---
date: '2024-07-12'
modified_time: 2024-07-13 12:15:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-12 12:02:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/12/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-representative-debbie-dingell-campaign-communications-director-michael-tyler-and-afl-cio-president-liz-shuler-en-route-detroit-mi/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Representative Debbie\
  \ Dingell, Campaign Communications Director Michael Tyler, and AFL-CIO President\
  \ Liz Shuler en Route Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Detroit, Michigan

3:18 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have friends.  I have friends.  I have friends.  
  
Q    Oh, wow.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  I have more friends.  Here we go. 
Watch your —   
  
MR. TYLER:  I’m just going to stand behind you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Watch — come on in.  
  
Okay.  Justin Sink.   
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Your “big boy” press conference came to
fruition.  Ten reporters, 19 questions.  Not bad.  
  
Q    We were very excited —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    — that the president saw the value of an extended press conference,
and we hope it happens again soon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  
  
Q    Next week?  Same time next week?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right.  
  
Okay.  So, last night you heard directly from President Biden during an
hour-long press conference.  Several of you here had the opportunity to
ask him questions.  And you had deep, substantive policy exchanges about
his work to strengthen NATO, build a more secure world, and deliver for
working families here at home.

The president demonstrated his understanding of the biggest challenges
facing our nation and why he’s the most qualified person to build on the
results his administration has delivered.

You heard similar sentiments from our leading — our leading allies too.

UK Prime Minister Starmer said President Biden has “shown incredible
leadership.”

Canadian Prime Minister Trudeau said, “We are the” — “We are lucky on
the world stage to have Joe Biden leading here at NATO, on the — on the
G7, in some extraordinarily consequential times.”

And German Chancellor Scholz warned against underestimating Joe Biden.

Today, families in Detroit will hear directly from the president.

He’s going to remain laser-focused on delivering for working families
and building on the historic progress we made.

As the president said last night, “I have… to finish this job because
there’s so much at stake.”

This week, we got a lot more evidence that President Biden’s economic
plan is delivering for the middle class and working families.

As you heard from the president last night, inflation is — has fall- —
has fallen to 3 percent and overall prices fell last month, and wages
are rising faster than prices for 16 months in a row.  And a new report
found communities left behind by the previous administration are making
a “remarkable comeback,” creating jobs five times faster under President
Biden.

Earlier in the week, the president announced an agreement with Mexico to
protect American steel and aluminum workers.  He also made a historic
investment to ensure the future of the auto industry is made in America
by American union — union workers.  We made the largest-ever investments
in registered apprenticeships.  And the administration announced the
recovery of $1 billion in unpaid taxes from millionaires thanks to the
president’s Inflation Reduction Act.

Still, President Biden knows there is more to do to — to many families
are still — too many families are still struggling to make ends meet.

As he said yesterday, he’s going to keep fighting to take on corporate
greed and make pri- — and take — and bring prices down.  You’ll hear
more from him on that in the coming days.

Now, as you all know and can see right behind me, I have Michael Tyler
from the campaign and some other guests on Air Force One who’s traveling
with us.   
  
And with that, Michael —  
  
MR. TYLER:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — go ahead.  
  
MR. TYLER:  I’m also going to do a quick topper.   
  
So, obviously, we’re headed to Michigan today, following the strong
press conference where the president gave answers to a wide range of
questions, reminding Americans that he is the best leader to continue to
move our country forward and the best candidate to beat Donald Trump.  
  
So, here’s where we’re at in the race as we head into Detroit today.  
  
Since last night, we’re seeing strong support across our coalition.  But
most importantly, we’re seeing it with our grassroots base.  We have
close to 40,000 donations last night alone.  Donations exploded during
the president’s press conference.  In fact, we hit seven times our
average during the press conference.  
  
As it relates to polls, polling continues to show the same race we’ve
been seeing — right? — one that is close, not affected by the debate.  
  
President Biden has enduring strength with high propensity voters while
Donald Trump demonstrates a low ceiling and unable to expand his
support.  
  
If you look at the Marist Poll out today, it continues to show a tight
race, right?  The president leading 50-48.  Reath- — reaffirms our
theory.  The president picking up a point since the last time they
polled.  Two thirds of voters are more concerned about a president who
lies than one who is old.  
  
The bottom line is that voters do not support Trump.  They do not
support his agenda, and they’re scared as hell about Project 2025.  
  
This comes alongside a slate of polls coming after the debate that shows
this as a dead-heat match.  
  
That’s an opportunity for us to grow if we focus on the work, if we
focus on the choice, and we focus on the threat posed by Donald Trump.  
  
So, that’s what we’re doing here today as we fly into Detroit and what
the president will continue to do in the coming weeks.  As we approach
the Republican National Convention, we’ll be focusing all of our
attention on defining the choice in this election.  You heard the
president do that last night when he warned of the threat of Donald
Trump’s Project 2025 and he talked about his own vision to keep making
people’s lives better.  And you’ll hear him talk about that again today
in Detroit.  
  
Donald Trump knows he has a Project 2025 problem.  In fact, if you look
at a lot of the metrics over the course of the last week, we are now at
a moment in time when more searches on Google are for Project 2025 than
we have for Taylor Swift or the National Football League.   
  
You can expect to continue to see that trend pick up the pace next week
as we head into the Republican convention in Milwaukee.

This campaign, the Democratic Party, Democrats across the country are
going to be laser-focused on making sure that people understand the
stakes of this election between Joe Biden, who is fighting for the
American people, and Donald Trump, who is running a campaign as a
convicted felon based upon revenge, based upon retribution, based upon
his disastrous Project 2025 agenda. 

So, today, you’ll see the president standing with the mission-critical
coalition here in the state of Michigan — labor leaders, reproductive
rights advocates, local elected officials, congressional officials.

Next week, he’ll do the same thing as we head to Texas, to Nevada for
the NAACP and Unidos.  We’re going to present a stark contrast again in
Milwaukee between Donald Trump and his extreme MAGA base, their Project
2025 agenda and the president. 

So, we urge, at this moment in time, every Democrat to get behind this
effort, present a clear choice in this election, because we have one
singular mission moving forward, and that’s to beat Donald Trump. 

So, with that, I am proud to have two guests here who are traveling with
the president today: Congresswoman Dingell, Liz Shuler of the AFL-CIO. 
I’m going to pass it off to the congresswoman very quickly as well. 

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Hi, everybody.  Go Blue!  You’re coming to
Michigan territory.  (Laughter.)  I keep trying to tell the Democrats
that should be our theme this year. 

I’m really glad the president is coming today, because Michigan is a
battleground state, which I don’t bullshit any of you on. 

But I warned you all, at this point, we were going to lose Michigan in
2015 and 2016, and nobody believed me.  I knew at this point, we were
going to win in 2020.  And right now, I’m going to look all of you in
the eye and say this state is competitive and nobody better write it
off. 

We are going to work — and the president knows it.  The first we talk- —
the first thing he said to me today was he knows Michigan is a
battleground state.  But I’m going to tell you that we are going to work
our tails off and make sure that everybody knows about Trump’s Project
2025. 

And we — the women of Michigan know how to win Michigan, just in case
you haven’t noticed.  And we’re going to make sure that women know that
the Project Trump 2025 will take away their right to make their own
health care decisions.  We’re going to make sure that workers know they
don’t want to pay overtime.  We are going to make sure that parents know
they don’t want to believe in school programs. 

I could keep going, but we have a long edu- — and, by the way, every
senior, seniors are going to win this election.  And when they know that
Donald Trump wants to reduce or eliminate their Medicare, their
Medicaid, Social Security — and I want to promise you all I will
personally be everywhere in the state of Michigan.  We’re going to
educate them. 

And I want to say that nobody believed me in 2015, 2016.  Nobody
listened to me.  They get tired of my yelling at them, but they listen. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Zeke, you want to — you have any —

MR. TYLER:  No, sorry —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m sorry, Liz.  Go ahead.

MS. SHULER:  Liz Shuler, AFL-CIO president.  I’m bringing the voices of
12 and a half million working people, 60 labor unions to Detroit because
Detroit is a working-class town.  It is the bedrock of the American
labor movement.  And we are standing strong with President Biden and
Vice President Harris because they’ve stood strong with us. 

We know the record of the most pro-union president in our lifetimes, who
has delivered for working people over and over again, whether it’s the
investments that have been creating new, good high-road jobs clean
energy; bringing manufacturing back to our country; whole new industries
like the semiconductor industry; training and apprenticeship you were
talking about.  The list goes on and on. 

And so, we want to see the — the Biden-Harris record, the deli- — things
they’ve delivered for working people continue into the next term, and we
are the difference makers.  You look at a state like Michigan, it’s the
labor movement that can deliver those marginal votes in the communities
that will make a difference.  And we have the grassroots operation to
make it happen. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Awesome.  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Mike.  In your topper there, you s- — appealed to Democrats
to unite behind the president against Donald Trump, except your seeing
more defections, including some more this morning.  And last count
before we took off, I believe, was 18 House Democrats.  There may be
more now.   
  
Does the campaign, does the president believe that every House Democrat
or House — or Senate Democrat or po- — or celebrity that is defecting
from his campaign is — is making it more likely that Donald Trump wins
in November?

MR. TYLER:  Well, listen, I think, again, it’s important to state —
reiterate the facts — right? — which is — which is what the president
has said repeatedly.  He is in this race to win it.  He is the
Democratic nominee.  And we are going to defeat Donald Trump in November
because Democrats are going to become — are going to be united in taking
on the threat posed by Donald Trump in the Project 2025 agenda. 

Democratic voters understand that.  That’s why you’ve seen throughout
the polling after the debate, there’s been no fundamental shift in this
race.  We continue to re- — this is going to be a very close,
competitive race.  That is what the Marist Poll has showed.  That’s what
all the polling has showed since the debate. 

And so, what this campaign and this president understands right now is
that we’re going to continue to go out and put a — put in the work.  The
president, as he did last night during the NATO press conference, was
not only leading on the world stage was — but was demonstrating that he
is the best person to continue to lead this country right now but is the
best person to take on Donald Trump and defeat him at the ballot box as
he did in 2020. 

So, as we hit the stump today in Detroit, as the president hits the
stump next week in Texas and Nevada, across the country, we’re going to
continue to present a clear choice to the American people between the
president, who’s fighting every single day for them, and Donald Trump,
who poses a fundamental threat to the American people. 

His Project 2025 agenda would gut checks and balances; allow him to rule
as a dictator on day one, as he promises to do out on the stump every
single day; would allow him to ban abortion without Congress.  And so,
that is what the president is laser-focused on communicating to the
Demo- — to Democratic voters and voters across the country who
understand the fundamental stakes of this election. 

The president understands that there’s still some anxiety on the Hill; I
think we all understand that.  And that’s why he’s laser-focused on
demonstrating that he is the best person to take on Donald Trump and d-
— and defeat him in November.  And that’s what this campaign is going to
remain focused on over the course of the summer. 

Q    Can you run us through the events today?  You know, who is the
president trying to talk to, who is — who is he trying to reach with
this event tonight?

MR. TYLER:  Yeah, tonight in — in Detroit you’re going to see the
Democratic coalition come together to talk about the stakes of this
election.  That’s why we’re bringing together labor leaders,
reproductive rights —

Q    But I mean, where is he going?

MR. TYLER:  That’s — we’ll — we’ll provide more details on the exact
specifics when we hit the ground here.  But we are going to remain
laser-focused on bringing this coalition together in presenting a clear
choice between working people

across this country who understand that they have a fighter in Joe Biden
who is working every single day to improve their lives and that we are
running against Donald Trump, who in this Project 2025 agenda is going
to tear down the very fabric of our democracy and who’s going to roll
back all the economic progress that we have made. 

You’ve seen Moody’s talk about the fact that everything that Donald
Trump is talking about doing from an economic standpoint is going to
cause another recession in 2025.

Rupert Murdoch’s Wall Street Journal, just yesterday, saying that Donald
Trump’s economic agenda is going to blow up inflation. 

That is the fundamental choice that we’re going to present today in
Detroit and that we’re going to continue to present as we crisscross the
country. 

Q    I have a question for all three of you.  Briefly, Reuters reported
yesterday that the UAW’s Shawn Fain is having doubts about whether
President Biden can win and is looking at their options.  Are you
confident that you’re going to keep that endorsement?  And what options
are you concerned that he may be looking to take?

MS. SHULER:  Yeah, I think we, as the labor movement —

Q    Liz Shuler, right?

MS. SHULER:  Liz Shuler.

We came together two days ago; we had our version of a family meeting,
and we had our conversations and came out completely unified in a vote —
actually, unanimous support — for reaffirming our endorsement for the
president.  So, that included Shawn Fain of the UAW.  It included all
the labor leaders speaking with one voice.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  And I’m going to say that you’re going to be in
Detroit today, and it’s gr- — but you’re going to see a group that’s
from all around Southeast Michigan.  My district actually has more
Democratic votes than any district in the state of Michigan, and a
number of my constituents are going, from all the stakeholder groups. 
You’re going to see environmentalists there.  You’re going to see the
union workers there.  You’re going to see seniors there.  So, I want to
make that clear. 

And among the people that you are going to see there are a couple of
members of the executive committee of the UAW that I’ll be happy to
point out to you when we get there.

Q    Pl- — please do. 

MS. SHULER:  And the president has done more for autoworkers.  He
actually joined them on the picket line — the first president in history
to walk a union picket line.  He has brought back more manufacturing
jobs.  He has actually juiced up the electric vehicle industry to make
those high-road, high-wage union jobs.   
  
So, the president walks the picket line; Donald Trump crosses picket
lines.  We have an actual photograph of him crossing a picket line. 

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  (Inaudible) picket line.

MS. SHULER:  Yeah.  So, we know the difference.  And I think UAW members
know the difference between these two candidates.  We’ve seen the
president, his investments.  He wakes up every morning thinking about
working people.  He — throughout the agencies, the regulatory proof, the
Cabinet members that he has appointed, health and safety policies around
investments in — in infrastructure — all affecting working people,
compared to — we’ve seen this movie before with Donald Trump, right?  We
know he wants to tear down working people. 

He has Project 2025 that would essentially gut public-sector unions,
eliminate them from existence.  So, we see the stark contrast.  We know
that dystopian future, and so do working people.

Q    I remember Shawn Fain — Fa- — being at the — the picket line, but
he’s not going to be there today.  Why not?

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Because he did — I know where he is.  He’s
speaking to Netroots in Baltimore.

MS. SHULER:  Shawn is in demand.  
  
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Yeah.  But I mean —

MS. SHULER:  He’s actually doing —

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Netroots, in —

MS. SHULER:  — I think, Netroots —   
  
REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Yeah.  
  
MS. SHULER:  — in Baltimore.  Yeah.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  But other — I mean, there are going to be UAW
leaders at this event today, and I personally talked to him.  So, don’t
—

MS. SHULER:  He can’t be everywhere.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Let’s just be clear.

Q    I’m just asking.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  I’m just answering.  (Laughter.)

Q    Yeah.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Hey, you guys, it’s me.  You know how I get
feisty.  (Laughter.)

Q    Can I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Rob.

  
Q    Can I ask about a —

Q    For — for the campaign.  We’ve heard from the president a couple of
times about the heavy workload he’s under, events starting too late.  I
wonder how you’re going to accommodate those concerns in the future. 

MR. TYLER:  Listen, nobody is going to work harder to beat Donald Trump
than the president of the United States, Joe Biden.  That’s what this
swing is about right now, as we kick it off in Detroit.  We’re going to
leave Detroit.  Next week, the president is going to Texas; we’re going
to Nevada.  He is going to not only continue to be out on the stump as
he is today, we’re going to get out in communities, as you saw him do in
Pennsylvania over the course of the last weekend. 

We’re going to continue to sit down for interviews, s- — as he did last
week, as we’re doing on Monday, as we — as we’re doing today, as well. 

We’re going to continue to make sure that the American people get to see
the fighter that they have in Joe Biden.  We are not going to relent. 
We’re not going to let up because there is too much at stake, and nobody
understands that more than Joe Biden.

Q    But the president himself said some events are starting too late. 
I mean, are you not going to take notice of that? 

MR. TYLER:  We are going to continue to make sure that we use every
single tool at o- — at our disposal to reach the voters.  That means the
president putting in the work as a candidate day in and day out, and it
means this campaign using every tool at — at its disposal to reach the
voters. 

That is why we have now over 11,000 staff across all the battleground
states.  We have over 300 offices open because we are communicating with
voters everywh- — in every community where they are.  It’s why we
continue to run ads: $50 million in paid advertising in the month of
July building off what we did in the month of June to make sure that we
are reaching the Biden-Harris coalition and all voters where and when
they are — they are consuming their media. 

This campaign is going to use every tool at its disposal between now
until November to communicate the fundamental choice in this election
between Joe Biden, who is fighting for the American people, and Donald
Trump, who is a convicted felon fighting for himself in an attempt to
enact his extreme and dangerous Project 2025 agenda.

Q    M.T., can I — can I ask just about a couple what sounded like tough
conversations with the president — between the president and lawmakers
this morning — or late last night and this morning?  
  
Leader Jefferies brought up again the path forward, according to his
readout, even after the president obviously has reiterated repeatedly
that he’s going to stay in the race.  It sounded like Congressman Levin,
in the CHC call today, explicitly to the president’s face called on him
to resign.

What was the president’s message back to — to both of these sort of
critical allies who seem to continue to urge him to — to be considering
his decision?

MR. TYLER:  Yeah, a couple of things.  So, I’m not going to read out
private conversations between the president and congressional leaders. 
I will say that I think Leader Jeffries and others have made clear they
continue to stand with the president and they will stand with the
president.

They understand that the president is running, is the Democratic
nominee, and that the choice in this election is going to be between Joe
Biden and Donald Trump. 

And so, as we move forward in the month of July and as we approach the
Republican convention, that is where our focus is going to be now moving
forward — between the fundamental choice in this election.   
  
Joe Biden is going to be the Democratic nominee.  Donald Trump is going
to be the Republican nominee. 

Joe Biden is running to restore Roe, to make sure billionaires pay their
fair share in taxes, to make sure that we have better eldercare and
childcare in a second term. 

Donald Trump is running to ban abortion nationwide; give tax cuts to the
wealthy, to corporations; to tear down the very fabric of our
democracy. 

That is what this campaign, what this president is going to continue to
focus on as we move forward. 

Does there continue to be anxiety?  Yes, we understand that.  The
president understands that.  That’s why he’s going to continue to engage
with folks on the Hill.  That’s why we’ve engaged with governors, with
mayors across the country, the vast majority of whom are firmly behind
Joe Biden and understand the stakes in this election, understand that
Joe Biden is the candidate who is prepared to take on Donald Trump and
beat him at the ballot box in November. 

Q    In terms of that engagement, can you kind of walk through the next
couple days?  I — I know that there’s reporting that he might meet with
progressive lawmakers, but — but who are the kind of li- — the lineup is
of folks that he is going to be —

MR. TYLER:  Yeah.  I don’t have anything —

Q    — (inaudible)?

MR. TYLER:  I don’t have anything further to read out on private
conversations. 

Q    Congresswoman, you said Michigan this year is very competitive. 
Obviously, even before the debate, there were challenges in Michigan,
including the Arab and Muslim vote there, you — people who have said
they’re not going to vote for the president because of Gaza. 

What do you think the president needs to do over the next few months? 
What do you see as his possible path in Michigan to winning the state?

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  I think there are a lot of issues.  We got to
turn out the voters.  It’s getting your base energized.  And I talked
about those issues. 

First of all, one of the issue — the issue that really matters to many,
many people is the right of a woman to choose.  That — that is one of
the issues. 

But you — pe- — the seniors care deeply about Medicare and cuts to
Social Security.  And Project — Trump’s Project 2025 spells out what
they’re going to do. 

We got to get in the union halls.  We know that; we talk about it. 
They’ve changed their whole union program.  They’re going to worksites. 
They’re — they’re doing that worker-to-worker program so people know
what he has done for the worker. 

And when they start hearing what they want to do to workers in their
Project 2025, they — they know how much he has done for the workers, how
he’s trying to create jobs for union workers, how salaries are going
up. 

And people are worried about the economy.  We got to talk about the
economy. 

But I want to thank the Republicans for making the first day of their
convention’s theme “Make America Wealthy Again.”  All that does is
reinforce Donald Trump wants to give his billionaire friends a cut and
doesn’t give a damn about working men and women in this country. 

And our job — my job as one of the Michigan leaders is to make sure we
are communicating with absolutely every voter in Michigan defining what
the choice is.  And I am meeting with many. 

I — look, I lived in Dearborn for 40 years.  That was my — I’m now in
Ann Arbor, but I got constituents there.  I would — I have been talking
to many of them.  They’re still — they’re hurt, but a lot of them are
now focused on what he wants to do and how he wants to deport them.  And
they know.

A very prominent leader said to me yesterday, “We are in high danger if
Donald Trump gets elected again.”

Q    And, Michael, I’m wondering if you can comment on the reports that
millions of dollars are being withheld from the president and
potentially being redirected to House and Senate races, because some
donors don’t want him on the ballot or are waiting to see if he’s going
to remain the Democratic nominee.

MR. TYLER:  Yeah, listen, I — I think I read out at the beginning of
this call — or this gaggle that we had nearly 40,000 donations during
the president’s press conference.  The June — or, excuse me, July has
been — the start of July has been the best start of any grassroots
fundraising month that we’ve had in this campaign. 

And we’re confident that as we move — move forward here and return the
concentration and the conversation to the fundamental choice in this
election, between Joe Biden and Donald Trump, that this campaign is
going to have the resources it needs to continue to build upon the
infrastructure that is already our competitive advantage in a very close
and competitive election, to do the work that we need to do to beat
Donald Trump in November.

Q    And do you feel like you could move forward without the big donors
if they did continue to withhold those donations?

MR. TYLER:  We are confident that donors — both grassroots, major
donors, and everybody within the Biden-Harris coalition — is going to
understand the fundamental stakes of this election as we move forward
and put in all the work that we know that we connect — collectively need
to do to defeat Donald Trump in November.

Q    You three had face time with the president today.  How is he
feeling about his performance last night, especially the two gaffes that
he made — calling President Zelenskyy “Putin” — and the fact that, for
many Americans, not just his detractors, those are what stick out?  How
are you guys going to campaign against that?

MR. TYLER:  Yeah, Joe Biden has been making gaffes for 40 years.  He
made a couple last night.  He will probably continue to do so. 

Our opponent is somebody who every single day out on the stump is
calling for a “bloodbath” if he loses.  He was pledging the rule as a
dictator on day one and is pledging to ban abortion nationwide across
the country. 

The voters of this country are smart.  The voters watched the in —
totality of that press conference.  They saw a president lead on the
global stage, talk about complex issues, the ways in which he’s uniting
the West around Putin’s aggression, the ways in which he is working on
securing a ceasefire framework in the Middle East, and they saw him
present a clear choice against the opponent in Donald Trump, who I just
laid out all the fundamental threats that he poses to the American
people.  We are confident that the American people are smart enough to
understand the fundamental choice in this election. 

And if — as we and the president continues to campaign relentlessly
across all the battleground states, the only answer to that choice is
going to be Joe Biden. 

Q    Congresswoman?

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Why don’t people look at Donald Trump’s rants?

MS. SHULER:  I know.

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  The things that he says in these rants are
absolutely crazy. 

And I — I mean, they’re — he never does a rant that he doesn’t go after
electric vehicles.  And he doesn’t know what he’s talking about when it
comes to EVs. 

I — we are competing in a global marketplace.  I need to know that we’re
going to have a president that’s going to make sure that my industry
stays competitive in a global marketplace. 

But he also says some of the most devastating, horrific, hateful,
divisive things every time he rants.  And I wish people would write
about that.  And he also makes a lot of mistakes.

MS. SHULER:  We want a president that’s going to talk about what working
people are experiencing every day, which we know workers are still
making ends meet and they’re worried about how they’re going to put food
on the table, versus someone like Trump who’s talking about water
pressure and how overweight Chris Christie is.  I mean, we want someone
who we can take seriously — right? — that is going to wake up every
morning thinking about working people. 

And so, I would say that as — as Michael said, yeah, there have been a —
there’s gaffes.  Right?  That’s happened throughout his whole career. 
But what we look at is what he’s delivered on, and that’s manufacturing
jobs and infrastructure and making sure that working people can make a
decent living and provide for their families. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to try to wrap this up. 

Go ahead, Zeke. 

Q    Over the last 15 days, the national political conversation — it was
like the number-one story outside of politics, too — has been the
president’s mental capacity and will he, won’t he stay in this race. 
How urgent do you feel the need to change the national conversation
heading into the Republican National Convention — that if the
conversation for the next 100 days is about the president’s mental
capacity; his fitness for office; will he, won’t he remain the
Democratic nominee that you don’t have the chance, and that you’re
trying to redirect the conversation to Trump now?

MR. TYLER:  Yeah.  Well, Joe Biden is, in fact, the Democratic nominee. 
He is running —

Q    Yeah.

MR. TYLER:  He is — he is the presumptive Democratic nominee.  He will
be the Democratic nominee.  And he’s going to be the one taking on
Donald Trump. 

So, that is what we are focused on right now as a campaign is focusing
our attention on the fundamental choice in this election.  That is what
the campaign is focused on today as we hit the ground in Detroit, and
it’s what we will be focused on as the president crisscrosses the
country next week, while Donald Trump is putting on a showcase for MAGA
extremism and Project 2025. 

We are confident that if we focus our attention on the fundamental
choice that we will be successful in November. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

MR. TYLER:  All right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks. 

MS. SHULER:  Thanks.

MR. TYLER:  Thanks, y’all.  I’ll see — I’ll see you on the ground.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, everybody. 

REPRESENTATIVE DINGELL:  Thanks, everybody.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

Q    Can you talk to us about the AT&T hack?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What — sorry.  (Laughs.)

Q    Whether the president has been briefed on that, who you think the
culprit is?  And, also, as you know, a lot of federal employees have
AT&T phones.  Were any of the administration officials’ phones
compromised? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be — I’m going to be really careful
here.  I need to go back to the team and get an assessment of — of what
you’re asking me. 

But, obviously, this is something that we’ve taken seriously for the
last two, three years, about making sure that we’re working with these
corporations and making sure that they — they take heed to our
recommendation on protecting — right? — protecting, you know, their
businesses.  And so, that’s something that we’ll continue to do.

As it relates to the president, I have to check in.  I’m sure the
president has been briefed, but I just — I don’t want to confirm that
right now.  But I have to check in on that — on that piece of it. 

Q    Do — do we have time for a quick Gaza question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  A quick what?

Q    A Ga- — a Gaza question. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sure. 

Q    The White House has said in the past that journalists have a
responsibility and a right to report from Gaza.  Does that extend to
international correspondents?  And do you support their campaign for
independent access?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the U.S. has always been very steadfast
and forceful and strong about making sure that we support the critical
work that journalists do around the world — not just here, obviously,
but around — around the world. 

And that includes those reporting the conflict in Gaza.  We understand
how important it is for journalists to do their job there. 

So, what I can say is that, of course, the importance of media freedom
is one of them.  Right?  We have issued statements expressing our alarm
and deepen — deep concern with reporters who — who have been killed in —
in this conflict, be- — because it is imperative that reporters be able
to gather information to inform the world safety.  And that is —
certainly be able to do that without personal risk.  And so, that is
something that we’re certainly committed to. 

Q    But is it acceptable that Israel is not allowing in independent
international correspondents? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m — we’re continuing — we’re always going
to have diplomatic conversations with Israel about issues, including
like this one.  I certainly don’t have anything else to — to read out
when it relates to that — that diplomat- — those diplomatic
conversations.

But we believe it is important for that — for journalists to be
protected, for journalists to be able to do their jobs not just here in
this country, but, obviously, around the world.  And we’ve been pretty
consistent with that.  And so, we’re going to continue to be very clear
about that. 

Q    But just to be clear —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — in those conversations, have you asked Israel to allow in
independent —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I am not — and what I’m trying to say is I’m not
going to — we talk about a range of issues.  I’m not going to share our
— our private diplomatic conversations. 

But I think we have led in the world when we talk about protection of
journalists, the important — that they have — you know, that they are
able to do their jobs freely, unimpacted, and make sure that there is no
personal risk to them as they’re doing that job. 

And so, we’re going to continue to be very clear about that — very, very
clear.  I’m just not going to get into diplomatic conversations.

Q    Karine, has the president had any conversation with former
President Obama since that debate?  And we saw that tweet from the
former president, Obama, but have they had any interactions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak to any interaction of late — of
recent, in, like, the last couple of days. 

What I can say — look, obviously, the — this president was the vice
president to the former president for eight years.  They have a
respectful, very close relationship.  And the president is, you know,
very proud to have that relationship. 

So, I can’t speak to a conversation of late, of recent.  And I know they
— they speak often, but I can’t speak of a current, a recent
conversation.

Q    Karine, the president tweeted today that there was an agreement —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This president?  (Laughter.)

Q    Yes.  An agreement — or a framework agreement in Israel. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    Was there ac- — is there any actual change?  Is that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — does the ball move forward any today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president laid out the framework — the
ceasefire framework last night in his topper right ahead of — before
taking questions from all of you, your colleagues, certainly. 

I don’t have anything new to share beyond what the president laid out in
detail. 

When I can say — think you’ve — you’ve heard us say this over —
throughout the week: Brett McGurk is in Cairo, so those conversations
are continuing to happen.  The president and his team has been working
24/7 to get this hostage deal, to get to a ceasefire.  And that’s what
we’re going to continue to do.

But I would certainly refer you to the president’s statement, as he laid
out himself what the framework was going to be.

Q    Quickly, does he ne- — does he intend to meet with Prime Minister
Netanyahu when he visits in later July?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I talked about this ear- — earlier this week.  So,
I — I — we believe that they will have some engagement.  I just don’t
have anything to announce at this time.

Q    And when he’s in Texas next week, will he visit Houston after the —
the fl- — the devastating storm damage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, the president has a — has moved forward
with the declaration after receiving that request from the lieutenant
governor a couple of days ago.  On this particular trip, nothing has
changed.  We’re going to go to Austin, so nothing has changed about this
particular trip.

Any- — anything beyond that, I don’t have anything to change.

Q    Why not?  Does this not meet the standard —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — the level?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I probably should have said that there’s a lot
going on on the ground.  We try to not take away from the — from — from
the assistance that’s needed on the ground and from, obviously, all of
the — all of the help that the people of Houston need.  And so, we try
to make sure — the president, as you all know, has a very big footprint,
so we just want to be mindful of that.

And still — we’re still very much in the early days, and so nothing has
changed on this trip.  And if anything — if a trip in the future comes
up, we certainly will share that with you.

But the President continues — and FEMA is on the ground, offering
assistance to the people of Houston and working with the city — and city
and local affect- — local electeds.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, thank you, guys.

 3:49 P.M. EDT
