---
date: '2024-07-25'
published_time: 2024-07-25 15:43:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/25/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-64/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:22 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have a couple things at the top.  So, I want to
start by addressing the horrific killing of Sonya Massey.

The president and vice president both released statements on their
heartbreak for Sonya Massey’s family and loved ones as they face this
unthinkable and senseless loss.

They’ve also been clear that all of us as Americans, regar- — regardless
of who we are or where we live, should be able to do so without fearing
for our lives.

Sonya’s death at the hands of a responding officer reminds us that all
too often Black Americans face fears for their safety in ways that many
Americans do not.  Sonya’s family deserves justice.

President Biden has been clear about his commitment to doing everything
he can to make our communities safer, including by advancing effective,
accountable policing.

That’s why the president has pushed Congress to pass the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act and signed an executive order to make federal
policing the gold standard of effectiveness and accountability.

While we wait for this case to be prosecuted, the president and the vice
president are continuing to urge Congress to get the George Floyd
Justice in Policing Act to his desk so he can sign it.

I also wanted to share the president and the vice president’s deep
sadness at the passing of Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee.

No matter the issue, from delivering racial justice to building an
economy for working people, she was unrelenting in her leadership —
leadership she demonstrated in her work to reauthorize the Violence
Against Women Act, make Juneteenth a federal holiday, and reintroducing
the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act.

As the president said in his statement on Saturday, she spoke truth to
power and represented the power of the people of her district in Houston
with dignity and grace.  Both the president and the vice president
shared the honor of working with her during their times in Congress.

We at the White House join the president and the vice president and
their families in sending our love and condolences to the
congresswoman’s family, her con- — her constituents, and beloved
colleagues of the Congressional Black Caucus.

Later this evening, after the president’s speech, First Lady Jill Biden
will travel to Paris, France, to lead the U.S. presidential delegation
to the Opening of the Paris 2024 Olympic Games.

The first lady and the delegation will attend the Opening Ceremony of
the Olympic Games and cheer on Team USA at various events.  The First
Lady previously led the U.S. delegation to the opening of the Tokyo 2020
Olympic Games, which were held in the summer of 2021 due to COVID-19.

And finally, as you all know and certainly are tracking, what we saw
from the president the last couple of days is what we have seen from him
over the last several decades: human decency, patriotism, a good man who
puts the American people ahead of himself.

As the president said in his letter this past Sunday, “It has been the
greatest honor of my life to serve as your president.  And while it has
been my intention to seek reelection, I believe it is in the best
interest of my party and the country for me to stand down and to focus
solely on fulfilling my duties as president for the remainder of my
term.”

As a member of his team and as an American, I am proud of this
president’s record.  He has accomplished more in nearly one term than
most presidents have in two terms. 

The president remains focused on fighting for the American people and
building on the historic progress his administration has made.   
  
He’s focused on growing the middle class instead of delivering big
giveaways to corporations and the ultra-wealthy; fighting to lower costs
for families instead of raising them by threatening to cut critical
programs like Social Security; fighting for a fairer tax system instead
of championing a $2 trillion tax bill that overwhelmingly benefitted the
ultra-wealthy; making health care more accessible and more affordable
instead of working to eliminate the Affordable Care Act; strengthening
and growing NATO, not eliminating it; and fighting for reproductive
freedom, not working to take it away.

You will hear directly from President Biden when he addresses the nation
tonight at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time.  
  
Tonight, the president will discuss his historic decision to put the
country above all else and about the inflection point we face as a
country in this moment.

This is one of those rare moments in history when the decisions we make
will — now will determine the future of our nation.  America must choose
between moving forward or backward, between hope and hate, between unity
and division.

He signed historic, monumental pieces of legislation into law and has
worked across party lines to get a lot of them done, from jump-starting
a historic economic recovery to the largest investment in clean energy
and climate action, gun safety, and more.

The president is proud to have delivered these historic results for the
American people, and he is going to use the remainder of his term to
build on this progress for the future with the enduring faith he has in
our nation. 

And so, therefore, I encourage all Americans to tune in tonight to hear
directly from the president.

Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The president believes that it’s best for the
country that he not be in the Oval Office for another four years.  How
can he assure the American people that he is up to be in the Oval Office
for the next six months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, first I would say is that — and I’ve heard these
suggestions out there.  This is not an answer to — to you.  This is an
answer to the suggestions that I’ve had — I’ve heard about him resigning
from office. 

We believe — and any suggestion of that note is ridiculous.  It is not
what we believe.  The president — I just laid out what the president has
been able to do in almost four years, and it’s been successful.  He’s
been able to do more, again, than any president has been able to do in
two terms.  He’s been able to do that more in one term.  And he wants to
finish the job that he started and delivering more historic results for
the American people.

And, look, he didn’t step down from — from campaigning or from running
because he didn’t believe he could serve in a second term.  That is not
why. 

And what I would say, as I just finished my opening — I would say, “Tune
in.”  Tune in to what he has to say tonight, and he will lay out that
out for th- — you all and the American people unto — as to why he made
that decision.

Q    So, you’re saying he believes that he’s capable of serving another
four years, but he just doesn’t believe that he can win another four
years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will let the president speak for himself.

Q    And, so, today, the president believes that he is capable — fully
capable of serving in the office that he currently has now and for the
next four and a half years if he — if he wanted to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If —  
  
Q    — if he wanted to do it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  And let me just quote from what he said
on Sunday in his letter.  He said, “it is in the best interest of my
party and the country for me to stand down and to focus solely on
fulfilling my duties as president for the remainder of my term.”

And what — the decision that he made on Sunday was about putting country
first, was about his party, and was about the American people.

Again, I would refer you to what he’s going to say tonight.  He will lay
that out, speak for himself, and you will hear directly from the Americ-
—  
  
Q    And just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — from the president.  The American people will —
certainly will as well.

Q    And just on a different topic.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Sure.  
  
Q    There’s large protests taking place in Washington, and the White
House is now ringed by anti-climb fencing.  The Capitol — there’s some
protests around Union Station.  Is the president monitoring these
protests?  Does he have a message to the people who are demonstrating
right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s basically what we have said for some time. 
We respect the right for all American to peacefully protest — peacefully
protest.  And, obviously, we will continue to strongly condemn any form
of violence as it relates, certainly, to protesting or destruction of
property.  We’ve been very, very clear.  But Americans have the right to
peacefully protest.

Anything that is related to what’s happening outside of this campus —
the fencing, as you just mentioned to me — that’s something for Secret
Service to speak to directly.

Q    Is he watching the protests, is what I’m asking?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the president is — is — you know, he is always
kept up to date on what’s going on.  I — you know, right now, he’s
certainly having meetings today with — with his senior advisers and
other senior staff.  I can’t speak if he’s right now watching the
protests.  Obviously, he is kept up — up to date into what’s happening. 

But what I can say right now: We respect everyone’s right to peacefully
protest.  We understand that this is a painful moment for many, many
communities.  But obviously we’re going to continue to condemn —
strongly condemn any form of violence or any destruction of property. 
That is something we’ve been consistent on.

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You read the president’s statement where he said
that it’s in the country’s interests for him to step aside.  Why is it
in the country’s best interests for him to step aside?  Does it have to
do with his health or his poll numbers?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It does not have to do — there — it has nothing to do
with his health.  Again, the president is going to speak to this
directly to the American people tonight in prime time.  I know many of
you all will be watching it.  There are specials going on tonight.

He will — I promise you: He will speak to this directly to all of you
tonight.  But, in his letter, he talked about the country, he talked
about the party, he talked about the moment that we’re in right now. 

It is not about his health.  I can say, no, that’s not the reason.  But
he- — hear him out tonight.

Q    And the president denied for weeks and you denied for —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — weeks that he was even thinking of stepping —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — aside.  What changed from all those days that he had that message
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to Sunday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, he’s going to address this as well this
evening.  Let him speak for himself.  
  
But here’s what I will say.  And I think we gave a little bit of a
tick-tock to all of you.  He met with a small group of — of advisers on
Saturday evening and — and with his family and was thinking through how
to move forward.  
  
Sunday afternoon, he made that decision.  It was a — in a very short
period of time, as you can imagine.  And then, at 1:45, he got on the
phone with some of his assistants to — assistant to the president, some
advisers.  He let them know.  And then, minutes later, a letter went
out.  
  
So, it was a — in a very short period of time that the president was
able to think about this and make a decision.  But I would say, again,
the president is going to address the American people.  You will hear
directly from him tonight.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Can you talk a little more about how he’s feeling after
making such an extraordinary decision, like you said, making it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — quickly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Did he feel bullied to leave the race?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to let the president speak for himself.  
  
Look, these are n- — this — I mean, this obviously is a historic moment,
but a decision like this is very personal.  It’s not easy to make.  And
I think there are very rare — rare politicians who could look at the
situation and make a decision.  Right?  
  
And I think it speaks to how honorable this president is, how selfless
this president is that he was able to make this decision and say, “It is
not about me.  It is about the American people.  This is about the
country.”  And make a — again, a personal, difficult decision.  
  
And so, I think that speaks for itself.  I really do.  I think that
speaks for itself.  
  
And in the letter, as you all know, he said that he wanted to address
the American people, was going to give remarks about his decision, and
now we’ve come to that day where he’s going to speak directly to the
American people later tonight.  And he’s going to lay out what it is
that he wants to say, what he — he believes the American people want to
hear directly from him.  
  
Q    So, just switching gears a little bit to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    — Netanyahu’s remarks on Capitol Hill.  We’ve heard Republicans
voicing serious criticism against the vice president for not being
there.  Her team insisting that it was a scheduling conflict.  But how
do you respond to that?  What does it say about her priorities, the
administration’s priorities that she was not there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say that the vice president has
— has been unwavering in her commitment to security of Israel.  As you
know, she’s been a partner with this president for the past four years —
not just domes- — domestic issues but obviously also foreign policy
issues.  She’s going to meet with the prime minister, Bibi Netanyahu,
when he’s here.   
  
And so, again, has been a critical partner in ensuring that Israel can
defend itself and to secure a hostage deal.  As you know, the president
— we’ve been talking about that for some time, making sure that we have
this hostage deal.  She’s been a partner in that. 

And that’s what I can certainly say — you know, that she continues to be
supportive to Israel, making sure that Israel’s security is — is
ironclad, as we have been, as the partner — as the president has been. 
And she’s going to meet with the prime minister.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Given the historic nature of Kamala Harris being the top of the
ticket, is — does the president have any regrets about the way that he
handed this enormous responsibility off in such a, you know, unusual,
shortened, kind of truncated fashion, not having her have a normal
ascendency to that top position?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the president has no regrets — has no
regrets.  
  
Let’s not forget, the vice president obviously has been vice president
for <s>more than</s> \[almost\] four years.  I do not see anyone who is
more qualified to step in in this moment.  Right?   
  
She was a senator.  She was an attorney general.  She’s been a partner
to this president — a critical partner, as I’ve said.  I’ve listed out
what we’ve been able to accomplish in the last three and a half, almost
four years — an unprecedented record.  She was a partner in that to the
president.   
  
And so, look, this is, again, a decision that this president made.  And
— and I think he is proud to have made that decision.  I know so.  You
saw it in — in what he has been able to say since Sunday.  He’s going to
be on camera later today, obviously, to address the American people from
the Oval Office because of this moment and how big this moment is.  He
wants to do that.  He wants to make sure that Americans hear directly
from him, again, after putting out — out the letter on Sunday.  
  
Q    And if you could distill just into a few kind of bite-sized pieces,
what specific policies, actions does the president want to get done in
these last few months?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he certainly wants to build on what we’ve been
able to do.  You heard me say this has been a — certainly what he’s been
able to accomplish in the four — four years in this first term is more
than we have seen in presidents who have done eight — many presidents
who have done eight.  And he is going to be known as a consequential
president of his time. 

And so, he’s going to continue to build on those successes.  I mean,
let’s not forget, if it wasn’t for the American Rescue Plan, we wouldn’t
be able to get out of the pandemic, we wouldn’t be able to open up
schools, we wouldn’t be able to open up bus- — businesses wouldn’t be
able to open up again.   
  
Thi- — Inflation Reduction Act, which was also a incredibly important
piece of legislation if you think about climate change and dealing with
that, if you think about — if you think about being able to b- — beat
Big Pharma.  
  
You think about the infrastructure legislation, which was done in a
bipartisan way.  This president was able to get that done.  
  
CHIPS and Science Act — again, a bipartisan way this president was able
to reach across the aisle and get that done.  
  
You think about NATO, making that stronger and bigger.  
  
I mean, there are many ways.  I’m just naming a few things that the
president has been able to do.  
  
Look, they — both of them — the president and vice president — are proud
to have delivered these re- — historic results, and we’re going to
continue to figure out ways on how to build on — on this progress.  
  
So, that’s going to be his focus.  We will have a lot more to share. 
I’m not going to call out, name out policies at this time.  But you
certainly will hear from this president.  He’s going to run through the
finish line.  
  
Q    No concerns about being a lame duck?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t see ourselves as a lame duck president at all
— at all in a — in this — in this period of time.  This is a president
that has been incredibly successful, and he’s going to do everything
that he can to continue to fight for the American people.  
  
I would say, “Stay tuned.  Watch.”  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have two questions.  One on the vice
president and then one on the president’s decision.  
  
First, it’s clear that President Biden and Vice President Harris have
met regularly, including their standing lunches, from the outset of the
administration.  But I’m — I’m wondering now, since he made his
decision, if there are any plans to increase the cadence of this
interactions or if he plans to include her in more of his policy-making
processes.  How will that relationship and that involvement change?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is the president and the vice
president speak regularly.  They see each other regularly.  You named
some ways of how they’ve been able to do that, to stay in touch and see
each other in person.  
  
Look, the president is committed to being president and leading this
country forward in the way that he believes that Americans want to see
this country moving forward.  And the vice president is going to be —
continue to be a critical partner.  Nothing is going to change in
that.  
  
But they’re going to continue to engage, interact, and have important
conversations as it relates to policies and moving forward.  That’s not
going to stop.  
  
And — and just — I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    And on the timing of his decision.  It’s now been widely reported
that when Senator Chuck Schumer went to visit with the president in
Rehoboth a week ago Saturday that President Biden said, “I need another
week.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    What did he need another week for?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here — I’ll say this.  They had a very good
conversation — the president and — and Senator Schumer.  And I’m not
going to go into their private conversation.  I’m not going to go into
particulars.  But it was a good conversation.  
  
Q    But you said it was a very short timeframe in which the president
was —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To — in making that —  
  
Q    — was advised —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — decision.  Right?  
  
Q    — and made his decision.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  When he started thinking about it and making that
decision.  He st- — it started Saturday evening.  And on Sunday
afternoon, he made his decision.  
  
Q    But it sounds like he was presented with data a week prior.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just not going to get into specifics.  It
started Saturday evening.  The next afternoon, which was Sunday
afternoon, he made that decision.  A small group of advisers, including
family, was with him on Sun- — on Saturday night.  And then, Sunday
afternoon, he made the decision.  
  
That’s — that’s how it — it happened.  That’s how it — it — he — he came
to — to announcing it.  
  
Q    And on the messaging to us, to the press corps.  It’s been nine
days since there has been a briefing.  The president obviously published
his letter officially —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — on Sunday withdrawing from the race.  Why go on television to
make your first comments about that decision —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — rather than make — make those from the briefing room?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate that.  We’ve always had a protocol
here: When the president is not here, we don’t do a briefing.  That’s
just a — the way that we’ve always ha- — it’s always happened.  
  
The interview that I did yesterday was on the books for about two, three
weeks.  It was way before — way before the president made his decision. 
That’s it.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Did the president exit the race because he didn’t think he could
defeat Donald Trump in November?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into — into specific details of
his thoughts.  I would say tune in to- — tonight when he speaks directly
to the American people.  You’ll hear what he though- — thinks about
this, his decision.  He said in his letter that would — he wanted to
address the American people about this decision that he made on Sunday. 
I would tune in to that, and you’ll hear directly from him.

Q    And also, similar to some of the questions my colleagues have asked
for weeks: People from this podium —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and other top spokespeople for the president were adamant that
there was no way he was dropping out.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Just in terms of credibility moving forward, I’m curious if you
guys could just address that question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I kind of addressed it a couple times of the
president’s decision-making.  When we all t- — when — when folks from my
team, from folks from this White House said that he wasn’t going to drop
out or he was not planning to drop out, that’s where we were.  That’s
where we were in that time.  That’s — that is the guidance that we had.

I mean, it’s not —

Q    So, there were questions about you guys not receiving the proper
guidance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — Tyler, on Sa- — on Saturday night, he met with
a small group of advisers and his family, and that’s when the decision
started.  Sunday, he made the final — Sunday afternoon, he made the
final decision.  That’s where we were. 

And we’ve talked about this: This was a dynamic situation.  It was. 
This is a historic moment.  You have to — that — that is true.  And it
was for this — the president to come to that decision — to come to that
decision.

When we told you all that the president — you heard from the president:
He’s not going to drop out.  And he actually addressed it himself, not
just us.  There were multiple events, multiple opportunities where the
president said he’s in it.  So, you heard directly from him multiple
times after the debate.

You know, the president, again, met with his — a small group of advisers
on Saturday.  Sunday, he made his final decision.  That’s how it
worked.  That’s how it happened.

Q    And do you think tonight we’ll get a better sense from him about
what went into that decision-making process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I would tune in to tonight.  I would let the
president speak for himself in this moment.

Go ahead.

Q    Given the level of support the vice president has received from
lawmakers, other Democrats, donors, the party in general, has the
president expressed any sentiment that maybe he should have made his
decision sooner and — and given her a longer timeline?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is this was a difficult decision to
make, a personal decision to make.  And the personal — the president
made it.  And I will leave it at that.

Q    Has he given any advice at this point to the vice president in her
process of picking a running mate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They speak regularly.  They speak often.  Obviously,
they have spoken a couple of times.  And I’m not going to get into their
private discussions.

Go ahead.

Q    Is the vice president or her staff going to be more closely
involved in the day-to-day operations of the administration, given that
she’s now the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — kind of got this question moments ago.  Nothing more
to add where — the vice president has been a critical partner.  She’s
been import- — played important role to a lot of decisions that have
been made in the past three and half years.  That’s not going to
change.  And the president has always obviously appreciated her — her
policy savvy, her — her ideas, her thoughts.  And that’s going to
continue.

Q    Will she get more of a say now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the president is still president.  You know,
he’s still very much commander in chief.  He’s still very much the
president of the United States.  And he’s still very much going to lead
this country in the way and the direction that he believes is right — is
the right way to do it.

So, that doesn’t change.  That’s not going to change.

Q    And just to make sure I understood your answer earlier.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    They have spoken about the VP selection specifically or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, the VP selection — that is something — obviously,
I can’t speak to the campaign’s — the campaign side could speak to.

What I can say is I — I heard the question as giving advice to the vice
president in — in any way.  Right?  They’ve spoken many times.  I’m just
not going to get into private conversation.

The VP pick, specifically, anything related to that, obviously, the
campaign can speak to that more if you want more details.

Q    But — but current Vice President Harris won’t have extra staff in
meetings that wouldn’t normally be there for some sort of overlap
transition they would make?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would say that nothing — nothing is going to
change.  The president is the president of the United States.  He’s
going to continue to lead — you know, lead this administration the way
that he sees fit.

They are partners.  They are partners.  They have been.  She’s been,
again, a critical partner in some of the big-piece items that we have
been able to get done on behalf of — of this country.  Obviously, she’s
alw- — she’s going to play a role, as she has done in the past.

Q    Did he watch the prime minister’s speech?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — that just ended not too — too — too long after I
came out here.  I have not talked to the president about this, if he was
able to catch some of the prime minister’s speech.  Obviously, they’re
going to — as you know, they’re going to be meeting here at the White
House.  Prime Minister Bibi Netanyahu and the president is going to be
meeting here tomorrow.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  This was a White House that was operating,
obviously, with an eye towards the next six months but also thinking it
might have four more years to serve as well.  Can — I know it’s early,
but can you talk through whether there has been any sort of new
direction about how this White House will operate given that you — you
only have this short amount of time left?

Obviously, the president was also balancing a reelection campaign at the
same time.  Does this free him up?  Are there considerations being given
to what else he might be able to do that he might not have been?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have any policy announcements to make at
this time.  The president is going to continue to do what he has set out
to do for the, you know, next several months, even while he was indeed
running for reelection, which is pretty consistent: building on the
accomplish\[ments\] that he’s been able to get done.  That’s going to be
really important.  He’s going to look at this remainder — remaind- —
remainder of his term, and there’s going to be important issues that he
wants to get done.

Don’t have anything right now to — to lay out.  But we want to continue
to build on those accomplishments.  We’ve gotten a lot of things done. 
Whether it’s health care, whether it’s the economy, whether it’s
manufacturing — right? — we want to continue to build on that.

And so, the president is determined.  He is determined to get that done.

Q    One of the first major initiatives that the president asked the
vice president to lead was to oversee the diplomatic work with Central
American countries as it relates to flows of migration.  The House Rules
Committee yesterday approved a resolution that will go to evoke a full
House strongly condemning the Biden administration and its border czar,
the vice president, for failure to secure the border. 

Do you have a response to that?  And how — how would the president
characterize the vice president’s accomplishments in terms of what we’re
seeing in that portfolio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, as we speak, you have congressional
Republicans — they continue doing their — continue with their month-long
blockade of critical resources that we need for the border, whether it’s
ICE, Border Patrol.  And this is what they’ve been doing.  This is what
they’ve been doing.

Let’s not forget:  The bipartisan — a really tough, important bipartisan
piece of legislation — or a deal that came out of the Senate that we
were able to get done, and they got in their own way.  They got in their
own way because they listened to the former president, because they
thought it would help Joe Biden.

So, they continue to block critical resources.  That’s what they have
done for the past three and a half years.  The president is looking for
ways to fund — to fund security funding to get to the border, right? 
And he’s done that in a record way.

And so, we’re going to continue to fight to make sure that the Border
Patrol agents get what they need and get more personnel — thousands of
new personnel at the border.  That’s what we’re going to do.

The president announced new decisive executive orders to secure the
border.  Unlawful crossings have dropped by more than 50 percent.  And
that’s the president acting without Congress — by 50 percent.  They are
now lower at this point than they were in 2019 and lower than when the
former president left office.

And the president is doing that one his own — on his own.  They get in
the way; he finds other ways to — to make things happen.  That’s been
the story of this administration.

Q    One more question.  Obviously, the Secret Service director resigned
yesterday.  I’m also curious if there is any consideration to increasing
the security around the vice president now and whether the resources of
the Secret Service are affected by that — that decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, that’s something for the Secret Service to speak
to.  That’s something for the vice president’s campaign to speak to.  I
— I don’t have anything to add on that as — as it relates to protection.

Go ahead.

Q    How are you doing with all of this, Karine?  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You care about how I feel?

Q    Are you going to stick around for a potential President Harris
administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.  Let me just get through the day. 
Can I just get through today?

Q    I do have some other questions, Karine.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I think that’s good.  I think we’re good.  I think
we’re good.  (Laughter.)

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How are you doing?  (Laughter.)  Are you good?

Q    I’m doing okay.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I haven’t seen you in a while.

Q    Well, you guys haven’t had a press briefing since President Biden
has dropped out of the race, so — (laughter).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president hasn’t been here.  He just got here
yesterday.  And now I’m here taking your questions.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And I’ve taken about three or four at this
point from you alone.  (Laughter.)

Q    Well, it — it would seem that people in this White House knew that
President Biden was slipping, and it was hidden from the American
people.  So, who ordered White House officials to cover up a declining
president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know that that is a narrative that you love and — to
—

Q    Well, when he was — in 10 days —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, wait.  Hold on.

Q    He did a press conference at NATO. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.

Q    “I’m in it.  There’s all these things that I need to finish.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.

Q    And then, 10 days later, “I’m dropping out.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, w- — okay, you’re asking me, like, two —
multiple questions here.  Let me — wait, wait. 

First of all, there’s been no cover-up.  I want to be very clear about
that.  I know that’s the narrative that you all want —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  No, no, no.  You can’t in- —

Q    I — well —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    I’ve been with — I’ve been with President Biden for five years.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you going to let me answer the question?

Q    Would you at least admit that the debate was not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — just a bad night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — wait.  Can you — can I answer the question?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Are you sure?

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  To your first question: It is not a cover-up. 
I know that is the narrative that you all want.  It is not.

I’m going to say this again, and you’re — you’re going to hear directly
from the president.  I hope you listen tonight.  I think it’s going to
be incredibly powerful and important.  The Oval Office — presidents, as
you know, when they make speeches from the Oval Office, it’s because
they’re important moments that they want to directly make sure that the
American people hear from them.  And it’s obviously going to be done in
prime time.  I would listen to the president.

And then, what I will say is that it is not easy making a decision that
the president made on Sunday.  It is just not.  It is not.  And as all
you have — you all reported, it is historic.  It is unusual.  This is
not the norm.

And making a decision like that for someone who has been in public
service for 54 years — U.S. senator for 36, president to — vice
president to President Obama for 8, and now a first term as president
himself — these are not easy decisions to make.  They’re just not.

And so, the fact that he was able to make that decision in a selfless
way, that’s admirable.

Q    One of the decisions he made, President Biden wants Vice President
Harris to be the standard-bearer of the party now.  Does she still want
to get rid of ICE?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You have seen what this administration has been able
to do in the past three and a half years, and they did that with the
vice president as a partner in that. 

And Republicans got in the way.  The president went around Republicans
and was able to get thousands of personnels at the border.  And now we
are seeing a 50 percent drop at the border.  And that’s because of what
this president has done.

Q    As a partner, though, she’s been in charge of root causes of
migration for years.  She has never spoken to the Border Patrol chief,
Jason Owens, or the Border Patr- — Patrol chief before him, Raul Ortiz. 
What should that tell us about her leadership style?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  She was supposed to be doing root causes, dealing with
diplomacy.

Q    And that does not involve the Border —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Diplomacy — that’s what her job was supposed to
be.  Diplo- — diplomatic — that’s the job.

And it — I — I understand that you’re asking these questions, but we
should also look at congressional Republicans who got in the way —
literally got in the way of everything that this president was trying to
do to deal with the border.  They got in the way.  They would say one
thing, and then they would change their mind.

They would say, “We want Border Patrol — we want — you know, we want a
deal on — on what’s happening at the border,” and then they would walk
away from it.  And they did it because of what the former president
said.

You guys reported that.  I didn’t — that’s not coming from me.  Some of
your colleagues reported that the former president said, “Let’s not move
forward with this proposal because it’s going to help Joe Biden.”

I mean, that’s also the reality.  You got to talk about both sides here.

Go ahead.  I — I —

Q    Great. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is —

Q    Can you move to the back of the room?

Q    I get — I get — I get that you’re not going to give us —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You got to — I got —

Q    I get that you might hes- —

Q    You control the briefing, not Peter.

Q    Okay.

Q    Come on.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  No, go ahead, Peter.

Q    Fine, one more.

Q    It’s unbelievable.

Q    I get that you don’t probably want to give us —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s good to see you too, James.

Q    (Inaudible.)

Q    — a specific name, but were there any names that came forward that
surprised you of Democratic officials in the last week who stabbed
President Biden in the back? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to say. 

Go ahead, April.

Q    Karine, really fast.  Two questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    One on Sonya Massey.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    This is something that’s continued to happen.  The president,
before he even became president, was really pushing after the George
Floyd death — police-involved death.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    What is the lesson learned, I guess, if you will?  He couldn’t get
it through Congress, but he did come up with federal executive orders
and efforts.  What is the lesson learned from this moment — that
continues to happen — that, I guess, Kamala Harris might have to start
dealing with as well if she becomes president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, when you say “lesson learned,” meaning —

Q    How could you have done something differently or what could you
have done to maybe change the dynamic?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I think we got to step back a coup- — for a
second here.  The president has been able to reach across the aisle and
get a lot of things done.  He has.  Gun — gun legislation — the first
bipartisan gun legislation that we saw in decades — that was important.

And there is issues that — you know, infrastructure legislation — was
able to get that done.  He reached over, across the line and got
bipartisan support. 

So, we have seen this president and this vice president be very
successful in doing that.  There are some — been some issues that have
been a little harder — to your point, police reform.  And what the
president did when — was when that wasn’t to get done in a bipartisan
way in Congress, he took an executive or- — order to deal with it on the
federal — federal law enforcement level.  And that was a step that he
was able to take.

And he’s going to continue — it doesn’t stop.  You heard me mention the
George Floyd Justice in Policing Act probably twice or three times at
the top because it’s important to — to use — to use our platform, to use
this podium to continue to call for what we believe is right.

There’s always going to be lessons in how people govern and decisions
that we made here, but there has also been a lot of success.  And when
action wasn’t happening in Congress, the president took action — the
president took action.

Q    So, as you said, you mentioned this at the top —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — emphasizing this heinous death and how it happened, but is this
something that the president hopes — I mean, it was one of his passion
projects.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, in 2020, for sure.

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.

Q    Do you — does the president hope that if Kamala Harris becomes
president of the United States that she could champion this and that she
could get what he couldn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.

Q    — get done?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  For sure.  Absolutely.  This is an
important issue for this president.  He’s going to do everything that he
can, you know, with the — and with the rest of his term to get this
done.  He’s still going to work on this.  It doesn’t stop.

Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A few days before the president announced his
withdrawal from the race, he said that he was going to be rolling out
proposals for Supreme Court reform.  Is he still committed to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the president believes that when you hold a high
office, you should be held by certain ethics and transparency.  That’s
something that the president believes.  And so, he certainly will
continue to do everything that he can.

I don’t have any policy announcements to make at this moment, today, in
front of you.  But once we will, we certainly will share that.

Q    And just secondly, has the president spoken with former President
Obama since making the decision —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No calls to read out.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I have a foreign policy-related question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    President Biden will be one of the few sitting presidents since the
reestablishment of U.S.-China relations not to visit China during his
tenure.  Could you please explain the reasoning behind this decision? 
Isn’t this a missed opportunity?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you heard from the national security adviser
himself many times, and we’ve talked about our relationship with China. 
It’s been very deliberate in its — in our strategy, in our approach to
our relationship with China.  Very deliberate.

And, as you’ve heard us say many, many times — again, I mentioned the
national security adviser, Jake Sullivan — we are pursuing competition
without conflict.  That has been our goal from day one of this
administration.

You know, the met — the president, as you know, met in a bilateral
fashion with the President Xi just last November, as you know, in
California with that goal in mind. 

Again, we want competition without conflict.  So, we have also had a
number of Cabinet secretaries — we’ve — we’ve — we’ve spoken to that,
whether it is Secretary — is it Secretary Blinken or the Treasury
secretary, they’ve had travels to China over the past several years. 
And — and many more.

And so, look, we’re going to continue to have these high-level officials
travel there, to China, to continue to have those conversations.  But we
have been incredibly deliberate with our strategy. 

Again, competition without conflict — that’s how we’re moving forward.

Q    There are still a few months left.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Will there still be opportunity?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that last part.  Will there still be —

Q    Be a chance he may go abroad?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — I don’t have anything to share about foreign
travel.  But we have been very deliberate with our strategy, we believe
it’s worked, and we’re going to continue to move forward in that
fashion.

Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The president said that he wants to push for a
Gaza ceasefire in his last six months in office.  But Prime Minister
Netanyahu just gave a pretty uncompromising speech to Congress just a
day before he comes here to the White House.  Does the president really
believe that Netanyahu sounds like a man who’s likely to go for a peace
deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things.  I do want to
give our reaction to — to the prime minister’s speech.  So, we
appreciate Prime Minister Netanyahu for thanking President Biden for his
unwavering support for Israel in his efforts to secure the release of
the hostages. 

President Biden looks forward to meeting the prime minister here
tomorrow to discuss developments in Gaza, including negotiations on a
ceasefire deal and the humanitarian situation on the ground. 

And my colleagues, in — in the 4 o’clock hour, is going to — at NSC is
going to hold a — a press call where they’re going to address additional
questions regarding the prime minister’s address and also his visit. 
So, I would certainly tune in.  You’ll hear more from — from them
directly.

Look, they’re going to meet tomorrow.  The president has always been
clear on how — on how he see the future: a two-state solution.  He’s
always supported that.  That’s something that he’s going to continue to
speak to.

They’re going to have a conversation tomorrow.  The president looks
forward to that.  The vice president is also going to have a meeting
with the prime minister tomorrow.

And so, I’ll leave it there.  But the — my — the National Security
Council is going to be doing a — a press call, so I would certainly
refer you to any — any further questions that you may have on the visit.

Q    But you’ve got no sense of whether he does have any confidence this
— this is really an achievable goal in his last six months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I believe that the president is optimistic.  This is a
president that believes that anything could happen if you stay focused,
if you work hard towards it.  So, he’s going to be optimistic.  The work
continues.  And that’s not going to stop him, for sure.

Go ahead, Jared.

Q    Given that you’ve had a lot of questions about the president’s
agenda here over the next six months, I’m curious: Does the president
believe that some of what he’d like to get through Congress between now
and the end of the year is made easier if he’s not a candidate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t quite understand the question, because he’s
not on the — on the —

Q    Does he think that — that it will be easier or harder or the same
to — to kind of get some of these things —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I —

Q    — that he’s been struggling —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — to get through Congress —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would —

Q    — until now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — well, first of all, this has been — the fact that
the president has gotten this much done — right? — the — the historic
pieces of legislation —

Q    Well, I’m not talking about what he said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.

Q    — he wanted to do.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on.  Let me — you guys got to give me a
second to answer — to at least —

Q    My apologies.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to actually warm up into the — into the answer. 

So, look, the president has gotten a lot done — historic amount of
legislation passed — historic pieces of legislation passed.  And that’s
— and that’s — that wasn’t done with an easy political climate.  Right? 
It’s not.  I mean, I think you could agree with me there. 

And so, look, we’re going to have more to share on what the next several
months — the final several months of his term is going to look like.  We
will share that.  The president wants to build — continue to build on
those historic initiatives that he was able to get done. 

This has not been an easy political climate.  And some of that work, he
was — did it in a bipartisan way. 

And when he wasn’t able to get it done in a bipartisan way, he found
policy, ways to do that with an executive action.  And we’ve been able
to be successful, whether it’s the border — right? — whether it’s trying
to get things done on student l- — on the student loan side. 

There’s been ways that the president has been very — still very, very
focused on making sure we’re delivering on the initiatives, on the goals
that we set out to do in the beginning of this administration. 

That doesn’t stop.  That doesn’t stop.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have two questions: domestic and foreign
policy.  On domestic, was there any reason why the president did not
endorse the vice president in the first tweet?  It took, like, a while —
maybe 15, 20 minutes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, look, “the first” meaning —

Q    When he — the first tweet was he’s withdrawing from the race, but
he did not say clearly that he is endorsing her.

Q    From the letter to the (inaudible) —

Q    To the tweet.

Q    Yeah.

Q    There was a half hour —

Q    It was about 20 minutes.

Q    It was 30 minutes.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because there was a 30 minutes — 

Q    Thirty minutes, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re questioning a 30-minute window?

Q    I’m just asking because he’s — no, I’m not questioning.  I’m just
asking if there was a reason.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean, that — look, he put out a letter to the
American people about a decision that he had made.  That deserved a
standalone letter, I believe, right?  A decision — an important,
historic decision.  He wanted to do that and speak directly to the
American people.  That’s why he did the letter. 

And then, obviously, 30 minutes later, you — you got the endorsement. 
That’s not a — that’s not a significant amount —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s not a significant amount of time.  I think if
you look at the letter, you see that he was truly trying to lay down the
decision — a very weighty decision — and he wanted to say that directly
to the American people.

Q    Fair enough.  You explained it now.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I appre- — tha- — thank you for — for approving that
answer.  (Laughter.)

Q    My second question, on foreign policy.  Just a follow-up on Danny’s
question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    What message does the administration send to the world when we see
the White House is barricaded — barricaded in anticipation of Prime
Minister Netanyahu’s visit here, considering that the ICC found a
reasonable ground to indict him as a war criminal and 70 percent of
Israelis want him to step down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can’t speak to Israelis.  That’s — that’s
— you know, I’m not going to speak to domestic politics.  I think we’ve
been very clear on our feelings about ICC and their recommendation,
something that we do not agree on.  We’ve been very clear about that. 

Look, when it comes to what we’re seeing outside — as you said, the
barricades and such — that’s something for Secret Service to speak to. 
They can speak to why they feel that it’s needed.  That is not for me to
speak to. 

But it doesn’t change the fact that we believe in the right for all
Americans to peacefully protest.  That is something that we’ve always
been very clear about.  It is the right of all Americans to peacefully
protest.  And we understand that this is an incredibly painful moment
for many communities.  And we respect that. 

And also, in that same vein, we’re going to strongly condemn any type of
violence or destruction of property.  That is something that we’ve been
very clear about as well.  But peacefully protest — that’s something
that we support. 

I can’t speak to — there’s reasons why the Secret Service is deciding to
do that.  That is for them — for them to speak to directly.

Okay.  Go ahead, Raquel.

Q    Hi.  Thank you, Karine, very much.

Karine, you were saying how difficult it was, this decision for
President Biden.  What is his mood since he took this decision?  And
what will be the tone of the address tonight?

Also, why did he decide to do it from the Oval Office?  I wonder if he’s
going to do —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — (inaudible) campaigning from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a coup- — a couple of things.  Look, I — I saw the
president not too long ago — a couple hours ago.  He’s determined.  He’s
in good spirits. 

He wants to speak directly to the American people tonight.  That is his
focus. 

He is doing it from the Oval Office because, as many of you all reported
— and we agree with all of you — this is an important moment.  This is a
historic moment.  And this decision was a big decision, was an important
decision.  And Oval Offices are used for moments that — I would say
moments like these that are historic. 

So, he wants to do it from the Oval.  He’s going to do it in prime
time.  He’s going to speak directly to the American people.  I would
say, again, tune in.  You’ll hear from — what he has to say.  And I
think — I think it’s going to be important.  I think it’s going to be
important.

Q    Can we expect that he’s going to ask people to vote for Harris from
the Oval or doing any kind of campaigning from there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — it’s going to be a speech.  I believe, we
believe that it is going to be important for the American people to hear
directly from this president in this moment — in this historic moment. 

And I’m not going to get into details, get into specifics.  I’ve said
this many times from here: I’m not going to get ahead of the president. 

This is an oppor- — his opportunity — his opportunity for — to explain
that decision and for the American people to — to listen in.  And so —

AIDE:  Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I’ve got to go.  Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks so much, Karine.  Can you give us any more color about the
preparation for the speech?  Who has been helping the president write
it?  If he’s been sounding — you know, using anybody as a sounding board
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to go into details.  Obviously,
this is the president — this is a speech that the president is very
deeply involved in.  You don’t use the Oval Office often.  Yo- — you use
it for incredibly important moments.  And that’s what you’re going to
hear tonight.  I’m just not going to get into specifics as to how the
president is preparing. 

I will say this: Obviously, his senior advisers are always heavily
involved.  And this is a president that’s taking this very seriously,
very focused, like he does with any other speech. 

And so, tune in.  Tune in.

Q    And can you say whether or not you’d be willing to have the
president’s doctor come to the podium, particularly given that he is —
the president does intend to serve out his term and there have been a
number of questions about, you know, his fitness for office? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean —

Q    Some of those questions could be settled if, perhaps, there was a —
you know, the doctor — if his doctor would come to the podium or if more
medical records could be released. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ve heard from the president’s doctor, I believe,
every day that he had COVID.  He gave his assessment of what was — what
was going on, what was happening.  There was a memo that was sent out to
all of — to all of you.  Obviously, the memo was given to me and we
shared it publicly. 

I don’t have anything else.  We — and you’ve heard me say this many
times: There was an extensive medical evaluation that was done —
physical that was done in February.  You all have that.  I just don’t
have anything else to share from here. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll be back tomorrow.

4:12 P.M. EDT
