---
date: '2024-07-08'
modified_time: 2024-07-09 15:30:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-08 15:07:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/07/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-john-kirby-july-8-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:19 P.M. EDT

Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Hello.  Happy Monday.

It’s going to be a great week.  I have — I have very long things — l- —
long toppers at the top.  Just warning you all.  No falling asleep,
please.

Okay.  So, we’ve gotten more strong economic news in recent days. 

On Friday, our economy created more than 200,000 jobs last month.  Under
President Biden’s leadership, we have now created a total of 15.7
million jobs over the last three and a half years. 

Yesterday, a record 3 million travelers were screened at airports — a
sign that our economy is strong and Americans are back on the road for
the summer in record numbers. 

Speaking of which, last week, we sold 1 million barrels of gasoline to
help lower gas prices ahead of the Fourth of July, which saw the lowest
gas prices in three years. 

And today, a new report from the Economic Innovation Group highlighted
what the New York Times called a — quote, “a remarkable comeback” under
President Biden.   
  
That report found that communities that have been <s>lifted</s> \[left\]
behind struggled under the last — last administration — what the Times
called “a particularly grim stretch under Donald Trump.”  But those
communities are coming back under President Biden, with jobs growing
more than four times faster than in the previous four years. 

Investments spurred by the president’s Investing in America agenda are
benefiting previously left behind communities. 

That’s just some of the economic progress happening under President
Biden.  Watch out for more news in the coming days.  Exciting. 

And next, I want to share highlights from the president’s recent
schedule, as well as looking ahead to the next two weeks.

So, over the last 10 days, President Biden has been hitting the road and
meeting directly with the American people, as well as continuing his job
as leader of the country. 

In the two days after the debate, he met with supporters in Atlanta,
Raleigh, New York, and New Jersey. 

Last week, he delivered remarks on the Supreme Court, visited the D.C.
Emergency Operations Center for a briefing on extreme weather events,
hosted a Medal of Honor ceremony, and joined the First Lady for a Fourth
of July barbecue with active- duty military service members and their
families.

Throughout the week, the president also spoke with leaders of the UK —
United Kingdom — Israel and the Republic of South Africa.

On Friday, the president traveled to Madison, Wisconsin, for a campaign
rally.

On Sunday, just yesterday, he held numerous events across Pennsylvania
with elected officials, including Governor Shapiro, Senator Fetterman,
and Congresswoman Madeleine Dean. 

He participated in interviews, including joining “Morning Joe” just this
morning. 

And throughout, the president has engaged with elected leaders,
including members of Congress, governors, and local officials. 

This week, President Biden will speak to National Labor leaders of
AFL-CIO; host the NATO Summit to show the unprecedented strength of our
alliance; hold a press conference — a “big boy” press conference,
according to Justin Sink from Bloomberg — (laughter) — who’s not here. 
But, Josh, you are here.  I see you. 

Q    Hi, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  So, that will happen on Thursday.  And
travel to Michigan on Friday for a campaign event.

And next week, he will travel to Texas and Las Vegas. 

On July 15th, he will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the Civil
Rights Act at the LBJ Presidential Library in Austin, Texas.  He will
highlight the Biden-Harris administration’s progress advancing civil
rights and his vision to bring America together.

On July 16th, he will address the 115th NAACP National Convention in Las
Vegas, emphasizing the Biden-Harris administration’s commitment to
advancing racial justice and e- — equity for all Americans, including
Black Americans. 

On July 17th, he will speak to the UnidosU- — Unidos Annual Conference
where he will underline the Biden-Harris administration’s historic
accomplishments, including lowering prescription drug costs for
America’s seniors, lowering the Latino uninsured rate, and creating a
Latino small-business boom. 

And finally, I just mentioned the U.S. is going to be hosting the 75th
summit — the NATO Summit right here in the United States, obviously, in
Washington, D.C., this week.  NATO is the most powerful and capable
alliance in the world.  And President Biden is proud — very proud to
have worked to strengthen it and also expand it.

So, with that, the admiral from the National Security Council is here to
take your questions on that.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.  Appreciate it.

I, too, have a few things to get through, so I ask you to bear with me.

As Karine mentioned, the president is looking forward to hosting the
leaders from 38 different countries this week in Washington for a
historic summit to mark the 75th anniversary of the NATO Summit.  This
will obviously include the leaders of all our NATO Allies, as well as
NATO partners, including Ukraine, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic
of Korea. 

Before we discuss the schedule, I just want to take a minute to discuss
the context in which NATO leaders will be gathering this week. 

For 75 years, NATO has served a vital role in protecting the American
people and in making the world a less dangerous place.   
  
NATO is the strongest defensive alliance in history.  And today, it is
bigger, stronger, better resourced, and more united than ever before, in
large part due to President Biden’s leadership over the past three
years. 

He’s worked hard to expand the Alliance by welcoming two new members,
Sweden and Finland, and we’ll officially welcome in Sweden this week. 
He has spent countless hours rallying the Alliance in 2021 and 2022 to
build a global coalition to respond to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and
provide indispensable support to that country.  And I’ll get that — more
on that in just a second.

The president has also strongly encouraged greater partnerships between
the NATO Alliance and friendly nations around the world, particularly in
the Indo-Pacific, as you will see.  And the president knows that the
global threats and challenges that we all face, including from
authoritarian actors and terrorist organizations are inextrictab- —
inextricably linked.  
  
He has also encouraged our NATO Allies to join him in making significant
investments in our mutual defense and deterrence capabilities.

And when the Biden and — Biden-Harris administration took office, only
nine NATO Allies were spending at least 2 percent of their gross
domestic product on defense.  Two percent was the Wales pledge.  That
was the goal that every member of the Alliance had — had swore that they
would get to.   
  
Today, a record 23 NATO Allies are at or above the minimum level of 2
percent of GDP on defense spending — more than twice as many as in 2020
and nearly eight times higher than when the Allies first set that 2
percent benchmark a decade ago.

Now, just quickly turning to the schedule.  Tomorrow evening, President
Biden will welcome NATO leaders, and he and Dr. Biden will host the 75th
anniversary commemoration event at the Mellon Auditorium.  That is the
site, I think you all know, when the NATO Treaty was formally signed in
1949.

On Wednesday, the president will hold his first bilateral meeting with
the new prime minister of the United Kingdom, Keir Starmer, here at the
White House.  The president will also meet with the 32 members of the
Alliance at the Convention Center.  And then later that evening, he and
Dr. Biden will host NATO leaders for a dinner, again, here at the White
House.

On Thursday morning, NATO will hold a meeting with the EU and with
NATO’s Indo-Pacific partners — that’s Australia, Japan, the Republic of
Korea, and New Zealand — to deepen our cooperation.  And then on
Thursday afternoon, there’ll be a meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Council,
after which the president will host an event with President Zelenskyy
and nearly two dozen of our allies and partners who have signed
bilateral security agreements with Ukraine, just as the president did,
as you saw, in Italy a week or so ago.

After that, the president will hold a press conference — I guess a “big
boy” press conference —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

MR. KIRBY:  — is what we’re calling it — and take some questions from
y’all. 

Now, we’re working to also set up some additional meetings — bilateral
meetings.  Ri- — the only two that I can speak to right now are with the
UK prime minister and President Zelenskyy.  But I have no doubt there
will be ad- — additional bilats.  And as we get more fidelity on those,
we’ll let you know.

Finally, as customary for — as customary for summits the United States
hosts, there will be a leaders’ spouses and partners program hosted by
Dr. Biden.

Now, if I could just quickly turn to Ukraine, because back to the
context for what this meeting is all about, I think it’s important to
just do a quick update here what — what the situation is on the ground. 

Since the passage of the supplemental in April, the president has
authorized seven security packages to help Ukraine, including five
drawdowns of munitions and equipment.  The resumption of that U.S. aid
has made a significant impact on the battlefield. 

Instead of the nightmare scenar- — scenarios that were predicted several
months ago about what we could see heading into the NATO Summit, we’ve
seen the situation stabilize.  Ukrainian forces have successfully
stopped Russia’s attack north of Kharkiv, denying Russia the ability to
take that city and limiting Russian gains to areas just across the
border. 

The Ukrainians have held the line in Chasiv Yar.  They’ve held fast east
of Pokrovsk, hardening their defenses and ensuring that Russia will not
break through.  And they’ve halted Russian attacks in Zaporizhzhia.

Throughout these last three months, the Russians have attacked
relentlessly across all those fronts, and the price that they have paid
for the few meters that they have gained here and there has been
extensive: heavy casualties, destroyed equipment, disrupted supply
lines, degraded morale.

The people of Ukraine have yet again demonstrated that when supplied and
when supported by the international community and the United States,
they can hold off the largest — though certainly not, I think is clearly
evident, the most capable — army in Europe. 

Their success is not just limited to the front.  Ukraine has put
U.S.-provided ATACMS — the long-range strike missiles — to good use in
Crimea, destroying Russian surface-to-air missile systems, command
nodes, airfields.  They sunk the last cruise missile-capable warship in
the port of Sevastopol.  And the Russian Black Sea now — Black Sea fleet
has now fled Crimea in response.

While it has been heartening to see Ukraine hold on in this critical
period, we should not forget the grim reality.  Russia continues to
bombard frontline towns with massive and low-accuracy glide bombs and
sending missiles at Ukrainian cities, including over just the past
weekend, where they hit a hospital — a children’s hospital.  Russia has
ramped up its campaign against Ukrainian electrical generation,
depriving the civilian population of power and attempting set the
conditions to punish them over the fall and the winter. 

To strengthen Ukraine’s air defenses and to help Ukraine protect its
cities and its grid, the United States and several of our Allies will
have several big announcements at this week’s summit.  And the NATO
<s>Alloance</s> \[Alliance\] will announce significant new steps to
strengthen its military and political partnership with Ukraine to help
Ukraine continue to defend themselves today and to deter Russian
aggression well into the future.

These elements, taken together with bilateral support, are part of a
bridge to Ukraine’s NATO membership.  Together, the Washington Summit
will send a strong signal to Mr. Putin that if he thinks he can outlast
the coalition of countries that are supporting Ukraine, he’s dead wrong
again.   
  
As President Biden has said himself, Ukraine will never be a victory for
Russia, for free people refuse to live in a world of hopelessness and
darkness. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Admiral.  Let’s go ahead.  Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, John.  You mentioned the context of the summit this week. 
It’s also the first time the president has interacted with these world
leaders since that — the disastrous debate against former President
Trump 10 days or so ago, where the president struggled to confront the
former president on all sorts of things.   
  
What is the president’s — you know, does the president feel the — how
does he plan to reassure American allies in NATO that he is up for the
job now when he couldn’t confront Trump on stage then?

MR. KIRBY:  I think your question presupposes the notion that they need
to be reassured of American leadership and President Biden’s
commitment.  And I don’t believe that’s the case. 

We’re not picking up any signs of that from our allies at all.  Quite
the contrary.  The conversations that we’re having with them in advance
is they’re — they’re excited about this summit.  They’re excited about
the possibilities and the things that we’re going to be doing together,
s- — specifically to help Ukraine. 

Q    So, you’ve seen zero — I mean, there have been stories, multiple
outlets, from both sides of the Atlantic over the last several days with
questions from European leaders about the president’s capacity to le- —
to lead the United States.  Are you just denying that?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any such conversations that have been had. 
Certainly none with us.  And — and here at the White House and with our
staff, we’re looking forward to it. 

I want to, you know, go back to what I said at the beginning.  In the
last three years, rather than browbeating and insulting and demeaning
allies, this president has invested in allies and partnerships.   
  
And when he took office — what I said — nine — only nine allies had
reached the 2 percent level — now 23.  That’s not by accident.  That’s
because of leadership.  That’s because of constant stewardship of the
Alliance and other partnerships around the world. 

The president’s record speaks for itself.  And the Allies and the
non-NATO al- — friends and partners that are coming as well, they know
that.  They wouldn’t be coming — New Zealand, Japan, South Korea — to a
NATO Summit if they didn’t believe in American leadership and how
important it is and if they didn’t believe that President Biden takes
that responsibility extremely seriously. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Admiral, good to see you.  On the point about European countri- —
or NATO members boosting their defense spending, that was something,
though, that was a big concern of the last president.  It was part of
the reason many of them were boosting their funding.  (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  And it was a concern of the president before the last
president.  As you recall, President Obama said the same thing.  This —
this pledge goes back a decade or so. 

But the numbers speak for themselves, Ed.  And rather than browbeating
and yelling and screaming and complaining and whining about it,
President Biden invested in this Alliance.  And he — just the last three
and a half years now, more than double the number of Allies have reached
that 2 percent. 

Q    Two questions on the fallout from the debate.  Have you, in your
meetings with him, ever seen him appear similarly to the way he did on
debate night?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I’m a spokesman, and the last —

Q    And you’re in a lot of meetings with him.

MR. KIRBY:  I am.  And the last thing I’m going to do is sit here and
talk about every meeting I’ve had with the president. 

What I can tell you is what I saw in that debate is not reflective of
the man and the leader and the commander-in-chief that I have spent
many, many hours with over the last two and a half years in terms of the
— the specificity of the way he probes, the questions he asked.

Heck, just this morning, he was asking me questions about the situation
on the European continent that I couldn’t answer, and I told him I had
to get back to him.

Q    On ano- — when he met with governors last week, he suggested he’d
like to curtail events that begin after 8:00 p.m. at night just because
he’d rather focus on resting and doesn’t want to have a long day. 

In your understanding of things, has the National Security Council ever
withheld information from him he should have known late at night out of
concern he might not be able to process it?

MR. KIRBY:  No.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Thank you.

Q    Russia has bombed Ukraine’s largest children’s hospital, as you
noted.  Do you believe the timing of these strikes is meant to send a
message to NATO ahead of this week’s summit?

MR. KIRBY:  It’s hard to draw a line, Mary, to that.  I mean, sadly,
this is par for the course for Mr. Putin to hit civilian
infrastructure.  And he doesn’t care whether he’s hitting hospitals or
residential buildings.  I — I can’t draw the line that — that this is
some sort of message. 

But, look, I mean, as I said, what you’re going to see over the course
of the week is a very set of — of strong signals and messages to Mr.
Putin that he can’t wait NATO out, can’t wait the United States out,
that we’re going to continue to support Ukraine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrea.

Q    I’m sorry —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Andrea.

Q    Oh, okay.  I just wanted to ask about the air defenses and some of
the sort of deliverables that are coming out of the NATO Summit.  Can
you walk us through what you think will be happening in terms of any
additional commitments in — in addition to the — the funding packages
that come?  And can you say a few words about this project to sort of
consolidate the way that weapons are going to Ukraine through the
distribution center, the — I think there’s a — an — a center that will
be set up in Vyspa and under NATO —

MR. KIRBY:  Coordination center?

Q    Coordination center.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I mean, I don’t — the purpose for me to come today was
just to kind of give you the laydown of the — of the — the summit ahead
and not to get too far ahead of the leaders and the specific
deliverables. 

But — so, without doing that and without getting fired, I’ll just tell
you that — (laughs) — you’re going to see some announcements on air
defense.  You’re going to see some announcements on deterrence
capabilities, not just with respect to helping Ukraine but — but
boosting the Alliance.   
  
You’re going to see some announcements with respect to the defense
industrial base and how to shore up that and make it more resilient and
invest in it more, including in our own industrial base here in the
United States.   
  
And you’re going to see, as I alluded to, some discussion about
Ukraine’s path to NATO and what that — and what that can look like and a
reaffirmation of what the president has long said, that — that NATO is
in Ukraine’s future.

Q    Just to follow up on that.  Can you say whether the word
“irreversible” will be in the communiqué?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get ahead of the specific language one way
or the other.

Q    And then just on Israel and Gaza.  Can you say anything about the
Israeli response to the Hamas response to the ceasefire proposal?  Lots
of responses.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  So, no surprise to you all.  I’m not going to
negotiate here from the podium or in public.

I would just tell you that there has been some back and forth.  As you
know, we have a team in Cairo right now that includes Brett McGurk and
the director of the CIA.  They’re meeting with their Egyptian, Israeli,
and Jordanian counterparts, and there’ll be follow-on discussions after
that over the next few days. 

Look, we’ve been working this very, very hard.  And there are still some
gaps that remain in the two sides and the positions.  But we wouldn’t
have sent a team over there if we didn’t think that we had a shot here. 
And we’re going to take every shot we can to see if we can’t get this
ceasefire deal in place. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, David.

Q    Within days?

MR. KIRBY:  I couldn’t give you a date certain.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, David.

Q    Thank you.  John, thanks for doing this.

First, just to follow up on the communiqué, even if you can’t get into
“irreversible.”  The president’s objection last year and Chancellor
Scholz’s objection, if I remember Vilnius correctly, was that neither
one of them wanted a date set for fear, I assume, that the United States
and its allies would be drawn into the ground war if — if Ukraine was
still at war while a NATO member.   
  
Does that remain today to be his primary object- — objection?  Is he
willing to do wording that just is short of a date?  Because even if you
do the word “irreversible” or not, it doesn’t really change the meaning
very much of what you published in Vilnius. 

And I have a second on just the level of —

MR. KIRBY:  L- — I’ll — I’ll make this simple but unsatisfying.  Again,
I’m not going to get into the text and the discussions about what the
draft is going to look like, David.  I think you can understand that. 

But I do think your question is important to — to provide some context
due.  The — the president still believes that NATO is in Ukraine’s
future.  What that future looks like depends on an awful lot of
factors.  Right now, you’ve got a war going on inside Ukraine, and the
focus, rightly, has got to be on helping them win that war, and we are,
as I detailed in my opening statement.

Number two, for any country that wants to join NATO — any country — and
it’s — and it’s a — and it’s an alliance of democracies — the
democracies have to meet certain — certain guidelines, particularly when
it comes to governance.  And we are and will continue to work with
Ukraine on reforms that are necessary for any democracy that wants to be
a member of NATO. 

And then the third thing I’d say is, you know, it’s a — it’s a unanimous
vote.  Everybody has to be on board with that, and that can take some
time as well. 

So, the focus is on making sure that they can win now and that we can
continue to work with Ukraine so that there is a path to NATO. 

The last thing I’d say is — back to the bilateral security agreement
that the president signed with President Zelenskyy at the G7 in Italy —
I mean, we’re one of many other nations that have done that, too,
because we know that whenever this war ends, however it ends, and
whatever the border looks like, Ukraine is still going to have a long
border with Russia that’s going to need to be defended.  And they’re
going to need the reassurance of being able to put forth a capable and
competent defensive capability against Russian forces going forward. 
And that’s why we’re making sure that there are things in line to make
sure that Ukraine can defend itself.

Q    And one follow-up on it.  You mentioned that it was 10 years ago
that the 2 percent GDP goal was set.  Obviously, there was no war
underway at that time.  And so, the entire security situation looks
radically different than it does — than it did when that — that was set.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I beg to differ.  There was — there was fighting in
Afghanistan —

Q    There was — there was Crimea in —

MR. KIRBY:  — and —  
  
Q    — in ‘24 —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — and Mr. Putin —  
  
Q    — in ‘14.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — invaded Ukraine in 2014.

Q    In ‘14, yeah.  But I think the 2 percent may have been set —

MR. KIRBY:  It was in Wales.  It might have been set before the
invasion.   
  
Q    Before that.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  But nevertheless —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — it was still a tense security environment.

Q    Right.  We’re in something mu- — much different today.  I think
we’re — we’re all in agreement, just given the amount of arms and so
forth —

MR. KIRBY:  No argument.

Q    — going in.  
  
So, is part of the president’s message at this summit that 2 percent is
in the rearview mirror, that the NATO Allies are going to have to be
spending significantly more than that — maybe double that for some
countries, some larger economies?  Or is he going to stay away from
numbers?  I know it’s politically sensitive with all of them. 

You also — you mentioned the word “win.”  I was wondering how you’re
defining that. 

MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  There’s a lot there.  The president is not going to
set a new bar or a new level of GDP spending on defense here at this
summit.  The goal is 2 percent.  It was a commitment everybody made 10
years ago.  Not everybody’s there.  Most of the remaining nations that
haven’t reached 2 percent — most of them, not all — are working on it
and are getting there. 

And so, I think the president wants, you know, to focus on that — wants
to laude and commemorate those who have but also make it clear that
those who haven’t still has- — they still have some work to do.

On “win,” I — I think we’ve been consistent about this.  I mean, at
least I think I have.  I mean, we — we want all of Ukraine’s sovereign
territory respected, which means we want no Russian forces in any part
of Ukraine by the internationally recognized boundaries.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, April.

Q    John, you just said — answering a question to Zeke — you’re not
picking up on signs of Allies needing reassurances when it comes to
President Biden.  But the Allies also look for a secure United States. 
Have you heard any conversations from the Allies about issues of the
elections process here, what they’ve been seeing, and the stability of
the United States in the next few months, couple of years, et cetera?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any specific conversations with respect to
our domestic political situation.  But, look, April, we watch the
domestic political situation of our allies and partners, of course, like
we did with the UK and with France over the weekend, and we have no
doubt that they’re watching ours as well and that they’ll be watching
our election with — you know, with a lot of keen interest.  We — we
certainly would expect that.

But I’m not aware of any conversations that we’ve had at senior levels
here, at the NSC or elsewhere at the White House, from Allies
specifically about this — this particular election.

Q    Not even members of the European Union who — who gathered reporters
a couple of years ago with concerns about democracy here? 

MR. KIRBY:  They — they might be talking to you all, but I’m not aware
of any specific conversations here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly O.

Q    Just want to circle back, Admiral, on Ed’s question.  So, you said
broadly that the president, in your view, is not represented by what was
on the debate stage.  Then you gave us an anecdote about a meeting today
where he was engaged and so forth.   
  
Are you saying you have never encountered a situation where you thought
that he was displaying any of those symptoms or affectations or, you
know, something that would give pause?  Or are you just declining to
answer one way or another?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, I’m a little uncomfortable a- — answering these kinds
of questions because, as a spokesman, my job is to be an adviser and
counselor, and I don’t think it’s appropriate for a spokesman to —

Q    But you gave us a positive.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I did —

Q    You gave us a pos- —

MR. KIRBY:  — because I wanted to make it clear.   
  
So, for — yes, I’m uncomfortable with these kinds of questions.  But to
answer your — to answer your specific question, in my experience the
last two and a half years, I have not seen any reason whatsoever to
question or doubt his lucidity, his grasp of context, his probing
nature, and the degree to which he is completely in charge of facts and
figures.

And if he isn’t, what I’ve seen is — because it happened to me this
morning — wh- — when he isn’t and when I can’t be in command of those
facts and figures, I — I have to fess up and go get the information that
he’s asking for.  And he asked me some questions this morning I didn’t
have answers for.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Nadia.

Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Two questions on the Middle East.  Israel has
conducted the largest seizure of land in the West Bank, which undermines
the president’s vision for a two-state solution.  So, why the White
House has been not — mum on that and will the president —

MR. KIRBY:  We have not — it’s not that we’ve been mum.  There — there
was a — there was —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  We have — we — there was a statement put out by the State
Department about this call for settlements.  We contin- — nothing has
changed about our view that settlements continue to be counterproductive
to peace and stability and — and the possibility of a two-state
solution.  We don’t support that.

Q    Okay.  And second, you mentioned about the Ukraine and Russia, in
terms of the civilian casualties.  The U.N. said today that actually
half of the facilities of UNRWA has been hit and 520 people have been
killed in addition to the aid workers.  So, do you still believe that
Israel is doing what it takes to protect civilian lives, including women
and children?

MR. KIRBY:  We certainly believe that they need to continue to do more
to protect innocent civilian life. 

Q    Yeah, but they’re not doing much.  I mean, we’ve been — I’ve been
asking this question for nine months.

MR. KIRBY:  Your question wasn’t about what they’re doing or not doing. 
Your question was do we believe that they should do more.  My answer is
yes, they need to do more to protect civilian life.  And we’re going to
continue to have conversations with them about how they’re prosecuting
these — these operations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, John.  Just sticking with the Middle East but connecting to
the other big story.  At the — during the ABC News interview on Friday,
George Stephanopoulos asked the president was he, quote, “the same man
today that you were when you took office three and a half years ago?” 
And the president’s reply began, “In terms of successes, yes.  I was
also the guy who put together a peace plan for the Middle East that may
be coming to fruition.” 

Now, it may or may not be coming to fruition; we don’t know.  We do know
38,000 people have been killed in Gaza, almost 2 million displaced.  And
according to UNICEF, one in three children under the age of two is
suffering from acute malnutrition.  Does the president consider his Gaza
policy a success?

MR. KIRBY:  The president believes wholeheartedly that this ceasefire
proposal that we are trying to get done will make a big difference in
terms of not only temporarily ci- — ceasing hostilities but potentially
giving us an opening to end this conflict. 

It’s important to remember how this started.  And you talked about our
Gaza policy, our — I’ll — I’ll state it for you again.  We want to make
sure Israel has a right to defend itself from the kinds of attacks it
suffered on the 7th of October, which I know is easy for people to
forget — 1,200 people slaughtered, most at a music festival

Number two, that Israel is doing everything they can to protect innocent
civilian life.  Is it enough?  No, they need to continue to do more. 

And that we are doing everything we can to get humani- — humanitarian
assistance in to the people of Gaza. 

That’s our Gaza policy.  And as the president has also said, we would be
and will still continue to be willing to adjust the policies that we —
that we are executing with respect to Gaza as we see things unfold on
the ground.

Q    But the broader question was: Does he consider his policy to have
been successful?

MR. KIRBY:  Israel is defending itself against a terrorist attack, so we
can check that off. 

Humanitarian assistance continues to flow.  In fact, if it wasn’t for
the United States, I daresay that not — not a fraction of the
humanitarian assistance that ge- — is getting into Gaza would get in. 
Is it enough?  No. 

And the Israelis have taken some steps to be more precise, more
discriminant, and more careful in their operations.  Is it enough?  No. 

So, we’re going to keep at it.  We’re going to keep working on this.

Q    You keep saying “Is it enough?  No.”  The president described
Israel as bombing — in- — indiscriminate bombing in December.  Seven
months have passed, and you’ve paused one arm shipment, as I understand
it.  Is that fair?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s right. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  What’s your — is there a question here? 

Q    Do you think that that’s an effective response to indiscriminate
bombing of a civilian population? 

MR. KIRBY:  It’s never right to be conducting indiscriminate bombing of
a civilian population.  That’s why we continue to work with the Israelis
to be more precise, to be more careful. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Just a couple more.  Go ahead, Michael. 
Go ahead.

Q    Sorry, Karine.  Sorry.

Hi, Admiral.  Can I just start with the Middle East as well?  Hamas has
accused Netanyahu of putting obstacles in the way of the ceasefire deal
that is being talked about now.  Does the U.S. think that Netanyahu’s
government is doing everything it can to secure the ceasefire deal?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re working hard to get that ceasefire deal in place.  I’m
not going to negotiate here from public — in public or talk about who’s
saying what and who’s doing what. 

We have seen both sides now — as Andrea rightly asked in her question —
we’ve seen both sides come out with some public statements with respect
to the text.  The last thing I’m going to do is — is get into bartering
here. 

We’re trying to close those gaps as best we can.  We wouldn’t have sent
the CIA director or Brett McGurk to Cairo if we didn’t believe it was
worth a shot and worth a chance. 

I would also add that on both sides, you see public comments that aren’t
necessarily fully reflective of the conversations that we’re having with
— privately with them or their interlocutors. 

Q    And secondly, just on Ukraine.  There was a bit of an information
bustle over the weekend.  The Russians said that they’ve destroyed two
Ukrainian Patriot missile systems.  The Ukrainians said that they were
decoys.  Does the U.S. have its own independent evaluation of what
happened during that strike?  And what is the state of Ukraine’s air
defense system when it comes to Patriot missile systems?

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, we do.  I’m not going to talk about it.  And I think
you’re going to hear more here this week about what the Allies and the
United States are going to do to continue to bolster Ukrainian air
defense. 

Look, I know we get hung up on the Patriots.  And I get that.  There has
been contributions of Patriot systems by other nations.  You talked — we
talked about how we’re resequenc- — resequencing some of our — our
deliveries of Patriot interceptors from some countries, now diverting
them to Ukraine.  We’re doing that.  Other nations are also trying to
contribute Patriots. 

But let’s not get caught up on just one system.  There’s short-range,
there’s medium-range, and there’s long-range air defense, and Ukraine
needs all of it.  And, again, I think you’re going to see this week the
Allies really stepping up and showing that they’re willing to continue
to provide those kinds of capabilities. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.

Q    Thank you.  John, Viktor Orbán is visiting China right now on the
heels of a visit to Russia.  I’m wondering whether the U.S. has any
views on that and what impact it might have on the situation in Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, we’re concerned about it.  It certainly doesn’t seem
to be productive in terms of trying to get things done in Ukraine and
trying to move forward to an — to achieve this just peace that President
Zelenskyy continues to work hard and we continue to try to — to
operationalize. 

But, yeah, it’s — it’s concerning. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —

Q    And was there any advanced notification given to the U.S. of either
trip — Russia or (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  None that I’m aware of.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Anita.

Q    And can I a- — can I try one more time on “irreversible”?  Does the
U.S. have a position — 

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, you can try.  (Laughs.)

Q    Hey, it’s worth a shot.  Does the U.S. have a position on the u- —
on the inclusion of that word?

MR. KIRBY:  Our position is that NATO is going to be in Ukraine’s
future.  There’s a lot of work that needs to be done to get to that
point.  And the president is looking forward to talking to President
Zelenskyy and our NATO Allies about that path — that bridge to NATO. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anita.

Q    Thank you so much, John.  A question on Ukraine and one on Iran. 
Starting with Ukraine and this Russian rocket attack that killed 30
people at the largest children’s hospital.  Does this shift the U.S.’s
position on not allowing Ukraine to strike directly at Russian airfields
that originated these attacks?

MR. KIRBY:  Shift the position?

Q    Yeah.  Does this make you change your mind about not allowing
that?  And how do you justify not giving Ukraine permission to attack?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s been no change in our — our policy.  You saw that
the president several weeks ago gave guidance to Ukraine that they can
use U.S.-supplied weapons to strike targets just over the border. 
That’s still the case. 

Q    On Iran.  We’ve heard the U.S. say that this election — this
presidential election is not free and fair, that they have doubts that
this is going to change anything meaningfully.  But we’ve also heard the
U.S. say that they will negotiate or do diplomacy with Iran when it
serves our national interests.  So, is the U.S. now ready to resume
nuclear talks, other talks, or make any diplomatic moves with Iran in
light of this new president?

MR. KIRBY:  No. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Aurelia —

Q    Wa- — I’m sorry.  “No”?  Can you —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well —  
  
Q    Can you elaborate, please?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, your — it seemed like a pretty easy question to
answer.  No, we’re — we’re not in a position where we’re willing to get
back to the negotiating table with Iran just based on the fact that
they’ve elected a new president.   
  
They’re still supporting terrorist groups like Hamas and Hezbollah. 
They’re still supporting the Houthis as the Houthis attack ships in the
Red Sea.  They’re still attacking shipping as well. 

And they’re still supplying drones and drone technology and drone
expertise to the Russians so that the Russians can continue to kill
innocent Ukrainians like they did over the weekend. 

So, no.  No. 

Q    This guy seems a bit more moderate.  Do you see any opening?

MR. KIRBY:  We’ll — look, we’ll see what “this guy” wants to get done —

Q    The president.

MR. KIRBY:  — but we are not expecting any changes in Iranian behavior,
sadly. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We got to wr- — Aurelia, go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you so much.  John, this morning, the president
said that France rejected extremism during the latest parliamentary
election and expressed his confidence that the United States would also
do so.  So, France has a very different electoral system, as you know. 
So, why this optimism from the president?

And more broadly, was there a sense of relief in the administration that
the election turned out the way it did?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I think it’s pretty clear from the election that the —
the far right didn’t find the purchase that it wanted to find and that —
that the compromise in a democracy is going to have to still be the
watchword in France as it is here in the United States. 

And it’s not going to change our strong relationship with France.  It’s
not going to change the fact that France is a valued NATO Ally.  And the
president is looking forward to continuing to work with President Macron
and the entire team.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Last question.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thank you, Admiral.  I was just wondering, with
the renewed spotlight and scrutiny on President Biden in public settings
this week, how he’s preparing for the NATO Summit —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — how you guys are deciding how many questions to take in the press
conference, what — (laughter) —

MR. KIRBY:  You got to ask —

Q    — what his curfew is —

MR. KIRBY:  You got to ask the press secretary that one.

Q    But you’re the one — you’re the one who’s prepping him for a lot of
this on matters of national security —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, so —

Q    — and foreign policy. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — so — so am I.  (Laughs.)  It’s a team —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, exactly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a team effort.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I — I will let Karine talk about the press conference
— the “big boy” press conference —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

MR. KIRBY:  — I think you all are planning to have. 

But he has already had discussions with his national security team in
the leadup to the summit, as you might expect that he would.  He’s
reviewing material.  He’s — he’s doing his homework and getting ready.

He’s got the first major set of remarks tomorrow night at the Mellon
Auditorium.  He’s working his way through those remarks, as you would
expect him to do, and he’s getting ready for the — at least the two
bilateral meetings that we know he’s going to have specifically with the
new prime minister of the UK and with President Zelenskyy later in the
week. 

So, what I have seen from my perch is the normal amount of preparatory
work that he does before a major international conference and no
different than how he prepared for the G7 or for the events in Normandy
or — or previous international fora.  So, it’s pretty typical from what
I’ve seen.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    And do you expect Vice President Harris to play a role in the
events this week or to take any meetings during the time that she’ll be
in Washington?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t speak for the vice president’s staff and team, but I
can have them get back to you about what her schedule is going to look
like.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Admiral.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Appreciate it.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much.

MR. KIRBY:  See you guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Admiral. 

Okay.  Well, all the debate questions have been answered — (laughter) —
press conference answers.  Let me close — let me close my book and get
out of here. 

Hi, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  My first to you is on the credibility of this
White House when it comes to talking about the president’s health. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    When you were here last Tuesday, you were asked if the president
had had any medical examinations —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — since his physical in February or — and that included the time
period after the debate. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    You said flatly “no.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    Three days later, you admitted that the president had a, quote,
“short check-in” with the medical team —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — thereafter.  I mean, those are — those are two very different
answers.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no, no, no.  I actually — actually, if you
— if you were to listen to the — I think I did a 30-minute gaggle on
Friday — 30 minutes with a — I think was an — with — with the pool.  And
— and I said he did not have a medi- — I cleared it up.  You’re right. 
You’re correct.  I said he didn’t — I still stand by he didn’t have a
medical exam.  I said that in the gaggle.  And you’re right, I said that
in the briefing.

He had a check-in with — and he had — he said this on — on Friday.  He
had a check-in with his — with his medical doctor, which is something
that he does a couple times a week, as you know, and I say — I stated
this as well. 

He has — for — for those who don’t know — obviously, outside of the
briefing room, outside of the White House, ma- — many Americans don’t
actually understand this, so let’s take a step back.  They — they deal
with their medical issues or physicals very, very differently.  They are
very — you know, they are lucky if their — get to see their — their
doctor once or twice a year, right?  They have to get in a car; they
have to either take public transportation in order to make that happen.

The president’s medical unit is literally down on the other side of the
Colonnade.  It’s just down the steps from the Residence.  And so, a
couple times a week, he does a check-in — a verbal check-in with his
doctor while he’s exercising.  That is something that happens often.

Matter of fact, he did a check-in today.  Because I know folks were
going to ask about if he was tested for COVID, he was not.  We are
following CDC guidance.  He was not tested for COVID, just to let you
guys know about that one.  And if he has any symptoms, obviously, we
would test him.  But —

Q    Is that in context of the second gentleman’s diagnosis or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, yes —

Q    — is he not feeling well? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — which is why — no, no, no, it’s — it’s in context of
the second gentleman. 

But to answer your point, he did not have me- — a medical exam.  He did
not have a physical.  He did do, like, a verbal check-in with his doctor
a couple days after the debate. 

And it was very quick.  It was a couple of words that were spoken to
each other.  And that’s how we were able to — to — we were able to give
you that answer.  But he did not have a medical exam.  He did not have a
physical.

Q    But so, when you say no, though, last Tuesday —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — was — did you know about that verbal check-in, or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  NO.

Q    — did we just don’t ask enough — a precise enough question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, the line of questions that I was getting that
day was in — the way that I was hearing the question was about the
medical exam.  I answered M.J.’s question when she asked me, “Medical
exam?”  And I answered and said — I said, “No physical.”  And then
somebody else asked me, “Was there a check-in?” 

I did not mean to steer anybody wrong.  I was still thinking about the
medical exam.  I was still thinking about the physical.  That’s how I
answered the question. 

And then when it became — when the president actually spoke to it, we
actually — I went back, asked the — asked the — asked the — the medical
doctor, and he said they had a verbal check-in.  That’s what he said.

But in answering the question, I was talking about the medical exam; I
was talking about the physical.

Q    And then two quick ones.  There’s a lot of reporting in the last 24
hours —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — about a Parkinson’s expert who’s come to visit the White House
almost a dozen times over the last year or so, including a mee- — at
least one meeting with the president’s ph- — physician. 

Could you state, like, very clearly yes or no: Was that expert here to
participate in anything surrounding the care of the president of the
United States?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things.  We have had a
comprehensive — and I just want to take another step back —
comprehensive physical examination.  The president has had that.  We’ve
given a comprehensive report.  We’ve shared that the past three years.

Every year that he has — every year that he has had this — this exam, he
sees a neurologist.  And just to give you a quote from that — from the
report most recently in February: “An extremely detailed neurological
exam was again reassuring in that there were no findings which would be
consistent with any cerebella- — cerebellar or other central
neurological disorders such as a stroke, multiple sclerosis,
Parkinson’s, or ascending lateral sclerosis,” end quote.  So, that came
directly from — in February, in that comprehensive report that was
provided by the president’s doctor to me that I shared with all of you. 
So, anyone who is watching can certainly go to our website.

Q    That’s not an answer to the question, though, which was this —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wh- —

Q    — was this expert’s visits to — were his multiple visits to the
White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — pertaining at all to the president’s care?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s the thing.  I have — I have said he’s —
he has had three — he has thr- — had three — three physicals.  In those
three physicals, that’s when he has seen a specialist — a neurolo- — a
neurological specialist.

Q    Was this the specialist that the president saw?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have to be super mindful here.  And this is why —
and I’ll — and I’ll explain this to you in a second.  There are
thousands of military personnel who come onto this White House.  Many of
them get the care from the White House Medical Unit.  And so, need to be
super careful. 

There are — you know, the medical unit hosts a wide range of
specialists, from dermatologist to a neurologist, and so I cannot speak
to every person because there are act- — there’s actually a security
reasons to protect their privacy.  We respect in protecting people’s
privacy.  So, do not want to share — I’m not going to share people’s
names from here. 

But the president, I can tell you, has seen a neurologist three times,
as it’s connected to the — to the physical that he gets every year that
we provide to all of you.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    But, Karine, you’re not answering the question.  It’s a very basic,
direct question.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 

Q    Did Dr. Kevin Cannard —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on, hold on.  Wait, wait.  

Q    — come to the White House to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Wait a second.

Q    — eight times —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  
  
Q    — or at least once, in regards to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just —

Q    — the president specifically?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on a second.

Q    That much you should be answer by this point —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — no, no, no, no, no, no.

Q    — after four days of reporting about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, wait a minute.  Calm — Ed, please.  A little
respect here, please.

So, every year, around the president’s physical examination, he sees a
neurologist.  That’s three times.  Right? So, I am telling you that he
has seen a neurologist three times while he has been in this
presidency.  That’s what I’m saying.

Q    Here at the White House or at Walter Reed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am telling you that he has seen them three times. 
That is what I’m sharing with you.  Right?  So, every time he has a
physical, he has had to see a neurologist.  So, that is answering that
question. 

Q    No, it’s not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it is.  It is.

Q    Did —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re asking me —  
  
Q    — Dr. Kevin Cannard come to the White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot — but I just ans- —

Q    — specifically about the president’s conditions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I also said to you — Ed, I also said to you: For
security reasons, we cannot share names.  We cannot share names.  We
have to pro- — we have to —

Q    You cannot share names of others he would have met with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We cannot —

Q    — but you can share names in regards to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no, no.  We —

Q    — if someone came here in regards to the president.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we cannot share — we cannot share names of
specialists broadly.  From a dermatologist to a neurologist, we cannot
share names.  There are security reasons we have to —

Q    They’re in the White House visitor log.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have to prot- —

Q    Yeah, it’s public.

Q    It’s public.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand that. 

Q    I looked it up before I came out here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I under- — I hear you.  I —

Q    It’s right there for anyone see.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ed, I hear you.  I cannot from here confirm any of
that because we have to keep their privacy.  I think they would
appreciate that too.  We have to give them —

Q    Who would?  The patient or the doctor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have to keep their privacy.

Q    It’s public.  It is public.

Q    It’s public information.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — I hear you.

Q    It is listed that he went to the Residence clinic.

Q    And you’re —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — going to allow this to fester longer, Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Guys — guys —

Q    — unless the White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — guys — guys —

Q    — just answers the question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on a second.  There’s no reason to get back — go
back and forth with me in this aggressive way.

Q    Well, we’re a little miffed around here about how information has
been shared with the press corps about him.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What are you — what are you missed about?  What are
you missed about?

Q    Oh, everything he just asked about.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What are you — and then every time I come back and I
answer the question that you guys asked.

Q    And you answer it incorrectly and then have to come back and clean
it up a few days later. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I never answered the question incorrectly.  That is
not true.  I was asked about a medical exam.  I was asked about a
physical.  That was in the line of question that I answered. 

And I said, “No, he did not have a medical exam.”  And I still stand th-
— by that.  Matter of fact, the president still stands by that.  He had
a verbal check-in.  That is something that the president has a couple
times a week — a couple times a week.

Q    And now, in regards to Dr. Kevin Cannard?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I am telling you, right now, that I am not
sharing, confirming names from here.  It is a security reason.  I am not
going to do that, Ed.  It doesn’t matter how hard you push me.  It
doesn’t matter how angry you get with me.  I am not going to confirm a
name.  It doesn’t matter if it’s even in the log.  I am not going to do
that from here.  That is not something I am going to do. 

What I can share with you is that the president has seen a neurologist
for his physical three times — three times.  And it is in the reporting
that we share — a comprehensive reporting.  Matter — matter of fact,
it’s more than what the last guy shared, and it is in line with what
George — George W. Bush did.  It’s in line with what Obama did. 

And so, it is comprehensive.  It is out there.  I just read a quote from
it. 

But I am not — I am not going to <s>devolve</s> \[divulge\] somebody’s
name and — or confirm someone.  I am not going to do that.  That is as a
— privacy for that person.  I’m not going to do that.  It doesn’t matter
how hard you push me; it doesn’t matter how angry you get with me from
here.  I’m just not going to do that.  It is inappropriate.  It is not
acceptable.  So, I’m not going to do it.

Q    Not about the name.

Q    Karine? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  No, go ahead.

Q    Karine, if you cannot confirm the name —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — can you confirm whether or not the president has seen this
Parkinson’s specialist?  And you mentioned three times that the visitor
logs show a duration of eight visits over eight months.  I think that is
the crux of the question that we’re asking.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I — but I also said — I also said there are
thousands of military personnel that come to the White House, and they
are under the care of the medical unit.  They are.

Q    So, can you confirm that the Parkinson’s visit —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — specialist visits were for the president or not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — what I can tell you is that the president has seen
a neurologist three times, and I read to you what the neurologist has
said.  And I read to you the last — the last line.  I could say it
again: “No findings which would be consistent with any cerebellar or
other central neurologic- — neurological disorders, such as stroke,
multiple sclerosis, Parkinson’s, or ascending lateral sclerosis.”   
  
That is from — that is from February.  That is coming from February. 
That is what the medical unit — the m- — the president’s doctor shared.

And I shared — I said to you it’s happened three times.  Each time there
is a physical that occurs, and we put out a comprehensive report.  That
is when he has been able to see — to see a specialist. 

Q    Just one other follow-up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that’s what I can share. 

Q    — question on — on this.  Has the president — you mentioned
Parkinson’s, multiple sclerosis, all of these things.  One diagnosis
that we have heard — a potential diagnosis — is hydrocephalus, which is
fluid buildup in the brain.  It’s something we’ve never heard in any of
the medical reports.  Is that something that the president has been —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If it’s —

Q    — evaluated for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Le- — if it’s — if it’s not in the medical report,
obviously, it’s not — it’s not something that the president is dealing
with.   If —

Q    But has he been evaluated for hydrocephalus?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I can tell you this.  Just going back to
Parkinson’s for a little bit.  So, to give you some answers here: Has
the president been treated for Parkinson’s?  No.  Is he being treated
for Parkinson’s?  No, he’s not.  Is he taking medication for
Parkinson’s?  No. 

So, those are the things that I can give you full-blown answers on.  But
I’m not going to dev- — I’m not going to confirm a specialist — a — any
specialist that comes to — come — comes to the White House out of
privacy.

Q    One other question.  Is — will the president go to the Hill today? 
I know we saw his letter.  Is he intending to have this conversation
face to face with Democratic lawmakers? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president — obviously, this is someone
who was a senator for 36 years; who was the president of the Senate as —
when he was vice president for eight years.  And he respects — truly
respects the members of Congress and has always and will always do that,
especially as a former senator. 

And I will say — and you heard — you’ve heard us say this before — or
most recently is this is a president who’s won — won the primary —
right? — by 14 million votes, 87 percent of those votes, certainly. 

And, look, I don’t have any engagements to read out, you know, outside
of that.  But I will say that the president was in Pennsylvania.  I just
mentioned at the top, he got — he got to see Senator Fetterman, Senator
Casey.  He also got to see Cong- — Congresswoman Dean.  He spent some
time with them.  They traveled across Pennsylvania. 

And I will say when the president gets knocked down, he gets back up. 
This is quintessential Joe Biden.  And there are a long list of other
congressional members who have shown their support for this president. 

I don’t have anything else to read out.  You saw the letter.  The p- —
letter was — the letter was, I think, pretty, pretty clear on where the
president stand.  And I’ll just leave it there. 

Go ahead.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You’ve noted that there are thousands within the Walter Reed system
who may be treated by a specialist who visits —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — here at the White House.  But this neurologist had a meeting with
the president’s physician — with his doctor.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand that.

Q    You’re refusing to say if he was here to evaluate the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.

Q    — or if he was consulting on the president’s health.  So, what,
then, was that meeting about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I will say that Dr. O’Connor leads the medical
unit.  He is literally —

Q    So, can he tell us?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — he’s literally the — he leads the medical unit. 

No, because we will not confirm or — or speak to names that are — you’re
providing to me.  It is out of security reason.  It is out of protecting
someone’s privacy.  We’re just not going to do that. 

But they are — the reason that I mentioned that is because there are a
thousand military members that do indeed use the — use the White House
Medical Unit.  They do.

Q    But we’re not talking about those other people.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They get care from that. 

Q    We’re talking about the president of the United States. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, but I’m try- — but I — guys, I’m trying to
answer the question so you can connect the dot that there are multiple
neurologists that come — not neurologists — specialists that come
through here because there are a thou- — like, more than a thousand
medical — medical — military personnel here — military personnel here.

Q    But you certainly could clear this all up just by saying what he
was doing here and if it was connected to the president: yes or no?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I am not going to confirm the — a neur- — a
particular nar- — neurologist, anybody.  It doesn’t matter if they’re a
derm- — dermatologist or a neurologist.  I’m just not going to do that. 

I shared with all of you that the president has met — has been with a
neurologist three times as it relates to his physical.  Three times. 

So, you know —

Q    But we don’t know if this neurologist.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not — I’m — guys, I’m just not going to do
that out of security reasons, out of privacy.  It is — it is not
something that I’m going to do.  A measure of privacy we have to be able
to give people from here.

Q    One other question.  Again, the president — the president’s —

Q    We’re just looking for clarification. 

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on.  Hold on, guys.  Come on.  Come on, Kelly
O.  

Q    The president’s doctor, you say, has seen no reason to evaluate him
for Parkinson’s since his physical in February.  Is that based on these
verbal check-ins that you’ve been describing, based on his public
appearances?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Will you say that one more time?

Q    That — you’ve said that the president’s doctor has seen no reason
to evaluate him or reevaluate him for Parkinson’s since that physical in
February.  What is that based on?  Is it these verbal check-ins?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I never — I never said that.

Q    That’s what the White House has said.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I have said is — what I have said is that
he just had a physical just in February, and the physical was very
clear.  It was a comprehensive physical.  It’s — we gave out a report on
that. 

And — and, you know, as it relates to the check-ins, that is something
that is common.  The — the president has a medical unit that is
literally down the hall that he’s able to check in with when necessary. 
They normally do it while he’s exercising.  That is not uncommon. 

It is very different — it is very different than any everyday American. 
They do not have that option.  They do not have that access, because
he’s president of the United States.  Every other president has had that
access, and they are able to do that.

Q    So, wait.  Just to be clear: Yes or no, has he — has his physician
seen a reason to reevaluate him for Parkinson’s since the February
physical?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  The — the comprehensive report that you all have
stands. 

There is — we — the president, obviously, will have another physical,
and we’ll wait for that physical. 

Q    Karine —

Q    Karine —

Q    Is it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    So, the president has said twice that he’s had neurological
evaluations as part of his physicals, you know, in these various
interviews —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — today and then in — and also on ABC.  But there have been a
number of people who have said, “Listen, you know, why don’t you have a
cognitive test just to rule out that there are any issues?”  Would the
president — you know, do you — you know, would you — would you counsel —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.

Q    — to do that just to sort of put an end to these questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, Andrea, I hear you.  The neurologists have said it
is not warranted.  The president himself — he said it today; he said it
mu- — multiple times — and the doctor has said this — everything that he
does day in and day out as it relates to delivering for the American
people is a cognitive test.  And that is what the medical doctor has
said.  That is what the specialist said.

I do want to — I just want to take a step back for a second, because I
do take offense to what Ed alluded to.  You know, I come out here every
day there’s a press briefing, and we do our best to give you the
information that we have at the time.  That’s what we do.  And we
understand that — the freedom of the press.  We respect the freedom of
the press.  You heard me talk about this last week.  We — I appreciate
the back-and-forth that we all have.  It is — I try to respect you, and
I hope you try to respect me.  And we literally do everything that we
can — my team does everything that we can to make sure we get the
answers to you.  That’s what we do. 

And sometimes we disagree.  Sometimes we are not in agreement.  But you
know what?  That’s democracy.  That is what is important to have that
healthy back-and-forth.  And so, to say that I’m holding information or
allude to anything else is not okay — it’s really, really unfair.  I
think people who are watching and have been watching this briefing for
this past week could say that we are doing our best in this briefing to
provide the information that we have. 

And I will admit — I will be the first one to admit: Sometimes I get it
wrong.  At least I admit that.  At least I admit that. 

And sometimes I don’t have the information.  And I will always, always
admit that. 

But I do take offense to what was just happening at the beginning of
this briefing.  It’s not okay.

Go ahead.

Q    We are seeking clarity.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand that.

Q    And I think what we’re trying to say is when a name is in a public
record on a WAVES form —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — that it is in the public domain.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.

Q    The president could authorize that his medical records or
additional medical information could be made public, because he could
waive HIPAA.  He could do those things.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And if he chooses to do that, we would like to know more. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Part of the reason we are pressing here is that we are not clear on
what has happened. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And therefore, the American people who — to whom we report don’t
have a sense of it.  So, that’s what we’re trying to do. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But the personal attacks is not okay.

Q    And — and we want to have positive —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I just want to be very, very clear here. 
(Laughs.)

Q    — professional exchange. 

So, the question is — one question is: After a debate that drew days and
days and days of scrutiny, why hasn’t the president had an in-person
physical check-in — maybe bloodwork, maybe other things?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Because when he said he was seen, I certainly thought he had been
physically seen —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — not a phone check-in. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    So, as — and that’s part of what we’re saying about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — how information comes out in WAVES —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I totally understand.

Q    — and then we may have a different impression.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I totally understand that.

Q    — this has dominated his presidency —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — for 10 days.  And he could submit to another exam — a full exam,
a partial exam, whatever.  He can waive his right to make things
public.  None of us are asking about the military members who might be
seeing a physician here — none of us.  We are only asking —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — about the president’s well-being.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Understood.

Q    And so, that’s why we want to understand.  When you see —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — on the public records that a physician with his specialty has
come to the White House, gone to the residence clinic, and met with the
president’s physician, we feel like there is more to be said there.  And
that’s what we’re asking. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I understand that, Kelly O.  And you know I
respect you wholeheartedly and I’ve known you for some time. 

We want to be also — because we are sp- — particular — we are talking
about someone who’s na- — who is out there.  And I understand; I get
it.  It’s in the log.  I get that.  It’s in the log.

Q    What is the security concern?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We want to — we want to respect that person and give
them the measure of privacy that they deserve.  The moment I say
anything about any specialist, it becomes a thing from this podium. 

So, what I can share — and this is what I can share: He has seen a
neurologist three times — three times — not more —

Q    Is that a Walter Reed or here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not — not more than that. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not more than that.  He has seen a neurologist three
times, and that is connected to the physical — the comprehensive
physical that we have been able to share with you. 

So, I think that gives you some information about how many times: three
times. 

And the reason why I am sharing that — there are thousands of military
personnel so you also have an understanding because there are thir- —  a
thousand military personnel that comes here and that not just comes here
but under the care of the medical unit.  Right?  They get — they get
care from the White House Medical Unit.  They — there tends to be
dermatologist from — or dermatologist to neurolog- — neurologists who
come through here — who come through here because the White House
Medical Unit is i- — indeed caring for folks. 

So, I have confirmed: three times.  Three times.  I just cannot get into
details or confirm a name of a person.  I cannot do that.  There are
security reasons.  We have to give people a measure —

Q    Would you ask the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — of privacy.

Q    — if he would waive some of his records and make those public?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I don’t know how all of that works.  I’m not
going to pretend I — I know how that — that works.  And what I will do
is — certainly, we’ll share that information with the — with the powers
that be.  I just don’t want to get into a back-and-forth on that
particular question.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I mean, to Kelly O’s point —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the president today, when he called into “Morning, Joe,” he said
that he had released all of his medical records.  Should we take that as
indication that he’s going to do so?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, what I can say is that we have shared a
comprehensive medical report that is pretty detailed, that is in line
with other presidents — certainly not the last one, but the ones — the
two before — before the last president.  And we have been pretty much in
line with what they have been — what they have done — what — to be more
clear, George W. Bush and — and also President Obama.  So, we have been
—

Q    The last one did let his doctors come to the briefing room to speak
to us.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  And we know what that last president said from
this briefing room.  Okay?  So — (laughs) —

Q    Also, during a call today —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And only did three — I think three or four
paragraphs.  Very different.

Q    During —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Very different approach.

Q    During the call today to MSNBC —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    — was the president reading off of a script?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I was in the room when the president called in to
“Morning Joe.”  The president spoke from his heart.  The president was
very clear.  There was no script at all.  And he was very detailed.  You
heard him say, actually, during the call that he was reading some
quotes.  He said it.  He shared that information.  He was reading some
quotes from — from the debate.  So, he shared that with you.

What you heard was a passionate interview.  It was about 18 minutes.  He
talked about and laid out his vision for this country.  He talked about
how he wants to make sure we move forward.  I want to be really careful
because he also talked about the campaign, which I can’t do from here. 
But he — he — you know, I think it was incredibly powerful.

Q    He was reading quotes but not from a script?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nope.  It was not a script.

Q    And in a “big boy” press conference —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I was in the room.  It was not a script.

Q    — how many questions should we expect that he is going to take?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, it is going to be a solo press conference. 
It is going to be certainly more than a two-plus-two.  I’m not going to
— we’re still working it out, so I’m not going to go into specifics from
here.  But you can expect a solo press conference from this president at
the end of — of the NATO Summit.  He’s looking forward to it.  And he
will be taking your questions.  So, that’ll be a good thing.

Q    Karine —

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karine, something different.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, I know, I know.

Q    Karine — 

Q    Karine —

Q    Karine — (laughter) —

Q    Karine, I have two questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    One, a follow-up on Dr. Cannard.  And that is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — can you explain what the role of Megan Nasworthy is?  Does she
oversee care for some of those military personnel that you were
referencing as a group, or does she oversee care for the president?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I bel- — again, want to be careful here.  I know who
you’re speaking of.  I don’t have her full portfolio in front of me, so
I would have — my team and I will be happy to get back to you.

Q    Okay.  And then on the president’s and the White House’s engagement
with House Democrats —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and Democrats more broadly.  There was an article a month ago in
the Wall Street Journal that the White House universally panned because
the on-the-record quotes criticizing the president’s age and acuity were
largely from Republicans.  But I want to ask about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the graphs in that story about Democrats.  It said that the White
House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  From that same story?

Q    From that same story.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    It said that “the White House kept close tabs on the Journal’s
interviews with Democratic lawmakers.  And after the offices of several
Democrats shared with the White House either a recording of an interview
or details about what was asked, some of those lawmakers spoke to the
Journal a second time and once again emphasized Biden’s strength.”  They
quote Congressman Gregory Meeks, a New York Democrat, saying, “They
just, you know, said that I should give you a call back.” 

I’m wondering if you could characterize what the White House told
Democrats to tell reporters about the president’s age and acuity? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the Dem- — Democrats spoke for themselves.  I
think — you know, you know how stories work.  If there is — there’s a
lot of back-and-forth.  When you all come with a story from us and we
want to make sure you hear from other voices, we — we make that
available to you all.  It is up to — to the reporter if they’re going to
reach out or not to that particular person.

But we expect and we anticipate and we understand that it doesn’t matter
who — if it’s a congressperson or a governor or any elected official,
they’re going to speak for themselves.  They’re going to speak for
themselves. 

And I would say that Representative Greg Meeks has also been very
supportive.  If you fast-forward to where we are today, Representative
Meeks has very — been very supportive of this president continuing,
moving forward.  And we’ve heard from many others — many others.  CBC
more — more broadly has been very supportive.  We heard from the chair,
Chairman Hosford — Horsford from the CBC.  And so, that is the type of
support that we continue to see.

Q    So, there hasn’t been outreach by the White House to Democrats who
might have misgivings about the president’s age or acuity to have them
say positive things about the president publicly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not really — I don’t quite understand where
you’re going with the question.  I — I think I explained it.  Sometimes
when you all are working on stories and we want to hear — you want to —
we — and we were trying to provide supporters from the president, that
is not unusual.  And it is up to the reporter to reach out or not.

And so, that is something that we certainly do.  That is something that
— you know, that is not uncommon.  And — but what I would say more
broadly: There are — there are congressional members, as we’re talking
about what’s happening in Congress, as we’re talking about the
president’s outreach, as we’re talking about, you know, how we move
forward, there are congressional members out there who have been
incredibly supportive. 

So, we have to remember there are hundreds of House members.  And — and
so, you know, there are folks out there —

Q    Can you talk a little about the president’s outreach today and
tomorrow —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so —

Q    — ahead of these —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — all-conference and all-caucus meetings?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is that, as you all know, the
president — the president has done some outreach.  He’s tok- — spoke
about it himself.  I can say, as of today, he has — he has engaged with
dozens of members, whether in person or on calls.  We saw him engaging
with congressional members over the weekend.  We saw him doing that on
several of the trips that he has done over the past 10 days — have been
about six states that he’s been able to — to stop over and — and do —
and engage with supporters.  So, he’s been able to do that.

And there’s a long list — I’m trying to spare you the list here, but
there is a long list: Senator Chris Coons, Senator John Fetterman,
Senator Alex Padilla, Senator Chuck Schumer, Senator Bernie Sanders,
Senator Row- — Raphael Warnock.  It goes on and on: Representative
Clyburn; Al Green; Horsford, as I mentioned already.  There has been a
long list of, we believe, incredibly supportive — supportive
congressional — congressional members who have continued —

Q    We’ve seen many of those lists that have been provided to us —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — from the campaign too, but I’m wondering if the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — has spoken directly with Leader Schumer and Minority Leader
Jeffries —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we shared — we shared that —

Q    — in the last 24 hours and whether the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the president — we —

Q    — believes he has their support?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  We shared that just last week — that the
president spoke to the leadership, I — obviously on the Democratic side.

Q    Has he spoken to them since yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to read out to you as far as
what we’ve shared with you last week.  But the president has been in
regular touch.  And those conversations went very, very well.  

I think you mentioned, in particular, Leader Jeffries, that went almost
for an hour.  The president said that himself.  He said how much they
had a — a very, very good conversation.  The president saw Congresswoman
Dean, as I mentioned.  He saw both senators of Pe- — of Pennsylvania, as
well, yesterday, traveled across the state and — and had, really, two —
two big events with supporters, with Americans who go- — got to hear
directly from the president.  And I think that’s important.

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  Were all three of President Biden’s neurol-
— neurological exams that you’ve confirmed, were they all conducted at
Walter Reed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have a — I don’t have anything to — to
state as to location.  What I can say for sure: that he has seen a
neurologist three times as it relates to the — the exam that he takes
every year.  And I just don’t have a location to speak to.

Q    Well, let me just try —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    — a different way.  I mean, has any neurologist — I’m not —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you know — and you also know —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that the president does go to Walter Reed —

Q    Yeah.  So, I mean, it seemed like he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to do —

Q    — those were taken at —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to do — right —

Q    — at Walter Reed.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to — to do — to do these — to do this — his physical
exams.

Q    Well, has a neurologist — I’m not talking about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — anyone in particular — regardless of the identity, name of that
person, has any neurologist came to the White House to visit President
Biden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you during those exams that he — that
we have been able to do every year for the past three years, and these
are comprehensive exams that we share — a comprehensive report that we
share with all of you — he has seen a neurologist.

Q    And that’s what I’m trying to clarify.  It seems like those were
taken at Walter Reed.  And that’s — I — and so, it’s an important
distinction on all of this, I feel. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You — you all know that he does indeed go to Walter
Reed as part of his physical exam.  That is no secret.  That is
something that he does. 

And I also confirmed that he sees a neurologist every time that he’s
done this — these exams.  I don’t have anything beyond that.

Q    Okay.  Thanks.

Q    Karine —

Q    Karine —

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead —

Q    Why would — why would a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  Go ahead, April

Q    Karine, as you’re talking — as everyone is talking about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — neurological issues, this is different but kind of on that same
page.  The president has had two aneurysms.  Okay?  And there are
complications from aneurysms to include impaired short-term memory,
inability to concentrate, as well as speech difficulties.  Have any
neurologists worked with him or just tried to observe him, as he is a
person who has suffered from two aneurysms that could have been fatal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, April, in the — in the comprehensive reporting
that we share with all of you on a yearly basis, the neurological exam
have been detailed — extremely detailed.  It is directly from the
doctor.  They talk about the specifics of that neurological exam. 

And so, I would refer you to the six-page comprehensive memo, and that’s
where I would refer you to.

Q    But that is something that we know about, that he had two
aneurysms. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And — and that is part — all of those complications are part of a
neurological exam.  Have they tested for that at all?  Do you know?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is that the — the exams have been
detailed, they have been extensive, and that’s what I can share with
you.  I would refer you to the — to the —

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to the — to the document — to the report.

Q    And last question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    We’re just days away from the Republican convention.  How do you —
as this White House, who stands behind this president, how do you work
to do an image change or — an image change to revamp him to make him
shinier and brighter, if you will?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to speak to the Republican
convention.  That’s something that I’m not going to do.  But I am going
to —

Q    But they will be attacking him.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on.  Wait.  Hold on a second.  Hold on. 
Give me a second. 

Look, in the past 10 days, the president has gone to six states.  He
has.  He’s gone to North Carolina, New Jersey, New York, Georgia,
Pennsylvania.  I know that’s a commonwealth, but he’s been to six. 

And in that time, he has engaged directly — directly with the American
public.  And you’ve seen the enthusiasm.  You’ve seen the energy.  He’s
been able to talk to them directly and talk about his goals for the
future, talk about what he’s done in the past three and a half years. 

They have — and they have heard specifically from him on even his
health, even the debate.  And I think that’s important too. 

So — and — and you just heard me lay out the next two weeks.  So, the
president is going to continue to go out there.  He’s going to continue
to be present in the communities.  He’s going to continue to hear
directly from the American people. 

And that’s the best way to do this.  That’s the best way to get out
there.  That’s the best way to make sure that you have your finger on
the pulse and that the American gets — people get to see you for
themselves.

Q    Since you won’t speak to the Republican convention, what about the
Democratic convention in August?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t speak to the Democratic convention either.  I
can’t speak to that.  That’s for the —

Q    But, I mean, how do you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — no, but you’re — you’re asking me to — to
speak to two things that I can’t speak to from here.  That is something
that the campaign and the convention can speak to very, very —

Q    But how do you make him shiny and bright at the NAACP?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — April, you may not like my answer, but I’m telling
you the president is going to continue to go out there.  We just — I
just shared with you at the top a robust plan that the president has to
be out there, whether it is in Vegas, whether it’s in Texas.  And let’s
not forget the other states that he’s visited in the last 10 days — in
the last 10 days. 

There’s a stark difference from what we’ve been doing and what the other
side is doing — a stark difference. 

And so, the president is committed.  He’s going to continue to do that. 
He wants to engage — engage directly with the American people.  Six
hundred people at the church yesterday; 600 people at the event in
Harrisburg — that’s a pretty good start.  And that’s just a
continuation.  That’s actually not a start; that’s a continuation.

Go ahead, Josh.

AIDE:  We need to wrap up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I — I’m getting there.

Q    Is it — is it still the administration’s policy that physicals are
done annually?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, that is — that is — just like every other
president has done before this president, we’re going to continue to —
to uphold that.

Q    So, it would be fair to as- — to assume that, as of now, his next
expected physical would be next year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It would be next year.  The last one was in February.

Q    Okay.  And can you clarify for us — forgive me, I might have missed
it or by design. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    He will or he won’t go to the Hill tomorrow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.

Q    He will or he won’t go to the Hill tomorrow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I don’t have any engagement to share.  As you
know, NATO is front of mind. 

Q    Yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s what he’s focused on.  You saw that letter that
came out from the president.  He’s going to be focusing on the more than
30 world leaders that are coming — that are coming here for a 75th
anniversary of NATO, continuing to show our — the strength of our
Alliance. 

I think it is — I think it is something that the president is very much
looking forward to.  And you’ll certainly hear from the president on
Thursday when he gives his press conference — his “big boy” press
conference —

Q    So, we —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — as your colleague Justin has — has stated now many
times.

Q    I’ll — I’ll give him your regards.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.  (Laughs.)

Q    We shouldn’t expect, then, some sort of big outreach push to
member- — Democratic members of the House and Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — we have shared — I just shared that
he has done dozens of calls out — not just calls, but also face to face,
as he did in Pennsylvania. 

His — his team — campaign side, they’re going to do their thing.  We’re
going to do our thing on our side.  And he, you know, respects
tremendously Congress.  And so, we’re — he’s in regular contact with
them, and that’s what you’re going to continue to see. 

Q    Is he going to visit the storm site?

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody. 

Q    Karine — Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everyone.

Q    You have time for one more, Karine.  (Laughs.)

Q    Thank you.

3:33 P.M. EDT
