---
date: '2023-11-29'
modified_time: 2023-11-28 19:19:27-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-29 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/29/president-biden-to-visit-largest-wind-tower-manufacturer-in-the-world-highlight-how-bidenomics-is-driving-record-investments-in-congresswoman-lauren-boeberts-district-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Visit Largest Wind Tower Manufacturer in the World, Highlight\
  \ How Bidenomics Is Driving Record Investments in Congresswoman Lauren Boebert\u2019\
  s\_District"
---
 
*New Treasury analysis shows the Inflation Reduction Act is delivering
clean energy investment to communities that have been too often left
behind*

Today, President Biden will visit CS Wind in Pueblo, Colorado — the
largest wind tower manufacturer in the world — to highlight how
Bidenomics is creating jobs and opportunities in Colorado’s third
congressional district. CS Wind recently announced it is expanding
operations and creating hundreds of jobs as a direct result of the
Inflation Reduction Act — which self-described MAGA Republican
Representative Lauren Boebert called “dangerous for America,” a “massive
failure,” and “bad for Colorado’s Third District.”  
  
Coinciding with the visit, the Department of the Treasury released a new
analysis showing that clean energy investments spurred by the Inflation
Reduction Act are predominantly going to underserved communities and
energy communities. The analysis shows that President Biden is
delivering on his promise to create opportunities and jobs in
communities too often left behind, while self-described MAGA Republicans
like Representative Lauren Boebert continue to undermine their
constituents by trying to block the President’s agenda.  
  
**Since President Biden took office, companies have announced **[$7
billion](https://invest.gov/)** in new manufacturing and clean energy
investments in Colorado **—** including hundreds of millions of dollars
in Representative Boebert’s district. **Outside groups estimate that the
Inflation Reduction Act has [helped
create](https://climatepower.us/resources/new-climate-power-report-finds-president-bidens-clean-energy-boom-is-210000-jobs-strong/) over
3,500 good-paying clean energy jobs in Colorado in the one year since
the President signed the law**. But if self-described MAGA Republicans
like Representative Boebert had their way, Colorado would lose out on
billions of dollars of those investments, jobs, and opportunities:**

-   **Treasury’s new analysis shows that clean energy investments
    announced since the President signed the Inflation Reduction Act
    into law are benefitting economically disadvantaged communities**,
    including in Pueblo, CO.
    -   The analysis shows that 99% of clean energy investments in
        Colorado since the Inflation Reduction Act passed are in
        counties with below-average weekly wages, 99% are in counties
        with below-median household income, 99% are in counties with
        below-average college graduation rates, and 68% are in counties
        with higher-than-average child poverty rates. The analysis also
        finds that investments have grown especially quickly in energy
        communities that have a history of fossil fuel production.
    -   **Representative
        Boebert **[**called**](https://boebert.house.gov/media/newsletters/fighting-deep-state)** the
        Inflation Reduction Act “dangerous for America” and said it
        “needs to be repealed” — **which would put in jeopardy the jobs
        and investments the law is creating in her home district —
        particularly in underserved communities.  
         
-   **Earlier this year, CS Wind broke ground on an over $200 million
    expansion to its Pueblo facility and directly attributed its
    investment to the Inflation Reduction Act **— part of the
    President’s Bidenomics agenda. The investment to expand the largest
    wind tower manufacturing facility in the world will create 850 new
    jobs in an energy community in Colorado’s third congressional
    district by 2026, help meet the increased demand for wind towers,
    and bring clean energy supply chains to the United States. Since
    beginning the expansion, CS Wind has more than doubled its workforce
    in Pueblo, hiring 500 new employees so far.
    -   **Representative
        Boebert **[**said**](https://twitter.com/RepBoebert/status/1556677231975571457)** voting
        against the Inflation Reduction Act would be “the easiest no
        vote yet,” **even though the law is bringing over 800 new jobs
        to her district from this one project alone.  
         
-   **Last October, Primergy Solar announced a $400 million investment
    to build a 1,900-acre solar field in Pueblo that could power up to
    56,000 homes and create 250 jobs.**
    -   **Representative Boebert still called the Inflation Reduction
        Act a “massive failure”** nearly one year after Primergy made
        its announcement, which will benefit tens of thousands of people
        in her district.

If Representative Boebert had her way, Colorado would have lost out on
over $5.6 billion in infrastructure projects already announced in
Colorado, including over $1 billion for high-speed internet from
President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law:

-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provided nearly **$17 million to
    redesign streets **and better connect the West Side to downtown in
    Pueblo and **$13.2 million to revitalize Main Street** in Delta,
    Colorado — both located in Colorado’s third congressional district.
    -   **Representative Boebert called the infrastructure law
        “garbage,” and “wasteful.”**  
         
-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also invested $160 million in the
    Arkansas Valley Conduit — a 103-mile water pipeline that starts in
    Pueblo and will bring clean water to 50,000 people across
    southeastern Colorado.
    -   **Representative Boebert called the Infrastructure Bill a
        “scam,” and claimed it was “punishment for rural America.”**

The Inflation Reduction Act makes a historic commitment to build a new
clean energy economy, powered by American innovators, American workers,
and American manufacturers, that will create good-paying union jobs,
reduce pollution, and advance environmental justice. Since President
Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act into law, companies have
announced that at least eleven U.S. wind energy manufacturing facilities
plan to open, re-open, or expand to serve the growing onshore wind
industry. Additionally, investments in the U.S. offshore wind industry
have increased by $7.7 billion since the President signed the Inflation
Reduction Act into law. U.S. wind energy generation is expected to
triple, and production could meet more than 50% of the national demand
for wind turbine blades and towers by 2030, as domestic manufacturing
continues to grow. In 2022, wind power accounted for [22% of new
electricity
capacity](https://www.energy.gov/articles/us-department-energy-projects-strong-growth-us-wind-power-sector) installed
in the U.S., representing $12 billion in capital investment, and
employing more than 125,000 Americans.  
  
President Biden made a commitment to be a President for all Americans,
regardless of political party, and he’s kept that promise. The
Biden-Harris Administration will continue to deliver for workers and
families in Colorado’s third congressional district and across the
country — even if self-described MAGA Republicans like Representative
Boebert put politics ahead of jobs and opportunities created by
Bidenomics.

\###
