---
date: '2023-11-26'
published_time: 2023-11-26 15:11:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/26/travel-of-national-security-advisor-to-the-vice-president-philip-gordons-travel-to-guatemala-and-el-salvador/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Travel of National Security Advisor to the Vice President Philip Gordon\u2019\
  s Travel to Guatemala and El\_Salvador"
---
 
National Security Advisor to the Vice President Dr. Philip Gordon and a
delegation of high-level U.S. officials, including USAID Deputy
Administrator Isobel Coleman, will travel to Guatemala and El Salvador
November 27-28 to meet with government officials, private sector
leaders, and civil society members. In both countries Dr. Gordon and the
delegation will discuss bilateral cooperation and emphasize the
importance of strengthening democracy, rule of law, and good governance
to promote prosperity in the region.  
  
Dr. Gordon and the delegation will highlight the Vice President’s
continued leadership
[implementing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/06/fact-sheet-update-on-the-u-s-strategy-for-addressing-the-root-causes-of-migration-in-central-america-2/)
the Biden-Harris Administration’s Root Causes Strategy—a core component
of the Administration’s efforts to address the root causes of migration
from northern Central America, including through improving civilian
security, good governance, human rights and labor protections,
countering gender-based violence, and expanding economic opportunity.   
  
They will also advance work on [Central America
Forward](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/06/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-launches-next-phase-of-public-private-partnership-for-northern-central-america/),
the public-private partnership that has generated more than [$4.2
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/06/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-public-private-partnership-has-generated-more-than-4-2-billion-in-private-sector-commitments-for-northern-central-america/)
in private sector investments, thanks to the Vice President’s
leadership. Dr. Gordon and the delegation will meet with existing
private sector partners – and prospective partners – to mobilize further
support, view the impact of existing investments, and discuss ways to
create economic opportunities and good jobs in the region.  
  
The delegation will also highlight U.S. assistance to northern Central
America to advance the Root Causes Strategy and lawful labor pathways. 
Under this Strategy, the United States provided over $1 billion in FY
2022, including nearly $800 million in economic, development, and
security assistance. These funds are a part of the Biden-Harris
Administration’s commitment to work with Congress to provide [$4 billion
over four years to address the root causes of
migration](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/03/09/fact-sheet-president-bidens-budget-strengthens-border-security-enhances-legal-pathways-and-provides-resources-to-enforce-our-immigration-laws/)
and help the people of the region create safer, more stable futures in
their home communities. 

\###
