---
date: '2023-11-03'
modified_time: 2023-11-03 19:08:37-04:00
published_time: 2023-11-03 19:08:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/03/message-to-the-congress-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-threat-from-securities-investments-that-finance-certain-companies-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency With\
  \ Respect to the Threat From Securities Investments That Finance Certain Companies\
  \ of the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to the threat from
securities investments that finance certain companies of the People’s
Republic of China (PRC) that was declared in Executive Order 13959 of
November 12, 2020, and expanded in scope in Executive Order 14032 of
June 3, 2021, is to continue in effect beyond November 12, 2023. 

     The PRC exploits United States capital to resource and to enable
the development and modernization of its military, intelligence, and
other security apparatuses, which continues to allow the PRC to directly
threaten the United States homeland and United States forces overseas.
 Through the national strategy of Military-Civil Fusion, the PRC
increases the size of the country’s military-industrial complex by
compelling civilian Chinese companies to support its military and
intelligence activities.  Those companies, though remaining ostensibly
private and civilian, directly support the PRC’s military, intelligence,
and security apparatuses.  At the same time, those companies raise
capital by selling securities to United States investors that trade on
public exchanges both here and abroad, lobbying United States index
providers and funds to include these securities in market offerings, and
engaging in other acts to ensure access to United States capital.

     The PRC military-industrial complex, by directly supporting the
efforts of the PRC’s military, intelligence, and other security
apparatuses, continues to constitute an unusual and extraordinary
threat, which has its source in whole or substantial part outside the
United States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of
the United States.  In addition, the use of Chinese surveillance
technology outside the PRC and the development or use of Chinese
surveillance technology to facilitate repression or serious human rights
abuse continue to constitute unusual and extraordinary threats, which
have their source in whole or substantial part outside the United
States, to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the
United States.

     Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 13959, expanded in scope
by Executive Order 14032, with respect to the threat from securities
investments that finance certain companies of the PRC.  
  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
November 3, 2023.
