---
date: '2023-11-15'
modified_time: 2023-11-15 21:09:54-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-15 21:09:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/15/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Xi Jinping of\
  \ the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. today held a Summit with President Xi
Jinping of the People’s Republic of China (PRC), in Woodside,
California.  The two leaders held a candid and constructive discussion
on a range of bilateral and global issues including areas of potential
cooperation and exchanged views on areas of difference. 

President Biden emphasized that the United States and China are in
competition, noting that the United States would continue to invest in
the sources of American strength at home and align with allies and
partners around the world.  He stressed that the United States would
always stand up for its interests, its values, and its allies and
partners.  He reiterated that the world expects the United States and
China to manage competition responsibly to prevent it from veering into
conflict, confrontation, or a new Cold War.

The two leaders made progress on a number of key issues. They welcomed
the resumption of bilateral cooperation to combat global illicit drug
manufacturing and trafficking, including synthetic drugs like fentanyl,
and establishment of a working group for ongoing communication and law
enforcement coordination on counternarcotics issues. President Biden
stressed that this new step will advance the U.S. whole-of-government
effort to counter the evolving threat of illicit synthetic drugs and to
reduce the diversion of precursor chemicals and pill presses to drug
cartels.

The two leaders welcomed the resumption of high-level
military-to-military communication, as well as the U.S.-China Defense
Policy Coordination Talks and the U.S.-China Military Maritime
Consultative Agreement meetings.  Both sides are also resuming telephone
conversations between theater commanders.

The leaders affirmed the need to address the risks of advanced AI
systems and improve AI safety through U.S.-China government talks.

The two leaders exchanged views on key regional and global challenges. 
President Biden underscored the United States’ support for a free and
open Indo-Pacific that is connected, prosperous, secure, and resilient. 
The President reaffirmed the United States’ ironclad commitment to
defending our Indo-Pacific allies.  The President emphasized the United
States’ enduring commitment to freedom of navigation and overflight,
adherence to international law, maintaining peace and stability in the
South China Sea and East China Sea, and the complete denuclearization of
the Korean Peninsula.

President Biden reaffirmed that the United States, alongside allies and
partners, will continue to support Ukraine’s defense against Russian
aggression, to ensure Ukraine emerges from this war as a democratic,
independent, sovereign, and prosperous nation that can deter and defend
itself against future aggression.  Regarding the Israel-Hamas conflict,
the President reiterated U.S. support for Israel’s right to defend
itself against terrorism and emphasized the importance of all countries
using their influence to prevent escalation and expansion of the
conflict.

President Biden underscored the universality of human rights and the
responsibility of all nations to respect their international human
rights commitments. He raised concerns regarding PRC human rights
abuses, including in Xinjiang, Tibet, and Hong Kong.  On
Taiwan, President Biden emphasized that our one China policy has not
changed and has been consistent across decades and administrations.  He
reiterated that the United States opposes any unilateral changes to the
status quo from either side, that we expect cross-strait differences to
be resolved by peaceful means, and that the world has an interest in
peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait.  He called for restraint in
the PRC’s use of military activity in and around the Taiwan Strait. 
President Biden also raised continued concerns about the PRC’s unfair
trade policies, non-market economic practices, and punitive actions
against U.S. firms, which harm American workers and families.  The
President emphasized that the United States will continue to take
necessary actions to prevent advanced U.S. technologies from being used
to undermine our own national security, without unduly limiting trade
and investment. 

The President again emphasized that it remains a priority to resolve the
cases of American citizens who are wrongfully detained or subject to
exit bans in China.  

The two leaders reiterated the importance of ties between the people of
the United States and the People’s Republic of China, and committed to
work towards a significant further increase in scheduled passenger
flights early next year, in parallel with actions to restore full
implementation of the U.S.-China air transportation agreement, to
support exchanges between the two countries. The two leaders also
encouraged the expansion of educational, student, youth, cultural,
sports, and business exchanges.

The two leaders underscored the importance of working together to
accelerate efforts to tackle the climate crisis in this critical
decade.  They welcomed recent positive discussions between their
respective special envoys for climate, including on national actions to
reduce emissions in the 2020s, on common approaches toward a successful
COP 28, and on operationalizing the Working Group on Enhancing Climate
Action in the 2020s to accelerate concrete climate actions. President
Biden stated that the United States stands ready to work together with
the PRC to address transnational challenges, such as health security and
debt and climate finance in developing countries and emerging markets.

Building on the November 2022 meeting in Bali where they discussed the
development of principles related to U.S. – China relations, the two
leaders acknowledged the efforts of their respective teams to explore
best practices for the relationship.  They stressed the importance of
responsibly managing competitive aspects of the relationship, preventing
conflict, maintaining open lines of communication, cooperating on areas
of shared interest, upholding the UN Charter, and all countries treating
each other with respect and finding a way to live alongside each other
peacefully. The leaders welcomed continued discussions in this regard.

The two leaders agreed that their teams will follow-up on their
discussions in San Francisco with continued high-level diplomacy and
interactions, including visits in both directions and ongoing
working-level consultations in key areas, including on commercial,
economic, financial, Asia-Pacific, arms control and nonproliferation,
maritime, export control enforcement, policy-planning, agriculture, and
disability issues.

\###
