---
date: '2023-11-29'
published_time: 2023-11-29 06:14:45-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/29/readout-of-national-security-advisor-to-the-vice-president-philip-gordons-travel-to-el-salvador/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor to the Vice President Philip Gordon\u2019\
  s Travel to El\_Salvador"
---
 
National Security Advisor to the Vice President Dr. Philip Gordon and a
delegation of high-level U.S. officials, including USAID Deputy
Administrator Isobel Coleman, traveled to El Salvador on November 28 and
met with government officials, private sector leaders, and civil society
representatives. Dr. Gordon and the delegation discussed bilateral
cooperation and emphasized the importance of good governance, adherence
to the rule of law, and respect for human rights to promote prosperity
and security in the region.

In a meeting with President Nayib Bukele, Dr. Gordon emphasized the
importance of the bilateral relationship; the need to uphold human
rights and due process; and the potential to expand economic
opportunity.

In a discussion with civil society leaders, Dr. Gordon and the
delegation reaffirmed the U.S. commitment to human rights, fair judicial
processes, and the importance of civic space.

During a tour of an H2 visa center, Dr. Gordon and the delegation saw
firsthand how the U.S. government advances legal pathways for migration
and promotes fair recruitment and labor protections for workers while
supporting U.S. businesses through the H2 visa temporary worker
program. 

In a gender-based violence site visit, Dr. Gordon and the delegation
discussed with civil society leaders our efforts to combat gender-based
violence in further support of the Root Causes Strategy while also
stressing the importance of supporting victims, enhancing civilian
security, and adhering to the rule of law.

Dr. Gordon and the delegation also engaged with El Salvador’s Minister
of Economy and private sector leaders to discuss inclusive economic
growth and the challenges and opportunities for attracting investment. 
They discussed ways to mobilize additional support for Central America
Forward, the public-private partnership led by the Vice President, which
has generated more than $4.2 billion in private sector commitments for
the region.

\###
