---
date: '2023-11-27'
modified_time: 2023-11-26 19:35:10-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-27 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/27/first-lady-jill-biden-announces-2023-white-house-holiday-themethe-magic-wonder-and-joy-of-the-holidays/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Announces 2023 White\_House Holiday Theme:The \u201C\
  Magic, Wonder, and Joy\u201D of the\_Holidays"
---
 
***The 2023 White House Holiday Display is designed to capture the pure,
unfiltered delight and imagination of childhood, to encourage visitors
to reflect on this time of year with hearts open to the magic, wonder,
and joy of the season.  ***

   
**November, 27, 2023** — Today, First Lady Jill Biden is announcing the
theme for the 2023 White House Holiday Season: The “Magic, Wonder, and
Joy” of the Holidays.  
   
“The 2023 White House holiday theme is inspired by how children
experience this festive season: completely present in the beauty and
bounty around them, their senses alight, with hearts open to the magic,
wonder, and joy of the holidays,” **the President and First Lady wrote
in a welcome letter at the beginning of the commemorative 2023 White
House Holiday Guide. **   
   
“In this season of reflection and goodwill, we hope you will embrace
your inner child and delight in simply being present with those you
love. It is a time for our senses to awaken—for each of us to smell the
aroma of favorite family recipes, to hear the warmth of a dear friend’s
voice, to see the glow of lights and decorations, to taste the sweetness
of candies and treats, and to feel the quiet stillness and strength of
faith,” **the First Lady and President continued**. “We hope you enjoy
the holidays at the White House —’The People’s House,’ your house. May
the memories made here remind us all of the blessing that is our
Nation.”  
   
During an event at the White House later today, the First Lady will
officially unveil the holiday and seasonal decor, offer her holiday
message to the Nation, and thank the volunteers from across the country
who helped decorate the White House for the season. As part of
her *Joining Forces* initiative to support military families, the First
Lady invited National Guard families to be the first members of the
public to experience the White House holiday decor. As a fellow National
Guard mother, Dr. Biden wanted to show appreciation for, and honor, the
special role the National Guard plays in serving our country. The
National Guard is a unique element of the U.S. military that serves both
community and country, in domestic and foreign missions.   
   
After delivering her holiday message, the children of National Guard
families, as well as local military families, will be treated to a
special performance by the cast of the North American tour of Disney’s
stage musical, *Frozen*.  
   
The White House expects to welcome approximately 100,000 visitors during
the holiday season. Videos, photos, and information about the decor will
be available on WhiteHouse.gov/Holidays. Additionally, over the course
of the holidays, a variety of interactive viewing experiences will
launch on digital platforms, allowing individuals to engage with the
White House during the holidays from home.  
   
**2023 White House Holidays by the numbers:**

-   Approximately 14,975 feet of ribbon, over 350 candles, over 33,892
    ornaments, and over 22,100 bells were used this year to decorate the
    White House.
-   There are 98 Christmas trees throughout the White House complex.
-   The Gingerbread White House creation includes 40 sheets of sugar
    cookie dough, 40 sheets of gingerbread dough, 90 pounds of
    pastillage, 30 pounds of chocolate, and 50 pounds of royal icing.
-   Over 142,425 holiday lights decorate the trees, garlands, wreaths,
    and displays in the White House.
-   Seventy-two classic wreaths adorn the north and south facades of the
    White House.
-   It takes over 300 dedicated volunteers from across the country
    working a full week to decorate the inside and outside of the White
    House.

**“Magic, Wonder, and Joy,” the 2023 Holidays Theme:**  
  
Each room and design element throughout the White House holiday display
encourages visitors to embrace their inner child, indulge their senses,
and delight in the “Magic, Wonder, and Joy” of the holidays.  
  
Guests enter the East Wing of the White House under the festive branches
of an enchanting and magical Christmas tree. The entrance decor invites
visitors to summon joyful memories of childhood at the holidays: lying
under the Christmas tree and gazing up with wonder, marveling at the
twinkling lights, and feeling the soft pine needles above. Holiday candy
and sweet treats of the season float overhead in both the East Wing
Lobby and East Colonnade, reminding children and families of the
delicious flavors of the holidays.  
  
**The Gold Star Tree**  
  
The first Christmas tree featured inside the White House is adorned with
wooden Gold Star ornaments that are engraved with the names of fallen
service members. The Gold Star tree honors the heroic men and women of
our Nation’s military who have laid down their lives for our country and
the families who carry on their legacies. May God bless our troops and
their families.  
  
**The Ground Floor Corridor**  
  
The marble arches of the Ground Floor Corridor are sprinkled with
holiday messages sent from Americans across the country to the President
and First Lady. Letters to Santa Claus are magically flying in and out
of vintage mail boxes, ready to be sent to the North Pole with a stamp
and a wish.  Also on the Ground Floor Corridor is the first nod to the
200th Anniversary of the publication of ‘*Twas the Night Before
Christmas*, a poem and book deeply etched into so many childhood
memories. The Library of Congress provided a sampling of editions from
the last 200 years to the White House, displayed in cases for visitors
to remember and enjoy.   
  
**The Library**  
  
The Library honors the tradition and magic of bedtime stories during the
holiday season. Golden moons and shimmering stars are suspended above,
with treasured holiday storybooks throughout the peaceful scene. Santa
and his sleigh are seen through the window, flying past a full moon on
his way to the White House.  
  
**The Vermeil Room**  
  
The decor of the Vermeil Room (French for gilded silver) represents the
joy of music and performance during the holidays. At the center of the
room is a mechanical theater creation, with rotating United States
Marine Band figures entertaining guests with herald trumpets. Flanking
the stage are Christmas trees draped with whimsical handcrafted
instruments and snare drums, inviting guests to sing their favorite
holiday tune. The mantel is graced with sculpted ballerinas, spinning
out of music boxes.  
  
**The China Room**  
  
Favorite flavors and scents of the season are featured in the China
Room. A White House sweet shop sets the scene in this room, with holiday
cakes, cookies, and gingerbread enhancing the space. Piles of cooking
supplies and baking ingredients remind guests of familiar recipes that
bring generations of families together year after year during the
holidays.  
  
**The East Room**  
  
The joyful anticipation of the holidays is front and center in the East
Room, with Advent calendars counting down the days to Christmas. Behind
each number is a special surprise for children of all ages to enjoy.  
  
As the largest room in the White House, the East Room has hosted public
receptions, ceremonies, bill signings, and other memorable occasions. It
also includes Gilbert Stuart’s portrait of George Washington, which
First Lady Dolley Madison helped save in 1814 when the White House was
about to be set aflame during the War of 1812.  
  
The East Room features a Neapolitan crèche, or Nativity scene, with over
40 figurines, most dating back to the eighteenth century. The crèche has
been displayed during every White House holiday season since 1967.  
  
**The Green Room**

Glowing candles and stained glass symbolize the peace, strength, and joy
we find in faith. It is often in quiet, candlelit rooms when we can see
most clearly, center ourselves in faith, and embrace the wonder of our
world around us.  
  
Arranged in the windows are colorful sprays of crystal and prisms, mixed
with shimmering fabric and embroidered starbursts to reflect light.
Colorful orchids, a favorite of First Lady Jill Biden, and holiday
florals are incorporated throughout the room.  
  
**The Blue Room**  
  
The Blue Room showcases the official White House Christmas Tree. This
year’s tree is an 18½ foot Fraser Fir from Fleetwood, North Carolina and
stands floor to ceiling, filling the oval room. Every year, the Blue
Room’s chandelier is removed to accommodate the Christmas tree’s full
height.  
  
The stunning tree celebrates cheerful scenes, landscapes, and
neighborhoods from all across the country, with names of every state,
territory, and the District of Columbia, showcased throughout the decor.
With bright colors and three-dimensional elements, guests will gaze in
wonder as they are taken on a delightful adventure around the tree. A
replica of a vintage passenger train, on loan from the Train Collectors
Association, magically weaves through the tree’s base.  
  
This year’s official White House Christmas Tree was presented to the
First Lady by siblings Amber Scott and Alex Church of Cline Church
Nursery, the 2023 Grand Champion Grower in the National Christmas Tree
Association’s annual contest.  
  
**Red Room**  
  
The decor of the Red Room represents the joy of making holiday crafts
together. Whether sewing a costume for the Christmas pageant, stringing
popcorn for the tree, or fashioning homemade ornaments, the holidays are
a time for creativity and imagination. As part of the First
Lady’s *Joining Forces *initiative to support military and veteran
families, caregivers, and survivors, the ornaments in this room were
created out of the handprints and painted family portraits of
military-connected children, ensuring that military and veteran families
can see themselves and their talents reflected in this year’s holiday
display.  
  
A Red Room tradition since 1975, fresh cranberries are integrated into
the decor as topiary forms. Marking a new twist to the time-honored
tradition are cranberry red beads incorporated into the room’s handmade
popcorn garland.  
  
**State Dining Room**  
  
Embodying the “Magic, Wonder, and Joy” of the holidays is Santa’s
Workshop in the State Dining Room. Elves’ workbenches, stools, and
ladders circle the Christmas trees, with tools and gifts-in-progress
filling out the decor. Life-sized nutcrackers and dancing ballerinas
flank the Christmas trees and reside within the window wells, with
festive ribbons and gift tags lining the fireplace.   
  
An engraving on the mantel reads, “I Pray Heaven To Bestow The Best of
Blessings On This House…” The words were taken from a letter written by
President John Adams to his wife, Abigail, dated November 2, 1800. These
words are now known as the White House blessing.  
  
**2023 Gingerbread White House**  
  
A favorite for all during the holidays is the annual Gingerbread White
House. Inspired by the 200th anniversary of the publication of *’Twas
the Night Before Christmas*, this year’s Gingerbread White House
features a recreation of this storied tale. The display includes a sugar
cookie replica of the famous book, as well as Santa’s sleigh flying
above the White House grounds. This magical poem has delighted children
for 200 years, with families across the world gathering together for
generations to recite the lyrical lines by memory.  
  
**The Cross Hall**  
  
The Cross Hall unites the State Rooms of the White House, with the East
Room and State Dining Room at the opposite ends, and the Green, Blue,
and Red Rooms opening from the south side. The slightly arched ceiling
springs from the cast plaster molding designed during the Theodore
Roosevelt renovation of 1902.  
  
During the holidays, the Cross Hall features the official White House
Menorah, created in 2021 by the White House Executive Residence
Carpentry Shop. The menorah was constructed using wood that was removed
more than seventy years ago during the Truman-era renovation of the
White House.  
  
**The Grand Foyer**  
  
Closing out the 2023 White House holiday display is an incredible,
eye-catching recreation of *’Twas the Night Before Christmas* in the
Grand Foyer. With Santa’s enchanting sleigh and reindeer suspended in
the air, and the Cross Hall’s architectural niches featuring elements of
the famous story, guests will leave their White House holiday experience
with hearts full of “Magic, Wonder, and Joy.”  
  
**2023 White House Holiday Guide Illustrator**  
  
Children’s book illustrator Raúl Colón created the inspired artwork
throughout the 2023 White House Holiday Guide, bringing the First Lady’s
holiday theme to life on the page.   
  
**2023 White House Holiday Recognitions and Support**  
  
The President and Dr. Biden thank the Executive Residence staff and the
team of over 300 volunteers from across the country who dedicated their
time, energy, and talents to transform the White House for the holiday
season.   
  
The President and Dr. Biden, and the entire White House team, are
grateful for the talents and support from: 

-   The National Confectioners Association; 
-   The Train Collectors Association;
-   The Library of Congress; and
-   The creative design teams of Burke & Pryde, DesignMa, Dodge-Chrome,
    Inc., Emily Barton Design, Glitterville Studios, Mark Gagnon,
    Rafanelli Events, and Silver Lining Design Group.

\###
