---
date: '2023-11-17'
modified_time: 2023-11-17 17:33:24-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-17 17:33:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/17/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-andres-manuel-lopez-obrador-of-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Andr\xE9s Manuel\
  \ L\xF3pez Obrador of\_Mexico"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with President Andrés Manuel
López Obrador of Mexico, in San Francisco, California.  The two leaders
reaffirmed the U.S.-Mexico relationship as a consequential strategic
partnership that spans the full spectrum of national and homeland
security interests ranging from economic competitiveness and climate
change to citizen security and migration management. 

Recognizing the devastating effects of the fentanyl and synthetic opioid
crisis, President Biden expressed appreciation for the full commitment
President López Obrador has made to confront this challenge through
domestic efforts, as well as bilaterally, trilaterally with Canada
though the Trilateral Fentanyl Commission, and multilaterally through
the Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats.  The leaders
discussed ways the United States and Mexico can expand law enforcement
cooperation as we combat the trafficking of people, illicit drugs, and
arms, and dismantle the violent transnational criminal organizations
that run these trafficking networks and terrorize our communities. 

The United States and Mexico share the objective of making North America
the most dynamic, competitive, and prosperous region in the world. 
President Biden thanked President López Obrador for Mexico’s
participation in the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity.  He
reiterated that with massive shifts in global supply chains, the
availability of clean energy technologies, and advances in artificial
intelligence, our countries have a once-in-a-generation opportunity to
boost North American prosperity through the creation of good jobs for
both our countries, all while meeting our respective national goals to
combat the climate crisis.  The leaders discussed the importance of
ensuring our region’s investment climate bolsters efforts to deepen
economic integration and secure our supply chains, including through
nearshoring.  Mexico is now the United States’ largest trading partner,
with two-way trade in goods and services totaling $863.4 billion in
2022.  This trade directly and indirectly supports millions of jobs in
both countries.  Cooperation between our countries on regulatory
alignment and our supply chain coordination, particularly in the
information and communication technologies and semiconductor sectors, is
helping to ensure the United States and Mexico are able to take full
advantage of economic opportunities now and in the future.  

President Biden recognized the essential partnership that we have built
with Mexico to manage unprecedented levels of migration across the
Western Hemisphere.  With regard to enforcement, President Biden
thanked President López Obrador for sustaining his effective containment
operations and joining the United States in repatriating individuals who
do not have a legal basis through which to remain in our countries. This
is critical to deterring irregular migration to our shared border. The
United States has conducted a record number of removals this year, and
most recently restarted removal flights to Venezuela. The leaders
discussed the need for all countries in the region to do their part to
humanely manage migration, and they agreed to work together to address
the actions that Nicaragua and certain private sector entities are
taking to facilitate irregular migration for profit. The United States
is currently exploring options within our legal framework to penalize
this activity. 

The leaders also discussed their joint commitment to address the root
causes of migration across the Western Hemisphere and to expand lawful
pathways for migration.  On the topic of root causes, both leaders
expressed concern about efforts to undermine the electoral process in
Guatemala.  On legal pathways, the United States and Mexico jointly
launched a humanitarian parole process earlier this year for Cubans,
Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans, and paired it with consequences
for unlawful entry; nearly 300,000 individuals from these countries have
come legally to the United States in the last 12 months under this
initiative.  This led to a dramatic and sustained drop in irregular
migration at our shared border.  Building on this, the United States
launched the Safe Mobility Office Initiative in April 2023 with
countries across the region.  Since the SMO Initiative started, the
United States has welcomed more than 2,000 refugees to the United
States.  President Biden recognized steps that Mexico is taking to
expand access to legal pathways including work visas inside Mexico,
particularly for Central Americans. The two leaders agreed to sustain
and expand the close cooperation that we have achieved in managing
migration in the Western Hemisphere.  This work is at the heart of the
Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection.

Recognizing that the United States and Mexico have a shared stake in
each other’s prosperity and security, the two Presidents committed to
continuing to partner in multiple dimensions to capitalize on economic
opportunity and to jointly lead in meeting the global and regional
challenges of fentanyl and migration.

\###
