---
date: '2023-11-13'
published_time: 2023-11-13 21:57:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/joint-statement-from-the-leaders-of-the-united-states-and-the-republic-of-indonesia-elevating-relations-to-a-comprehensive-strategic-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement from the Leaders of the United\_States and the Republic of\
  \ Indonesia: Elevating Relations to a Comprehensive Strategic\_Partnership"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. is honored to welcome Indonesian
President Joko Widodo to Washington, D.C.  The two leaders mark a
historic new phase of bilateral cooperation and friendship between the
world’s second- and third-largest democracies.  On the cusp of
celebrating 75 years of diplomatic relations and recognizing the two
nations’ shared values of democracy and pluralism and common commitment
to the rules-based international order, President Biden and President
Widodo commit to elevate the U.S.-Indonesia relationship to a
Comprehensive Strategic Partnership.      
  
In the eight years since establishing the U.S.-Indonesia Strategic
Partnership, the two countries have made remarkable strides in
increasing mutual understanding and trust and strengthening
cooperation.  Under the elevated framework of a Comprehensive Strategic
Partnership, President Biden and President Widodo intend to further
expand cooperation on all issues of common concern, including good
governance; pluralism; and respect for human rights, the rule of law,
sovereignty, sustainable development, and territorial integrity.  The
United States and Indonesia intend to remain deep friends and close
partners, working hand-in-hand to deliver a better future for our
citizens and tackle the emerging challenges of the twenty-first
century.   
  
**<u>Promoting Inclusive Economic Growth through Innovation, Sustainable
Development, Public Health, and Digital Transformation</u>**  
  
The two leaders reaffirm the importance of innovation-driven, inclusive
economic growth as a core pillar of our efforts to deliver better lives
and livelihoods for the American and Indonesian people.  Both sides plan
to work together to boost bilateral trade and deepen cooperation on
economic policy, including through the U.S.-Indonesia Trade and
Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) and other platforms, and by
preparing regulatory measures in an open and transparent manner.   
  
President Widodo and President Biden express firm intent to support
market-based economic reforms that promote decent work, social justice,
freedom of association, and collective bargaining, and affirm broad,
supportive, and constructive bilateral engagement to ensure a trade and
investment relationship that is built upon high standards. The leaders
look forward to further engagement and progress under the U.S.-Indonesia
TIFA, which provides an important opportunity for the United States and
Indonesia to work together on a range of issues, including trade in
services, intellectual property, labor, investment, agricultural and
industrial goods, and to facilitate exchange and dialogue among relevant
stakeholders.  
  
President Biden expresses his support for Indonesia initiating the
accession process to become a full member of the Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD).  Corresponding to the
commencement of this process, the United States looks forward to working
with all OECD members to ensure Indonesia is successful in fulfilling
all its commitments in the OECD accession roadmap, including all
necessary economic, trade, labor, and employment reforms.  
  
The leaders pledge to continue strengthening a non-discriminatory, open,
fair, inclusive, equitable, transparent, and rules-based multilateral
trading system with the World Trade Organization (WTO) at its core.  In
addition, both sides applaud the progress thus far and look forward to
additional substantial progress under the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework for Prosperity (IPEF), which will deliver concrete benefits to
the economies and workers of the two countries and the region.  
  
President Biden and President Joko Widodo recognize Indonesia’s global
leadership in the nickel, cobalt, and other critical minerals value
chains, the United States’ significant critical mineral resources, and
the Biden Administration’s commitment to developing the full U.S.
critical mineral supply chain.  They emphasize the opportunity to create
high-standard clean energy supply chain jobs in both countries through a
robust partnership between the United States and Indonesia that leads to
mutually beneficial development of domestic resources in accordance with
fair market-based rules.   
  
They commit to work together to reduce supply chain dependencies and
vulnerabilities, promote supply chain transparency, and expand access to
secure and sustainable critical minerals sources.  They affirm the
importance of strong worker and environmental protections to prevent
exploitation and promote sustainability in the international mining
sector.   
  
They determine to take concrete steps to adopt and implement policies
that advance occupational safety and health and fair wages and ensure
employers uphold internationally recognized labor standards and comply
with domestic labor law at each country’s mining and processing
facilities.  They commit to work together to strengthen Indonesia’s
investment environment, including with technical assistance and capacity
building resources, and to mobilize high-standard investment that will
create healthy, safe, and decent work for Indonesians and Americans,
while enhancing economic and energy security for both countries.  They
commit to working toward a low-greenhouse gas emissions mineral supply
chain, including efforts to seek to promote clean and low-emission power
for mineral processing.   
  
To advance this work, they commit to develop a critical minerals action
plan that encompasses all of these lines of effort and seeks to increase
high standard investment in the critical minerals sectors in both
countries.  They commit to pursue these efforts with a view toward
establishing the foundation to launch future negotiations on a critical
minerals agreement.   
  
The two leaders reaffirm their commitment to work together to build
secure and resilient semiconductor supply chains in support of our
respective national interests and in accordance with respective national
legislations.  With support from the International Technology Security
and Innovation (ITSI) Fund, created by the U.S. CHIPS Act of 2022, the
two leaders affirm to support the development of, and spur investment
in, Indonesia’s domestic semiconductor ecosystem, with a view to enhance
local value creation, diversify global supply chains, and support U.S.
industry.  These initiatives aim to support Indonesia as a partner in
the development of secure and trustworthy telecommunications networks to
ensure a secure and diverse semiconductor supply chain.   
  
The leaders reaffirm their commitment to sustainable development
including on addressing poverty reduction and gender and income
disparities, shoring up health systems, and facilitating inclusive
economic growth.  The U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)
and Indonesia’s Ministry of Environment and Forestry signed a new joint
forest and wildlife conservation partnership agreement aimed at
mitigating greenhouse gas emissions, safeguarding vulnerable species,
adapting to the negative effects of climate change, and ensuring
sustainable livelihoods for residents of forest communities. 
Furthermore, the United States and Indonesia plan to work together
through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment and
regional initiatives such as IPEF to mobilize public and private
investment in infrastructure to support Indonesia’s sustainable growth
and decent work for all.  
President Widodo welcomes continued collaboration with the United States
on the development of Indonesia’s new capital city, Nusantara.  The U.S.
Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) intends to fund a trade mission to
the United States focused on the development of the new capital city to
promote U.S. exports in quality, sustainable infrastructure and
innovative smart-city solutions.  USTDA also plans to fund training for
Indonesian officials on value-based procurement for designing,
evaluating, and awarding tenders for the new capital city.  This work
builds on USAID’s ongoing technical assistance to the Nusantara New
Capital Authority to develop smart building guidelines – the first of
its kind in Indonesia.  The U.S. Department of Commerce plans to
organize a Smart City Business Development Mission to further strengthen
trade and investment on smart city development in Indonesia.

The two leaders recognize important bilateral efforts to enhance
cooperation in the health sector through increased research and
technical collaboration, investment in human capital development, and
the sharing of best practices.  The leaders look forward to fostering
greater collaboration across multiple health sectors, including through
a planned five-year renewal of the memorandum of understanding between
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services and Indonesia’s
Ministry of Health.  Building on the two countries’ long-standing
partnership in combatting infectious disease, the leaders intend to
further strengthen cooperation on pandemic preparedness, prevention, and
response, particularly in vaccine delivery as well as the research and
development of vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics.  Both leaders
reiterate their shared commitment to eradicating infectious diseases, in
particular HIV/AIDS, polio, Zika, tuberculosis, and dengue as well as
strengthening prevention and control of noncommunicable diseases such as
stroke, cancer, and heart disease.  The United States welcomes and
supports Indonesia’s Declaration on Cervical Cancer Elimination through
the National Cervical Cancer Elimination Plan (2023 to 2030) and the two
governments reiterate their shared intent to eliminate the incidence of
cervical cancer.

**<u>Powering the Clean Energy Transition</u>**  
  
Recognizing that the climate crisis poses an existential threat, the
leaders reaffirm the two countries will pursue urgent actions in efforts
to limit the temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius above
pre-industrial levels.  They resolve to expand collaboration on clean
and renewable energy production to accelerate the clean energy
transition while working to ensure affordable, accessible, and
transparent provision of clean energy for their citizens.   
  
Indonesia and the United States will continue to closely collaborate,
including with other partners, on the $20 billion Just Energy Transition
Partnership (JETP) to realize the accelerated deployment of renewable
energy and the reduction of emissions in Indonesia within the
agreed-upon timeline in the Comprehensive Investment and Policy Plan
(CIPP).  President Biden applauds Indonesia’s ambitious climate
commitments under its JETP, including strong renewable energy deployment
and power sector emissions goals.  President Widodo welcomes U.S.
contributions to the JETP and looks forward to further efforts to
deliver public and private financing for Indonesia’s clean energy
transition.  Indonesia welcomes future projects funded by international
financial institutions in the areas of climate change response, energy
transition, green growth, and renewable energy infrastructure.  The
United States and Indonesia intend to pursue an ambitious program of
cooperation on wind, solar, civil nuclear, and geothermal energy, while
enhancing cooperation on reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the
minerals, waste, and transportation sectors.  The two countries also
acknowledge the value of the Net Zero World Initiative to support the
transformation of Indonesia’s energy economy, including cooperation on
low-carbon battery supply chains.   
  
In support of the goals of JETP, the United States and Indonesia also
announce a memorandum of understanding on sustainable energy and mineral
development that will advance technical cooperation on enabling
environments and regulatory frameworks to help increase the uptake of
renewable energy resources, enhance grid resiliency and security, and
improve technologies for responsible mining and minerals processing
practices.  As the clean energy transition will have enormous impacts
for the workers and communities throughout Indonesia, the United States
will also engage with Indonesian policymakers in addressing workforce
needs such as strategic investments, workforce training, and equitable
just transition policies to ensure workers benefit from the evolving
clean energy industry.  President Biden welcomes Indonesia to the
Greening Government Initiative (GGI), as a platform for cooperation on
these issues.  
  
The two countries applaud bilateral public-private cooperation to
conduct feasibility studies to deploy small modular reactor (SMR)
technology for the clean energy transition.  This effort is encompassed
under the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment with new
funding through the Foundational Infrastructure for Responsible Use of
SMR Technology (FIRST) program.  
  
The leaders’ strong commitment to addressing the drivers and impacts of
climate change is reflected through joint efforts such as the
U.S.-Indonesia Bilateral Climate Working Group on forests, nature, and
climate; the Indonesian Ministry of Environment and Forestry-U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency Memorandum of Understanding on
Environmental Cooperation; and IPEF.  The United States and Indonesia
will also initiate a dialogue on scaling climate finance and investment
in the forest and land use sectors to support emissions reductions and
the sustainable bioeconomy.   
  
**<u>Deepening People-to-People Ties, Cultural Exchanges, and
Tourism</u>**  
  
The leaders underscore their plan to foster stronger people-to-people
connections and cultural exchanges while deepening cooperation in
education, research and development.  Both sides look to achieve this
goal through returning the number of Peace Corps volunteers in Indonesia
to pre-pandemic levels, engaging in sustained interfaith dialogues via
the Indonesia-United States Council on Religion and Pluralism, and
increasing the number of Fulbright awardees between Indonesia and the
United States.  Additionally, the leaders commit to grow educational,
professional, and cultural exchanges, including through the Beasiswa
Seni Budaya Indonesia, Lembaga Pengelola Dana Pendidikan, Indonesian
International Student Mobility Awards (IISMA), Darmasiswa Scholarship,
the Young Southeast Asian Leaders Initiative (YSEALI), and the
Kennedy-Lugar Youth Exchange and Study program (KL-YES).  The leaders
jointly announce the U.S.-Indonesia Tourism Partnership that strengthens
travel and tourism opportunities between the two countries.  President
Biden applauds President Widodo’s support for the establishment of a
Georgetown University presence in Jakarta, which will help Indonesia
build its human capital and research capacity, while training the next
generation of American policy specialists on Indonesia and Southeast
Asia.     
The leaders welcome further cooperation to promote science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields and entrepreneurship
collaboration, with a special focus on women and youth.  The leaders
applaud their countries’ growing engagement on cultural heritage
preservation and conservation, including through a memorandum of
understanding between the United States’ Smithsonian National Museum of
Asian Art and Indonesia’s Ministry of Education, Culture, Research, and
Technology.  The leaders note the plans for a YSEALI initiative on
sustainable and inclusive tourism development, U.S. support for
preserving Indonesian local languages, collaboration to document over
400 local recipes across the archipelago, and plans for a discussion
series on best practices in historic preservation and museum
management.  As part of this collaboration, President Widodo also
recognizes U.S. efforts to support the restoration and modernization of
Indonesia’s historic National Museum, and other museums and cultural
heritage sites.  
  
**<u>Fostering Peace and Stability in the Indo-Pacific and
Beyond</u>**  
  
President Biden congratulates President Widodo on Indonesia’s successful
ASEAN chair year and expresses support for Indonesia’s leadership in the
Indo-Pacific.  President Widodo welcomes the U.S. commitment to ASEAN,
as reflected in the November 2022 upgrade of the U.S.-ASEAN relationship
to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership and the 2022 ASEAN-U.S. Special
Summit in Washington, D.C.  The leaders welcome Lao PDR’s assumption of
the ASEAN chair in 2024.  
  
President Biden expresses support for ASEAN’s efforts to resolve the
crisis in Myanmar.  The leaders continue to call on the regime to end
the horrific violence, allow unhindered humanitarian access, release all
those unjustly detained, and re-establish Myanmar’s path to inclusive
democracy.  They reaffirm their continued support for the people
of Myanmar, including those who have been displaced, and for ASEAN’s
Five-Point Consensus.   
  
President Widodo welcomes U.S. support for ASEAN centrality and the
ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific, and acknowledges the value of
regional and sub-regional mechanisms in the Asia-Pacific and Indian
Ocean regions working with ASEAN on specific areas of common interests.
President Widodo also welcomes the U.S. role as the host of this year’s
APEC forum, and the leaders look forward to the successful conclusion of
the United States’ APEC 2023 host year.  
  
Both leaders underscore their unwavering support for freedom of
navigation in and overflight above the South China Sea and respect for
sovereignty and for sovereign rights and jurisdiction of coastal states
over their exclusive economic zones and continental shelves in
accordance with the international law of the sea, as reflected in the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).  The United
States and Indonesia also recognize the importance of the full and
effective implementation of the 2002 Declaration of the Conduct of
Parties in the South China Sea in its entirety and reaffirmed their
support for ASEAN efforts to conclude an effective and substantive Code
of Conduct in the South China Sea that is in accordance with
international law, particularly the 1982 UNCLOS, and respects the rights
and interests of third parties.  The leaders note the ruling of the 2016
arbitral tribunal, constituted pursuant to UNCLOS.  President Biden and
President Widodo welcome the signing of a bilateral Work Plan on
Maritime Security Cooperation, which will enhance Indonesia’s maritime
security and safety capabilities, and to prevent and counter illegal,
unregulated, and unreported fishing, including those associated with
transnational organized criminal groups and labor abuses.    
  
The two leaders exchanged views on the ongoing crisis in Gaza. Each
president stated his national position.  President Widodo also shared
the united messages of the Joint Arab-Islamic Summit in Riyadh on 11
November 2023.  The leaders agree that they should work together and
with other regional partners for a durable peace through a two-state
solution.  
  
The leaders discussed the war against Ukraine and call on the Russian
Federation to completely withdraw from the territory of Ukraine,
underscoring the need to reach a just and lasting peace based on the
principles of the United Nations Charter, including the territorial
integrity, sovereignty, and political independence of Ukraine.  
  
The United States and Indonesia reaffirm support for the establishment
of a durable peace on, and the complete denuclearization of, the Korean
peninsula and urge all parties concerned to fully and strictly fulfill
their international obligations and commitments, including under
relevant UN Security Council resolutions.  
  
**<u>Deepening U.S.-Indonesia Defense Cooperation</u>**  
  
The United States and Indonesia, guided by their shared democratic
principles, commit to work to uphold international law, strengthen
peacekeeping capacity, and enhance their mutual security and defense
capabilities.  
  
The leaders announce their intent to elevate the two countries’ defense
partnership through a new Defense Cooperation Arrangement.  The two
leaders reaffirm the importance of strengthening practical cooperation
to address security challenges, including through the regular convening
of the Indonesia-U.S. Security Dialogue and the U.S.-Indonesia Bilateral
Defense Dialogue, and engagement with non-military stakeholders.  
  
The two Leaders oppose terrorism and violent extremism in all its forms
and commit to work together to prevent and counter terrorism, including
its financing, in a manner consistent with international human rights
law and international humanitarian law.   
  
**<u>Fostering a Long-term Partnership</u>**  
  
Looking to the future, the two leaders underscore the need to continue
deepening relations through regular exchanges at all levels of
government and civil society and improving current dialogue mechanisms,
including the Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue between the U.S.
Secretary of State and Indonesia’s Minister of Foreign Affairs.  Both
countries intend to ensure the other can adequately staff and manage
diplomatic and consular facilities to support this elevated relationship
in accordance with international conventions to which both countries are
parties, bilateral agreements between the United States and Indonesia,
and the respective laws of both countries.

\###
