---
date: '2023-11-03'
published_time: 2023-11-03 13:20:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/03/east-room-declaration-of-the-leaders-of-the-americas-partnership-for-economic-prosperity/
tags: statements-releases
title: "East Room Declaration of the Leaders of the Americas Partnership for Economic\_\
  Prosperity"
---
 
We, the leaders of Barbados, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Panama, Peru, the United States,
and Uruguay hold a common vision for a more open, fair, inclusive,
sustainable, and prosperous hemisphere. We envision a brighter future
for all the people of the Americas in which vibrant economies build more
equitable societies and democratic governments, through effective
institutions, deliver for all. To this end, we recognize the need to
accelerate inclusive and sustainable trade and investment in the region,
address the climate crisis, and expand social and economic opportunities
that leave no one behind. We reaffirm our collective commitment to
shared values, including democracy, rule of law, diversity and
inclusion, decent work and well-paying jobs, environmental and social
protection, labor rights, universal human rights, and fundamental
freedoms in the Americas.

Having launched the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity
(“Americas Partnership”) with the intention to significantly strengthen
our economic partnership, we have come together to establish the
Americas Partnership as a leader-led forum for deepening economic
collaboration and integration in our hemisphere. We intend for the
Americas Partnership to serve as a lasting regional platform to pursue
an ambitious, flexible, and goal-oriented economic and development
agenda. At this inaugural Leaders’ Summit of the Americas Partnership,
we have identified the following five initial cross-cutting priorities
that will focus and drive our collective work:

-   Strengthening regional competitiveness and integration
-   Fostering shared prosperity and good governance
-   Building sustainable infrastructure
-   Protecting the climate and environment
-   Promoting healthy communities

To advance these priorities, we will identify a set of specific actions
that we intend to collectively implement to achieve concrete results
through a newly created and enduring structure for the Americas
Partnership. To that end, we resolve to establish three tracks and ask
Ministers to meet annually to carry out these efforts.

The Foreign Affairs Track will advance activities and initiatives that
will help to deliver inclusive and sustainable growth and unleash the
full potential of our peoples. We acknowledge the intricate links in
each of our countries between good governance and increased growth as
well as the importance of ensuring that the gains are broadly shared. To
launch this first phase of work, we ask our Foreign and other relevant
Ministers to prioritize collaborative initiatives aimed at fostering
inclusive growth, such as through the establishment of a regional
accelerator for entrepreneurs and programs to foster workforce
development, particularly in the digital economy. We further call on
Ministers to identify specific tools and initiatives to address barriers
that prevent women and other historically underrepresented groups from
participating fully in the workforce. Additionally, we ask Ministers to
advance projects and initiatives that will help to tangibly improve
access to healthcare, potable water, clean energy, food and nutritional
security, and support smart agriculture and protect against climate
change through sound adaptation and mitigation practices, which are
essential for prosperous societies and economies and the future of
humankind. To ensure gains are broadly shared, we also call on Ministers
to explore efforts to deepen existing commitments to anti-corruption and
transparency efforts.

The Trade Track will bolster the foundations of our regional
competitiveness by building upon our existing trade links and economic
cooperation. We call on the Ministers responsible for trade to develop
inclusive and sustainable approaches to trade and investment that will
support regional sustainable development and resilient supply chains for
goods and services, enhance a predictable and transparent regulatory
environment that can boost trade flows, and remove barriers to greater
economic integration among our countries. We expect these efforts to
reflect our values and create formal jobs that lead to decent work and
promote internationally recognized labor rights, environmental
sustainability, and economic inclusion. We ask Ministers to immediately
focus on enhancing regional integration by advancing implementation of
the WTO Agreement on Trade Facilitation and digitization of customs
mechanisms throughout the region. We further ask Ministers to conduct a
gap analysis to identify regulatory actions needed to enhance regional
integration and develop mechanisms, actions, and information-sharing
tools to ensure that the benefits of trade are more widely shared with
micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises and historically
underrepresented communities.

The Finance Track will pursue high-standard finance and investment
initiatives that will be central to the success of the Americas
Partnership. We ask our Finance and other relevant Ministers to aim to
accelerate efforts to increase the quality and quantity of financing for
the Americas, including through innovative and concessional financial
instruments. Ministers should work to maintain momentum on the ongoing
evolution of multilateral development banks to better address national
and cross-border development challenges, especially at the World Bank
Group and the Inter-American Development Bank Group. We commend the
consensus reached by the Governors for the Inter-American Development
Bank (IDB) and the Inter-American Investment Corporation (IDB Invest) to
make swift progress towards reform of the IDB Group and towards
assessing the potential recapitalization of IDB Invest. We look forward
to the IDB Group playing a renewed role in hemispheric engagement that
promotes high-standard, responsible, and sustainable investment that
safeguards workers, communities, and the environment, expands access to
decent jobs, and catalyzes regional growth. Further, we ask our
Ministers to prioritize efforts to leverage new and existing development
finance tools, such as the investment platform established by the U.S.
International Development Finance Corporation and IDB Invest, to support
sustainable digital and physical infrastructure and innovative
nature-based solutions that provide positive financial incentives to
promote environmental conservation and address climate challenges.

Taken together, the work we carry out in these three tracks will build
on our foundation of economic ties and strengthen our hemispheric
resilience. Recognizing the lessons of the COVID-19 pandemic, the risks
and adverse impacts of climate change, and other potential sources of
disruption to global supply chains, we intend to establish the Americas
as the home of the world’s most competitive, inclusive, sustainable, and
resilient regional value and supply chains. Our efforts will focus on
three initial priority sectors: clean energy, medical supplies, and
semiconductors. This will require coordination and cooperation among
governments, and with public and private stakeholders, to invest in the
health and security of our peoples now and for the future. The Americas
Partnership, through regular and formal engagements, will seek the input
and expertise of a variety of stakeholders and partners, particularly
underrepresented groups, to inform the development of new cooperative
initiatives. To initiate this work, we call on Ministers to develop
regional competitiveness plans to build resilient supply chains in the
Americas, taking advantage of our complementarities. In these
sector-specific workstreams, we will pay particular attention to the
formalization, financing, and incentives for micro, small, and
medium-sized enterprises.

Across all lines of effort in the Americas Partnership, we will promote
the social, cultural, economic, and political inclusion of all. We will
endeavor to facilitate greater well-being and foster consultation with
and participation of underrepresented communities, such as Indigenous
Peoples, Afro-descendants, women, youth, LGBTQI+ individuals, older
persons, persons with disabilities, and members of rural populations,
and ensure micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises have greater
opportunities to access markets. Similarly, across all of our work, we
intend to promote shared values of transparency, fairness, inclusivity,
accountability, and environmental sustainability, while also upholding
high standards for labor and promoting innovations in responsible
business conduct, throughout our economies, in accordance with our
multilateral commitments. To accomplish these goals, we call on
Ministers to regularly engage in multistakeholder dialogues with these
communities to ensure the work and outcomes of the Americas Partnership
reflect a broad and diverse set of voices.

In the spirit of openness and inclusivity, we ask Ministers to establish
a process for welcoming additional Western Hemisphere countries to join
the Americas Partnership.

We believe that, together, we have the capacity to transform our shared
hemisphere, building on the diversity, talent, and dynamism of our
peoples. We intend to meet every two years to assess our progress and
identify additional opportunities to galvanize action toward our vision
for a closer, safer, more prosperous Americas.

\###
