---
date: '2023-11-25'
modified_time: 2023-11-25 11:48:27-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-25 11:48:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/25/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-occasion-of-international-day-for-the-elimination-of-violence-against-women-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the Occasion of International Day for\
  \ the Elimination of Violence Against\_Women"
---
 
Today, on the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against
Women and the start of the 16 Days of Activism against Gender-Based
Violence, we join nations around the world in recognizing the resilience
of survivors and advocates building a future where women and girls can
live free from violence, fear, and abuse. And together, we recommit
ourselves to preventing and responding to this abhorrent human rights
abuse—wherever and whenever it occurs.

Ending violence against women has been the cause of my life. In the
United States Senate, with the help of courageous and committed
advocates, I wrote the first Violence Against Women Act and spent the
following decades working to expand survivor protections. And as
President, I was proud to not only reauthorize this landmark law, but
strengthen it—including increasing services and support for survivors
from underserved and marginalized communities.

But for all our progress, the scourge of gender-based violence continues
to inflict pain and injustice on too many. An estimated one in three
women globally will experience physical violence, rape, or stalking at
some point in their lifetimes. It’s an outrage. Around the world,
particularly in areas of conflict, countless women and girls suffer at
the hands of perpetrators who commit gender-based violence and use rape
as a weapon of war. And all too often, women and girls from historically
marginalized communities—including people of color, people with
disabilities, and people who identify as LGBTQI+—are disproportionately
affected.

That is why my Administration has been relentless in our focus to end
the scourge of gender-based violence—here at home, and around the world.
In May, we released the first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based
Violence, bringing a government-wide approach to promoting prevention
and equipping survivors with the resources they deserve, from accessing
physical and mental healthcare, to realizing economic security. In July,
I signed an Executive Order that fundamentally transforms how the
military handles sexual assault and domestic violence cases, including
shifting key decision-making authorities from commanders to specialized,
independent prosecutors. And almost one year ago today, I signed a
Presidential Memorandum to strengthen our government’s exercise of
financial, diplomatic, and legal tools against conflict-related sexual
violence—which led to the first-ever sanctions imposed resulting from a
dedicated focus on conflict-related sexual violence.

We know our work is far from done. And we know what is at stake:
whenever and wherever women and girls are under threat, so too is peace
and stability. That is why today—and every day—the United States stands
with survivors of gender-based violence. And together with our partners,
we will continue to work unceasingly toward a future in which survivors
are believed, offenders are held accountable, and violence against women
and girls is no longer tolerated.

\###
