---
date: '2023-11-14'
modified_time: 2023-11-13 21:17:39-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-14 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-fifth-national-climate-assessment-and-announces-more-than-6-billion-to-strengthen-climate-resilience-across-the-country/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Fifth National Climate\
  \ Assessment and Announces More Than $6 Billion to Strengthen Climate Resilience\
  \ Across the\_Country"
---
 
*Fifth National Climate Assessment (NCA5) shows decline in U.S.
greenhouse gas emissions even as population and GDP have grown*

Since Day One, President Biden has delivered on the most ambitious
climate agenda in history – signing into law the largest investment in
climate action ever, including more than $50 billion in climate
resilience, taking bold action to reduce climate pollution across every
sector of the economy, protecting more than 21 million acres of public
lands and waters, and restoring the vital role of science in guiding the
Biden-Harris Administration’s decision-making. As a result of the
President’s leadership and economic plan, Bidenomics, clean energy jobs
are on rise across the country, companies have announced hundreds of
billions of dollars in clean energy investments, and the U.S. is on a
path towards cutting carbon pollution in half by 2030.  
  
To equip Americans with the best available science and understanding of
climate change impacts in the United States, President Biden is today
announcing the release of the
[**Fifth**](http://nca2023.globalchange.gov/)[**National Climate
Assessment (NCA5)**.](http://nca2023.globalchange.gov/) NCA5, which
assesses changes in the climate, its national and regional impacts, and
options for reducing present and future risk, indicates that not only is
every region of the country already experiencing the impacts of climate
change, but ambitious climate action is underway in every region as
well.  
  
Federal, state, local, and Tribal mitigation and adaptation actions have
significantly increased, while zero-carbon and low-carbon energy options
are rapidly becoming more affordable. The report also shows that climate
change related extreme weather events still pose a rapidly intensifying
threat – one that costs the U.S. at least $150 billion each year, and
that disproportionately affects underserved and overburdened
communities.  
  
In coordination with the release of NCA5, President Biden is today
announcing **more than $6 billion in investments** to make communities
across the country more resilient to the impacts of climate change,
including by strengthening America’s aging electric grid infrastructure,
reducing flood risk to communities, supporting conservation efforts, and
advancing environmental justice. The Administration is also releasing
new resources to boost climate resilience efforts.  
  
These announcements, which advance the Administration’s [vision for a
climate resilient
nation,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/National-Climate-Resilience-Framework-FINAL.pdf)
include:

#### Bolstering America’s Electric Grid

-   Today, the Department of Energy is announcing **$3.9 billion through
    the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, to strengthen and modernize
    America’s electric grid** in the face of more frequent and intense
    climate impacts to ensure affordable, reliable power to households
    across the country while supporting meaningful community and labor
    engagement, investing in the American workforce, and advancing
    diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility. This funding
    opportunity, the second under the Grid Resilience and Innovation
    Partnerships program, focuses on projects that will modernize the
    electric grid to reduce impacts from extreme weather and natural
    disasters, increase capacity and unlock renewable energy resources,
    mitigate faults that

lead to wildfires or other system disturbances, and deploy advanced
technologies such as distributed energy resources and battery systems to
provide essential grid services.

#### Advancing Environmental Justice

-   The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) will soon make **$2
    billion of funding available through its Environmental and Climate
    Justice Community Change Grants** program to support
    community-driven projects that deploy clean energy, strengthen
    climate resilience, and build community capacity to respond to
    environmental and climate justice challenges. This program, funded
    by the Inflation Reduction Act, will invest in multi-year
    partnerships between community-based organizations, local
    governments, institutes of higher education, and federally-
    recognized Tribes. EPA also will provide $200 million in technical
    assistance and capacity building support for communities and their
    partners as they work to access these critical federal resources.

#### Reducing Flood Risk to Communities

-   Today, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) is announcing
    **$300 million in a second round of funding through the** [**Swift
    Current
    Initiative**](https://www.fema.gov/grants/mitigation/flood-mitigation-assistance/swift-current)**,**
    funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, to help communities
    that have been impacted by catastrophic flooding during the
    2022-2023 flood season become more resilient to future flood events.
    The Swift Current Initiative is focused on making mitigation
    assistance rapidly available for those who have suffered the effects
    of flooding disasters.

#### Boosting Climate Resilience

-   The Department of the Interior (DOI) will announce **$100 million in
    funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for water
    infrastructure upgrades that advance drought resilience in the
    West.** This includes $50 million in project awards to improve the
    reliability of water resources and support ecosystem health in
    Western states, along with an additional $50 million funding
    opportunity for water conservation projects and hydropower upgrades.
    DOI is also announcing a newly established **Kapapahuliau Climate
    Resilience Program and $20 million** in initial funding available
    through the Inflation Reduction Act to enhance the ability of the
    Native Hawaiian Community to navigate the effects of climate change
    in ways that maintain the integrity and identity of the Native
    Hawaiian people while also maintaining and enhancing their capacity
    for coping, adaptation and transformation.  
-   The Department of Defense is launching a **new Climate Resilience
    Portal at** [**www.climate.mil**](http://www.climate.mil/)**.** The
    creation of Climate.mil responds to requests from servicemembers for
    a one-stop focal point for accessing authoritative and actionable
    climate change information. Phase 1 of Climate.mil will consist of
    key climate tools, reference documents and resources, and climate
    terms and definitions, while Phase 2 will be for internal DOD users
    and provide more detailed information and guidance to consider
    climate change factors and impacts in all relevant and applicable
    decisions.  
-   In addition, the White House is publishing a **synthesis of insights
    from the 13 roundtable** discussions on climate resilience that the
    Administration hosted earlier this year as part of the [White House
    Summit on Building Climate Resilient
    Communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hosts-first-ever-white-house-climate-resilience-summit-and-releases-national-climate-resilience-framework/).

This resource will help inform federal and non-federal actions,
investments, and decisions to help build climate resilient communities
from the local level on up.

#### Investing in Conservation

-   The Department of the Interior will announce **$166 million from the
    Inflation Reduction Act to meet critical ecosystem resilience,
    restoration and environmental planning needs for the National Park
    Service** over the next 9 years. These investments build on an
    initial $44 million allocated earlier this year for work in fiscal
    year 2023, and advance the America the Beautiful Initiative, the
    Administration’s goal to restore and conserve 30% of lands and
    waters by 2030.  
-   The Biden-Harris Administration will join the National Fish and
    Wildlife Foundation and public- and private-sector partners in
    **announcing over $140 million in grants through the America the
    Beautiful Challenge**. The 74 new grants will support
    landscape-scale conservation projects across 46 states, three U.S.
    Territories, and 21 Tribal Nations.

Today’s announcements build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s
unprecedented commitment to tackling the climate crisis, strengthening
America’s resilience, and delivering for underserved and overburdened
communities.

### Overview of the Fifth National Climate Assessment

  
The National Climate Assessment (NCA) is the most comprehensive federal
effort to assess the state of climate science and communicate the
impacts of climate change on people, communities, and ecosystems across
the United States. For the first time ever, NCA5 includes a chapter on
[Economics](https://nca2023.globalchange.gov/chapter/19), which
highlights economic impacts and opportunities associated with climate
action. NCA5 also includes a new chapter on [Social Systems and
Justice](https://nca2023.globalchange.gov/chapter/20), which provides
insights into how people understand, experience, and respond in
different ways to climate change. This chapter, as well as NCA5’s [10
region-specific
chapters](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/11/09/fact-sheet-fifth-national-climate-assessment-details-impacts-of-climate-change-on-regions-across-the-united-states/),
describes how certain communities experience disproportionate impacts
from climate change.  
   
Complementing the robust scientific findings of NCA5, the new web-based
[NCA Atlas](http://atlas.globalchange.gov/) allows Americans to explore
climate projections in their own state or county to inform resilience,
adaptation, and mitigation efforts. And, to improve inclusivity and
accessibility, a forthcoming Spanish-language version of the entire NCA5
will be available for the first time early next year. NCA5 is
accompanied by 92 original works of art, selected through the first-ever
[NCA Art
x](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/06/09/white-house-office-of-science-and-technology-policy-announces-national-climate-assessment-art-submission-award-winners/)
[Climate](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/06/09/white-house-office-of-science-and-technology-policy-announces-national-climate-assessment-art-submission-award-winners/)
initiative, and an original poem,
“[Startlement](https://nca2023.globalchange.gov/chapter/front-matter/),”
by the 24th Poet Laureate of the United States, Ada Limón.  
   
Led by the U.S. Global Change Research Program and its 14 member
agencies, NCA5 was thoughtfully developed over four years by
approximately 500 authors and 250 contributors from every state, as well
as Guam, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands. NCA5 includes input
from extensive public engagement and an external peer review conducted
by the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine.  
   
*Key highlights include:*

#### **The United States is Taking Action on Climate Change**

Greenhouse gas emissions from the United States continue to fall even as
population and GDP have grown. Across the country, climate actions are
underway in every U.S. region. City- and state-level mitigation and
adaptation actions have significantly increased. Zero-carbon and low-
carbon energy options are rapidly becoming more affordable, transforming
the energy system through increased electrification, energy efficiency,
and use of clean energy technologies.  
   
For example, wind energy costs dropped 70% and solar energy costs
dropped 90% just over the last decade. In 2020, 80% of new
energy-generation capacity came from clean energy. This energy
transition will create new economic opportunities, as increased demand
for clean energy and low-carbon technologies typically leads to
long-term expansion in most states’ energy and decarbonization
workforces.  
   
Under President Biden’s [Investing in America
agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov),
companies have announced $614 billion to build the manufacturing base of
the future; over $392.2 billion has gone to upgrading our public
infrastructure and investing in clean energy; and $8.8 billion in home
energy rebates has been allocated to states to help families cut their
energy costs by weatherizing their homes and increasing the efficiency
of their appliances.

#### **Americans are Experiencing Increasing Risks from Extreme Events**

Total global greenhouse gas emissions from human activities continue to
increase, resulting in rapid warming and other impacts. People across
the United States are experiencing warmer temperatures and longer
heatwaves. Many other extremes, including heavy precipitation, droughts,
floods, wildfires, and hurricanes, are increasing in frequency and/or
severity. Extreme events cost the United States close to $150 billion
each year—a conservative estimate that does not account for loss of
life, health care-related costs, or damages to ecosystem services.  
   
This year set a record for the number of climate disasters that cost the
United States over $1 billion. The United States now experiences a
billion-dollar disaster approximately every three weeks on average,
compared to once every four months during the 1980s. Every degree of
global warming we avoid matters, because each increment of warming is
expected to lead to more damage and greater economic losses in the
United States. Each climate action taken to reduce and avoid warming
reduces those risks and harmful impacts.

#### **Climate Change Exacerbates Social Inequities**

Underserved and overburdened communities face disproportionate risks and
impacts from climate change, which exacerbates existing social and
economic inequities. Some overburdened communities are at higher risk of
climate impacts due to ongoing systemic discrimination, exclusion, and
under- or disinvestment. These social inequities contribute to
persistent disparities in the availability of resources needed to
prepare for, respond to, and recover from climate impacts.  
   
For example, neighborhoods that are home to racial minorities and
low-income residents have the highest inland flood exposures in the
South, and Black communities nationwide are expected to experience a
disproportionate share of future flood damages. Black, Latino, Asian,
historically redlined, and urban communities are disproportionately
exposed to heat, as are those with low wealth and people experiencing
homelessness. Indigenous Peoples face climate impacts that undermine
their ability to maintain traditions, culture, and livelihoods. Sexual
and gender minorities also face disproportionate impacts of climate
change, often because of discrimination that limits their access to
critical services and health care, especially during and after extreme
events.

#### **Available Mitigation Strategies Can Deliver Emissions Reductions, but the United States Must Go Further and Faster to Reach Net Zero**

The risk of exceeding a particular global warming level depends on
current and future emissions. This means that projections are
conditional: when or if the world reaches a particular level of warming
is largely dependent on the choices we make today and in the future.
Limiting global warming to 1.5°C (2.7°F) above preindustrial levels
requires a path to net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. Progress
towards net zero is underway in the United States, and is expected to be
significantly aided by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the
Inflation Reduction Act, the largest investments in climate and energy
in American history. But further actions are needed to increase the
pace, scale, and scope of the energy transition to ensure we reach
net-zero emissions by midcentury.  
  
Net-zero emissions pathways require widespread implementation of
currently available and cost-effective options for reducing emissions,
including the addition of new wind and solar capacity. Reaching net zero
will also require rapid expansion of technologies and methods to remove
carbon from the atmosphere to balance remaining emissions, as well as
the exploration of additional mitigation and transformative adaptation
options.

#### **Climate Action is an Opportunity to Create a More Resilient and Just Nation**

In addition to reducing risks to current and future generations,
transformative climate action can deliver immediate benefits, with the
potential to improve well-being, strengthen resilience, benefit the
economy, and, in part, redress legacies of racism and injustice.
Effective mitigation and adaptation efforts, rooted in equity, are
needed to address disparities in climate risks, dismantle historic
barriers, and create opportunities for all people to thrive.  
  
A just transition can ensure equitable access to jobs; affordable,
low-carbon energy; environmental benefits such as reduced air pollution;
and improved quality of life for all. Effective and just transitions
require reducing impacts to overburdened communities, increasing
resources to underserved communities, and integrating diverse
worldviews, cultures, experiences, and capacities into mitigation and
adaptation actions.

\###
