---
date: '2023-11-22'
published_time: 2023-11-22 17:20:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/22/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-consistent-with-the-war-powers-resolution-public-law-93-148-7/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President pro tempore of the Senate\
  \ consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law\_93-148)"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

As I have reported previously, militia groups affiliated with Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) have perpetrated a series of
attacks against United States personnel and facilities in Iraq and
Syria.  These attacks, which have caused injuries to United States
personnel, have placed under grave threat the lives of United States
personnel and of Coalition forces operating alongside United States
forces.

As I reported on October 27, 2023, November 10, 2023, and November 14,
2023, in response to this series of attacks and the threat of future
attacks, at my direction, United States forces conducted targeted
strikes against facilities in Syria used by IRGC and IRGC-affiliated
groups.

On the night of November 21, 2023, at my direction, United States forces
conducted discrete strikes against facilities in Iraq used by the IRGC
and IRGC-affiliated groups for command and control, logistics, and other
purposes.  The strikes were taken to deter future attacks and were
conducted in a manner designed to limit the risk of escalation and avoid
civilian casualties.  I directed the strikes in order to protect and
defend our personnel who are in Iraq and Syria conducting military
operations pursuant to the 2001 Authorization for Use of Military Force.
 The strikes were intended to degrade and disrupt the ongoing series of
attacks against the United States and our partners, and to deter Iran
and Iran-backed militia groups from conducting or supporting further
attacks on United States personnel and facilities.

I directed this military action consistent with my responsibility to
protect United States citizens both at home and abroad and in
furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations.  The
United States took this necessary and proportionate action consistent
with international law and in the exercise of the United States’
inherent right of self-defense as reflected in Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter.  The United States stands ready to take further action,
as necessary and appropriate, to address further threats or attacks. I
am providing this report a part of my efforts to keep the Congress fully
informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148).  I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.

                              Sincerely,

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
