---
date: '2023-11-13'
modified_time: 2023-11-12 21:34:52-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-13 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convening-in-baltimore-announces-commitments-to-train-and-hire-local-residents-to-support-major-infrastructure-projects/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Holds Workforce Hub Convening\
  \ in Baltimore, Announces Commitments to Train and Hire Local Residents to Support\
  \ Major Infrastructure\_Projects"
---
 
Today, Senior Advisor to President Biden and White House Infrastructure
Coordinator Mitch Landrieu and Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su will
travel to Baltimore, Maryland as the city holds its Workforce Hub
convening and announces commitments to ensure students and workers have
equitable access to good-paying jobs created by President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda. In May, the Biden-Harris Administration
named Baltimore as [one of five Workforce
Hubs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-strategies-to-train-and-connect-american-workers-to-jobs-created-by-the-presidents-investing-in-america-agenda/)—along
with [Pittsburgh](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/), [Augusta](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/08/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-holds-workforce-hub-convenings-in-augusta-and-pittsburgh-announces-commitments-to-expand-pathways-into-good-paying-jobs/), [Columbus](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-workforce-hub-in-columbus-ohio-and-announces-new-commitments-to-help-more-workers-access-good-jobs/),
and Phoenix—where historic legislation passed by President Biden,
including the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act, are
catalyzing private and public investments and creating good-paying jobs.
This week marks the second anniversary of the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, and with [over 40,000 new infrastructure
projects](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-celebrates-historic-progress-in-rebuilding-america-ahead-of-two-year-anniversary-of-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/) announced
across 4,500 communities, it’s clear that the President’s agenda is
rebuilding and transforming cities like Baltimore across the country.
These investments demonstrate how Bidenomics—President Biden’s vision
for growing the economy from the middle out and bottom up—is creating
jobs and opportunity in communities nationwide.

Baltimore and its surrounding communities are the site of significant
investments from President Biden’s Investing in America agenda. Across
the state of Maryland, the Administration has announced $9.6 billion in
projects to upgrade transportation, deliver clean and reliable energy,
expand access to high-speed internet, ensure that residents have clean
water, and more. This includes the $4.7 billion that President
Biden [announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-advances-vision-for-world-class-passenger-rail-by-delivering-billions-in-new-funding/#:~:text=Frederick%20Douglass%20Tunnel%20(MD)%20will,on%20the%20entire%20Northeast%20Corridor.) last
week for the Frederick Douglass Tunnel rail project— which will replace
the 150-year-old Baltimore and Potomac Tunnel, increasing speeds and
reducing delays on the entire Northeast Corridor. Other key investments
already delivered from President Biden’s Investing in America agenda
include $84 million to restore the Mid-Chesapeake Bay ecosystem and
ensure the maintenance of the Port of Baltimore, enabling container
ships to safely navigate through and get goods to communities quickly;
$15 million to install fiber optic cable to connect underserved
Baltimore residents to high-speed internet; and $7 million to upgrade
the Martin Airport Maryland Area Regional Commuter (MARC) train station
to full accessibility. These investments will generate demand for
skilled workers in the construction and related trades—good-paying jobs
that will support working families in the Baltimore area.

In Baltimore, the Administration is partnering with local officials,
employers, unions, community colleges, and other stakeholders to ensure
a diverse and skilled workforce is ready to meet the demand for labor
driven by transportation projects funded through the President’s
Investing in America agenda.

**Today, Hub collaborators are announcing the following commitments to
expand pathways into these good-paying jobs:**

**First,** using funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, Amtrak and the Baltimore-DC Building Trades Council
will increase hiring and training to ensure that the Frederick Douglass
Tunnel creates opportunities for Baltimore residents first and foremost:

-   **Amtrak** and the **Baltimore-DC Building Trades Council** have
    amended their project labor agreement, committing to a local hiring
    preference on the Frederick Douglass Tunnel Program. At
    least **50%** of all apprentice hours and at least **20% **of all
    journey hours will go to workers from the City of Baltimore. The
    Baltimore-DC Building Trades will recruit from specific ZIP codes,
    including those around the program area and from disadvantaged
    communities in the City of Baltimore, for jobs on this program. This
    will be the first time that Amtrak will use local and economic
    hiring preferences, which are [newly allowed under the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure
    Law](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2023-05/Creating-Local-Construction-Workforce.pdf).
    This will ensure that the local community reaps the benefits of this
    investment.  
-   **Amtrak** will invest at least **$5 million** in funding received
    through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to create recruitment and
    training programs for new jobs for Baltimore residents as part of
    the Frederick Douglass Tunnel Program. Dedicated funding will
    support local community-based partnerships with the **Baltimore-DC
    Building Trades** to prepare residents in specific ZIP codes for
    apprenticeships and help them transition to journey-level careers.
    Funding will support technical training as well as critical support
    services that help new apprentices succeed in their training,
    including child care and access to transportation. The funding will
    also support career and technical education in Baltimore City Public
    Schools. This effort will make sure that local residents have the
    skills they need to participate in this project and other projects
    long into the future.  
     
-   In partnership with the **Baltimore-DC Building Trades
    Council**, **Amtrak** will create a job center for the Frederick
    Douglass Tunnel Program to connect City of Baltimore residents with
    opportunities for good-paying jobs. Amtrak and the **National
    Association of Building Trades Union (NABTU)** will take lessons
    learned from the local hire agreement for the Frederick Douglass
    Tunnel Program to ensure that local communities benefit from the
    jobs on future Amtrak projects along the Northeast Corridor and
    across the country.

**Second**, local and state partners will collaborate to expand union
job opportunities to Baltimore residents, particularly those in
disadvantaged communities, including through the use of [project labor
agreements](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/04/executive-order-on-use-of-project-labor-agreements-for-federal-construction-projects/) (PLAs):

-   **The Maryland Department of Transportation** is committing to
    assess all projects above $20 million to determine workforce
    investments and policies, including PLAs or other strong labor
    standards, that can be implemented.  
     
-   **The State of Maryland **has selected nine projects covering $9
    billion in investment and 11,000 jobs—including 7,000 construction
    industry jobs—that will incorporate a PLA in their bidding
    process.  
     
-   **The City of Baltimore** is committing to requiring PLAs on six
    projects with a total value of $30 million that will go out for bid
    over the next two years, providing more than 100 highly skilled
    jobs.

**Third**, local and state partners will collaborate in new ways to
train workers to enter good-paying construction careers:

-   **The Baltimore-DC Building Trades Union **will commit to adding at
    least 200 additional apprentices over the next five years to meet
    the need for transportation projects in Baltimore with PLAs. The
    union will focus on recruiting apprentices from ZIP codes
    prioritized in the local hire agreement with **Amtrak** and will
    also focus on partnering with organizations that serve women to
    increase the recruitment of women into Registered Apprenticeship
    programs.  
     
-   **The Baltimore Workforce Funders Collaborative** will partner with
    the** Baltimore-DC Building Trades** to form partnerships with
    non-profits to host apprenticeship readiness programs that will
    provide direct entry into Registered Apprenticeships.  
     
-   The **Mayor’s Office of Employment Development** will partner
    with **the Baltimore-DC Building Trades** and other community
    collaborators to offer more supportive services like child care,
    transportation, and legal services to individuals to help them enter
    into and persist through apprenticeship programs.  
     
-   **The Baltimore City Public Schools Office of Career
    Readiness** will partner with the **Baltimore-DC Building
    Trades** to expand the number of students moving from career and
    technical education programs into Registered Apprenticeships. This
    partnership will begin at Carver Vocational Technical School and
    Frederick Douglass High School.  
     
-   **The Maryland Department of Labor (MDOL)** will support training
    for construction careers and Registered Apprenticeship through
    multiple federal grant programs.  
    -   Through a grant from the [U.S. Department of
        Labor](https://www.labor.maryland.gov/whatsnews/governormooreannounces4millionfederalgrant.shtml), **MDOL** will
        support the Baltimore Mayor’s Office of Employment Development
        to train 90 justice-involved individuals for construction and
        other jobs. Through a Department of Commerce [Good Jobs
        Challenge
        award](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/american-rescue-plan/good-jobs-challenge/awardees/Maryland-Department-of-Labor),
        MDOL will train up to 3,000 individuals for jobs in
        construction, manufacturing, and transportation and logistics.  
         
    -   **MDOL** will also award approximately $500,000 on an annual
        basis to training providers to support a pipeline of highly
        skilled workers for construction and other infrastructure
        careers.    
         
-   **The Maryland Department of Transportation’s** new workforce
    development framework will use highway formula funding to bring new
    workers into the skilled trades every year, funding training and
    services that reduce barriers to employment. Use of these funds is
    a [new flexibility for state transportation
    agencies](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovativeprograms/centers/workforce_dev/504e_state_core_programs_guidance_0318.aspx) provided
    for in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
     
-   **The Baltimore Mayor’s Office of Employment Development,
    Baltimore-DC Building Trades, **and** Baltimore Workforce Funders
    Collaborative **will collaborate to continue the work of the
    Workforce Hub moving forward.

\###
