---
date: '2023-11-10'
modified_time: 2023-11-10 13:38:13-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-10 13:38:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/10/fact-sheet-energizing-the-u-s-pacific-islands-forum-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Energizing the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum\_Partnership"
---
 
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield led the U.S. delegation to the
Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Meeting in Cook Islands on November 10 as
part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to enhancing our
partnership with the Pacific Islands to achieve our shared vision for a
resilient Pacific region of peace, harmony, security, social inclusion,
and prosperity, where individuals can reach their potential, the
environment can thrive, and democracy can flourish.  Since the
Administration released the first ever U.S.-Pacific Partnership Strategy
in 2022, we have announced we are working with Congress on plans to
provide over $8 billion in new funding and programs for the Pacific
Islands.  The United States believes it is important to be guided by
Pacific priorities and needs, including the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
Pacific Continent and the newly launched Pacific Partnerships for
Prosperity. 

**Driving Forward the U.S.-Pacific Partnership**

President Biden has emphasized that our partnership with the Pacific
matters, and that we will step up our diplomatic and development
cooperation in the region, including with the Pacific Islands Forum
(PIF) Secretariat.

-   **Strengthening Regional Institutions:**  As a member of the Pacific
    Community (SPC) and Secretariat of the Pacific Regional Environment
    Programme (SPREP), as well as a PIF Dialogue Partner, the United
    States firmly supports the Pacific regional architecture led by the
    PIF and values a strong, unified, and resilient PIF.  In response to
    the priority PIF leaders have placed on strengthening capacity
    building to foster and develop Pacific leaders who embrace the
    principles of inclusive Pacific regionalism, the United States
    intends to provide $500,000, subject to Congressional notification,
    to strengthen the PIF’s institutional capacity and support the PIF’s
    Pacific Leadership Initiative.  This funding will identify linkages
    and fill gaps in existing training and capacity building
    opportunities offered in the Pacific region. It will support a
    holistic approach to Pacific leadership development that meets PIF
    members’ objectives for inclusive Pacific leadership rooted in
    Pacific values while being adaptive to modern challenges. 

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing the Implementation of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
    Pacific Continent:  ** USAID intends to partner with the PIF
    Secretariat to strengthen the participation of critical Pacific
    Non-State Actors (NSAs) in regional policy engagement and
    implementation to deliver sustainable development outcomes. 
    Assistance focuses on engaging NSAs in the implementation plan for
    the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent and enhancing NSA
    engagement at annual ministerial dialogues in the Pacific. 

<!-- -->

-   **Signing Agreements Related to the Compacts of Free
    Association:** The Compacts of Free Association with the U.S. Freely
    Associated States have formed a bedrock of U.S.-Pacific cooperation
    for nearly four decades.  We remain deeply committed to these
    partnerships.  In May we signed Compact-related economic assistance
    agreements with the Federated States of Micronesia and Palau, and in
    October, we signed Compact-related economic assistance agreements
    with the Republic of the Marshall Islands.  The Administration is
    working with Congress on the necessary authorities and
    appropriations to bring these agreements into force and implement
    and fund them.

<!-- -->

-   **Opening U.S. Embassy Port Vila:**  The Biden-Harris Administration
    is opening new embassies across the Pacific in recognition that that
    our close partnership with the Pacific requires regular exchange
    between our governments at all levels.  We intend to open an embassy
    in Vanuatu in 2024, having completed Congressional notification
    procedures this year.   This builds on our opening of new embassies
    in Solomon Islands and Tonga earlier this year.

<!-- -->

-   **Returning the Peace Corps: ** Peace Corps Director Carol Spahn
    joined the U.S. delegation to the PIF to highlight Peace Corps’
    ongoing work in the Pacific.  Peace Corps volunteers have returned
    to Fiji, Tonga and Samoa, and will likely return in 2024 to Vanuatu.
    Peace Corps will also expand the Blue Pacific Youth Initiative,
    announced at the US-PIF Summit in September, to support young
    leaders working on environmental climate resilience issues.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Development Assistance Eligibility for Cook Islands and
    Niue:**  Following the establishment of diplomatic relations with
    the Cooks Islands and Niue, both countries may now benefit
    independently from a broader range of future U.S. foreign assistance
    programming. This expanded eligibility builds on the disaster risk
    reduction and resilience assistance both countries currently receive
    through the USAID’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance. 

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding our Public Health Diplomatic and Program Engagement to
    Strengthen Global Health Security:**  The U.S. Centers for Disease
    Control is opening a new regional office for East Asia and the
    Pacific, which seeks to improve public health capacity in the
    Pacific Islands to prevent, detect and respond to infectious disease
    threats.  This builds on the U.S. Government’s investments to
    strengthen global health security in the region, including more than
    $1.2 million in FY22 for the Freely Associated States through the
    Public Health Emergency Preparedness Program; and $5.0 million of
    new global health security funding for Fiji, Papua New Guinea, and
    regional activities.  Through our support, the U.S. Government
    provides remote and in-country partnerships to improve health
    security.  As we continue to build back from the COVID-19 pandemic,
    the U.S. Government provides funding for a One Health workforce
    (public and animal health sectors), regional laboratory capacity,
    data modernization, and implementation of public health programs,
    including immunizations; and One Health Rapid Response Team
    framework that will guide human, animal and environmental-related
    coordination, collaboration and communication before, during and
    after an emergency across the region.   

**Tackling the Climate Crisis**

The United States recognizes the importance of limiting global
temperature rise to 1.5 degrees Celsius, accelerating the clean energy
transition, and helping Pacific Islands adapt to and manage the impacts
of climate change.  We are responding directly to Pacific priorities,
including through our May 2023 commitment to provide $2 million, subject
to Congressional notification and the completion of domestic procedures,
to support the PIF to design and stand up the Pacific Resilience
Facility (PRF) to support adaptation and resilience at the local level
in the Pacific Islands.

-   **Reaffirming U.S. Position on Statehood and Sea-level Rise:**  For
    some States, particularly low-lying island States in the Pacific
    Ocean, increasing sea levels pose an existential threat.  At the
    U.S.-PIF Summit in September, the President announced that the
    United States considers that sea-level rise driven by human-induced
    climate change should not cause any country to lose its statehood or
    its membership in the United Nations, its specialized agencies, or
    other international organizations.  The United States is committed
    to working with the Pacific Islands and others on issues relating to
    human-induced sea-level rise and statehood to advance these
    objectives. We call on all countries to support this policy position
    by COP28.

<!-- -->

-   **Building Early Warning Systems (EWS) for All and Data for
    Resilience:**  As announced at the U.S.-PIF Summit, the United
    States intends to provide $8 million, subject to Congressional
    notification and the completion of domestic procedures, to expand
    our Information Services for Resilience Initiative announced last
    September.  The United States is supportive of the Pacific-led
    Weather-Ready Pacific, a priority identified by PIF leaders under
    the Pacific Partnerships for Prosperity. The National Oceanic and
    Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) is supporting projects in the
    region that complement activities identified in Weather-Ready
    Pacific.  This includes projects focused on capacity building and
    training for National Meteorological and Hydrological Services as
    they develop and build their multi-hazard early warning systems.

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting Pacific Women’s and Girls’ Climate and Clean Energy
    Leadership:**  Around the world and in the Pacific, women and girls
    are on the frontlines of both climate impacts and solutions.  In
    October, we launched a new $1.5 million initiative to support
    implementation of the Pacific Community’s (SPC) Pacific Energy and
    Gender Strategic Action Plan (PEGSAP).  PEGSAP seeks to promote
    women’s climate and clean energy leadership and economic security by
    increasing career and income-generating opportunities for women and
    girls in 22 Pacific Island Countries and Territories through pilot
    projects to promote women-owned businesses in the sale,
    distribution, and maintenance of renewable energy systems, and
    scholarships for women and girls to pursue studies in relevant
    science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) fields.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting a New Legally Binding Instrument on Plastic
    Pollution: ** As part of the Pacific Partnerships for Prosperity,
    PIF leaders have called for an international legally binding
    instrument to address plastic pollution, including in the marine
    environment.  The United States continues to seek an ambitious and
    inclusive international legally binding instrument on plastic
    pollution that will have universal membership, including every
    country that is a major producer and consumer of plastic.** ** The
    United States is also committed to working to prevent, reduce and
    remove marine debris in the Pacific, including through programs like
    NOAA’s Marine Debris Program, which offers competitive grant
    opportunities, including to the U.S. Freely Associated States and
    U.S. Territories. USAID’s Save our Seas Initiative is addressing
    marine plastic pollution in the Pacific by strengthening solid waste
    management systems and creating inclusive circular economies through
    the Clean Cities, Blue Ocean program.

**Investing in Trade Ties and Economic Development**

The United States is committed to supporting our Pacific Island
neighbors’ economic resilience through enhancing trade and investment,
supporting enabling business environments, and expanding access to
finance for development.

-   **Publication of the** **U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC)
    Study on Impediments to Increased Trade Flows with the Pacific
    Islands: ** On October 30, the USITC released a report on U.S. trade
    and investment with the Pacific Islands. The report, U.S.-Pacific
    Islands Trade and Investment: Impediments and Opportunities, was
    requested by the U.S. Trade Representative in a letter received on
    September 29, 2022. The report provides an overview of the Pacific
    Island economies, descriptions of trends in goods and services
    exports to the United States and investment from the United States,
    as well as analysis on the use and utilization of the Generalized
    System of Preferences and the trade preferences provided to the U.S.
    territories and Freely Associated States. In addition, the report
    identifies and profiles several sectors as having potential for
    increased export to or investment from the United States. The study
    is available
    [here](https://www.usitc.gov/publications/332/pub5463.pdf).

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Access to Finance for Small and Medium-Sized
    Businesses:**  Following the September U.S.-PIF Summit, the
    Development Finance Corporation, and USAID have issued an Expression
    of Interest (EOI) for their planned, up to $50 million, flexible
    Microfinance Facility to expand access to finance for micro, small,
    and medium enterprises (MSMEs) in the Pacific Islands, with an
    emphasis on climate resilience and
    adaptation-focused enterprises, as well as women-owned enterprises.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Access to Financial Services:**  In October, the United
    States and Australia announced a new Pacific Banking Forum, in
    consultation with Pacific Island countries, to bring together our
    public and private sectors to address the causes of de-risking. We
    affirm our plan to provide new and additional technical assistance
    to improve the region’s access to financial services. We further
    intend to work with the Pacific to address the costs and
    accessibility of correspondent banking relationships, including by
    addressing jurisdiction-specific challenges and exploring regional
    approaches to aggregate payment flows, as appropriate.
    -   With the launch of the Pacific Banking Forum and in conjunction
        with Fiji’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy, we welcome
        MasterCard’s focus on financial inclusion in launching (i)
        M-PAiSA Mastercard, a digital payments app that will give
        hundreds of thousands of Fijians access to digital payments
        through Mastercard’s global payment network, and (ii) Dua Pay, a
        mobile phone application that enables the women-run SMEs of Fiji
        to accept contactless digital payments on their own smartphones.

<!-- -->

-     **Next Trade and Investment Dialogue:** Following the successful
    first-ever meeting of the U.S.-Pacific Islands Trade and Investment
    Dialogue in February 2023, the United States and the Pacific Islands
    Forum plan to convene the Trade and Investment Dialogue in-person in
    early 2024.  Established as an outcome of the 2022 U.S.-Pacific
    Islands Summit, the U.S.-Pacific Islands Trade and Investment
    Dialogue serves as a forum to discuss ways to increase trade flows
    and investment between the United States and the Pacific Islands.   

**Building Resilient and Secure Infrastructure**

The United States is committed to helping Pacific Islands build
resilient and secure infrastructure to promote their economic
development and withstand natural and manmade threats including natural
disasters, climate change, and cybercrime, including through our
membership at the Pacific Regional Infrastructure Facility.

-   **Enhancing Digital Connectivity:**  As announced in October, as
    part of our Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment,
    the United States is engaging with Google to scale a series of
    significant private-sector consortium investments in subsea cables
    to provide the expansion of sustainable and reliable internet
    infrastructure to Pacific Island Countries.  In consultation with
    our Pacific Island counterparts, Australia and the United States
    intend to work together to support connection by Pacific Islands to
    international commercial subsea cable systems under development. 
    Together our countries plan to invest a total of $65 million in
    support of enhancing secure, resilient connectivity in the Pacific
    Islands by working with Google, APTelecom, and Hawaiki Nui to
    provide branching units for the Federated States of Micronesia,
    Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Timor
    Leste, Tuvalu and Vanuatu.
    -   Working with Congress, the United States, under the State
        Department’s Digital Connectivity and Cybersecurity Partnership
        (DCCP), intends to support expanding access to fast, secure,
        interoperable, and reliable internet connectivity in Pacific
        Island countries by increasing the initial $3 million allocation
        to $5 million, followed by an additional $10 million in
        subsequent years to support Google’s South Pacific Connect
        subsea cable initiative.  This $15 million supports the initial
        investment of up to $3 million announced by the United States in
        September for a USTDA feasibility study for the proposed Central
        Pacific Cable led by APTelecom.

<!-- -->

-   **Enabling Cyber Resilience:** Following the inaugural Pacific
    Cybersecurity Capacity and Coordination Conference (P4C) in October,
    the United States will continue regular, enduring engagement with
    the PIF and its members on cybersecurity and intends to partner with
    U.S. private-sector companies on technical assistance opportunities.
    The United States has committed to supporting subsequent P4Cs
    together with the other Partners in the Blue Pacific.  Together, the
    United States and Australia announced in October an intent to engage
    Pacific Island nations and the private sector to explore developing
    and deploying a pilot initiative in the region to increase national
    cyber resilience.  This pilot initiative could help protect and back
    up government data by upgrading data services, including through
    implementation of cloud-based solutions to store government
    records.  The United States is also partnering with several U.S.
    private sector companies to support the region’s cyber resilience,
    including through these proposed initiatives to be developed in
    consultation with the PIF:
    -   Following the announcement of new Pacific subsea cables,
        **Google.org** will contribute $500,000 for digital skills
        training in the region.
    -   **Palo Alto Networks** has committed to host a “Pacific Island
        Cyber Preparedness Series.” This program represents the
        inaugural phase of a comprehensive cybersecurity improvement
        initiative for the region, laying the foundation for ongoing
        discussions and progress. Pacific participants will gain a
        high-level understanding of cybersecurity issues and
        imperatives, effective approaches to manage cyber risk, the
        global cyber threat environment as well as key considerations
        and actions to take when preparing for a cyber incident.
    -   As part of Fortinet’s global commitment to offer free
        cybersecurity training to one million individuals, **Fortinet**
        will expand its focus on nations in the Pacific Islands to grow
        utilization of its Academy and Security Awareness programs to
        support a more digitally aware community in coordination with
        the Pacific Islands Forum

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting Natural Disaster Response and Climate Adaptation and
    Resilience for Aviation:** This February 2024 workshop, to be held
    under the auspices of the U.S.-Southeast Asia and Pacific Aviation
    Cooperation Program (ACP), will provide capacity building to Pacific
    Island aviation authorities and airports to help them respond to
    natural disasters and implement climate adaptation and resilience
    measures.  U.S. Trade and Development Agency and Federal Aviation
    Administration will cohost this workshop in Fiji to connect Pacific
    Island aviation partners with U.S. government, industry, and
    international aviation experts to discuss lessons learned,
    strategies, and adaptation efforts related to natural disaster
    response and ensuring the resilience of airports in the face of
    climate change challenges, including sea level rise.

**Supporting Peace and Security**

The United States is committed to ensuring the Blue Pacific Continent
remains a place of peace and prosperity for all Pacific people,
including women and other marginalized groups. 

-   **Partnering with New Zealand to Improve Access to Justice for Women
    and Children:**  The United States has partnered with New Zealand
    through its Pacific Justice Sector Programme to launch Ina’ilau to
    improve access to justice for women and children in the Pacific.
    This project reflects the values outlined in the Pacific Leaders
    Gender Equality Declaration and the 2050 Strategy for the Blue
    Pacific Continent to embrace good governance and observe democratic
    principles, including rule of law, the defense and promotion of all
    human rights, gender equality, and commitment to just societies.
    Ina’ilau supports these values by building the capacity of formal
    and community-based Pacific justice sector actors to address and
    support the rights of women and children effectively and
    sustainably, and empower women in Pacific Justice sectors through
    professional development opportunities to encourage their increased
    presence in judicial leadership roles.

<!-- -->

-   **Building USCG Centers of Excellence on Marine Pollution and IUU
    Fishing:**  On October 11, the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG) Marine
    Environmental Response Regional Activities Center (MER RAC) and the
    Illegal Unreported Unregulated Fisheries Center of Expertise (IUU-F
    COE) were established on Ford Island, Hawaii. The mission of the MER
    RAC is to assist partner Indo-Pacific nations, including the Pacific
    Islands, with developing and maintaining national-level response
    frameworks, capabilities, and expertise to respond to marine
    pollution events and with the implementation of international
    conventions regarding marine pollution. The IUUF-COE mission is to
    serve as an international engagement team to facilitate partner
    nation capabilities for combatting IUU-F.  The engagement team helps
    combat IUU-F by increasing maritime domain awareness, exchanging
    information, increasing interoperability, and sharing best practices
    among regional partners.  

**Enhancing Our Longstanding People-to-People Ties**

We are committed to continuing to expand our people-to-people ties with
the Pacific Islands through delivering on past Summit commitments and
building exciting new initiatives, such as the 7 for 70 campaign
launched in September to establish at least seven sister cities
partnerships with other Pacific Islands by 2026 in celebration of the
70th Anniversary of Sister Cities International. We also look forward to
expanding cultural ties through supporting the Governor of Hawaiʻi and
the Pacific Community (SPC) in hosting the 13th Festival of Pacific Arts
and Culture (FestPAC) June 6-16, 2024, in Honolulu, Hawaiʻi.  

-   **Johns Hopkins SAIS U.S.-Pacific Institute for Rising Leaders:** In
    October, the U.S.–Pacific Institute for Rising Leaders Fellowship,
    announced by the White House at the first-ever U.S.–Pacific Island
    Country Summit in September 2022, brought 29 mid-career leaders from
    16 Pacific Island countries and territories to the Johns Hopkins
    School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) in Washington for a
    four-week leadership development program focused on maritime issues,
    climate adaptation, and public health.

<!-- -->

-   **Resilience and Adaptation Fellowship for Rising Pacific Leaders:**
    In October, the State Department’s Bureau of Oceans, Environment,
    and Science (OES) announced a $5 million grant to the University of
    the South Pacific (USP) to establish a new Resilience and Adaptation
    Fellowship for Rising Pacific Leaders, which will train the next
    generation of Pacific climate leaders in partnership with premier
    U.S. universities.  The program will send Pacific young
    professionals to U.S. institutions that are leaders on a host of
    climate-related issues, such as natural resource economics and
    management, resilient food systems, renewable energy development,
    water security and waste management.  It will also bring U.S.
    experts to USP to build its capacity and programming in these areas.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing Youth Diplomacy through Rugby**: Midshipmen from the
    United States Naval Academy Rugby team will travel to Fiji, Samoa,
    and Tonga in May 2024 for rugby exhibition matches and youth
    empowerment programming.

<!-- -->

-   **Asia-Pacific Cultural Heritage Professionals Exchange:** The
    Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs’ Cultural Heritage
    Center, in collaboration with the National Park Service, launched a
    new, two-year exchange program for cultural heritage specialists
    from Asia-Pacific countries, focusing on Pacific Island countries. 
    Participants will be selected from Fiji, Kiribati, Papua New Guinea,
    Palau, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Vanuatu, and other Pacific nations.
     This first-of-its-kind exchange will build capacity to preserve and
    promote national and community identity, create a network of museum
    professionals across the region, and strengthen ties with
    counterparts from the United States.  Participants will develop and
    share knowledge about collections management, conservation, and
    public engagement for the cultural objects in the National Museums
    of these countries, many of which are important to Indigenous
    Peoples and the national identities of Asia-Pacific countries. 
    Participants will also engage with Indigenous knowledge and how it
    intersects with museum practices, while building their capacity to
    preserve and share historically accurate information and narratives
    about their diverse cultures. The program is expected to launch with
    the first in-person workshop in Summer 2024, with virtual activities
    for the participants prior to the in-person workshop.

\###
