---
date: '2023-11-01'
modified_time: 2023-11-01 16:07:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-11-01 16:07:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/01/joint-statement-on-u-s-eu-energy-security-task-force-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on U.S.-EU Energy Security Task Force\_Meeting"
---
 
The U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security met for the 11th time on
October 31, 2023, convened by co-chairs Amos Hochstein, Special
Presidential Coordinator for Global Infrastructure and Energy Security,
and Björn Seibert, Head of Cabinet of European Commission President
Ursula von der Leyen, with the participation of Sarah Ladislaw, Special
Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Climate and Energy at
the U.S. National Security Council, and Ditte Juul Jørgensen, European
Commission Director-General for Energy. 

The discussion focused on reviewing the diversification of Europe’s
natural gas supply sources and the growing liquefied natural gas (LNG)
trade between the United States and Europe, with the U.S. now by far the
largest supplier of LNG to Europe. The sides also discussed AggregateEU,
Europe’s gas demand aggregation and joint purchasing mechanism, which
has had success this year enabling European companies to improve their
security of supply and negotiate competitive prices. 

The discussion also touched on the EU’s concrete steps to further reduce
gas demand, including through energy efficiency measures and policy
support, expanded heat pump and smart thermostats deployment, increased
use of renewable energy, and structural changes in Europe’s industrial
demand patterns.

The sides also discussed how the EU has responded collectively and
effectively to Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and weaponization of
Europe’s energy supplies, by accelerating the clean energy transition,
diversifying supplies, and saving energy. The EU drastically reduced its
dependence on Russian fossil fuels, including by: phasing out coal
imports; reducing oil imports by 90 percent; and reducing gas imports
from 155 billion cubic meters (bcm) in 2021 to around 80 bcm in 2022 and
to an estimated 40 to 45 bcm in 2023.

The U.S.-EU Task Force on Energy Security builds on long-standing
transatlantic cooperation. It is an essential tool in our transatlantic
cooperation to ensure energy security in Europe. As reconfirmed by
leaders at the U.S.-EU summit on October 20, 2023, the Task Force will
continue to advance the energy transition to climate neutrality and
bolster energy security. The Task Force also affirmed its commitment to
monitor the energy security situation and reconvene when necessary. 

\###
