---
date: '2023-11-30'
modified_time: 2023-11-29 23:43:07-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-30 06:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-lead-exposure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Action to Protect\
  \ Communities from Lead\_Exposure"
---
 
***Building on the Biden-Harris Administration’s Historic Commitment to
Protect Children and Families from Lead Poisoning, EPA Proposes Rule to
Remove Lead Pipes Across the United States***

The Biden-Harris Administration is working to ensure a future where
every child and family can live safely in their communities without the
fear and harmful effects of lead exposure. Today, as part of President
Biden and Vice President Harris’s [vision for a lead-free
future](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-and-progress-to-protect-communities-from-lead-pipes-and-paint/),
the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) **announced a proposal to
strengthen its Lead and Copper Rule that would require water systems to
replace lead service lines within 10 years**,** helping secure safe
drinking water for communities across the country**. The President’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests over $50 billion for the largest
upgrade to the nation’s water infrastructure in history, and today’s
action builds on these historic levels of funding from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda, a key pillar of Bidenomics, to replace lead
service lines across the nation.

More than 9.2 million American households connect to water through lead
pipes and lead service lines. Due to decades of inequitable
infrastructure development and underinvestment, lead exposure
disproportionately affects low-income communities and communities of
color. There is no safe level of exposure to lead, particularly for
children, and eliminating lead exposure from the air, water, and homes
is a crucial component of the [Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
commitment to advancing environmental
justice](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/).

In addition to taking action towards achieving **100 percent replacement
of lead service lines**, EPA’s proposed Lead and Copper Rule
Improvements increase tap water sampling requirements, require water
systems to complete comprehensive and publicly available lead service
line inventories, and strengthen and streamline requirements for water
systems to take additional actions to reduce lead health risks to
communities. This proposal advances the Biden-Harris
Administration’s [Lead Pipe and Paint Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-lead-pipe-and-paint-action-plan/),
a whole-of-government approach to reduce all sources of lead exposure.

Since the latest [progress
update](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/27/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-and-progress-to-protect-communities-from-lead-pipes-and-paint/) in
January 2023, the Administration has taken the following actions to
tackle lead exposure from water, air, food, lead paint, and other
sources which pose risks to human health:

**<u>Reducing Exposure to Lead from Water</u> –** Lead can enter
drinking water when plumbing materials that contain lead corrode,
especially where the water has high acidity or low mineral content that
corrodes pipes and fixtures. The most common sources of lead in drinking
water are lead pipes, faucets, and fixtures. The Administration is
taking several actions to reduce this exposure.

-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides $15 billion in funding
    specifically dedicated for replacing lead service lines, along with
    an additional $11.7 billion in general-purpose funding through the
    Drinking Water State Revolving Fund, which can also be used for lead
    pipe replacement. To date, EPA has awarded over $3.5 billion of this
    lead service line funding to replace hundreds of thousands of lead
    service lines in homes, buildings, and schools. To advance President
    Biden’s Justice40 Initiative, EPA has committed to deploying at
    least 49 percent of its State Revolving Funds to disadvantaged
    communities. In total during this administration, EPA’s Water
    Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act (WIFIA) and Drinking Water
    State Revolving Fund programs have provided over $796 million to
    help systems that serve disadvantaged communities begin removal of
    lead service lines across the country, protecting the health of over
    9.8 million people.  
     
-   Funding from the American Rescue Plan’s $350 billion State and Local
    Fiscal Recovery Fund can be used by states and communities to
    replace lead service lines and remediate lead paint. To date, well
    over $20 billion nationwide has been invested in water
    infrastructure projects, including significant clean water
    investments.  
     
-   This month, EPA launched the [Get the Lead Out (GLO)
    Initiative](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-launches-new-initiative-accelerate-lead-pipe-replacement-protect-underserved),
    which sets out a partnership with 200 underserved communities
    nationwide to provide the technical assistance they need to access
    funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
    remove lead service lines from their communities. This initiative
    builds on EPA and the Department of Labor’s partnership with 40
    underserved communities to support lead pipe replacement.  
     
-   In February 2023, EPA announced a [$340 million financing commitment
    to the City of
    Philadelphia](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-340-million-water-infrastructure-and-lead-pipe) for
    lead pipe replacement through the WIFIA program. The initial loan of
    nearly $20 million will modernize critical drinking water
    infrastructure by replacing approximately 160 lead service lines and
    15 miles of watermains throughout the city.  
     
-   In November 2023, EPA announced a [$336 million loan to the City of
    Chicago](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-336-million-loan-chicago-help-remove-30000-lead) for
    lead pipe replacement through the WIFIA program. This financing will
    help Chicago, which has one of the highest concentrations of lead
    pipes in the nation, to replace up to 30,000 lead service lines
    while creating an estimated 2,700 jobs.  
     
-   In August 2023, the US Department of Agriculture (USDA)
    announced [$78 million in new awards to remediate lead
    pipes](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/08/28/biden-harris-administration-announces-more-800-million-strengthen).
    These funds will help ensure that rural communities have the funds
    they need to access clean and safe drinking water.  
     
-   In March 2023, EPA and U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
    (HHS) [issued a joint letter to
    governors](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-and-hhs-encourage-states-utilize-federal-resources-lead-detection-and-mitigation) to
    encourage state and local governments to use federal funding to
    reduce and remove lead in drinking water in early care and education
    settings, like elementary schools and daycare facilities.  
     
-   In July 2023, EPA announced [$58 million in grant
    funding](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-58-million-reduce-lead-schools-and-childcare) from
    President Biden’s Investing in America agenda to protect children
    from lead in drinking water at schools and childcare facilities
    across the country. Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
    activities like these to remove lead from drinking water are now
    eligible to receive funding through the Water Infrastructure
    Improvements for the Nation Act (WIIN). WIFIA and WIIN are also
    Justice40 covered programs.

**<u>Reducing Exposure to Lead from Paint and Dust in the Home</u>** –
Lead in household dust originates from indoor sources such as
deteriorating, old lead-based paint on surfaces, home repair activities,
tracking lead-contaminated soil from the outdoors into the indoor
environment, or even from lead dust on clothing worn at a job site. The
Administration is working to help tackle and eliminate these exposures
in several ways.

-   In July 2023, EPA [announced a
    proposal](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-strengthen-lead-paint-standards-protect-against) to
    strengthen requirements for the removal of lead-based paint hazards
    in old buildings and child care facilities to better protect
    children and communities from exposure to dust generated from lead
    paint. The proposed rule would strengthen EPA’s regulations under
    the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) by revising the dust-lead
    hazard standards which identify hazardous lead in dust on floors and
    window sills, and the dust-lead clearance levels of the amount of
    lead that can remain in dust on floors, window sills and window
    troughs after lead removal activities. If finalized, this rule will
    reduce the potential lead exposures of [approximately 250,000 to
    500,000 children under age six per
    year](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2023-10/508-fy-2023-results-for-pb-measures-and-milestones_v2.pdf).  
     
-   On November 1 and 2, 2023, the EPA and the U.S. Department of
    Housing and Urban Development (HUD) [held a virtual public
    workshop](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-and-hud-seeking-presenters-virtual-workshop-revisiting-definition-lead-based-paint) to
    receive stakeholder input on the detection, measurement, and
    characterization of lead-based paint to support efforts to reduce
    lead exposure. EPA and HUD will use information received during the
    workshop to inform their joint effort to revisit the federal
    definition of lead-based paint and propose and finalize a revised
    definition, if necessary. EPA uses the definition in its [Lead
    Renovation, Repair and Painting (RRP)
    program](https://www.epa.gov/lead/lead-renovation-repair-and-painting-program) and [Lead-Based
    Paint Activities (LBPA)
    program](https://www.epa.gov/lead/lead-abatement-inspection-and-risk-assessment) and
    HUD in its [Lead-Safe Housing Rule
    (LSHR)](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/healthy_homes/enforcement/lshr) program
    and [Lead Hazard Reduction (LHR) grant
    program](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/spm/gmomgmt/grantsinfo/fundingopps/fy22lhr#:~:text=The%20purpose%20of%20the%20Lead,undertaking%20comprehensive%20programs%20to%20identify).
    Both agencies use the definition in their jointly issued and
    enforced Lead Disclosure Rule.  
     
-   Over the past year, HUD executed over $307 million in grants to make
    homes of low-income families safe from lead-based paint hazards,
    further advancing President Biden’s Justice40 Initiative. The Office
    of Lead Hazard Control and Healthy Homes executed $140 million since
    August 2023 in grants to state and local governments to control
    these hazards in privately owned homes (mainly rental units) of
    low-income families, where the homes do not receive HUD housing
    assistance.  In addition, the Office of Public and Indian Housing
    executed over $42 million in grants to public housing agencies to
    control these hazards in public housing units where low-income
    families reside.  [Research has
    shown](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/27631737/) that children
    residing in housing made free of lead-based paint hazards under the
    Department’s grants have lower blood lead levels as a result of
    these efforts.

**<u>Reducing Exposure to Lead from Air</u>** **– **Major sources of
lead in the air include emissions from manufacturing, waste and metals
processing, and aircraft operating on leaded aviation fuel. To tackle
these emissions, the Administration has taken the following actions.

-   In February 2023, EPA published amendments to the [New Source
    Performance Standards (NSPS) for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing
    Plants](https://www.epa.gov/stationary-sources-air-pollution/lead-acid-battery-manufacturing-new-source-performance-standards) and
    the [National Emissions Standard for Hazardous Air Pollutants
    (NESHAP) for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area
    Sources](https://www.epa.gov/stationary-sources-air-pollution/lead-acid-battery-manufacturing-area-sources-national-emission).
    These actions include revisions for lead emissions limits at
    specific stationary sources, requirements for performance testing,
    and establishment of work practices to minimize fugitive lead dust
    emissions.   
     
-   In March 2023, EPA [released a
    draft](https://cfpub.epa.gov/ncea/isa/recordisplay.cfm?deid=357282) of
    the Integrated Science Assessment (ISA) for Lead for independent
    peer review and public comment. This draft ISA synthesizes the most
    policy-relevant science and will ultimately provide the scientific
    bases for EPA’s decisions regarding whether the current Clean Air
    Act standards for lead sufficiently protect public health and the
    environment and whether to retain or revise these standards.  
     
-   In July 2023, EPA [issued proposed
    amendments](https://www.epa.gov/system/files/documents/2023-07/Fact_sheet_IIS_Proposal.pdf) to
    the NESHAP for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities.
    The proposed amendments would reduce emissions of toxic metals,
    including lead, by nearly 80 tons per year.  
     
-   In October 2023, EPA [released a final
    determination](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-proposes-endangerment-finding-lead-emissions-aircraft-engines-operate-leaded-fuel) that
    emissions of lead from aircraft that operate on leaded fuel cause or
    contribute to air pollution that may reasonably be anticipated to
    endanger public health and welfare. Under the Clean Air Act, EPA
    reviews information on air pollutants and sources of air pollution
    to determine whether they threaten human health or welfare. This is
    referred to as an “endangerment finding” – a first step in using
    EPA’s authority to address this source of lead pollution.  
     
-   In November 2023, EPA [finalized amendments to the NSPS for
    Secondary Lead
    Smelters](https://www.epa.gov/stationary-sources-air-pollution/secondary-lead-smelters-new-source-performance-standards-nsps).
    The new requirements include performance tests and emissions limits
    that will strengthen control of harmful lead and other air toxics. 

**<u>Reducing Exposure to Lead from Soil</u>** – Lead contamination at
Superfund sites from past industrial operations like lead mining and
smelting can accumulate in soil and poses a threat to human health and
the environment. Reducing lead in soils can help to reduce exposure
risks.

-   During fiscal year 2023, EPA completed 49 Superfund cleanup projects
    that addressed lead contamination where it posed risks to people’s
    health. Lead is the environmental contaminant most commonly reported
    by EPA Brownfields cleanup grant recipients. In fiscal year 2023,
    Brownfields grant recipients completed 62 cleanups that addressed
    lead contamination.  
     
-   HUD is piloting its program of community-led strategies or action
    plans for environmental justice around HUD housing located near
    Superfund sites, including addressing soil-lead contamination in the
    homes of low-income families.

**<u>Reducing Exposure to Lead from Food</u>** – Lead may be present in
food because it is in the environment where foods are grown, raised, or
processed. To reduce the risk to the children of ingesting lead with
food, the Administration is working on new guidance for processed foods.

-   In January 2023, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
    (FDA) [announced draft
    guidance](https://www.fda.gov/news-events/press-announcements/fda-announces-action-levels-lead-categories-processed-baby-foods) for
    industry on action levels for lead in processed foods that are
    intended for babies and children under two years of age, to help
    reduce potential health effects in this vulnerable population from
    dietary exposure to lead. The proposed action levels would result in
    significant reductions in exposures to lead from food while ensuring
    availability of nutritious foods. This action is part of [Closer to
    Zero](https://www.fda.gov/food/environmental-contaminants-food/closer-zero-reducing-childhood-exposure-contaminants-foods),
    which sets forth the FDA’s science-based approach to continually
    reducing exposure to lead, arsenic, cadmium, and mercury to the
    lowest levels possible in foods eaten by babies and young children.

**<u>Protecting People from Lead Exposure in the Workplace</u>** –
Workers can be exposed to lead as a result of the production, use,
maintenance, recycling, and disposal of lead material and products. 

-   In September 2023, the National Institute for Occupational Safety
    and Health (NIOSH) published a [new
    resource](https://www.cdc.gov/niosh/docs/wp-solutions/2023-141/default.html) to
    help employers and workers reduce hazards associated with lead pipe
    removal and replacement. Recommendations for employers to reduce
    lead exposure include developing a written lead monitoring and
    control program which may include a testing protocol, hazard control
    program, and job hazard assessment for tasks that may expose workers
    to lead. Recommendations for workers include improved work
    practices, such as cleaning surfaces, avoiding bringing personal
    items into contaminated areas, and using personal protective
    equipment to help reduce their lead exposure.

**<u>Establishing</u><u> Domestic and International
Partnerships</u><u> to Reduce All Lead Exposure</u>** – The
Administration is working in a number of ways to reduce community
exposure to lead, both in the United States and around the world.

-   In May 2023, the Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC)
    National Center for Environmental Health’s Lead Poisoning Prevention
    and Surveillance Branch announced a new Notice of Funding
    Opportunity (NOFO), [Supporting Communities to Reduce Lead
    Poisoning](https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/news/nofo-june-2023.html#:~:text=The%20National%20Center%20for%20Environmental,at%2011%3A59pm%20Eastern%20Time).
    Funded recipients will help families avoid the dangers of lead in
    their homes through community engagement, prevention education, and
    family support.  
     
-   A new international lead exposure working group, led by EPA’s Office
    of International Affairs, has been established under the Lead
    Subcommittee of the [President’s Task Force (PTF) on Environmental
    Health Risks and Safety Risks to
    Children](https://ptfcehs.niehs.nih.gov/).  
     
-   EPA continues to engage through the [Global Alliance to Eliminate
    Lead
    Paint](https://www.epa.gov/international-cooperation/epa-leadership-lead-paint-alliance) with
    helping to review and enforce lead paint laws to promote the
    phase-out of the use of lead in paint.  
     
-   In April 2023, EPA released a [new online resource
    guide](https://www.epa.gov/children/heavy-metals-cultural-products) for
    the public on federal, state, and local materials to prevent lead
    and other heavy metal exposures in cultural products, including
    cosmetics, spices, religious powders, cookware, and traditional
    medicines. The resource is made available in multiple languages.  
     
-   To address the detrimental effects of lead poisoning in low and
    middle-income countries, USAID is aligning with other U.S.
    government efforts to improve child development, health, and
    education, including in India and South Africa. This work is
    happening through initiatives including the Global Child Thrive Act,
    Advancing Protection and Care for Children in Adversity, and the
    U.S. Government Strategy on International Basic Education. Through
    its Missions and Health Offices around the world, USAID is shining a
    light on the impact of lead exposure on health and development, as
    well as engaging with government officials on sources, policies, and
    regulations to prevent further poisoning.

**<u>Accelerating Innovations to Improve Blood Lead Testing</u>** –
Testing blood is the best way to determine if a person has had lead
exposure, as there are often no immediate symptoms when someone is
exposed to lead. Based on blood lead test results, healthcare providers
can recommend follow-up actions and care.

-   CDC is working to increase blood lead testing among children
    enrolled in Medicaid as part of CDC’s CORE Health Equity Strategy.
    The CORE strategy involves collaborating with multi-sectoral
    partners to incorporate health equity as a foundational component.
    To identify promising practices in this area, CDC formed the CORE
    Community of Practice (CoP) in August 2023 with nine Childhood Lead
    Poisoning Program (CLPPP) recipients. The CORE CoP will meet
    quarterly to discuss lessons learned from implementing blood lead
    testing strategies for children enrolled in Medicaid. Promising
    practices from this initiative will be disseminated to all 62 CLPPP
    recipients at the end of the project period.  
     
-   In November 2023, CDC announced a [Lead Detect Prize on
    challenge.gov](https://www.challenge.gov/?challenge=lead-detect-prize) with
    a $1 million prize pool to accelerate the development of
    next-generation point-of-care blood lead testing technology. NASA
    and the FDA support the challenge, and it spotlights the urgent need
    to identify and foster new or existing breakthrough solutions and
    products for optimal lead testing in children. The first phase of
    the multiphase challenge calls upon researchers and innovators
    across disciplines to submit concepts and Lead Detect Prize
    development plans for advanced point-of-care blood lead tests that
    could detect very low blood lead levels with reduced risk of blood
    sample contamination from the environment. Each Phase 1 winner will
    receive an equal share of the $150,000 Phase 1 prize pool and
    receive an exclusive invitation to participate and compete for
    $850,000 in total prizes during Phase 2.

\###
