---
date: '2023-11-30'
modified_time: 2023-11-30 16:00:03-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-30 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-61/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his Administration:

-   Kris Sarri, Nominee to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans
    and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs
-   Douglas Craig Schmidt, Nominee to be Director of Operational Test
    and Evaluation, Department of Defense
-   Juan Carlos Iturregui, Nominee to be  Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Dominican Republic
-   Deven Parekh, Nominee to be a Member on the Development Finance
    Corporation Board of Directors 

**<u>  
</u>**

****<u>Kristen Sarri, Nominee to be Assistant Secretary of State for
Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs,
Department of State</u>****

Kris Sarri has been a leader in environmental stewardship and community
development for over two decades. Most recently she served as the
president and CEO of the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation and
transformed it into a leading voice for conserving our ocean and Great
Lakes. Before her tenure at the National Marine Sanctuary Foundation,
Sarri served for six years in the Obama-Biden Administration. She served
as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy, Management, and
Budget at the Department of the Interior from 2014 to 2016,
the Associate Director for Legislative Affairs for the Office of
Management and Budget from 2011 to 2014, and Deputy Director of Policy
and Strategic Planning at the US Department of Commerce from 2010 to
2011. Sarri also spent eight years in the U.S. Senate where she was on
the Professional Staff of the Senate Commerce Committee with
responsibility for the Oceans, Atmosphere, Fisheries, and Coast Guard
Subcommittee. She served as Senior Policy Advisor to Senator Jack Reed
and the Legislative Director of the Northeast-Midwest Senate Coalition.
Sarri earned her B.A. in Biology from Washington University, St. Louis
and an M.S. and M.P.H. from the University of Michigan.  

****<u>Douglas Craig Schmidt, Nominee to be Director of Operational Test
and Evaluation, Department of Defense</u>****

Douglas C. Schmidt is the Cornelius Vanderbilt Professor of Computer
Science at Vanderbilt University. Schmidt served as Associate Provost of
Research and Founding Co-Director of the Data Science Institute at
Vanderbilt University from 2018 to 2022. Schmidt previously served as
the Deputy Director of Research and Chief Technology Officer at the
Software Engineering Institute at Carnegie Mellon University from 2010
to 2012, a member of the Air Force Scientific Advisory Board from 2010
to 2014, a Deputy Office Director and a Program Manager at the Defense
Advanced Research Projects Agency from 2000 to 2003, and co-chaired the
Software Design and Productivity Coordinating Group of the United States
government’s multi-agency Networking and Information Technology Research
and Development program from 2000 to 2003. He was also the Chief
Technology Officer for Prism Technologies from 2006 to 2009 and Zircon
Computing from 2009 to 2010.

In addition to his academic research, government service, and commercial
experience, over the past three decades Schmidt has led the development
of middleware frameworks used in thousands of distributed real-time and
embedded systems across many domains, including national defense and
homeland security, datacom/telecom, financial services, and healthcare.
He received a B.A. and M.A. in Sociology from the College of William and
Mary in Williamsburg, Virginia, and an M.S. and Ph.D. in Computer
Science from the University of California, Irvine.

****<u>Juan Carlos Iturregui, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Dominican Republic</u>****  
  
Juan Carlos Iturregui currently is the Managing Partner of Milan
Americas, LLC, his consulting practice specializing in business,
regulatory and public policy issues, with a focus on infrastructure and
renewable energy projects in the Caribbean and Latin America. He serves
as Vice Chair of the board of the United States Inter-American
Foundation and recently concluded a 4-year term a member of the Board of
Visitors at George Mason University. He is a former partner at Nelson
Mullins, LLP, a national full-service law firm. Previously, he served as
a Senior Advisor for over a decade at Dentons, LLP, the world’s largest
law firm. He also served on the Vice Chair of the American Red Cross,
National Capital Region. Earlier, Iturregui was a member of the
President’s Export Council, the nation’s top advisory panel on
international trade and overseas markets. He earned a B.A. in Political
Science from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst and a J.D from
The Catholic University of America in Washington, D.C. He is fully
bilingual (English/Spanish) and lives with his family in Maryland.

****<u>Deven Parekh, Nominee to be a Member on the Development Finance
Corporation Board of Directors</u>****

Deven Parekh is a Managing Director at Insight Partners, a growth equity
investment fund based in New York City. Since joining Insight in 2000,
Parekh has made more than 140 investments in enterprise software, data,
and consumer internet businesses globally, including in North America,
Europe, Asia, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Australia. In
addition to his work at Insight and for the Development Finance
Corporation, Parekh serves as a Board Member for the Council on Foreign
Relations, the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, NYU Langone,
the Tisch New York MS Research Center, and the Economic Club of New
York. He has previously served on the Board of the Overseas Private
Investment Corporation, the Advisory Board of the U.S. Export-Import
Bank, and a Technical Advisory Council of the Federal Communications
Commission. He is Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Publicolor, a
non-profit organization focused on New York City public schools.

In 2021, Parekh received the Robert F. Kennedy Ripple of Hope Award. He
is also a Henry Crown Fellow of the Aspen Institute. Prior to joining
Insight, Parekh was a Principal at Berenson Minella & Company, a New
York-based merchant banking firm, where he served on the M&A Committee.
He also worked for Blackstone on M&A and other investment activities.
Parekh has a B.S. in Economics from the Wharton School at the University
of Pennsylvania.

By statute, the Development Finance Corporation Board of Directors
includes four members recommended to the President from Senate and House
leadership. Parekh is the nominee recommended by the Senate Majority
Leader.

   
   
   

\###
