---
date: '2023-11-16'
published_time: 2023-11-16 20:19:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/16/leaders-statement-on-indo-pacific-economic-framework-for-prosperity/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Leaders\u2019 Statement on Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for\_Prosperity"
---
 
A year and a half ago, we the leaders of Australia, Brunei Darussalam,
Fiji, India, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand, the Philippines,
Singapore, Republic of Korea, Thailand, the United States, and Viet Nam
launched the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) to
advance resilience, sustainability, inclusiveness, economic growth,
fairness, and competitiveness for our economies.  In record time, we
have delivered on our goals.  
  
Here in San Francisco, California, our ministers signed the
first-of-its-kind Supply Chain Agreement, and substantially concluded
the negotiations on a groundbreaking Clean Economy Agreement and an
innovative Fair Economy Agreement.  Our ongoing cooperation through
these agreements will promote workers’ rights, increase our capacity to
prevent and respond to supply chain disruptions, strengthen our
collaboration on the transition to clean economies, and combat
corruption and improve the efficiency of tax administration.  Thirteen
of us have made progress on and continue to work towards a mutually
beneficial Trade Pillar outcome that advances workers’ rights through
strong and enforceable labor standards; improves economic opportunities
for families, ranchers and farmers, and micro-, small-, and medium-sized
enterprises; and promotes fair, open, and rules-based trade, accompanied
by technical assistance and economic cooperation, benefiting all
segments of society.  
  
Through these and new initiatives, we will continue to strengthen our
regional cooperation and shared commitments to address emerging issues,
drive innovation, and boost flows of commerce, trade, and investment
across our markets.  That is why, today, we are launching the IPEF
Critical Minerals Dialogue to foster closer collaboration on
strengthening IPEF critical mineral supply chains and boosting regional
economic competitiveness.  We intend to explore additional initiatives
to advance cooperation and dialogue on areas of mutual interest, such as
energy security and technology.  We also emphasize the importance of
deepening people-to-people ties and intend to promote IPEF networks to
share ideas and expertise among stakeholders in order to facilitate the
participation of and ensure positive outcomes for all.  
  
We recognize that mobilizing high-standard public and private financing,
including concessional financing at an increased scale as appropriate,
will facilitate investments in our supply chain resilience and clean
economy transitions.  We are committed to creating an investment
environment that promotes sustainable development and our transition to
net zero emissions economies and expands opportunities for decent work
now and in the future.  
  
We have built IPEF to be an open, inclusive, flexible, enduring, and
dynamic forum to further our shared interests, work together on critical
economic issues that will drive growth now and in the future, and
advance regional economic activity and integration.  Our meeting today
sets a new foundation from which we will continue to make progress in
the months and years ahead, including through the establishment of a
ministerial-level IPEF Council that will meet annually, starting in
2024, and leaders’ meetings every two years.  Through our ongoing
engagement and cooperation, IPEF will enhance our ability to promote
workers’ rights, protect the environment, and create decent work and
inclusive, sustainable economic opportunities in a future of peace,
stability, development, and prosperity for all our people.

\###
