---
date: '2023-11-10'
modified_time: 2023-11-14 17:29:10-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-10 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/10/fact-sheet-to-mark-veterans-day-biden-harris-administration-highlights-historic-care-benefits-new-actions-to-support-veterans-and-their-families/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: To Mark Veterans Day, Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights\
  \ Historic Care, Benefits & New Actions to Support Veterans and Their\_Families"
---
 
*Administration sets record for care and $163 billion in benefits
delivered to veterans through President Biden’s Unity Agenda*

President Biden believes we have a sacred obligation to care our
nation’s veterans and their families. Simply put, we owe them a debt we
can never fully repay. Supporting those who wear the uniform is a
commitment that unites all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, and
Independents – and it’s why the President has made supporting our
veterans a core pillar in his Unity Agenda for the nation. Since taking
office, President Biden has signed into law nearly 30 bipartisan bills
that address some of the most important issues facing veterans today,
including the PACT Act, which is most significant expansion of benefits
and services for toxic exposed veterans in more than 30 years. And his
Administration and Congress have worked together to expand access to
health care, address veteran homelessness, improve access to child and
long-term care, and support education and workforce opportunity for
veterans and their families.  
  
To mark this Veterans Day, President Biden will announce that his
Administration has delivered more benefits and health care, more
quickly, to more veterans than ever before. In 2023 alone, the
Department of Veterans Affairs delivered $163 billion in earned benefits
to 6.3 million veterans and survivors, and processed a record 1.98
million disability claims. VA delivered more than 116 million health
care appointments, over 5.5 million dental procedures, and provided
services and assistance to more than 74,000 family caregivers. The
Administration is building on this historic progress and announcing new
actions to lower health care costs for veterans – including low- or
no-cost health care for all living World War II veterans. And the
Administration will also announce the launch a new Veteran Scam and
Fraud Evasion (VSAFE) campaign and Task Force to better protect veterans
and their families from scams and predatory actors. The announcements
include:  
  
**Lowering health care costs and expanding health care eligibility for
veterans**. President Biden believes access to health care is a right
not a privilege. Beginning this month, VA will expand eligibility for
low- or no-cost health care to all living World War II veterans. VA will
also now cover health care costs associated with Parkinson’s disease
under the Camp Lejeune Family Member Program. And, to ensure all toxic
exposed veterans get the health care they deserve, President Biden is
directing the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to accelerate the
eligibility timeline for veterans under the authorities granted by the
PACT Act. Under this accelerated timeline, all remaining cohorts of
toxic exposed veterans will be eligible to enroll in VA health care in
early 2024.  
  
**Protecting veterans and their families from predatory actors and
scams. **In 2022, veterans, military personnel, and their families
reported 93,000 fraud complaints that cost them [more than $414
million](https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/CSN-Data-Book-2022.pdf).
Today, the President is launching the new Veteran Scam and Fraud Evasion
(VSAFE) Initiative and Task Force to better protect veterans and their
families against these scams. The Task Force brings together leaders
from VA, the Department of Education*,* Federal Trade Commission, Social
Security Administration, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
Department of State, and Department of Defense to kick off an all-hands
effort to safeguard veterans and their families. Today, VSAFE will
release a set of Do’s and Don’ts to get the word out to help veterans
and their families. In the coming months, the VSAFE Task Force will:

-   **Release a Fraud Prevention Tool Kit: **VA will partner with
    Veteran Service Organizations and Military Service Organizations to
    disseminate a toolkit that provides tips on preventing fraud and
    scams involving imposters, health care, finances, housing,
    employment, education, and memorialization.
-   **Publish a Series of Public Service Announcements: **To
    destigmatize conversations about fraud among veterans, VA will
    publish videos unpacking different forms of fraud.
-   **Create a One-Stop Shop: **The Biden-Harris Administration will
    lead a whole-of-government effort to consolidate and centralize
    educational resources and reporting tools, giving veterans no wrong
    door to access essential federal resources to prevent and report
    fraud. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) will take a first step by
    serving as the central recipient of reports of scams against
    veterans and Service members at ReportFraud.ftc.gov. These reports
    will be shared across federal and state agencies using the
    FTC’s [Consumer Sentinel
    Network](https://www.ftc.gov/enforcement/consumer-sentinel-network),
    which connects nearly 3,000 federal, state, local, and international
    law enforcement users. Further, veterans, along with Service members
    and their families, can keep in touch sign up for email updates from
    MilitaryConsumer.gov, a centralized source of information on how to
    spot, avoid, and report scams affecting military related consumers.
-   **Prevent Scam Callers from Targeting Veterans: **Recent actions by
    the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to block active
    robocalling scams have already resulted in a [99% drop in auto
    warranty robocalls and an 88% drop in student loan scam
    robocalls](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-393325A1.pdf).
    The FCC will build upon these efforts by working to identify the
    originators of scam calls targeting veterans and Service members to
    enable it to order phone companies to block these calls. 
-   **Conduct a Nationwide Listening Tour: **VA will hold 10 listening
    sessions with veterans in populations that are highly targeted by
    predatory actors to gather veteran feedback on fraud types they’ve
    experienced, their experiences with reporting fraud, what kind of
    support they need, among other key areas.
-   **Solicit Feedback on the Car-Buying Experience: **The FTC will
    issue a call for feedback from Service members on their car buying
    experiences. The FTC has [already
    identified](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2020/07/ftc-announces-staff-reports-car-buying-financing-experience-results-auto-buyers-study) the
    heightened risks for fraud that car buyers face. This targeted call
    for feedback will aid the FTC’s [ongoing
    efforts](https://www.ftc.gov/car) to reduce car buying scams that
    take advantage of the unique challenges experienced by veterans.
-   **Increase Accessibility of Resources: **The FTC will highlight new
    resource for non-English-speaking Service members and veterans,
    making it easier for them to access the help that they need.
-   **Expand oversight to help address scams: **The Consumer Financial
    Protection Bureau (CFPB) has conducted
    extensive [engagement](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/servicemembers-continue-to-face-major-financial-challenges/) with
    military and veteran service organizations and recently [took
    action](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/servicemembers-continue-to-face-major-financial-challenges/) to
    address increasing reports of military identity theft. Earlier this
    week, the
    CFPB [proposed](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/newsroom/cfpb-proposes-new-federal-oversight-of-big-tech-companies-and-other-providers-of-digital-wallets-and-payment-apps/) to
    extend its oversight to larger nonbank companies that offer services
    like digital wallets and payments apps, which the [CFPB previously
    found](https://s3.amazonaws.com/files.consumerfinance.gov/f/documents/cfpb_osa-annual-report_2022.pdf) to
    pose a risk to Service members.  The CFPB will advance these
    initiatives and incorporate feedback from the VA’s nationwide
    listening tour and the FTC’s call for car-buying feedback into its
    ongoing work to protect Service members, veterans, and their
    families.

These announcements build on Administration-wide actions to support
veterans and their families, including:   
  
**Addressing toxic exposures. **The [bipartisan Sergeant First Class
Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address Comprehensive Toxics
(PACT)
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/10/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-the-pact-act-and-delivers-on-his-promise-to-americas-veterans/) represents
the most significant expansion in benefits and services for veterans in
over thirty years. Since enactment, VA has received over 1.17 million
PACT Act related claims since enactment and has granted toxic exposure
benefits to more than 505,000 veterans and survivors. Additionally, more
than 204,620 veterans eligible under the PACT Act have newly enrolled in
VA health care, and more than 4.85 million veterans have been screened
for toxic exposure.  
  
**Reducing veteran suicide. **Since releasing a comprehensive public
health strategy for [reducing military and
veteran](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf) suicide,
the Biden-Harris Administration has continued to improve suicide
prevention efforts. VA has provided no-cost life-saving care to more
than 33,000 veterans at risk of suicide since January. VA awarded [$105
million](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-awards-veteran-suicide-prevention-grants/) in
grants for community-based organizations to deliver or coordinate
suicide prevention programs and services for veterans and their family
members. And, since launching the [988 Veterans Crisis
Line](https://www.veteranscrisisline.net/about/what-is-988/), VA has
fielded more than 1.1 million calls, texts, and chats to ensure access
to confidential counseling to veterans in crisis.    
  
**Ending veteran homelessness**. President Biden has called on Congress
to [triple the number of
veterans](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/07/fact-sheet-in-state-of-the-union-president-biden-to-outline-vision-to-advance-progress-on-unity-agenda-in-year-ahead/) who
receive housing vouchers – a critical tool to help prevent veteran
homelessness. In August, VA also issued $[1 billion in funding to
community
organizations](https://news.va.gov/press-room/https-news-va-gov-press-room-homeless/) to
help homeless and at-risk veterans through rapid rehousing, transitional
housing and case management, and prevent housing loss. And, in 2023
alone, VA has permanently housed over 35,000 veterans and is on track to
exceed its goal of 38,000 by the end of the year.  
  
**Improving Equity. **Women are the fastest growing group of veterans
who use VA services and the Administration is committed to addressing
and providing resources for their specialized health care needs. In
October, to improve health outcomes for mothers and their newborn
children, VA expanded [access to its maternity care
coordination](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-expands-maternity-care-coordination-for-veterans/) from
8 weeks to 12 months post-partum. To ensure that all LGBTQ+ veterans can
access the benefits they have earned, the Department of Defense
announced it would proactively review and consider discharge upgrades
for veterans who were discharged under Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.  
  
**Reducing burdens and improving veteran experience.** VA is making it
easier for veterans to access and manage their benefits. Veterans are
now able to receive notifications of claims decisions through a mobile
application, receive veteran benefit payments through automatic deposit,
and submit their applications online. VA has also [lowered
premiums](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-reduces-premium-rates-for-veterans-mortgage-life-insurance/) on
life insurance, [lowered interest
rates](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-lowers-interest-rates-makes-housing-more-affordable-for-native-american-veterans/),
and [removed burdensome
copays](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-waives-copayments-for-eligible-native-american-and-alaska-native-veterans/) for
certain veterans to help reduce financial strain on veterans and their
families.  
  
**Advancing economic security for military and veteran spouses,
caregivers, and survivors.** In June, the President, alongside First
Lady Jill Biden, signed an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/09/executive-order-on-advancing-economic-security-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-military-caregivers-and-survivors/) to
increase the economic security of military and veteran spouses,
caregivers, and survivors. Since Day One of the Biden Administration,
Dr. Biden, through her [*Joining
Forces*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/joiningforces/) initiative, has
worked to eliminate barriers to employment and increase economic
opportunity for military-connected families. The Executive Order
included nearly 20 new actions aimed at enhancing career stability,
expanding employment resources, and improving transition assistance
support for military-connected spouses. In December 2023, the Office of
Personnel Management (OPM) will publish a government-wide Military and
Veteran Spouse, Military Caregiver, and Survivor Hiring and Retention
Strategic Plan.

**Improving access to child and long-term care options. **Earlier this
year, President Biden signed an historic [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/) calling
for more than 50 administrative actions that would improve access to and
quality of child care and long-term care for Americans, including for
our nation’s heroes. By the end of fiscal year 2024, each VA medical
center will offer veterans and their families with self-directed care
options through the Veteran Directed Care program. 

\###
