---
date: '2023-11-09'
modified_time: 2023-11-09 13:13:11-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-09 15:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/09/biden-harris-administration-agencies-sign-interagency-agreement-to-address-wildfire-risk-and-protect-communities-from-smoke/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Agencies Sign Interagency Agreement to Address\
  \ Wildfire Risk and Protect Communities from\_Smoke"
---
 
**WASHINGTON** – Today, Environmental Protection Agency Administrator
Michael S. Regan, Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland, Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack and Director of the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention Mandy Cohen announced a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
to further their joint work to protect communities from the impacts of
wildfire smoke, while promoting land management practices that reduce
the risk of large, severe fires. The four agencies – the Environmental
Protection Agency (EPA), the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), the
U.S. Department of the Interior (DOI), and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention (CDC) – also released a joint plan outlining
wildland fire-related priorities the agencies will focus on over the
next two years.  
  
“From coast to coast, the nation is facing a growing threat of wildfire
induced by climate change, including from the smoke that can harm people
hundreds of miles away,” **said EPA Administrator Michael S. Regan.**
“We can have a bigger impact on protecting people by partnering across
the Biden-Harris Administration. “With today’s interagency agreement we
commit to urgent action to reduce the risk of severe wildfires and
dangerous smoke.”  
  
“This year has shown the entire country and the world that wildfires
don’t stop at a state or country line – they impact all of us and
require a coordinated and collaborative approach,” said **Secretary of
the Interior Deb Haaland**. “The Biden-Harris administration is
committed to using every tool available to protect communities from the
hazards of wildfire smoke, while also ensuring we have the tools we need
to reduce the future risk of large, high severity wildfire events.”  
  
“Since fires and smoke don’t recognize borders or jurisdictions, neither
should we, and this agreement will help agencies under the Biden-Harris
Administration better protect the people and communities we serve,”
**said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.**  
  
“The increasing frequency and magnitude of wildfires pose an
ever-growing threat to the health of the American public,” **saidMandy
Cohen, M.D., M.P.H, Director of the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention**.  “This MOU demonstrates the U.S. government’s commitment
to mitigating the negative health consequences from wildfire smoke and
is a pledge to protect health by reducing the risk of future,
large-scale wildfires.”  
  
The MOU outlines how the agencies are working together to advance public
health preparedness, minimize smoke impacts to the public and ensure
regulatory pathways under the Clean Air Act accommodate greater use of
prescribed fire. Under the MOU, the four agencies commit to coordinating
the implementation of policies, communications, and programs that relate
to the use of prescribed fire to benefit restoration of forests and
other wildlands, and protect communities. The agencies will work
together to reduce the negative health impacts of smoke on human health
and community well-being.  
  
The joint workplan outlines areas of focus for the agencies’ partnership
for fiscal years 2024 and 2025:

-   community preparedness;
-   ensuring that land management and public health goals are addressed
    together;
-   data collection and sharing; and
-   interagency communication and messaging.

The MOU and workplan follow the recent Wildland Fire Mitigation and
Management Commission Report to Congress, which urged an “all of the
above” approach – at all levels of society – to address the impacts of
wildfires on communities across the country. While many of the
Commission’s recommendations focus on actions Congress must take, this
MOU represents a major step forward to the report’s vision of greater
coordination and collaboration among agencies working on wildfire.  
  
This work complements the historic investments from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda to increase the resilience of lands facing
the threat of wildland fires and to better support federal wildland
firefighters. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes $1.5 billion
for the Department of the Interior and $3 billion for the USDA to invest
in preparedness, fuels management, post-fire restoration, and fire
science – all of which will help strengthen long-term fire preparedness,
reduce fire risk across states, and invest in our wildland firefighter
workforce.    
  
To read the MOU and the joint workplan, visit:
<https://www.usda.gov/sites/default/files/documents/usda-epa-doi-cdc-mou.pdf>  
  
To read the Wildland Fire Mitigation and Management Commission report,
visit
<https://www.usda.gov/topics/disaster-resource-center/wildland-fire/commission>

\###
