---
date: '2023-11-01'
modified_time: 2023-11-01 19:59:39-04:00
published_time: 2023-11-01 19:59:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-convenes-third-global-gathering-to-counter-ransomware/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Convenes Third Global Gathering\
  \ to Counter\_Ransomware"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration remains committed to taking bold actions
to combat ransomware. Ransomware is a global scourge requiring
international cooperation to disrupt.  This week, the White House
convened International Counter Ransomware Initiative (CRI) for its third
meeting in Washington, D.C., bringing together 50 members, including 48
countries and representatives from the European Union and INTERPOL, to
discuss new operational projects and develop concrete policy
commitments.  
  
This year, the initiative welcomed thirteen new members—Albania,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt, Greece, INTERPOL, Jordan, Papua New Guinea,
Portugal, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Slovakia, and Uruguay—who participated
in the gathering along with Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Canada, Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Dominican Republic,
Estonia, the European Union, France, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lithuania, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nigeria, Norway, Poland, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Singapore,
South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Arab
Emirates, the United Kingdom, and the United States.

At the gathering, CRI members advanced the Initiative’s commitments to
resilience, cooperation, and disruption through the CRI’s Policy Pillar,
Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar, and the International Counter
Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF). The Policy Pillar spearheaded efforts to
undercut the business model that underpins the ransomware ecosystem by
building the CRI’s resources on cyber insurance, victim behavior,
seizure and confiscation of virtual assets, ransom payments, and best
practices for incident reporting and information sharing. The Diplomacy
and Capacity Building Pillar expanded the CRI’s partnerships with the
addition of thirteen new members to the coalition. The ICRTF launched
information sharing across all 50 members of the CRI by disseminating
operational tools.

This year’s convening of the CRI focused on **launching capabilities to
disrupt attackers and the infrastructure they use to conduct their
attacks, improving cybersecurity through sharing information;** and
**fighting back** against ransomware actors.  Together, members of the
CRI took bold new action to further advance the initiative, including:  

-   **Launching Capabilities: ** Leading a **mentorship and tactical
    training program** for new CRI members to build their cyber
    capacity.  The initiative will also launch a project to **leverage
    artificial intelligence** to counter ransomware.  
-   **Information Sharing: ** The CRI launched innovative information
    sharing platforms enabling CRI member countries to rapidly share
    threat indicators, including Lithuania’s Malware Information Sharing
    Platform (MISP) and Israel and the UAE’s Crystal Ball platform. 
    Additionally, a CRI website will be built and maintained by
    Australia, which will include a forum for members to request
    assistance from CRI members.  
-   **Fighting Back Against Bad Actors: ** CRI members endorsed the
    first-ever joint CRI policy statement declaring that member
    governments should not pay ransoms.  The initiative will also create
    a shared blacklist of wallets through the U.S. Department of the
    Treasury’s pledge to share data on illicit wallets used by
    ransomware actors with all CRI members.  Members have also committed
    to **assist any CRI member with incident response** if their
    government or lifeline sectors are hit with a ransomware attack.

The International Counter Ransomware Initiative celebrated notable
successes since its last convening, including: increased capacity
amongst members; improved cybersecurity through sharing information;
enhanced capabilities to block attackers and the infrastructure they use
to conduct their attacks; arrests of ransomware actors and financial
disruptions.  More notable success are addressed below.  
  
**The CRI Policy Pillar**  
  
Over the course of 2023, Singapore and the United Kingdom drove
discussions on levers to address key policy questions in the fight
against ransomware. Singapore, supported by the Financial Action Task
Force (FATF) authors of FATF’s Counter Ransomware Financing report and
the Institute of Security and Technology (IST), led an intersessional
meeting to improve members’ understanding of the ransomware payments
ecosystem. In addition, by encouraging CRI members to implement FATF
Recommendation 15 on Anti-Money Laundering/Combating the Financing of
Terrorism (AML/CFT) for Virtual Asset Service Providers, the Policy
Pillar forged sharper interventions to disrupt the illicit financial
flows that fuel the ransomware industry.  
  
The United Kingdom led a research project examining how **victims**
behave during an attack, aiding the CRI’s understanding of what
circumstances lead victims to pay ransoms, whether they report the
payment, and what effects both of these behaviors have on the victim and
offender. The Netherlands led research on crypto and **virtual asset
seizures**, recommending best practices and tools that the CRI countries
can use to engage providers. France led research on the **cyber
insurance landscape** to identify areas for policy intervention**,** and
Singapore led the development of best practices on cyber **incident
reporting and information sharing.**  
  
Through the Policy Pillar, CRI members affirmed the importance of
adopting strong and aligned messaging discouraging paying ransomware
demands and leading by example.  CRI members **endorsed a statement that
relevant institutions under our national government authority should not
pay ransomware extortion demands.** This shows unity and consensus with
setting a new global norm and standard around ransomware payments.  
  
The CRI provides an opportunity to further reshape the cyber environment
by creating long-term cooperative approaches and common understandings
of **accountability in cyberspace**, consistent with international law
as well as state actions as embodied in the Framework for Responsible
State Behavior in Cyberspace, endorsed by all United Nations member
states.

Over the next year, the CRI Policy Pillar will continue to build
international cohesion and collaboration on counter-ransomware policies
by expanding the work done in 2023. Possible projects include, but are
not limited to, formalizing CRI processes, by determining potential
governance frameworks for CRI members, exploring how partnerships with
the cyber insurance industry can help in countering ransomware, and how
countries should work together to raise the overall cybersecurity
posture against ransomware attacks through cybersecurity standards and
best practices, including in areas such as artificial intelligence and
other emerging technologies.  
  
**The CRI Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar**  
  
The Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar expanded the CRI’s reach by
adding **thirteen new members** to the coalition and incorporating
capacity building efforts throughout all the CRI’s efforts. Major
efforts included developing guidelines for joining the Initiative,
establishing an onboarding and mentorship process for new members, and
finding opportunities to promote the CRI to potential new members. For
example, this summer some CRI members convened at the George C. Marshall
European Center for Security Studies in Germany to support a CRI
component to a cyber capacity building initiative for African nations.  
  
Over the next year, the Pillar will continue to recruit new members and
will develop a robust capacity building program for new members that
includes designing tailored capacity building workshops in response to
members’ needs.  
  
**The International Counter Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF)**  
  
The ICRTF—established at last year’s convening and led by Australia this
year—built **operational projects and platforms** informed by the
findings and outcomes presented at the 2022 CRI gathering.  The CRI
website, maintained by Australia, will include a **forum for members to
request assistance** from CRI members to respond to specific ransomware
incidents to ensure offers of support are streamlined and
well-coordinated. The ICRTF will also continue to support transnational
operations and leverage existing **law enforcement collaboration
platforms**.  
  
Israel and the UAE announced access for CRI members to their joint
information sharing project **Crystal Ball**, enabling CRI members to
access tools such as databases, virtual coordination platforms and
contact lists.  Lithuania built the CRI **Malware Information Sharing
Project** (MISP) instance, an open-source solution for sharing threat
intelligence.  India unveiled the **Trident Resilience Platform**, which
offers malware analysis, remediation, and awareness functions.  Italy
launched a pilot for ICRTF members of the **Cybersecurity Authorities
Network** (CyAN), a platform for building a common knowledge base at the
political, strategic, and operational levels of counter-ransomware
efforts.  
  
All four projects—Crystal Ball, MISP, Trident, and CyAN— will soon be
interoperable, opening channels of communication, analysis, and
transparency across the like-minded partnership of the CRI and
contributing actionable information to the initiative.  
  
The **Netherlands** delivered a **Ransomware Targeting Framework** to
enable CRI members to prioritize criminal targets and the services which
support the ransomware ecosystem. **Poland** led the **RACER project**,
an operational set of recommendations for governments to use for the
prevention, reporting, and post-incident evidence-gathering and
forensics of ransomware incidents.  The **United States** and **Spain**
worked with the Institute for Security and Technology (IST) to develop
**case studies** on how public-private partnerships can best be
leveraged to fight ransomware.  
  
Building on the information sharing established in its inaugural year,
the ICRTF will hold regular **virtual seminars** on ransomware-related
topics in 2024. A **comparative analysis of national and regional threat
assessments** will build a global, comprehensive landscape of the
ransomware threat picture for the CRI. Additionally, the ICRTF will
create, compile, and share resources to develop its members’ national
capabilities. This commitment includes developing a **guide to create a
national counter ransomware task force**. The Task Force will also
continue to produce periodic reports for CRI members.  
  
The work of the CRI is making a difference for our countries and our
communities in their schools, hospitals, and homes. Over the next year,
the coalition plans to provide rapid assistance to CRI members if their
government or critical sectors are hit with a ransomware attack,
continue to share actionable information with CRI partners, and enhance
cyber capacity building through mentorship of new members and tactical
training through ICRTF.

\###
