---
date: '2023-11-13'
published_time: 2023-11-13 10:20:26-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-issues-landmark-blueprint-to-advance-american-innovation-competition-and-security-in-wireless-technologies/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Issues Landmark Blueprint to\
  \ Advance American Innovation, Competition and Security in Wireless\_Technologies"
---
 
America’s economy, technological leadership, and security depend on
spectrum—the frequencies used to transmit radio signals for all wireless
technologies. Spectrum is a strategically essential area in global
technological competition, as it underpins the digital economies of the
U.S. and our allies and partners. Spectrum is essential not just for
everyday digital products like televisions, cell phones, and Wi-Fi
routers, but also for core infrastructure, including critical sectors
like aviation, manufacturing, energy, and defense. At the same time,
spectrum is a scarce resource—one that needs careful management to
sustain American innovation and security.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is issuing a landmark [National
Spectrum
Strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/National-Spectrum-Strategy.pdf)
and a Presidential Memorandum on modernizing U.S. spectrum policy that,
together, lay out a blueprint for American innovation, competition, and
security in advanced wireless technologies. This blueprint includes new
actions to improve spectrum management and spectrum access—including a
study of more than 2,700 megahertz of spectrum for potential repurposing
that will help ensure that both the public and private sectors have the
spectrum resources they need to deliver critical services to every
community in America. It will also ensure that the U.S. uses spectrum
policy as a critical lever to retain global leadership in wireless
technology, creating an ecosystem of equipment, products, and
applications and a virtuous cycle of innovation.  
  
The National Strategy and Presidential Memorandum will guide decisions
about how to allocate limited spectrum resources and ensure these
decisions are made through a rigorous, transparent process, which is
more important today than ever, as new technologies create increasing
demands for spectrum. Innovations ranging from 5G networks, to precision
agriculture, to unmanned aerial vehicles, to moon missions take large
amounts of spectrum to operate. Meeting the demands of innovation
requires America’s spectrum policy to adapt and improve.  
  
The National Spectrum Strategy released today announces further steps to
strengthen interagency coordination, promote innovation, and ensure
efficient spectrum use. The Strategy was developed by the National
Telecommunications Information Administration (NTIA) in response to
direction from President Biden, in close coordination with the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) and the many federal agencies relying on
spectrum. It articulates four pillars containing essential actions for
ensuring that spectrum policy advances U.S. innovation, economic
vitality, and security.  
  
**Pillar 1:** **A Spectrum Pipeline to Ensure U.S. Leadership in
Advanced and Emerging Technologies.** Spectrum availability is not just
a long-term challenge. Technological advances require more efficient
spectrum use today. To address near-term spectrum needs, the Strategy
announces:

-   **In-depth near-term study of 2,786 megahertz of spectrum for
    potential repurposing.** After receiving extensive public input,
    NTIA has identified five bands for study. These are the 3.1-3.45
    GHz, 5.03-5.091 GHz, 7.125-8.4 GHz, 18.1-18.6 GHz, and 37.0-37.6 GHz
    bands. This mix of bands could support a range of uses, including
    wireless broadband, drones, and satellite operations. NTIA will
    complete its study within 2 years.  
-   **Guiding principles for near-term allocation.** These principles
    involve soliciting input from all stakeholders, data-based analysis,
    coordinated execution of plans to repurpose spectrum, and ongoing
    monitoring.

**Pillar 2:** **Collaborative Long-Term Planning to Support the Nation’s
Evolving Spectrum Needs.** A vast range of private stakeholders and
government agencies need spectrum to deliver essential products and
services. Long-term decisions about spectrum allocation, therefore, must
involve broad-based input and transparent processes, which will help
spectrum users make prudent long-term investments. To achieve these
goals, the Strategy announces the following steps:

-   **Coordinated, collaborative framework for long-term spectrum
    planning.** In particular, the Biden-Harris Administration will
    develop robust processes that incorporate the full input of industry
    stakeholders, federal agencies, and advisory groups in spectrum
    allocation decisions. This framework will execute the Presidential
    Memorandum’s directives for greater interagency coordination, while
    building on existing interagency Memoranda of Understanding
    regarding spectrum decision making and expanding private sector
    participation.  
-   **Evidence-based methodology for spectrum allocation decisions.** To
    support transparent allocation decisions, the Biden-Harris
    Administration will develop values-based models—as well as best
    practices for technical and economic analyses—that quantify the
    benefits of different spectrum allocation options.  
-   **Regular updates to the National Spectrum Strategy.** Based on the
    broad-based stakeholder inputs it receives, NTIA will update the
    Strategy regularly to ensure it supports effective coordination,
    addresses gaps in spectrum policy, and promotes U.S. spectrum
    leadership.

**Pillar 3:** **Unprecedented Spectrum Access and Management Through
Technology Development.** Cutting-edge spectrum technologies and
techniques like spectrum sharing hold great promise for promoting
efficient use and ensuring that—even though spectrum is finite—the U.S.
is able achieve spectrum abundance for all users. To accelerate spectrum
innovation and ensure that the U.S. remains at the leading edge in this
critical technology, the Strategy announces an ambitious effort under
which the U.S. government will, within 12-18 months, advance research,
create investment incentives, and set forth measurable goals to advance
spectrum access technology.  This effort, which the U.S. government will
undertake in collaboration with industry, will include the following:

-   **Establish spectrum testbeds.** The Biden-Harris Administration
    will establish a national testbed for dynamic spectrum sharing
    within 12-18 months. It will also increase the availability of
    outdoor wireless testbeds and explore the establishment of spectrum
    “sandboxes”—that is, areas dedicated for spectrum research.  
-   **Develop a National Spectrum Research and Development (R&D) Plan.**
    The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) will develop this
    plan to identify key areas for work to support spectrum
    innovation.  
-   **Encourage private-sector R&D.** Federal agencies will collaborate
    with industry, technology developers, and academia to encourage
    dynamic spectrum sharing through innovative technologies and
    techniques—including cloud-based spectrum management and AI-enabled
    methods. NTIA will also pursue the development of a common spectrum
    management platform to manage shared access.

**Pillar 4: Expanded Spectrum Expertise and Elevated National
Awareness.** America’s long-term spectrum innovation depends on its
leading-edge spectrum workforce, as well as broader public appreciation
for spectrum’s vital role in our society. To foster spectrum expertise
and awareness, the Strategy announces the following actions:

-   **National Spectrum Workforce Plan.** The Biden-Harris
    Administration will create and periodically update a plan for
    developing a workforce able to fill the full range of operational,
    technical, and policy roles in the future spectrum ecosystem.  
-   **Educating policymakers and the public.** Federal agencies will
    work to ensure that policymakers at all levels, including state,
    local, and Tribal governments, have access to information needed for
    decisions involving spectrum. The Administration will also
    prioritize educating members of the public about the role spectrum
    plays in everyday life. 

The Presidential Memorandum serves as the basis for the National
Spectrum Strategy by directing NTIA to provide President Biden with a
National Spectrum Strategy. The Presidential Memorandum also directs
further action by federal agencies to ensure that U.S. spectrum policy
is coordinated and consistent in the following ways:

-   Reaffirms joint management of our nation’s spectrum resources by
    NTIA and Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and reiterates that
    NTIA is the President’s principal advisor on spectrum issues and the
    voice of the Administration in matters before the FCC.  
-   Establishes a Spectrum Advisory Council as the principal interagency
    forum for senior agency leaders to advise NTIA on spectrum policy.
    The Council is made up of agencies holding Federal spectrum
    assignments or otherwise having spectrum-related statutory
    authorities.  
-   Creates a White House led dispute resolution process should NTIA and
    an agency disagree over the position the Administration should take
    on a spectrum issue and sets forth how the White House will resolve
    those issues. 

\###
