---
date: '2023-11-17'
published_time: 2023-11-17 18:13:16-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/17/communities-in-action-building-a-better-north-dakota-south-dakota-and-nebraska/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Communities in Action: Building a Better North Dakota, South Dakota, and\_\
  Nebraska"
---
 
On November 15, the White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs and
the Office of Public Engagement hosted nearly 60 local elected officials
and community leaders from across North Dakota, South Dakota, and
Nebraska as part of its “Communities in Action” event series.

During the half-day forum, participants heard from senior Biden-Harris
Administration officials – including Secretary of Agriculture Tom
Vilsack, Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs Tom Perez,
Director of the Office of Public Engagement Steve Benjamin, Director of
the Domestic Policy Council Neera Tanden, Deputy Infrastructure
Implementation Coordinator Samantha Silverberg, National Climate Advisor
Ali Zaidi,– on the impacts of the American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, and Inflation Reduction Act in their states.

White House officials highlighted ongoing efforts to partner with states
and local governments, labor leaders, businesses, non-profits, and
health care leaders to leverage these historic investments to create and
expand opportunities for working families. Participants provided updates
on how the administration’s policies are delivering progress on issues
of concern in their communities, including food security, housing, and
mental health parity. 

The forum was the twenty-third in a series of “Communities in Action”
events that the White House hosts with state and local leaders to
demonstrate how the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering results
for the American people.

\###
