---
date: '2023-11-30'
published_time: 2023-11-30 17:21:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/readout-of-meeting-between-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-and-president-joao-manuel-goncalves-lourenco-of-angola/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Meeting Between President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and President Jo\xE3\
  o Manuel Gon\xE7alves Louren\xE7o of\_Angola"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with President João Manuel
Gonçalves Lourenço of Angola at the White House to address opportunities
to deepen our relationship, identify areas of future cooperation, and
discuss regional and global challenges.  Together they discussed
significant U.S. economic investment in Angola, including through the
President’s flagship Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGI) in the Lobito Corridor with over a billion dollars in
U.S. financing committed this year alone. These investments
include support for over 180 rural bridges, upgrading 4G and 5G digital
connectivity across the nation, introducing the first ever mobile money
application, and bringing 500 megawatts of solar power to the grid, with
an additional billion mobilized for the biggest rail investment in
Africa in our history.  These investments also will advance Angola’s
goal of becoming a net food exporter by 2027 and strengthening regional
food security. 

President Biden and President Lourenço committed to increased
partnership on issues that define our shared future, including
strengthening democracy, energy production and exportation, and space
cooperation. To that end, the leaders welcomed the launch of a U.S. –
Angola Energy Security Dialogue in 2024 focused on the secure and stable
supply of energy and deeper commercial ties while advancing our shared
climate goals.  President Biden also congratulated President Lourenço
for Angola’s signing of the Artemis Accords, which advances a common
vision of space exploration for the benefit of all humankind, and for
joining the Partnership for Atlantic Cooperation. Lastly, the leaders
resolved to address together global challenges, including Russia’s war
in Ukraine and the conflict in eastern Democratic Republic of the
Congo.  The meeting reaffirmed the significant progress made in our
30-year diplomatic relationship and exemplified the President’s
commitment to Africa, as outlined at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit last
year. 

\###
