---
date: '2023-11-15'
modified_time: 2023-11-15 16:02:11-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-15 16:02:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/15/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-31/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Nancy Duff Campbell, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
    Coast Guard Academy 
-   Joyce M. Johnson, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
    Coast Guard Academy
-   Peter V. Neffenger, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
    Coast Guard Academy
-   Maritza Sáenz Ryan, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
    Coast Guard Academy
-   Andrew N. Cedar, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Peter A. Selfridge, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Leland Ware, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars
-   Shakuntla L. Bhaya, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference
    of the United States
-   Neil H. MacBride, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference
    of the United States
-   David E. Price, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
    Board 
-   Randa Elias Arabo, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
    Arts
-   Mary Ann Walker Aguirre, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on
    the Arts
-   Christine M. Warnke, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
    Arts

  
**<u>Board of Visitors to the United States Coast Guard Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy reviews and makes
recommendations on the operation of the Coast Guard Academy and visits
the Academy annually to review its operation. Specifically, the Board
reviews the state of morale and discipline, recruitment and retention,
curriculum, instruction, fiscal affairs, and other matters relating to
the Academy that the Board determines appropriate.

**Nancy Duff Campbell, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
Coast Guard Academy **  
Nancy Duff Campbell is a founder and Co-President Emerita of the
National Women’s Law Center. For over 50 years, she has used litigation,
legislative and administrative advocacy, and education to expand
opportunities for women, with a particular emphasis on issues affecting
low-income women and their families. She has been an appointee of the
Secretary of Defense to the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the
Services, of Congress to the U.S. Commission on Child and Family
Welfare, and of United Nations officials as the sole North American
representative to the U.N. Conference on Implications for Women of the
Global Financial Crisis. She has been a visiting scholar at the
University of Michigan and Princeton University, and she is the
recipient of several awards and honors. She has been quoted and
otherwise featured in numerous media outlets and books, and her oral
history is included in the American Bar Association’s Women Trailblazers
in the Law Oral History Project, the Historical Society of the District
of Columbia Circuit’s Oral Histories of the D.C. Circuit’s Courts, and
the Veteran Feminists of America’s Pioneer Histories Project. Prior to
her long career at the National Women’s Law Center, she was a law
professor, first at Catholic University and then at Georgetown
University, and an attorney at the Center on Social Welfare Policy and
Law (now the National Center for Law and Economic Justice). She is a
graduate of Barnard College of Columbia University and New York
University School of Law. 

**Joyce M. Johnson, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Coast
Guard Academy**  
Dr. Joyce M. Johnson is a physician who has dedicated her professional
life to public service. Her last active-duty position was Director,
Health and Safety (“surgeon general”) of the U.S. Coast Guard. As a
two-star admiral, she was the first woman to serve the Coast Guard as a
flag officer. Her prior government positions include senior leadership
and public health positions at the U.S. Food and Drug Administration,
Centers for Disease Control, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
Administration, National Institutes of Health/SEH, and the Department of
Veterans Affairs. 

Johnson combines her professional training with philanthropic work
serving on the Board of the University of Maryland Medical System, a
multi-hospital $5 billion corporation. She served on the Board of the
Military Officers Association of America and various other boards,
commissions, and committees. She authored over 200 publications for lay
and professional audiences, including the book *Lizard Bites and Street
Riots – Travel Emergencies and Your Health, Safety and Security.* She
has provided disaster relief and other health care services on all seven
continents. Johnson is a health care consultant focusing on the maritime
sector, and serves as the Chief Medical Advisor to the National Science
Foundation’s Antarctic and Arctic research programs (by contract).
Johnson is an osteopathic physician board certified in Public Health and
Preventive Medicine, Clinical Pharmacology, and Psychiatry. She held the
rank of Professor at Georgetown University, and has received eight
honorary doctoral degrees. 

**Peter V. Neffenger, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
Coast Guard Academy**  
Vice Admiral Peter V. Neffenger, USCG, Retired, was appointed in 2015 by
President Obama to lead the Transportation Security Administration
(TSA), a position he held until January 2017. Prior to this he enjoyed a
distinguished 34-year career in the United States Coast Guard,
culminating in his appointment as the service’s 29<sup>th</sup> Vice
Commandant. He was the Deputy National Incident Commander for the 2010
BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, the largest and most complex in U.S.
history. He is a recognized expert in national security, crisis
leadership, and organizational transformation. His transformation of the
TSA led to him being named one of the 25 most influential business
travel executives of 2016 by *Business Travel News*. He is a Trustee of
Baldwin Wallace University in Berea, Ohio, and serves on a number of
corporate, non-profit, and advisory boards, including the Marine Board
of the National Academies of Science. He is also a Distinguished Senior
Fellow with the National Preparedness Leadership Initiative at Harvard
University. He holds an MPA from Harvard University, an MA in National
Security and Strategic Studies from the U.S. Naval War College, an MA in
Business Management from Central Michigan University, and a BA from
Baldwin Wallace University, from which he also received an Honorary
Doctor of Public Service. He is a two-time recipient of the Department
of Homeland Security’s Distinguished Service Medal, in addition to
numerous military awards.

**Maritza Sáenz Ryan, Member, Board of Visitors to the United States
Coast Guard Academy**  
Brigadier General Maritza Sáenz Ryan, U.S. Army, Retired, served as the
Professor & Head of the Department of Law, U.S. Military Academy (USMA)
at West Point, until her retirement from the Army. A member of the USMA
Class of 1982, she was commissioned as a Field Artillery officer and
assigned to the 1<sup>st</sup> Armored Division Artillery, Nuremberg,
West Germany. Under the Judge Advocate General’s Corps Funded Legal
Education Program, she received her Juris Doctorate from Vanderbilt Law
School, Order of the Coif, in 1988. She holds a Master of Laws in
Military Law from the Army Judge Advocate General’s School and a Master
of Arts in National Security & Strategic Studies from the Naval War
College.

Ryan’s assignments include deployment as Brigade Legal Counsel,
18<sup>th</sup> Airborne Corps Artillery, Operation Desert Shield/Desert
Storm; Senior Trial Counsel (Criminal Prosecution) and Senior Trial
Defense Counsel, Fort Sill Field Artillery Center & School; Chief of
Military Justice and Officer-in-Charge of the Fort Shafter Branch Office
(Civil Law), 25<sup>th</sup> Infantry Division; and Deputy Staff Judge
Advocate and Staff Judge Advocate (Command General Counsel), Fort Sam
Houston. Military awards and decorations include Airborne and Air
Assault badges, the Field Artillery’s Honorable Order of St. Barbara,
the South West Asia Service Medal, and the Distinguished Service Medal.

Ryan has taught Constitutional & Military Law, Military Justice, and
Jurisprudence & Legal Theory, and has published and presented in the
areas of Law and Leadership, the Law of Armed Conflict, and Military
Justice. She is a Leadership Consultant with Team Catalyzer.

**<u>Commission on Presidential Scholars</u>**

The Commission on Presidential Scholars is a group of eminent private
citizens appointed by the President to select and honor the Presidential
Scholars. Commissioners are selected from across the country,
representing the fields of education, medicine, law, social services,
business, and other professions. The Commissioners make the final
selection of the 161 Presidential Scholars. The Scholars demonstrate
exceptional accomplishments in academics, the arts, career and technical
education, and an outstanding commitment to public service.

**Andrew N. Cedar, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Andrew N. Cedar has nearly two decades of experience across the public
and private sectors. He is currently a partner at Long Ridge, a growth
equity firm with over $1.75 billion in assets under management, where he
invests in fast-growing companies in the financial and enterprise
technology sectors and serves on portfolio company boards of directors.
Previously, Cedar was a consultant at McKinsey & Company and later
worked directly for the firm’s Global Managing Partner. At McKinsey, he
advised corporations and governments in the United States, the Middle
East, Latin America, and Africa.

From 2009-2013, Cedar was a member of the Obama-Biden Administration’s
foreign policy and national security team. He served as Senior Director
for Global Engagement at the National Security Council at the White
House and as a senior advisor at the State Department. Cedar was also a
member of the presidential transition teams for both Barack Obama in
2008 and Joe Biden in 2020. Cedar was on the founding team of National
Security Action, an advocacy organization dedicated to advancing
American global leadership and offering a strong, progressive vision for
U.S. foreign policy, where he later served as a senior advisor.

Cedar has a BA in Political Science from Yale University (Phi Beta Kappa
and *summa cum laude*), an MPhil in International Relations from
University of Cambridge (UK), and an MBA with Distinction from Harvard
Business School. He is a Term Member of the Council on Foreign Relations
and has been named a Young Global Shaper by the World Economic Forum. He
resides in Brooklyn, New York with his wife and two children.

**Peter A. Selfridge, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Peter A. Selfridge is Executive Vice President and Global Head of
Government and Public Affairs for SAP. In this role Selfridge is
responsible for promoting technological transformation in the public
sector and the role played by digital technologies in inspiring positive
economic and societal development around the world.

Selfridge was formerly U.S. Chief of Protocol during the second term of
the Obama-Biden Administration, serving as the President’s Ambassador to
the foreign diplomatic corps posted to the United States. Prior to that,
he served as President Obama’s Advance and Operations Director in the
White House, a position he managed for Vice President Biden during the
first two years of the Administration. He previously worked for U.S.
Senator Tom Harkin (D-IA), and as a Scheduling Assistant to President
Clinton. Selfridge also served on the Gore, Kerry, and Obama
presidential campaigns, and was most recently an adviser on the
Biden-Harris Transition team.

Earlier in his career, Selfridge worked for the City of New York as a
Policy Advisor, and later at Citigate Communications and Rendezvous
Consulting where he developed and executed clients’ communications and
public affairs strategies. He previously worked at the William J.
Clinton Foundation as the organization’s city director in Los Angeles.
In addition to a bachelor’s degree in political science from the
University of Iowa, Selfridge holds a master’s degree in international
public policy from Johns Hopkins University. He is a native of Minnesota
and is married to Parita Shah. The couple lives in Paris with their
young daughter.

**Leland Ware, Member, Commission on Presidential Scholars**  
Leland Ware has been the Louis L. Redding Professor and Chair for the
Study of Law and Public Policy at the University of Delaware since 2000.
Before his present appointment, he was a professor at St. Louis
University School of Law. He was a visiting professor at Boston College
Law School and at the Ruhr University in Bochum, Germany. Ware was
University Counsel at Howard University, and for the five years prior to
his position at Howard, he was a Trial Attorney with the U.S. Department
of Justice, Civil Division, in Washington, D.C. He had previously
practiced with a private firm in Atlanta, Georgia, and with the U.S.
Department of Health, Education and Welfare.

Ware’s research focuses on various aspects of Civil Rights law. He has
authored more than 100 publications consisting of books, academic
journal articles, book chapters, essays, book reviews, editorials, and
other publications in academic journals and other publications.
Professor Ware has organized several academic symposia and professional
programs and hosted many distinguished lectures.

Ware is a co-author, with Robert Cottrol and Raymond Diamond, of *Brown
v. Board of Education: Caste, Culture and the Constitution*. He is the
editor of *Choosing Equality: Essays and Narratives on the Desegregation
Experience* (co-edited with Robert L. Hayman with a Foreword by
then-Vice President Joe Biden). His most recent book, *A Century of
Segregation: Race, Class, and Disadvantage,* was published in 2018. He
has lectured and made other presentations to numerous audiences in the
United States, Europe, and Africa. Ware is a graduate of Fisk University
and Boston College Law School.

**<u>Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States</u>**

The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) is an
independent federal agency charged with convening expert representatives
from the public and private sectors to recommend improvements to
administrative process and procedure. ACUS initiatives promote
efficiency, participation, and fairness in the promulgation of federal
regulations and in the administration of federal programs. The
ten-member ACUS Council is composed of government officials and private
citizens.

**Shakuntla L. Bhaya, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference
of the United States**  
Shakuntla L. Bhaya is a co-owner of a statewide Delaware law firm, Law
Offices of Doroshow, Pasquale, Krawitz & Bhaya. Bhaya’s practice focuses
on representing individuals who are seriously injured as a result of
businesses and people making unsafe decisions. For the past seven years,
Bhaya has been a member of Governor Carney’s Judicial Nominating
Commission. In addition to practicing law, Bhaya is very involved in
Delaware politics. She is currently a member of the Delaware Democratic
Party’s State Executive Committee. Bhaya, past President of the Delaware
Trial Lawyers Association, continues to be involved in protecting
consumers’ 7<sup>th</sup> Amendment Right to a jury trial and access to
courts. Bhaya is also a member of the American Association for Justice
and American Civil Liberties Union, and is actively involved in helping
pro-choice democratic women become elected to office. Bhaya was actively
involved in fighting for rights for the LGBTQ+ community and helping
members of her community to adopt children, seek legal redress when
discriminated in the workplace, and permit people to marry. Bhaya is the
first South Asian Indian to be admitted to the Delaware Bar Association.
Bhaya continues to work towards diversity, equity, and inclusion in the
legal profession and in politics. Bhaya is a graduate from Northeastern
University School of Law.

**Neil H. MacBride, Member, Council of the Administrative Conference of
the United States**  
Neil H. MacBride currently serves as General Counsel of the Department
of Treasury. MacBride serves as the chief legal officer of the
Department and the principal legal advisor to the Secretary of Treasury
and senior leaders on a wide range of issues relating to domestic
finance, terrorism finance, financial crimes enforcement, and
international economic affairs. MacBride previously served as a
litigation partner at the law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell. Before
entering private practice, MacBride spent more than 15 years as a
government official focusing on law enforcement, national security,
financial enforcement, and complex civil litigation matters. He served
in the Obama-Biden Administration, first as an Associate Deputy Attorney
General and then as the Senate-confirmed United States Attorney for the
Eastern District of Virginia overseeing all criminal enforcement and
civil litigation on behalf of the United States. MacBride earlier served
as Chief Counsel to then-Senator Joseph R. Biden, Jr., on the Senate
Judiciary Committee and as a federal prosecutor in the United States
Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia. Earlier in his career,
MacBride served as General Counsel to the Business Software Alliance, in
private practice at a Washington, D.C. law firm, and clerked for U.S.
District Court Judge Henry Morgan of the Eastern District of Virginia. 
He graduated from the University of Virginia School of Law and Houghton
College. MacBride lives in Northern Virginia with his wife Christina
Jackson MacBride and their three children.

**<u>J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board</u>** 

The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board supervises the
Fulbright Program and certain programs authorized by the Fulbright-Hays
Act and for the purpose of selecting students, scholars, teachers,
trainees, and other persons to participate in the educational exchange
programs. Appointed by the President, the 12-member Board meets
quarterly in Washington, DC. The Board establishes worldwide policies
and procedures for the Program and issues an annual report on the state
of the Program.

**David E. Price, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
Board **  
David E. Price is a fellow at the Sanford School of Public Policy and
Professor Emeritus of Political Science at Duke University. From 1987-94
and 1997-2022 he represented the Triangle region of North Carolina in
the U.S. House of Representatives.

As a senior member of the Appropriations Committee, Price successively
chaired the subcommittees on Homeland Security, and Transportation,
Housing, and Urban Development. He initiated and chaired the House
Democracy Partnership, a bipartisan commission to strengthen legislative
institutions, engaging peer-to-peer with legislators in emerging
democracies.

A native of Erwin, Tennessee, Price earned his BA from the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and his BDiv and PhD from Yale University.
He has taken *The Congressional Experience* through four editions and
has written three other books and numerous articles on American politics
and political institutions, political thought, ethics, and foreign
policy.

**<u>President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts</u>**

Established in 1958 by President Eisenhower, the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts (PACA) has played a valuable role in sustaining
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National
Cultural Center. Members of the Committee are civic and cultural leaders
who are selected by the President of the United States to serve as
representatives in their own communities for the Kennedy Center. The
Center considers PACA appointees to be “Ambassadors for the Arts.”
Acting as a national network for the Center, PACA helps to broaden the
Center’s influence and extend its vision across the country. The
Committee serves as a national forum, giving its members the opportunity
to share with the Kennedy Center their views on the Center’s artistic
programming.

**Randa Elias Arabo, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Randa Elias Arabo is a political activist and social entrepreneur who
resides in San Diego, California. An immigrant to the United States from
Baghdad, Iraq, her family escaped war-torn Iraq in 1991 for fear of
religious persecution. After three years of moving country to country,
they arrived in the United States in 1994. Arabo developed her hard work
ethic at an early age by helping her family with their small business
after school. A San Diego State University alumna, Arabo earned a BS in
Applied Arts and Sciences in Business Administration (Management) in
2014. As a wife and mother of four children, she integrates family life
with her roles as a philanthropist and social entrepreneur, focusing on
aiding the less fortunate and being the best mother she can be. Her
career is marked by a series of contributions to various groups,
showcasing her innovative thinking and intelligence. Arabo resides in
San Diego with her husband Mark and four children: Audrey, Vincent,
Isaac, and Mark Jr.

**Mary Ann Walker Aguirre, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Mary Ann Walker Aguirre is a founder, entrepreneur, Spanish-speaking
Latina, on-air spokesperson, and a long-time advocate of strengthening
U.S. and Latin America relations. She has a 35-year track record
successfully building, operating, and scaling businesses. She founded
Walker Advertising LLC, a leading direct response advertising agency
serving the U.S. Latino market and legal industry. While CEO, her
company invested more than $500 million in national Spanish Language
media, providing legal access to Latinos in U.S. through its leading
brands, Los Defensores LLC and The Defenders at 1-800-THELAW2. Together
they own the largest market share in the U.S. She currently serves as
the Managing Partner in her national law firm, WH Legal Group LLP, as a
non-attorney responsible for generating hundreds of cases via mass media
and Chief Strategy Officer for Walker Firm LLP.

As a volunteer for the Biden-Harris campaign, she served on Biden’s
Latin America Foreign Policy Team and contributed her expertise to
spearhead a national media campaign to ensure a historic Latino voter
turnout, including the development of Spanish language public service
announcements, which aired over 600 Spanish language stations
nationally. In 2022, Walker served as Senior Advisor of The Atlantic
Council for the Summit of the Americas.

Throughout her career, she has served on numerous boards to support the
Latino community including serving on the Advisory Board of the Woodrow
Wilson Center, Latin American Program; the Atlantic Council’s Adrienne
Arsht Latin America Center; Vice Chair of the Pacific Council’s Mexico
Initiative; and on the Board of Directors for Loyola Marymount
University, Providence Little Company of Mary, ALTAMED and co-chair of
LATAM group for Women Execs on Boards.

**Christine M. Warnke, Member, President’s Advisory Committee on the
Arts**  
Dr. Christine Warnke is a global business executive with particular
expertise in international humanitarian initiatives and economic
development. Her 35+ year professional career reflects a lifelong
dedication to public service, including work in the Office of the Senate
Majority Leader and a Presidential appointment to a U.S.
Senate-confirmed position on the Board of the National Institute of
Building Sciences. Her commitment to the arts and humanities includes
her service on the Board of the National Museum of African Art of the
Smithsonian Institution as well as decades-long work in promoting the
arts and humanities on local, national, and international platforms.

Most recently, Warnke served in the Executive Office of Mayor Muriel
Bowser and as Chief of International Affairs and Protocol Officer for
the District of Columbia. She was also elected to serve as the State
Representative for Washington, DC for Sister Cities International, which
is dedicated to enriching people-to-people cooperation worldwide.

Her commitment to global women’s and children’s issues has led her to
helping African women and girls gain greater economic opportunities, and
she has also served on a number of international nonprofit boards. Her
work has provided assistance to orphanages in Romania, fostered a
national children’s identification program in Angola, and provided safe
drinking water access to Muslim Indian village women. Warnke was also
the founding President of a U.S. ethnic-American professional women’s
organization. She earned her PhD in American Studies at the University
of Maryland, and was subsequently awarded Alumna of the Year from the
College of Public Health.

\###
