---
date: '2023-11-12'
published_time: 2023-11-12 15:50:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/12/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-amir-sheikh-tamim-bin-hamad-al-thani-of-qatar-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Call with Amir Sheikh Tamim Bin Hamad Al-Thani\
  \ of\_Qatar"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke today with Amir Sheikh Tamim Bin
Hamad Al-Thani of Qatar. The two leaders discussed the need to protect
innocent civilians and ongoing efforts to increase the continuous flow
of urgently needed humanitarian assistance into Gaza. The President
welcomed the $100 million commitment from the GCC to support the
humanitarian response, which matched the U.S. contribution announced
last month.  
  
He expressed his appreciation to Qatar and Sheikh Tamim personally for
his earlier efforts to secure the release of hostages from Hamas,
including two American citizens, and the urgent ongoing efforts to
secure additional releases. He condemned unequivocally the holding of
hostages by Hamas, including many young children, one of whom is a
3-year old American citizen toddler, whose parents were killed by Hamas
on October 7th. The two leaders agreed that all hostages must be
released without further delay.Â   
  
The President affirmed his vision for a future Palestinian state where
Israelis and Palestinians can live side by side with equal measures of
stability and dignity. He noted that Hamas has long been an impediment
to that outcome. The two leaders agreed to continue their efforts to
advance a shared vision for a more peaceful, secure, prosperous, and
stable Middle East region.

\###
