---
date: '2023-11-06'
published_time: 2023-11-06 14:32:25-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/06/readout-of-president-bidens-call-with-prime-minister-netanyahu-of-israel-8/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Call with Prime Minister Netanyahu of\_\
  Israel"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. spoke this morning with Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel regarding the latest developments in
Israel, Gaza, and the West Bank. The President and the Prime Minister
discussed ongoing efforts to secure the release of hostages held by
Hamas, including many children and a number of American citizens.  The
two leaders welcomed the increase in humanitarian assistance over the
past week and discussed the necessity to significantly ramp up
deliveries over the coming week, including by increasing the capacity to
screen and stage trucks going into Gaza.  The President reiterated his
steadfast support for Israel and the protection of Israeli citizens from
Hamas and all other threats while also emphasizing the imperative to
protect Palestinian civilians and reduce civilian harm in the course of
military operations.  The two leaders discussed the possibility of
tactical pauses to provide civilians with opportunities to safely depart
from areas of ongoing fighting, to ensure assistance is reaching
civilians in need, and to enable potential hostage releases.  The
President also discussed the situation in the West Bank and the need to
hold extremist settlers accountable for violent acts. They agreed to
speak again in the coming days.

\###
