---
date: '2023-11-13'
published_time: 2023-11-13 11:00:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/13/fact-sheet-president-joe-biden-to-announce-first-ever-white-house-initiative-on-womens-health-research-an-effort-led-by-first-lady-jill-biden-and-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President Joe\_Biden to Announce First-Ever White\_House Initiative\
  \ on Women\u2019s Health Research, An Effort Led by First Lady Jill\_Biden and the\
  \ White\_House Gender Policy\_Council"
---
 
*The new initiative will fundamentally change how we approach and fund
women’s health research.*

Despite making up more than half of the population, women have been
understudied and underrepresented in health research for far too long.
Research on women’s health is drastically underfunded, leading to
significant research gaps, with serious consequences for the health of
women across the country. This lack of investment limits our
understanding of conditions that are specific to women, predominantly
affect women, or affect women differently. In order to give women and
their health care providers the tools and information that they need to
more effectively prevent, diagnose, and treat these conditions – from
rheumatoid arthritis to menopause to Alzheimer’s disease to
cardiovascular disease to endometriosis – our nation must fundamentally
change how we approach and fund women’s health research.  
  
If we act swiftly, we can pioneer the next generation of discoveries in
women’s health – improving the lives of millions of women. That’s why,
today, President Biden is establishing a new White House Initiative on
Women’s Health Research. This new effort will be led by First Lady Jill
Biden, who has long championed women’s health, and the White House
Gender Policy Council. The Initiative will be chaired by Dr. Carolyn
Mazure, an esteemed leader in the field of women’s health research, who
will coordinate the Initiative on behalf of the Office of the First Lady
and the Gender Policy Council.  
  
*Statement from the President:* “I have always believed in the power of
research to save lives and to ensure that Americans get the high-quality
health care they need. To achieve scientific breakthroughs and
strengthen our ability to prevent, detect, and treat diseases, we have
to be bold. That’s why today, we’re establishing a new White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research so that my Administration—from the
National Institutes of Health to the Department of Defense—does
everything we can to drive innovation in women’s health and close
research gaps.”  
  
*Statement from the First Lady:* “Every woman I know has a story about
leaving her doctor’s office with more questions than answers. Not
because our doctors are withholding information, but because there’s
just not enough research yet on how to best manage and treat even common
women’s health conditions. In 2023, that is unacceptable. Our new White
House Initiative on Women’s Health Research will help change that by
identifying bold solutions to uncover the answers that every woman and
her family deserves. We also are calling on congressional leaders, the
private sector, research institutions, and philanthropy to join us in
taking urgent action to improve the health and lives of women throughout
the nation.”  
  
**PRESIDENTIAL MEMORANDUM ESTABLISHING WHITE HOUSE INITIATIVE ON WOMEN’S
HEALTH RESEARCH**  
  
The White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research will galvanize the
Federal government as well as the private and philanthropic sectors to
spur innovation, unleash transformative investment to close research
gaps, and improve women’s health. As a first step, through today’s
Presidential Memorandum, the President is directing his Administration
to:  

-   **Establish an Initiative consisting of executive departments and
    agencies across the Federal government.** Initiative members include
    Federal agencies, such as the U.S. Departments of Health and Human
    Services, Defense, and Veterans Affairs, and White House offices,
    such as the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of
    Science and Technology Policy.    
-   **Deliver concrete recommendations to advance women’s health
    research.** Within 45 days, Initiative members will recommend
    concrete actions that the Biden-Harris Administration can take to
    improve how research on women’s health is conducted and maximize the
    Administration’s investments in women’s health research, including
    to address health disparities and inequities.  
-   **Take a targeted, high-impact approach.** To deliver results
    quickly, Initiative members will set priority areas of focus where
    additional investments could be transformative—in areas of research
    ranging from heart attacks in women to menopause.  
-   **Engage the scientific, private sector, and philanthropic
    communities.** The Initiative will explore new public-private
    partnerships and engage private and philanthropic leaders to drive
    innovation and ensure the combined power of public, private, and
    philanthropic sectors advances research on women’s health.

**About Dr. Carolyn Mazure:**  
  
Dr. Carolyn M. Mazure serves as the Chair of the White House Initiative
on Women’s Health Research and has recently joined the Office of the
First Lady. Dr. Mazure comes to the White House from the Yale School of
Medicine, where she has served as the Norma Weinberg Spungen and Joan
Lebson Bildner Professor in Women’s Health Research, and Professor of
Psychiatry and Psychology. After three years at the National Institutes
of Health and fellowship training at Yale, Dr. Mazure joined the Yale
faculty as an active clinician and NIH-funded researcher. She created
Women’s Health Research at Yale, the university’s interdisciplinary
research center on the health of women, which studies a wide breadth of
topics from cardiovascular disease to cancers. She holds a Ph.D. from
Pennsylvania State University and did her fellowship and post-doctoral
work at Yale School of Medicine.  

\###
