---
date: '2023-11-17'
modified_time: 2023-11-21 15:55:15-05:00
published_time: 2023-11-17 21:08:27-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/17/2023-apec-leaders-golden-gate-declaration/
tags: statements-releases
title: "2023 APEC Leaders\u2019 Golden Gate\_Declaration"
---
 
***Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All***

1\. We, the Economic Leaders of APEC, met in San Francisco, California,
on November 16-17, 2023. Three decades after the United States hosted
the first APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting on Blake Island near Seattle in
1993, it is clear our steady commitment to APEC’s mission has helped our
region become a vanguard of global growth. Here in San Francisco, we
emphasized that effective policies require, above all, responsiveness to
all our people and economies. This commitment has grounded our vision
and practical work in San Francisco and throughout the U.S. host year
meetings in Honolulu, Palm Springs, Detroit, and Seattle.

2\. Today we face a different and dynamic set of economic challenges. We
must harness technological and economic progress to continue to unleash
the enormous potential and tremendous dynamism across our region, spur
economic growth, as well as to address all environmental challenges,
including climate change. The commitments found within this Golden Gate
Declaration build upon the work of previous APEC hosts and move our
region towards new ways of bringing resiliency, sustainability,
interconnection, innovation and inclusion directly into our priorities
and working together to respond to our most pressing economic
challenges. Our APEC mission and our practical work remain guided by our
commitment, as laid out in the Putrajaya Vision 2040 and the Aotearoa
Plan of Action, to an open, dynamic, resilient, and peaceful
Asia-Pacific community by 2040, for the prosperity of all our people and
future generations. In focusing that vision and work this year on the
U.S. theme of “Creating a Resilient and Sustainable Future for All,” we
have acknowledged both new challenges that confront us and innovative
ways to respond to those challenges.

3\. The U.S. host year builds on APEC’s Bangkok Goals on the
Bio-Circular-Green Economy, which established the goal of progressing
sustainable and inclusive economic policies while ensuring they also
address environmental challenges. We welcome the San Francisco
Principles on Integrating Inclusivity and Sustainability into Trade and
Investment Policy (Annex) as well as the ministerial-level deliberations
of the 2023 sectoral ministerial meetings for Transportation, Trade,
Disaster Management, Food Security, Health and the Economy, Energy,
Women and the Economy, Small and Medium Enterprises, and Finance,
including the Non-Binding Just Energy Transition Principles for APEC
Cooperation; Principles for Achieving Food Security Through Sustainable
Agri-Food Systems in the APEC Region. We also welcome the updated
Disaster Risk Reduction Framework and Action Plan.

4\. We reaffirm our determination to deliver a free, open, fair,
non-discriminatory, transparent, inclusive, and predictable trade and
investment environment. We also reaffirm the importance of the
rules-based multilateral trading system, with the World Trade
Organization (WTO) at its core, which continues to catalyze our region’s
extraordinary growth. We are committed to necessary reform of the WTO to
improve all of its functions, including conducting discussions with a
view to having a fully and well-functioning dispute settlement system
accessible to all members by 2024. We call upon APEC economies to work
towards the timely and effective implementation of WTO agreements and
reaffirm our commitment to engage constructively to ensure MC13 is a
success and delivers positive outcomes.

5\. We underscore our commitment to advance economic integration in the
region in a manner that is market-driven, including through the work on
the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific agenda. To this end, we will
enhance our capacity building and technical cooperation efforts in
support of economies’ readiness to participate in high quality and
comprehensive regional undertakings. We will further strengthen our
engagement with stakeholders, including the APEC Business Advisory
Council (ABAC) and increase public-private sector dialogues.

6\. We will continue to work to ensure a level playing field to foster a
favorable trade and investment environment. We reiterate our commitment
to accelerate work in response to the APEC Services Competitiveness
Roadmap (ASCR) Mid-Term Review, with the aim to fully implement the ASCR
by 2025. We also reaffirm our commitment to keep markets open and
address supply chain disruptions, including by working to support our
businesses in building secure, effective, resilient, sustainable, and
open supply chains that create a predictable, competitive, and digitally
interconnected Asia-Pacific region. By recognizing the unique needs and
interests of all stakeholders, we can work towards more inclusive and
sustainable policies that ensure our trade and investment equitably
benefits all our people and economies. We remain committed to
implementing the APEC Connectivity Blueprint (2015-2025) by
strengthening physical, institutional and people-to-people connectivity.
We will intensify efforts to promote regional, sub-regional and remote
area connectivity. In this regard, we reaffirm the importance of quality
infrastructure development and investment.

7\. The world continues to confront profound challenges posed by the
impacts of climate change. We recognize that more intensive efforts are
needed for economies to accelerate their clean, sustainable, just,
affordable, and inclusive energy transitions through various pathways,
consistent with global net-zero greenhouse gas emissions / carbon
neutrality by or around mid-century, while taking into account the
latest scientific developments and different domestic circumstances. In
doing so, we endeavor to unleash a new era of decent jobs, investment,
economic growth, and ensure energy, security, resilience, and access in
the region. We recall our commitment to rationalize and phase out
inefficient fossil fuel subsidies that encourage wasteful consumption,
while recognizing the importance of providing those in need with
essential energy services. To reach this goal, we will continue our
efforts in an accelerated manner.

8\. We will pursue and encourage efforts to triple renewable energy
capacity globally through existing targets and policies as well as
demonstrate similar ambition with respect to other zero and low
emissions technologies including abatement and removal technologies in
line with domestic circumstances by 2030. To spur the transition to and
investment in low and zero emissions transportation in the region
through various pathways, we will pursue efforts to accelerate the
transition towards low and zero emissions vehicles; sustainable aviation
fuels; and low and zero emission maritime shipping and port
decarbonization.

9\. We commit to fully implement the Food Security Roadmap Towards 2030
as a pathway to make our agri-food systems more resilient, productive,
innovative, and sustainable, while recognizing there is
“no-one-size-fits-all” approach to agricultural sustainability. We also
reaffirm our commitment to work towards the sustainable resource
management of agriculture, forestry and marine resources and fisheries,
including combatting illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and
emphasize the relationship between open, undistorted agri-food systems,
climate change, and food security and nutrition. We reaffirm the
importance of agricultural productivity, international trade, and
prevention and reduction of food loss and waste, in achieving food
security, and will increase our efforts to ensuring food security and
nutrition.

10\. We remain committed to improving the quality of life for all our
people, and to creating a resilient and sustainable future for all. To
do so we will continue to advance and support gender equality as well as
the economic inclusion and empowerment of MSMEs, the workforce, women,
youth, and other groups with untapped economic potential, such as
Indigenous Peoples as appropriate, persons with disabilities, and those
from remote and rural communities.

11\. We emphasize the importance of creating pathways for MSMEs and
start-ups to grow, including through opportunities to become more
competitive, specialized, and innovative. We will support MSMEs to
expand into regional and global markets, including by integrating into
global value chains, through collaboration with large enterprises, and
through the use of digital tools and technologies. We encourage the
development of easy-to-use and cost-effective products and solutions
that help MSMEs accelerate their digital transformation. We recognize
the importance of access to finance to facilitate growth. We reaffirm
the importance of building an enabling environment for MSMEs, as well as
supporting the transition of economic actors from the informal to the
formal economy.

12\. Here in San Francisco, where APEC first launched the Women and the
Economy Forum in 2011, we reaffirmed our commitment to promote economic
growth including by fostering the full and equal participation and
leadership of women in the economy, including by improving women’s
access to capital and assets, markets, skills and capacity building,
voices and agency, and innovation and technology. We welcome continued
efforts to accelerate full implementation of the La Serena Roadmap for
Women and Inclusive Growth to drive inclusive economic development. We
commit to care policies and investments in care infrastructure that
address the unequal distribution in paid and unpaid care and domestic
work, and furthering gender equality in global value chains. We will
support women’s meaningful economic participation, particularly in the
sustainable economy, as well as women’s and girls’ education, including
in STEM fields. We reiterate our commitment to actively encourage
initiatives and strategies to prevent and respond to gender-based
violence and discrimination against women and girls of diverse
backgrounds.

13\. We reaffirm our commitment to create an enabling, inclusive, open,
fair and non-discriminatory digital ecosystem for business and
consumers. We welcome U.S. efforts to implement the APEC Internet and
Digital Economy Roadmap (AIDER), which will foster an inclusive digital
economy for all. We encourage all economies to accelerate efforts to
implement AIDER, including in the areas of data privacy, cloud
computing, telecommunications networks, promoting interoperability, ICT
security, and digital trade and e-commerce, emerging technologies, and
promoting innovation and adoption of enabling technologies and services.
To unlock the full potential of digital technology, equitably share its
benefits, and mitigate risks, we will explore a concerted and
collaborative policy response, promote international cooperation on
digital technology, and welcome a continued international discussion on
governance for digital technology. We also commit to bridging the
digital divide, including halving the gender digital divide by 2030,
taking into account different domestic circumstances. We will strengthen
digital infrastructure, facilitate access to information and
communication technology goods and services, and ensure that no one is
left behind by equipping all people with the necessary skills needed to
thrive in the digital economy. We will accelerate digital transformation
and cooperate on facilitating the flow of data and strengthening
business and consumer trust in digital transactions, including through
cooperation on regulatory approaches regarding the internet and digital
economy, as well as consumer protection and data privacy in the digital
environment. Furthermore, we recognize APEC’s efforts towards a more
inclusive APEC Business Travel Card as an enabling technology that
support efficient and seamless business travel in the region, and APEC’s
efforts to facilitate the recovery of travel and tourism following the
pandemic.

14\. Recognizing the detrimental impact of corruption on economic growth
and development, we are committed to taking practical actions and a
united approach, to jointly fight cross-border corruption and deny safe
haven to corruption offenders and their illicit assets. We welcome the
work this year in this regard.

15\. Our stakeholders and business communities bring creativity,
dynamism, and energy and remain vital partners in our work. We look
forward to further strengthening multi-stakeholder engagement, including
with ABAC and Pacific Economic Cooperation Council, as well as through
events such as the APEC CEO Summit, and Sustainable Future Forum.

16\. This Golden Gate Declaration and our cooperation throughout the
U.S. host year exemplify our shared commitment to strengthening APEC’s
leadership and standing as the premiere forum for economic cooperation
in the Asia-Pacific region. We look forward to the upcoming APEC host
years of Peru (2024), the Republic of Korea (2025), and Viet Nam (2027),
and we pledge our support to those economies as they advance APEC’s
vital work. We extend our thanks to the people and City of San Francisco
and State of California for the warm welcome extended to us.

**Annex:**

-   [San Francisco Principles on Integrating Inclusivity and
    Sustainability into Trade and Investment
    Policy](https://apec.sitefinity.cloud/meeting-papers/leaders-declarations/2023/2023-leaders-declaration/san-francisco-principles-on-integrating-inclusivity-and-sustainability-into-trade-and-investment-policy)

**See Also:**  
*[Accompanying Chair’s
Statement](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/17/chairs-statement-on-the-apec-economic-leaders-meeting/)*<span
id="_msocom_1"></span>

\###

  
 
