---
date: '2023-11-02'
published_time: 2023-11-02 22:27:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/02/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-president-gabriel-boric-of-chile/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President Gabriel Boric of\_\
  Chile"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr met today with President Gabriel Boric of
Chile at the White House to deepen the U.S.-Chile bilateral
relationship. President Biden and President Boric discussed ways the
United States and Chile can continue to expand our economic engagement,
including through the Americas Partnership, to promote economic growth
for our two countries while at the same time creating good-quality jobs
and protecting labor rights.  
  
The two leaders underscored the importance of the international
community uniting in support of competitive and inclusive elections in
Venezuela in 2024. They also discussed issues of shared concern,
including our shared commitment to combat the climate crisis. President
Biden made clear that the United States will continue to stand with
Israel and affirmed Israel’s right to defend itself in line with
international humanitarian law.  President Biden also reaffirmed our
continued efforts to urgently increase and sustain the delivery of
life-saving humanitarian assistance – including food, water,  and
medical care – to civilians in Gaza. President Biden also stressed the
importance of continuing to support Ukraine and expressed concern about
the global effects of Russia’s war against Ukraine, particularly on food
and energy security.

\###
