---
date: '2023-11-01'
published_time: 2023-11-01 20:00:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/01/international-counter-ransomware-initiative-2023-joint-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "International Counter Ransomware Initiative 2023 Joint\_Statement"
---
 
The 50 members of the International Counter Ransomware Initiative
(CRI)—Albania, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada,
Colombia, Costa Rica, Croatia, the Czech Republic, the Dominican
Republic, Egypt, Estonia, the European Union, France, Germany, Greece,
India, INTERPOL, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Lithuania, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Papua
New Guinea, Poland, Portugal, the Republic of Korea, Romania, Rwanda,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Slovakia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland, Ukraine, the United Arab Emirates, the United Kingdom, the
United States,  and Uruguay—met in Washington, D.C. on October
31–-November 1, 2023 for the third convening of the CRI. Previously
participating states welcomed Albania, Colombia, Costa Rica, Egypt,
Greece, INTERPOL, Jordan, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Rwanda, Sierra
Leone, Slovakia, and Uruguay as new CRI members.

During the third CRI gathering, members reaffirmed our joint commitment
to building our collective resilience to ransomware, cooperating to
undercut the viability of ransomware and pursue the actors responsible,
countering illicit finance that underpins the ransomware ecosystem,
working with the private sector to defend against ransomware attacks,
and continuing to cooperate internationally across all elements of the
ransomware threat.

Over the past year, this group of nations and organizations has grown
and built upon the commitments made at the second convening of the CRI
in 2022. Through unveiling operational tools, the International
Counter Ransomware Task Force (ICRTF)—established at last year’s
meeting—began developing platforms for coordinating and disrupting
ransomware at an operational level. By adding thirteen new members to
the coalition, the Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar expanded the
CRI’s like-minded umbrella and incorporated capacity building efforts
throughout all pillars and working groups of the CRI. The Policy Pillar
led efforts to counter the business model that underpins the ransomware
ecosystem. This included research on cyber insurance, victim behavior,
seizure and confiscation of virtual assets, ransom payments, and best
practices in incident reporting and information sharing. Throughout the
year, the coalition sought to incorporate the private sector and
integrate capacity building at every opportunity.  
  
We remain committed to using all appropriate tools of national power to
achieve these goals and jointly committed to the following actions in
support of this mission.

**2023 Key CRI Deliverables  
**  
*This year’s CRI gathering is focused on **developing capabilities to
disrupt attackers and the infrastructure they use to conduct their
attacks, improving cybersecurity through sharing information,** and
**fighting back** against ransomware actors.  
*  
**Developing Capabilities**

-   Leading a **mentorship and tactical training program** for new CRI
    members to build their cyber capacity, including Israel mentoring
    Jordan;
-   Launching a project to **leverage artificial intelligence** to
    counter ransomware;

**Sharing Information**

-   Launching innovative **information sharing** **platforms** enabling
    CRI member countries to rapidly share threat indicators, including
    Lithuania’s Malware Information Sharing Project (MISP) and Israel
    and the UAE’s Crystal Ball platforms;
-   Building the CRI website, maintained by Australia, which includes a
    **forum for members to request assistance** from CRI members;
-   Encouraging reporting of ransomware incidents to relevant government
    authorities; and
-   Sharing actionable information with the CRI members.

**Fighting Back**

-   Developing the first-ever joint CRI policy **statement** declaring
    that **member governments should not pay ransoms;**
-   Creating a **shared blacklist of wallets** through the U.S.
    Department of the Treasury’s pledge to share data on illicit wallets
    used by ransomware actors with all CRI members;
-   Committing to **assist any CRI member with incident response** if
    their government or lifeline sectors are hit with a ransomware
    attack.

The CRI provides an opportunity to create long-term cooperative
approaches and common understandings of accountability in cyberspace,
consistent with international law as well as state actions as embodied
in the Framework for Responsible State Behavior in Cyberspace, endorsed
by all United Nations member states. 

Through the Policy Pillar, CRI members affirmed the importance of strong
and aligned messaging discouraging paying ransomware demands and leading
by example. CRI members endorsed a statement that relevant institutions
under our national government authority should not pay ransomware
extortion demands. CRI members intend to implement the Financial Action
Task Force (FATF)’s Recommendation 15 on the regulation of virtual
assets and related service providers, which would help stem the illicit
flow of funds and disrupt the ransomware payment ecosystem. CRI members
also affirmed the importance of encouraging ransomware incident
reporting within their own jurisdiction, and sharing meaningful
information to strengthen our collective efforts to disrupt ransomware
actors. The Policy Pillar also examined the centrality of the cyber
insurance industry in tackling ransomware, and committed to enhancing
engagement with industry, as well as undertaking research into the
importance of developing effective crypto asset seizure regimes.

Over the next year, the Diplomacy and Capacity Building Pillar will
continue to expand the CRI’s mentorship program and onboarding program.
The Pillar will prioritize opportunities to inform potential new members
about the Initiative, and it will develop tailored capacity building
opportunities to match members’ and potential new members’ needs and
requests.

Going forward, the ICRTF will build upon the successes of its inaugural
year by operationalizing the tools and platforms developed by its
members. Members will work toward attaining a comprehensive
understanding of the ransomware threat by sharing information and
exchanging knowledge through virtual seminars and labs. Members plan to
create and share resources to build their national counter-ransomware
capacity, working closely with the other pillars to develop practical
tools for governments to prevent, respond to, and recover from
ransomware attacks, uplift cyber capabilities across the existing CRI
membership, and advocate new membership to those countries who will most
benefit from what the CRI has to offer. The ICRTF will also continue to
support transnational operations conducted by its members and
collaborate with industry to target disruptive activities at key
components of ransomware ecosystem, in recognition that ransomware is a
cross-border and cross-sectoral threat that necessitates close
collaboration across governments and sectors to be effectively
combatted.

The third convening of the CRI leveraged the expertise of like-minded
partners, private sector participants, and capacity building experts to
further reshape the cyber environment so members are better equipped to
combat ransomware. Members from around the world reaffirmed our joint
commitment to building out our toolkit for collective resilience to
ransomware, cooperating to disrupt ransomware, and working together to
curb the illicit money flow that ransomware actors rely upon. We are
building capacity through long-term cooperative approaches and refining
our understanding of accountability in cyberspace, bringing us one step
closer to rooting out criminal actors and responding with collective
resolve. The members express their gratitude towards the countries who
have taken on leadership roles in the CRI: the United States as
Secretariat; Australia as lead of the ICRTF; Singapore and the United
Kingdom as Policy Pillar leads; and Germany and Nigeria as Diplomacy and
Capacity Building Pillar leads. Through the Initiative’s annual meeting,
as well as the dedicated work that is happening between each gatherings,
we commit to working together on a policy and operational level to
counter ransomware threats and hold perpetrators of these vicious
attacks accountable.

\###
