---
date: '2023-11-16'
published_time: 2023-11-16 00:39:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/16/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-president-marcos-of-the-philippines-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with President Marcos of the\_\
  Philippines"
---
 
Today, Vice President Kamala Harris met with President Ferdinand Marcos
Jr. of the Philippines on the margins of the Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation Leaders’ Meeting in San Francisco, California. They
reaffirmed the strength of the alliance between the United States and
the Philippines and discussed ongoing efforts to deepen our security
ties and expand commercial and economic cooperation. They also
reiterated their shared commitment to upholding international rules and
norms, including in the South China Sea. 

This is the fifth meeting between the Vice President and President
Marcos, and builds on their previous meetings, including: the Vice
President’s visit to Manila in November 2022; the Vice President hosting
President Marcos at the Naval Observatory in May 2023; a bilateral
meeting on the margins of the East Asia Summit in Jakarta in September
2023; and a trilateral meeting with Prime Minister Kishida in Jakarta in
September 2023.  

The Vice President and President Marcos discussed strengthening and
broadening economic cooperation bilaterally and through the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework. The Vice President and President Marcos also
welcomed the conclusion of a historic “123” civil nuclear cooperation
agreement, which will deepen our partnership to build a global clean
energy economy and strengthen our shared commitment to improving energy
security and advancing the global nonproliferation regime. The Vice
President announced the launch of the “123” agreement negotiations while
in Manila in November 2022 and welcomed the swift conclusion of these
negotiations. This agreement will provide the legal basis for U.S.
exports of nuclear equipment and material to the Philippines, which will
support American workers and businesses.  The Vice President also
announced a new partnership with the Government of the Philippines to
grow and diversify the global semiconductor ecosystem under the
International Technology Security and Innovation (ITSI) Fund, created by
the CHIPS Act of 2022.  This partnership will help create a more
resilient, secure, and sustainable global semiconductor value chain.  

The Vice President and President Marcos welcomed the historic momentum
in U.S.-Philippines ties and emphasized their shared intent to grow and
modernize our alliance. The Vice President reiterated the United States
stands shoulder-to-shoulder in defending the Philippines’ sovereign
rights and jurisdiction in the South China Sea and reaffirmed the United
States’ defense commitment to the Philippines under Article IV of the
1951 U.S.-Philippines Mutual Defense Treaty, underscoring that an armed
attack on Philippine armed forces, public vessels, or aircraft in the
Pacific, including in the South China Sea, would invoke U.S. mutual
defense commitments.

The Vice President also emphasized the importance of respect for human
rights and labor rights, including safety for trade union leaders.

\###
