---
date: '2022-07-12'
published_time: 2022-07-12 09:47:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

 

3:50 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Good afternoon. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  All right.  Today we have Jake Sullivan,
the President’s National Security Advisor.  Jake is here to preview the
President’s upcoming trip to the Middle East, where he will build on a
new and more promising chapter of America’s engagement in the region. 

And I’m going to let Jake take it away.  And also, he’ll take some
questions afterwards.  Jake, it’s all yours. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you, Karine.  And thanks, everybody.  I’m going to
lay out a little bit of the context for this trip, make a couple of
comments on tomorrow’s bilateral meeting with President López Obrador of
Mexico, and then I’ll be happy to take your questions.  But I appreciate
you bearing with me as I try to lay out some of the elements of the
President’s thinking as we head into this very important trip. 

Tomorrow, President Biden will depart on a trip to Israel, the West
Bank, and Saudi Arabia, where he will attend a major Middle Eastern
summit.  This trip will reinforce a vital American role in a
strategically consequential region.  And also, it will reinforce that
our role is different today than it was 20 years ago on the eve of the
war in Iraq.

This trip comes after a series of engagements with Indo-Pacific leaders
in May, with Latin American leaders at the Summit of the Americas in
early June, and with European leaders at the G7 and NATO Summits in late
June.  It is his first trip to the Middle East as President.

It is precisely because the world is becoming more geopolitically
competitive, especially in the Indo-Pacific and Europe, that we need to
remain intensively engaged in the Middle East.  The Middle East is
deeply interwoven with the rest of the world.  And if we can act now to
create a more peaceful and stable region, it will pay dividends for the
American national interests and for the American people for years to
come.

President Biden’s fundamental objectives when it comes to the Middle
East are straightforward: a region with more stability and fewer wars
that could draw the United States in, a region that is less hospitable
to terrorism that threatens Americans, a region that is helping address
global energy security at a moment when Russia’s war against Ukraine is
roiling global energy markets, a region where no foreign power can
dominate or gain strategic advantage over the United States, a region
that is making progress towards greater human rights and greater human
dignity.

And despite ongoing challenges, the Middle East President Biden will be
visiting is more stable than the one we inherited 18 months ago.

We inherited a war in Yemen that was causing widespread death and
suffering.  We now have had more than three months of a ceasefire in
Yemen — the longest peace in seven years.

In Iraq, we kept up pressure on ISIS, significantly degrading their
capabilities, including by taking out its emir, allowing us to end the
U.S. combat mission and transition our military presence in Iraq to
focus on training Iraqis.

We’ve reunited our partners to ensure that it’s Iran, not the United
States, that is isolated until it returns to the nuclear deal.  And the
frequency of Iranian-sponsored attacks against our forces in Iraq and
Syria has dropped dramatically.

We’ve reestablished diplomatic ties with the Palestinians that had
basically severed under our predecessor. Working with Congress, we’ve
restored approximately $500 million in support for Palestinians.  And
we’ve reaffirmed unequivocal U.S. support for a two-state solution,
which had come into question over the previous four years.  And under
President Biden’s leadership, we helped end a war in Gaza, which easily
could have lasted months, in just 11 days.

In Saudi Arabia, we’ve reversed the blank-check policy that we inherited
from the previous administration, while continuing to work with Saudi
Arabia on critical priorities for the American people.  We released the
intelligence community report on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi.  We
issued new sanctions, including on the Rapid Intervention Force that was
implicated in that murder. 

Our diplomacy with Saudi Arabia is now delivering results, including a
truce in Yemen, a more integrated GCC, progress on energy security, and
security cooperation against threats from Iran.  

Our partnership with Israel is strong across the board.  We passed the
largest support package in Israel with the help of Congress — over $4
billion — in American history.  We’re working closely across every
dimension of the relationship — from finance and food security, to cyber
and emerging technology, to intelligence and security cooperation.  And
President Biden’s deep personal commitment to the U.S.-Israel
relationship and to the relationship between Israelis and Americans will
be on full display this week.

In sum, the region is less pressurized and more integrated, with
countries increasingly setting aside both old and more recent
disagreements to work on practical initiatives in energy, technology,
infrastructure, and more.

We are clear-eyed that the region remains full of challenges and threats
from Iran, from terrorist groups that still operate in a number of
countries; challenges in the ongoing conflict in Syria; challenges to
human rights and human freedom.  This is why the President believes
there is no substitute for the power of face-to-face diplomacy.

In meetings on this trip, President Biden will seek to sustain and
strengthen the fragile but real ceasefire in Yemen; deepen Israel’s
integration into the region; provide material support to the Palestinian
people while protecting the vision of a two-state solution; coordinate
on the multi-faceted threat posed by Iran; advance energy security and
food security objectives for the U.S. and our allies in the face of
Russia’s aggression in Ukraine, while promoting a clean energy
transition over time; enlisting support for Middle Eastern partners for
significant initiatives in technology and infrastructure; and publicly
and privately advocating for universal values including progress on
human rights and political reform.

In Israel, the President will meet with the Prime Minister, the
President, the leader of the opposition, as well as attend a reception
with a number of other key Israeli leaders and public figures.  He will
also have the opportunity to receive a briefing on Israel’s missile
defense capabilities, including the U.S.-supported Iron Dome and a new
laser-enabled system called Iron Beam.  He will pay his respects at Yad
Vashem.  And he will hold a four-way virtual summit with the leaders of
Israel, the UAE, and India, with a focus on food security. 

President Biden will also meet with President Abbas and attend a health
event with Palestinian civil society.

In Saudi Arabia, the President will meet with the Saudi leadership with
an aim to strengthen our partnership and also hold bilateral meetings
with a number of other Middle Eastern leaders, before closing the trip
with the summit with the GCC+3.  At that summit, he will make a major
statement on the Biden administration’s strategy — his vision — for the
Middle East region.

There will be other engagements in a crowded and fast-paced schedule,
and we will share them with you in due course. 

In fact, before we even leave, tomorrow morning President Biden will
meet with President López Obrador here at the White House — the second
time the two leaders will meet here — to build on the significant
progress made at the Summit of the Americas, where Mexico expressed
support for the Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity and joined
20 other countries in adopting the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration
and Protection.

We expect the two leaders to discuss their common vision for North
America and common efforts to address global challenges, including
Russia’s war in Ukraine.

So, thank you for your patience, and I would now be happy to take your
questions.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, has the President reached out to Jamal Khashoggi’s family
ahead of his trip to Saudi?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We have had contact with Jamal Khashoggi’s family.  The
President has not himself spoken with them, but he has been focused on
this issue from the beginning.

And as he said when he took office and as we have stuck by since then,
our goal has been to recalibrate but not rupture the relationship with
Saudi Arabia, to end the blank-check policy, and to seek
accountability.  That’s why we released the intelligence community’s
report on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, and it’s why we have issued 76
visa bans, in addition to sanctioning the Rapid Intervention Force. 

Yes.

Q    But in your remarks, you mentioned human rights multiple times. 
You know, during the campaign, the President said Saudi should pay a
price.  He referred to them as making them a pariah state.  When it
comes right down to it, isn’t this trip proof that strategic interests,
including oil and gas, when it comes right down to it, are always going
to override something like human rights?

MR. SULLIVAN:  America’s values — human rights — are a strategic
interest of the United States.  So is energy security, so is stopping
terrorism, so is seeking peace in a place like Yemen. 

So we are trying to do multiple things all at once to advance along a
number of different tracks.  One of those tracks is, in fact, ending the
blank-check policy.  And as I said before, the basic thrust and purpose
of our policy with respect to Saudi Arabia has been to recalibrate the
relationship but not rupture it.  We have stayed true to that from the
beginning of this administration.

The President believes that he can deliver concrete results for the
American people, for the interests of America’s national security.  One
of those is the horrific war in Yemen, where I’ve stood before you
before and been asked questions — very tough, but fair questions — about
what the United States was doing to bring peace to Yemen and what a high
priority that was.

We are now heading into the fourth month of a fragile but real
ceasefire, the longest peace since the war began more than seven years
ago.  That is a genuine result of both intensive diplomacy in the Middle
East and intensive engagement by American leaders starting with
President Biden.  That is just one of multiple priorities that every
American should be able to agree can help contribute to a more stable,
more just, more prosperous region that’s fundamentally in our
interests.  And that’s why we’re going to the Middle East.

Yes.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Two questions.  One, will the President be
photographed shaking hands with the Crown Prince or meeting with him
while in Saudi?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President will have the opportunity to have a
bilateral program that will involve the King, the Crown Prince, other
ministers of the Saudi government.  And in terms of the precise
modalities, I’ll leave that to the folks who are actually organizing the
trip.

Q    And as you’ve been planning this trip, has the President expressed
any regret for the language that he used to describe Saudi Arabia on the
campaign trail?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The President has not expressed regret about his
statements.  What the President has been focused on is his view that the
United States has important interests to advance and protect, including
in partnership with Saudi Arabia.  And, among other things, we have to
work on increasing the prospect for peace in the region; for Israel’s
integration into the region; for the war in Yemen, as I mentioned
before; for energy and food security; and for many other things.

And he also has a long and consistent record — going back to his days as
senator, including his years as Vice President, including his time as
President — where human rights is going to remain a feature of his
agenda and an important feature of his agenda.  And it will be on
display while we’re on this trip as well.

Yes.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Now, the President said at NATO that he would be
asking GCC countries about increasing oil production.  But the Saudis
and UAE have indicated that their capacity to increase production is
limited.  So what does the administration view as possible as far as an
output increase from those countries on this trip if that comes up?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, we’ve already seen OPEC take a meaningful
step with respect to the increase in oil production in the months of
July and August.  That was a positive step; we welcomed it. 

And we will have the opportunity, among this very broad agenda, to talk
about energy security with the leaders of the OPEC nations in the Middle
East, just as we discussed energy security when he was on his trips in
Europe and in the Indo-Pacific.  And we will see what results come from
that.  Ultimately, that will be up to the OPEC countries to determine. 

And so I don’t have anything to say from this podium right now because
those discussions are best, you know, confined behind closed doors.  But
we do believe there is a capacity for further steps that could be
taken.  And we will see how that unfolds as we go.

Yeah.

Q    So you’re not asking for a specific figure as far as —

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m sorry?

Q    You’re not asking them for a specific figure as far as output?

MR. SULLIVAN:  In terms of specific figures, all I will say is that we
will convey our general view — as we have, as I have publicly from this
podium — that we believe that there needs to be adequate supply in the
global market to protect the global economy and to protect the American
consumer at the pump.  We’ll always advocate for that.  We’ll advocate
for that publicly. We’ll advocate for that privately.  We’ll coordinate
with leaders around the world, including in the Middle East, on that
issue.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Just to follow up on Jordan’s question, does the
President believe right now that Saudi Arabia is pumping enough oil to
bring gas prices down?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So I’m not going to get into a specific characterization
on what constitutes “enough.”  What I will say is the President believes
that the price of gas is too high and that we need to do more with
respect to global energy supplies.  And he will take every step in his
power, both here at home and in terms of his diplomatic engagement in
the world, to try to bring that about.

Q    But just more broadly on the trip’s purpose, do you see any
potential to ease or smooth the relationship between Israel and Saudi
Arabia on this trip?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It is our hope and expectation that as we look out into
the future, we can help facilitate Israel’s deeper integration into the
region across the board.

Specifically with respect to Israel and Saudi Arabia, I’m not going to
get ahead of very intensive work that will be done in the course of this
trip.  Any normalization of any kind would be a long process.  But
looking for progress and momentum in that direction is certainly
something we are focused on as we head off to the Middle East.

Q    Jake, you mentioned “until Iran returns to the nuclear deal.”  Is
there a deadline that Iran has been given here?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We have not marked a date on the calendar.  We have
indicated that we believe there is a deal on the table.  It is a deal
that we’re backing, that our European partners are backing that is
available to Iran, and Iran should step forward and take that deal.

If they don’t, we’re not standing still.  Even as we speak, we’ve
already introduced two rounds of sanctions to crack down on their effort
to evade the existing sanctions regime.  We are curbing their ability to
smuggle oil, for example, through the Quds Force and other entities
within Iran.  And we’ll keep doing that.

So as far as we’re concerned, Iran has a choice: It can either come back
on a compliance-for-compliance basis to the JCPOA, or it will face
increasing pressure from the United States and increasing isolation from
the international community to include a resolution at the IAEA Board of
Governors that garnered the support of more than 30 nations.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, can you confirm any of the details about — you know, you
spoke about Israel’s greater integration into the region.  We certainly
heard reports about the idea that there are — there are some sort of
negotiations that would allow Israel commercial flights to fly over
Saudi Arabia.  Is that something that you could sort of confirm for us?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve got nothing to confirm or preview here.  What I will
say is that this broad topic of Israel’s integration into the region,
and steps that we can take in that direction, will be a feature of this
trip.  And I will leave the rest of it to the President as he embarks on
his engagements both in Israel and in Saudi Arabia.

I will point out that the fact that the President himself will be flying
from Israel to Jeddah is itself a meaningful step and an unusual step. 
And it shows the kind of promise that greater integration could hold.

But in terms of the specific kinds of steps you’ve talked about, I would
simply say: Nothing from the podium today.  And let’s see how things
develop over the course of this week.

Yeah.

Q    You talk about the importance of personal diplomacy as part of the
reason for going.  There are risks for the President politically to go
to Saudi Arabia, with an expectation among the public that maybe there
will be a specific deliverable when it comes to gas prices and so forth,
and supply.  What is the burden on the President to come home with
something in that category?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I — it’s up to you to characterize things like
“burdens on the President.”  What I can say is what the President
intends to do.  He intends to use every tool in his toolbox to try to
create adequate global energy supplies and to bring the price of gas
down for American working families at the pump. 

And that will be measured over time: Can we get that price down and can
we keep it down?  And I don’t think it’s going to be measured on Friday
or Saturday of this week; I think it will be measured over the weeks and
months to come.  And, there, we will sustain intensive engagement in our
effort to ensure that, at the end of the day, we’re having a positive
impact on the price of oil and thereby a positive impact on the price of
gas.

And I think the President sees this as an important component of his
engagement, not just in the Middle East, but in his previous summits as
well, and as one component of a broader agenda that includes peace,
security, technology, preventing a nuclear Iran, and so much else that
I’ve described today.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, thanks for this.  Is the administration considering lifting
its ban on offensive weapon sales to Saudi Arabia dependent on progress
that the country makes with its war — ending its war with Yemen?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So you may recall that when this administration came in,
we imposed restrictions on the supply of offensive weapons as part of
our effort to help bring about an end to the war in Yemen.  And right
now, there’s no — nothing on the table to lift that ban.  Right now,
we’re focused on strengthening and sustaining what is a fragile but real
ceasefire, not make any fundamental changes to our weapons policy.

Q    Secondly, if I may, former Governor Bill Richardson is planning to
travel to Russia for talks aimed at finding a deal that would free
Brittney Griner.  Is this something that the White House is aware of? 
Have you had talks with Richardson about the trip?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We have had communication from the National Security
Council to former Governor Richardson.  I won’t comment on his travel or
what he intends to do.  What I will say is that President Biden is
laser-focused on a government-to-government solution to this issue.

As he indicated to Brittney Griner in the letter that he wrote to her,
we are working directly with the Russian government, through appropriate
channels, to try to bring a speedy resolution not just to her case but
to Paul Whelan’s case as well.  And we will continue to work until those
two unjustly detained Americans and all unjustly detained Americans and
hostages are home safely.

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Does the President plan to directly bring up the
murder of Jamal Khashoggi in his meeting with — that will include the
conference?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So I’m not going to characterize the — what the President
will say privately in those sessions.  I’ll let the President do that —
you know, have the opportunity to have his engagement on human
rights-related issues and other issues.  And then, of course, you’ll
have the opportunity to ask him about that after the trip occurs. 

Yes.

Q    Is Ukraine losing the war now, Jake?  Is Ukraine losing the war?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Sorry, I’ll come back to you on that question.  But I
think just so that I’m keeping regular order and not letting people just
shout, we’ll come — but before we end the briefing, I’ll come to you.

Q    Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  As the President goes to the Middle East,
simultaneously, U.S. senators are being briefed on the importance —
national security-wise — of investing in semiconductor production in the
U.S.  If we don’t pass that, what does that say to Israel and Saudi
Arabia and other allies?  What are the risks that we’re inviting?  And
does it set the President’s agenda in the Middle East back?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The national security stakes for passing this Bipartisan
Innovation Act — what’s called USICA in the Senate and COMPETES in the
House — are very high.  America’s technological edge, our innovation
edge, our capacity to invest in the next generation of leading
technologies, the next generation of leading weapons is bound up in our
ability to ensure that we have a secure and reliant, resilient supply
chain for semiconductors.  And that means getting the kinds of
incentives and structures in place to increase semiconductor
manufacturing, including the most sophisticated chips here in the United
States. 

That’s why there’s bipartisan support for this bill.  That’s why
Democrats and Republicans have both rallied around the notion that for
us to compete effectively with China, for us to be able to get the
Javelins to Ukraine that we need to get to them — there are more than 20
semiconductors in every single Javelin — we need this bill. 

And it has been disappointing to us that Leader McConnell has been
playing politics with national security.  There are both Republicans and
Democrats who are willing to step up and pass this, and we believe it
should happen fast. 

Q    Should the House just pass the Senate bill and get it over with?

MR. SULLIVAN:  There is a conference ongoing, and there is a pathway, in
our view, to a bill that a strong, bipartisan majority of both the House
and the Senate can get behind, that can be signed into law by President
Biden, and that he can begin to execute in a way that enhances America’s
national security, not to mention our economic competitiveness at the
same time. 

Yeah. 

Q    So Secretary of State Tony Blinken visit Tokyo.  He said he wrote a
letter from the President to the former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe.  So
can you talk about the letter?  It’s a message from the President to the
former Prime Minister Shinzo’s family.

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, the letter that he wrote was a private message, so it
wouldn’t be appropriate for me to read it out.  I will say that
President Biden put out a very heartfelt statement that expressed his
sympathies to the people of Japan, his deep sympathies and his — his
heartfelt emotional connection for the loss of a family member to former
Prime Minister Abe’s family.  And for him, that came from the heart. 

And he went over to the Japanese Embassy and signed the guestbook.  And
I went with him.  And actually, he sat at that table and wrote a message
for several minutes — a very long message to the Japanese people in that
book, in addition to the private letter that he handed to the ambassador
to be taken back to Tokyo. 

So this is something that the President cares about, as a statesman, as
an American President.  It’s also something that he cares about deeply
as a human being, on behalf of the Prime Minis- — the former Prime
Minister’s family, but especially on behalf of all of the people of
Japan in their time of mourning.

Q    If possible, will the President go to Tokyo sometime soon?  We
don’t know if (inaudible) funeral yet but is it possible for the
President to go to Tokyo sometime soon?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have anything to announce about any travel to
Tokyo in the near term.  But, you know, if we do have anything to share
in terms of the American delegation, if there is a state funeral, we’ll
let you know. 

Just coming back to the question, James, that you asked earlier on —

Q    Thank you.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — on Ukraine: Russia has already substantially failed to
achieve its strategic objectives in Ukraine.  Its strategic objective
was to take Kyiv, the capital; to end Ukraine as a country; to eliminate
Ukrainian identity from the map; and to subsume Ukraine to within
Russia. 

They have failed at that.  Kyiv stands.  Kharkiv stands.  Odessa
stands.  The major cities of Ukraine across much of the country are in
Ukrainian hands and are being ably and bravely defended by the Ukrainian
military with the support of the United States and other NATO Allies as
well as countries around the world. 

So, when you take a step back and look at the trajectory of this
conflict: What Vladimir Putin set out to do, he has failed to do and he
will continue to fail in his ability to achieve his ultimate objectives
because of the bravery of the Ukrainian people. 

Now, it is certainly the case that Russia has been able to grind out,
kilometer by kilometer, inch by inch, some territory in the east.  And
the Ukrainians have made Russia pay a dear price for that.  And the
sanctions have made Russia pay a dear price for that. 

And we will continue to work with the Ukrainian military and Ukrainian
government on a strategy that ultimately achieves their objectives, both
on the battlefield and at the negotiating table.  And as President Biden
said when we were at the NATO summit just 10 days ago, “We will do that
for as long as it takes.”

Yes.

Q    Do you still assess — do you still assess, Jake, that President
Putin is receiving a sanitized or otherwise inaccurate fact set from his
own advisors about the state of what’s going on the ground in Ukraine?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t have an update for you, standing here today, on
our intelligence assessment on Vladimir Putin’s consumption of
information, but we’ll try to get that to you. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you so much, Jake.  So, today, Brazil’s President Bolsonaro
said that a deal with Russia is close to buy much cheaper oil from
Moscow, and other countries from — the Greeks are doing the same.  So
does this undermine the Western sanctions — the White House efforts to
impose costs on Russia?  And what is the White House reaction to that? 

And another question.  Last week, some Democrats in the House proposed
an amendment to defense — to the defense budgets to cut security
assistance to Brazil if the Brazilian Armed Forces interfere in the
Brazilian election in October?  Does the White House support such an
amendment?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I have not actually seen that amendment, so I’d have to
take a look at it before commenting on it. 

With respect to the question about the purchase of oil, you will have
seen at the G7 — the G7 leaders discussed imposing a price cap on
Russian oil in order to have it be trans- — transferred on ships
carrying Western insurance.  A price cap, meaning that countries would
have to agree to pay less for Russian oil than what the global market
price is. 

Q    Mr. Sullivan?

MR. SULLIVAN:  If it turns out that countries are imposing their own
price cap and it is a substantial denial of revenue to Russia in terms
of their ability to sell oil, that is not the failure of sanctions;
that’s actually the success of economic pressure, because it is driving
down revenues for Moscow. 

And so, from our perspective — I don’t know about the specifics of what
President Bolsonaro said today, but our fundamental goal, with respect
to approaching Russia’s sale of oil onto the global market is twofold:
One, reduce Putin’s revenues.  And, two, do so while imposing the
minimum amount of harm on consumers on the pump.  That’s our goal. 
That’s what we’re going to keep trying to do.

Yes, go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, sir.  I wanted to —

Q    And will there be any repercussion to Brazil or other countries who
are buying the oil, Jake?

Q    — I wanted to follow up quickly.  Moment ago, you said that the
United States was going to be working with Ukraine to craft “a strategy
that ultimately achieves their objective both on the battlefield and at
the negotiation table.”  You also noted that the major cities in Ukraine
stand. 

But as you and the President work with Ukrainian leaders to figure out
what that strategy is for both battlefield and negotiation table, if
Ukrainians decide that they want to claw back “kilometer by kilometer,
inch by inch,” the land that has been taken by Russia, will the United
States have their back?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we are in near daily contact with Ukrainians on the
question of how to both deal with defending against Russian advances and
be able to reclaim some of the territory that has been taken from them
on a timetable that they are kind of working through.  Those
conversations are happening in military-to-military channels, and
they’re also happening at the political level so we all have a
comprehensive understanding. 

I’m not going to read out exactly what the details of those
conversations are.  I will only say that we believe that the fundamental
purpose of our strategy is to put the Ukrainians in as strong a position
as possible on the battlefield so that they are in as strong a position
as possible at the negotiating table when diplomacy comes. 

And as President Zelenskyy himself has said: Ultimately, this conflict
will have to be pursued through diplomacy.  And that’s where the United
States’ thrust and purpose — that’s where the nature of our policy
stands and will go. 

Q    And is there any limiting principle for the United States, in terms
of either time or money?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, first, we’ve imposed limiting principles in terms
of exactly the types of systems we are prepared to provide and for
reasons related to seeking to deal with a circumstance in which some
American capabilities, in our view, represent a benefit-risk analysis
that runs against their provision. 

But from the point of view of a limiting principle on time, the
President was absolutely clear on that.  He said, “As long as it takes. 
He meant, “As long as it takes.”  And that’s where the United States is
prepared to stand.  And we believe that’s where the broad global
coalition of countries supporting Ukraine is prepared to go as well. 

Yes.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  You mentioned, during the President’s trip to
Israel, that one of the meetings he will be having is with the
opposition leader.  Can you talk a little bit about that meeting and why
are they meeting and what does the President hope to accomplish?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So it’s standard protocol for an American president to
meet with leaders across the Israeli political spectrum, and the reason
is simple: It’s because the President — this President and previous
presidents have wanted to display that the relationship between the
United States and Israel transcends politics.  It transcends parties. 
It doesn’t matter who’s in charge in Washington or who’s in charge in
Israel.  
  
What matters is that we have a foundational, ironclad commitment to the
security of the State of Israel and that our two peoples are joined in a
common vision for the future.

That’s what he’s going to want to put on display, and that is the
message that he will convey through the totality of his meetings in
Israel.

Yeah.

Q    You mentioned —

MR. SULLIVAN:  Last question, and then I’ll move out.  So — go ahead.  
  
Q    You mentioned earlier that Russia had failed to achieve its
objectives, in particular taking Kyiv.  Do you — are you confident then
that, even if this war extends months, years in the future, that Russia
will not be able to take Kyiv?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So we do have confidence that the bravery of the
Ukrainians and the support of the West to Ukraine will enable Ukraine to
effectively defend and sustain its capital. 

And I would also point out, when I talked about the severe costs that
Russia has had to endure on the battlefield as it tries to grind out
territory in the east, this is coming at a cost to the sustainment of
its own weapons.  
  
And I’ll just give you one example before I leave, which is an example
that I think is pretty newsworthy and noteworthy, and that is that our
information indicates that the Iranian government is preparing to
provide Russia with up to several hundred UAVs, including
weapons-capable UAVs, on an expedi- — expedited timeline.  
  
Our information further indicates that Iran is preparing to train
Russian forces to use these UAVs with initial training sessions slated
to begin as soon as early July.  
  
It’s unclear whether Iran has delivered any of these UAVs to Russia
already.  But this is just one example of how Russia is looking to
countries like Iran for capabilities that are also being used, I might
add, or have been used before we got the ceasefire in place in Yemen, to
attack Saudi Arabia.  
  
So, from our perspective, we will continue to do our part to help
sustain the effective defense of Ukraine and to help the Ukrainians show
that the Russian effort to try to wipe Ukraine off the map cannot
succeed.  
  
And I’ll leave you guys.  Thanks, guys.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I have a few things at the top.  
  
So, on Wednesday, we will have new CPI inflation data, and we expect the
headline number, which includes gas and food, to be highly elevated,
mainly because gas prices were so elevated in June.

Gas and food prices continue to be heavily impacted by the war in
Ukraine.  And there are a few important points to keep in mind when we
get this backwards-looking data:

First, June CPI data is already out of date because energy prices have
come down substantially this month and are expected to fall further.  
  
The average retail price of gas was 11 percent higher in June than it
was in May.  And the cost of gas in July is already down 7 percent from
the June peak.

I have a chart here for you guys to — to see.  The crude oil is the
yellow.  I’m sorry, the crude oil is the blue at the bottom, and the
retail gasoline price is at the top.  And you can see the difference
there.

I would also note that even though gas prices shot up quickly when oil
prices rose, they have not come down as quickly as oil has.  
  
We continue to call on oil and gas companies to pass on their lower cost
to consumers.  American families should not be the first to pay and the
last to benefit.

The President’s number one economic priority is tackling inflation.  And
looking ahead, there are a number of reasons why we expect those high
prices to ease over the coming months.

Saturday marked the one-year anniversary of President Biden’s Executive
Order to Promote Competition Across the American Economy.

This EO prompted a government-wide effort to help lower prices, raise
wages, and encourage innovation.  And one year in, we’re extraordinarily
proud of the progress we’ve made.

Just a few example on this is: The Department of Justice and the Federal
Trade Commission have already scored big wins for Americans.  They have
<s>locked</s> \[blocked\] megamergers in the insurance and sugar
industries, and stopped a defense contractor megamerger that would’ve
cost taxpayers billions of dollars.

In just a few months, Americans with hearing loss will be able to buy
hearing aids over the counter at a — at a drug store, instead of
requiring a prescription, which could save them thousands of dollars.  
  
And the Department of Agriculture is cracking down on the
meat-processing industry and supporting new competitors so farmer —
farmer and ranchers get a fair price.

Our administration will continue driving structural change to produce
lower prices, higher wages, and to make our economy dynamic and
competitive.

Following a — following a briefing from NASA, the President and the Vice
President will unveil the first \[full\]-color images NASA’s James Webb
Space Telescope — the largest space telescope ever built.  This is very
cool. 

The high-resolution images will show light captured from galaxies that
are more than 13 billion years old, formed shortly after the Big Bang.

Thanks to the incredible NASA team, this work will help scientists
answer some of the biggest open questions about how and why stars form
and the habitability of other worlds as well.

And that is it.  Josh, do you want to kick us — kick us off?

Q    Sure.  Thanks, Karine.  Two subjects. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    First, how seriously is President Biden weighing a public health
emergency regarding abortion access?  And does he have any concerns
about what kind of impact that emergency could have on access?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Jen Klein spoke about this when she was — when she
joined the briefing room on Friday.  And she is — for those who don’t
know, she is — she chairs the Gender Policy Council, and she has been
leading the effort along with other — other White House offices in —
within the White House on our response to Dobbs decision. 

But also — we have to also remember that we started working on this
prior to that, prior even when the decision leaked, which is when S.B. 8
in Texas was passed. 

So this is something that this administration has been very
laser-focused on.  But the team has been evaluating every option. 

When we looked at declaring a public health emergency, we learned a
couple of things — and she spoke to this as well; I’m just repeating
what she said when she was in the briefing room, which is — one is: It —
that it doesn’t free very many resources.  There’s very little money
left — about tens of thousands of dollars that are left because we have
used it for other — for other reasons, in particular the COVID — our
COVID-19 response, the monkeypox, which is an issue that we’re dealing
with right now that we have been very aggressive on dealing with.  And
also, it also doesn’t release a significant amount of legal authority. 
And so that’s why we haven’t taken that action yet. 

But as she has said and as the President has said, that everything is on
the table; it doesn’t mean that it’s off the table.  And we’re going to
try and figure out every meaningful action to move forward.

So, we haven’t taken it off the table, but there are components of this
potential decision that has kind of given us pause and made us think a
little bit deeper about doing that.

Q    And secondly, what’s your message to gun control groups who say
that today’s event here at the White House was premature, given the
additional efforts that they say are necessary?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So one of the things that I’ll say about that is: So
the President clearly welcomed the bipartisan bill on gun — gun reform,
and he was proud to sign it.  We had more than 2,000 people out on the
South Lawn, many from different parts of the community; many families
who have suffered from gun — gun violence personally, lost some loved
ones; and folks who have been fighting for gun reform for a very long
time; and also legislators and congressional members.

And so while he welcomed — while he has been proud to sign the bill, he
understand that more can be done.  He spoke about that in his speech
today — in his remarks, specifically — talking about banning the assault
weapon — something that he led back in 1994, which sunset 10 years
later; this is something that he is still going to continue to fight for
— high-capacity magazines.  But we do believe and the President does
believe that the bipartisan legislation that he signed today on gun
reform will start to save lives.  And when you think about the red-flag
laws, when you think about how that — when it is enacted, it has been
effective.  When you think — look at Democratic states and red states,
it has been effective.  When you think about this so-called boy — “the
boyfriend loophole,” those things will help to save lives. 

Do we need to do more?  Absolutely.  And he’s going to continue to do
everything that he can, understa- — and remembering that this is the
President that has done more using executive action to deal with gun
violence than any other President at this time in their administration.

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    One question — or two questions, but one question on the trip: Does
the President plan to hold a press conference after his meetings with
the Saudis? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right now, I believe — and we’ll have more to share —
he has that one press conference in Israel.  I don’t have anything else
to share on — on what else we’ll — on what are the activities of the
press conference — other activity — other press conferences he may have.

Q    Okay.  We would definitely appreciate one if you — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Understood.  Understood.

Q    — scheduled one to ask him about the visit. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Understood.

Q    What was the President’s response to a new poll from the New York
Times today showing that 64 percent of Democrats say that they would
prefer a different candidate in 2024?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I would also say from that very same poll, there
were 92 percent of Democrats who support this President as well.  Look,
you know, not to be — not to get into, you know, politics from here or
get into any political analysis: This is not something — you know,
there’s going to be many polls.  They’re going to go up or they’re going
to go down.  This is not the thing that we are solely focused on. 

We are focused on things like today’s signing — this bipartisan gun
reform legislation, which will again save lives. 

Do we have more work to do?  Absolutely.  We’re going to continue to — I
was talking about inflation and how important — that is a priority for
this President — and how we have seen gas prices go down by close to 30
cents a gallon in the past 25-plus days.  That is something that the
President is going to continue to work on because we still need to give
Americans relief. 

We saw — we have seen an economy that has bounced back from when he
walked in to this administration over a year ago after dealing — or
still dealing, really — in reality — with a once-in-a-generation
pandemic and how he — we’ve been able to bring back jobs that we lost
pre-pandemic, and also just continue to do that work.

And how we’ve seen unemployment at 3.6 percent.  The jobs number that we
saw last week at 375,000 jobs created in the last month. 

All of these things are the — is what the President is going to continue
to focus on. 

How do we deliver? 

Somebody was asking Jake about USICA, also BIA and all the work that
we’re putting behind that, because that is a top priority for this
administration, because we need to continue to compete with countries
like China. 

So there is so much work to be done that we are — the President is going
to focus on and deliver as well.

Q    Karine, the event today included an interruption —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — by the father of a high school student who was killed in
Parkland.  The President first told him to sit down and listen, and then
encouraged him to continue speaking.  I’m just wondering what your
reaction is and what his feeling was about that incident today? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, you know, our hearts go out to Man- —
Manuel Oliver, who has suffered a deep, deep loss.  The President met
with him earlier today before the event.  And as you know, the President
understands what loss feels like. 

And, you know, the President agrees with him.  He agrees that we need to
do more. 

That’s why, in his speech, he called on Congress to pass legislation
that would ban assault weapons, as I just mentioned, and high-capacity
magazines; strengthen background checks; and enact safe storage laws. 
This is something that is important — that has been important throughout
the President’s career as Vice President, as senator.

The President has had the opportunity, as I just mentioned, to speak
with Mr. Oliver in the past, and he knows and understands that he is
frustrated and that he’s hurting, and rightfully so.  His life was up —
upended when gun violence took his son.  And so we’ll continue to engage
with Mr. Oliver, as — as Ambassador Rice has.  When Cedric Richmond was
here, he had met — they had met with him as well.  And so, we’re just
going to continue to do the work and to have — have engagement with Mr.
Oliver. 

Q    And just to be clear: You said they met today before Mr. Oliver
interrupted him.  Can you tell us what they spoke about this morning?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was not part of that meeting so I can’t speak to
what they spoke — spoke on.  But as I said, the President understands
what loss feels like. 

You know, our hearts go out to Mr. Oliver, and I would never want to
imagine what that feels like or want to go through what he’s going
through — that grieving process.

And, again, we agree with him; we need to do more.  The President stated
that in his speech today.  He has mentioned that almost every time that
he has spoken about gun reform and what needs to be done, what else
needs to be done to really make a change.

This is a — you know, this is a public health emergency that we’re
dealing with when we talk about gun violence.  So we’re going to
continue to do the work. 

Thanks for the question. 

Gosh, I’m going to go here.  I’ll come around.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I just wanted to follow up on Kaitlan’s
question earlier.  You’d mentioned some of the accomplishments of the
administration, but that same poll that came out said that 63 percent of
Democrats believe the country is headed in the wrong direction.  How —
how do you explain that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we understand what the American people are
feeling.  We understand that.  We understand that inflation is hurting
families when they are around the kitchen table, when they’re trying to
figure out, you know, how they’re going to deal with gas prices at the
pump, how they’re going to deal with food prices as well.  So, we
understand that families are hurting right now. 

That is why the President has been laser-focused on — on making sure
that we truly deal with inflation. 

And so, you know, we’ve seen the gas prices go down.  We believe that
that is going to continue — that’s going to be a trend that we will
continue to see.  The President has been working on this for months. 

And we have to understand how we also got here.  We got here with the —
with the increase of gas prices and food prices because of Mr. Putin’s
war in Ukraine.  And what we — and how — in particular with food and
gas, and how his unprecedented brutal war on Ukraine has cost — has
caused prices to go up. 

And so, look, the President’s going to be focused.  We have a strong
economy.  We are going to — you know, as we’re talking about inflation,
our plan right now is to do that transition from that — the growth that
we’ve seen in the economy to a more stable and steady growth. 

And we’ve seen that in the numbers last week, with the jobs numbers. 
And we’re going to continue to focus on that, give the Federal Reserve
its opportunity, its space to deal with inflation.  They have the best
monetary policy to do that. 

But, again, this is what the President is going to be focused on.  We’re
not going to pay attention to polls.  That’s not what we’re going to do
here.  What we’re going to focus on is delivering for the American
people. 

Q    And lastly, is the President monitoring the wildfires in Yosemite? 
Is there any commitment from the administration on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would have to get back to the team and lay out
exactly what we’re doing.  We are in close contact, for sure, with local
government, with governors in the state.  This is something that we do
monitor and have — have in the past worked hand-in-hand with local
officials on that — on the specifics. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, is it — oh, my gosh.  Is it time?  Okay, let me
take one more question.  One more question.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the White House think abortion rights
advocates are out of touch with the party, given the quote that Kate
Bedingfield gave to the Washington Post this weekend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I — let me just say — let me just say this: What
happened almost two weeks ago now was an unprecedented attack — right? —
on women’s right.  It was an unprecedented attack on our freedoms.  And
the President has worked for not just — as I mentioned, not just since
the leaked documents, but since we — since we have seen the S.B. 8 in
Texas, to make sure that this administration, his administration, is
doing everything that they can to deliver for — on this issue of making
sure that we protect women’s rights.

And that’s what Kate was saying.  She was trying to make sure that we
laid out and spoke — continue to speak about what the President — the
bold step that the President took. 

So we were responding to criticism in that particular article.  That’s
what we were responding to.  And we were responding to some activists
and what they were saying in that article.  And so, we were trying to be
very specific in that as well. 

But to say that the President has not been passionate, to say that this
President has not been focused is just not true. 

And even when Jen Klein was here after the President signed the
executive order, she talked about NARAL.  She talked about Planned
Parenthood and how they welcome the steps that we took and what we are
delivering on.

Now, is there going to be more work and more work to do?  Absolutely. 

And lastly, I will say — and then we have to go because you all have to
gather — is that the President has always been honest about what needs
to be done and what he believes needs to be done.  Yes, we’re going to
continue to do the work in the administration.  But really, Americans
have to take it to the ballot.  They have to make sure their voices are
heard. 

And he also said, “Keep protesting, protesting peacefully,” but also
make sure that you take action and ask Congress to take action. 

And so that’s what we were speaking to.  And that’s what the comments
were all about.  And we’re going to continue to work on — on behalf of
the American public. 

Thank you, everybody.

4:39 P.M. EDT
