---
date: '2022-07-08'
modified_time: 2022-07-08 16:51:13-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-08 18:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-4/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:57 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Okay.  And Happy Friday to
everyone.  Just a quick note, because we wanted to make sure we had a
briefing today, but the President, as you know, has a very tight
schedule.   
  
Today he’s going to be heading to the CIA, so this is going to be a
short briefing, so apologies at the top.  But again, we wanted to make
sure you guys all had an opportunity to ask your questions.  
  
So joining us today is Jen Klein, the Director of the White House Gender
Policy Council, which was established by President Biden at the start of
this administration.  This is her second time in the Briefing Room, some
of you might remember.  
  
By creating the Gender Policy Council, President Biden fulfilled a
campaign promise to create a White House team backed by the whole of
government for defending women’s rights and advancing equality.   
  
When the draft decision of Dobbs was leaked this spring, Jen Klein and
the Gender Policy Council, along with other senior officials here at the
White House, put every policy action on the table and evaluated them
through an intensive process to determine which were the strongest and
the most meaningful.  
  
With that, Jen, I’ll let you take it away.  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Thank you.  Thanks, Karine, for having me today.  As you
said, when the final decision was issued, the President took immediate
action under his executive authority to defend reproductive rights.  And
just now, as you know, he signed an executive order which builds on
those actions.  
  
So just to talk a little bit about what’s in this executive order: It
safeguards access to reproductive health services, building on steps HHS
has already taken to ensure that medication abortion and contraception,
including emergency contraception and long-acting contraception, are as
widely available as possible, as well as the Attorney General’s
commitment to fight any attack by a state or local official who attempts
to interfere with women exercising their constitutional right to travel
out of state for medical care.  
  
It also protects the privacy of patients and their access to accurate
information, building on steps that HHS Office of Civil Rights has
already begun to take to ensure that doctors and medical providers and
plans know that, with limited exceptions, they’re not required and, in
many cases, they’re not even permitted to disclose patients’ private
information.  
  
It also promotes the safety and security of patients, providers, and
clinics — the physical safety and security.  And finally, it coordinates
the implementation of federal efforts to protect reproductive rights and
access to healthcare.  
  
As Karine said, my team, working really with colleagues all across the
White House and around the administration, has been working around the
clock since the draft decision was leaked in May.  And we are going to
continue to evaluate all options and steps that we can take.   
  
So, as Karine said, I know we’re short on time.  So, with that, I’ll
just be open to take your questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Aamer.  
  
Q    Yeah, ma’am, Senator Marco Rubio is demanding the federal
government —  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    — not provide sick leave to federal employees.  
  
Q    Thank you.  If I —  
  
Q    Will you respect the Hyde Amendment?  
  
Q    Medicaid Admin- —  
  
Q    Will this administration respect the Hyde Amendment?  
  
Q    The Medicaid Administrator said that the Biden administration was
considering having Medicaid pay for travel for people.  And with some of
the instances that the President just highlighted in his speech just
now, that seems like something that would be very useful right away. 
Just wondering, why isn’t that included in this tranche of action?  
  
And then secondly, if you could just broadly speak: There’s been some
frustration with abortion rights supporters that this administration is
not moving fast enough.  Some of this stuff seems like it could have
been done on day one, considering you knew the leak and what was
coming.  
  
MS. KLEIN:  So, on your first question on Medicaid, you know, as you
heard from the President the day of the decision and again today as part
of this executive order, we are very focused on protecting that right to
travel.   
  
The Attorney General issued an extremely strong statement, again, on the
day of the decision, and has continued to be vigilant so that no woman,
no person who is seeking a medical service in a state where it is legal
is prevented from doing that.  
  
We’re also looking at all options to figure out how to best effectuate
that right to travel.  
  
On your second question more broadly, I sort of take issue with the
premise of the question, because I think, first of all, what the
President did on day one, which was really significant, was to take
immediate action, as I said, to ensure that medication abortion is
available and accessible.   
  
Fifty-four percent of abortions in this country are through Medicaid
\[sic\] abortion — medica- — medication abortion, excuse me.  So that is
a hugely significant thing to make sure that people have accurate
information about medication abortion and have the right to take it.  
  
You know, a sort of falsity that is already out there is that it’s
illegal everywhere in the country.  It’s not.  So we’re, in this
executive order, taking further action to make sure that the FDA has the
support they need to go through their scientific process and that people
have the information they need to access and get this vital critical
medication, as well as contraception, which, you know, as we noted, the
Supreme Court put on the table already.  
  
The other thing I would say is, you know, the leaked decision was two
weeks ago.  So in addition to the immediate actions that the
administration took, Secretary of Health and Human Services Becerra took
a series of actions while the President was away in Europe.  When he
came back, his first public event was meeting with nine Democratic
governors, who really are in the frontlines, to talk to them about what
we could do best to help them and what they are doing on their own to
actually ensure reproductive rights and health in their states.  
  
And then the last thing I would say — and, you know, you heard the
President say it — is: You can’t solve by executive action what the
Supreme Court has done.  The Supreme Court has taken away a
constitutional right that was precedent for nearly 50 years.   
  
And I think we all need to be mindful — he is very mindful, we are all
very mindful — that that can’t be solved by executive action alone and
that the best and fastest way to fix that is by codifying Roe, restoring
Roe by legislation.  But that doesn’t mean we won’t be taking the
actions he took today and more as we consider best actions.  
  
Q    So is there a disconnect there?  Because there is frustration. 
There is no doubt there’s a lot of frustration, and some of the
frustration is undoubtedly — through anybody in this room that’s spoken
to a voter or an American that supports abortion rights — that there is
frustration with the administration.  So is there a disconnect in what’s
happening and their ability to message it?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Well, I would say that, you know, first of all, if you look
at what NARAL and Planned Parenthood said today about the actions that
we’re taking, they’ve both called it, you know, important steps.  
  
And I’ve been in constant contact with stakeholders across lots of
different constituencies and lots of different coalitions, from women’s
rights to reproductive rights and justice, civil rights, community,
businesses, medical providers, I mean, the American Medical Associa- —
Association and the ACOG and — American College of Obstetrics and
Gynecology.  Very supportive of the actions we’re taking to protect
providers’ rights and responsibilities to offer the services that they
are legally allowed to provide, and to make sure that their
responsibilities but also protect them in this time where, you know,
what we are experiencing already but will continue to experience is
serious legal chaos.  
  
So I think we are taking strong action.  And again, we’re going to
continue to look for where we can take the most significant actions.  
  
Q    Does this administration —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Michael.  Michael.  
  
Q    — respect the Hyde Amendment, ma’am?  Simple question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    It’s a real simple question.  Do you respect the Hyde Amendment or
no?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Michael, go ahead.  
  
Q    You can’t answer that question?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Sorry, so I’m a little still confused about what the actual — the
order actually does.  It says here that it directs Mr. Becerra to
develop a report identifying potential actions; to consider updates to
guidances; to — it directs the Chair of the Federal Trade Commission to
consider actions; it asks Mr. Becerra to consider actions about
protecting information; it talks about protecting the — you know, the
sort of safety of people, but it doesn’t say how.  
  
I mean, how is this — how is any of this actually doing the things that
you say it’s doing, or isn’t it just repeating what the President said
two weeks ago that he wanted to do but has already, both he and — he and
Mr. Becerra have both said their, sort of, hands are tied?  I think Mr.
Becerra’s comment was that there is no silver bullet here.  So, I mean,
what is it actually going to do tomorrow?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  There are — there are many new things in here, so let me —
let me walk through a few of them.  
  
First of all, on privacy: You know, what we are seeing is already an
assault on people’s privacy.  And there’s sort of two things in the
executive order to address that.  The first is through the Federal Trade
Commission.  
  
Q    But it doesn’t actually do anything.  It says it asks the Federal
Trade Commissioner to consider actions, right?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Yeah.  So the Federal Trade —  
  
Q    What actions — what actions do you want him to do?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  The Federal Trade Commission is obviously an independent
agency, so the President can’t compel them, which is why, you know, the
exe- — the words of the executive order are “to consider.”   
  
But what I believe the Federal Trade Commission is looking to do is to
ensure that people’s private health information is not sold by data
brokers, that when somebody goes on and does a Google search to find an
abortion clinic, that that information is not made publicly available.  
  
They have to make their —  
  
Q    How are they — how are they going to do that?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  They have to make — they have to make their own enforcement
decisions, and obviously, neither nor — certainly not me, but the
President can’t compel them to bring any sort of enforcement action. 
But they can clarify their policy, and that’s what this executive order
asks them to do.  
  
Q    Do you guys know what policies you would like them to clarify?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Just what I said: that —  
  
Q    But I mean, specifically?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  They’re the experts, and so they will make a determination
and then release a policy statement, I believe, that will ensure that
people’s private, sensitive health information is protected on the
Internet, that people have access to accurate information.  
  
This is — this is what they will be able to do.  
  
Q    Okay.  And the second piece is the HHS Secretary — that’s not —
he’s not an independent agent.  So why — why are you just directing him
to consider actions?  And what actions do you want him to consider?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  So, what the executive order asks the Secretary to do is
come back within 30 days with a plan.  So part of this, as you are
noting, are things the President has talked about and what — and what
the Secretary has already started to work on.   
  
And what this asks for is a very deliberate plan and process to make
sure that medication abortion is available; to support the FDA in their
determination — their scientific determination about this medic- —
critical medication, which, by the way, has been safe and legal for 20
years; and to take other steps.   
  
So, to take one other example, emergency medical care.  We need to make
sure that when somebody walks into an emergency room and they’re
pregnant, that they are getting the care that they need and that they
are not being turned away because — either because a provider doesn’t
know that they’re legally required or able to give them that care.   
  
So there is guidance that the secretary can issue and the Secretary will
issue to make clear what kind of treatment somebody needs to be — needs
to receive when they walk into an emergency room.   
  
Same thing for pharmacists.  You know, again, back to the notion of
legal chaos, pharmacists don’t know whether they can dispense
mifepristone, the drug which is medication abortion — which, by the way,
is used in miscarriages, which are 1 in 10 pregnancies.   
  
So again, the Secretary can take action, through guidance from the
Department of Health and Human Services specifically, to make clear to
pharmacists, again, what their responsibilities are but also what their
rights are as pharmacists so that they are not putting themselves in
jeopardy.   
  
Q    Thank you so much.  The White House says this executive action will
expand access to medication abortion.  How, specifically, will the
administration do that?  What concrete steps will be taken?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Well, that’s what we’re looking for the Secretary to come
back to us with.  I mean, the two things immediately is — is what I’ve
noted, which is that the FDA is in a process right now, and they need to
continue to do their process.  And again, they are independent, they’re
making their own scientific judgment, but to do — to extend permanently
what they did in April.   
  
So, in April, what they did was they said that medication abortion
should be available by telehealth, and it should be able to be — to be
mailed.   
  
And currently, they’re going through a scientific process.  And we can’t
interfere with that process, but the Secretary can support them in any
way that he needs to.   
  
And the other thing is we, you know, launched a website,
ReproductiveRights.gov, and there will be many other ways to communicate
— again, as I said, both, you know, critical medications like medication
abortion, but also contraception, which is at risk.   
  
Emergency contraception is at risk in states across the country now,
partly because there are states that are — are passing laws that say
that fertilization — that fertilization begins — that pregnancy begins
at fertilization, and that puts a drug like emergency contraception at
risk.  And we need to clarify for people what is and isn’t available to
them.   
  
Q    But just to — just to follow up really quickly here.  Is this sort
of like a wait-and-see approach here for the American people?  The White
House says that this executive action will be expanding access to
medication abortion, but right now, there’s no details, no concrete
steps until the Department of Health and Human Services releases that in
30 days?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  No, no.  The Secretary — I mean, I know it feels frustrating
because we’re taking action and then asking for more action.  But the
Secretary is already taking action.  The website is already launched. 
The Attorney General has already made a statement that we will be
vigilant about protecting people’s right to travel and also to look at
the question about whether mifepristone should be available and how it
can be available, because the FDA has already spoken, 20 years ago, that
this is a safe and effective drug.   
  
And at the same time, what we’ve asked for is, you know, continued
vigilance and an ongoing process and ongoing work to make sure that that
is really happening.   
  
You know, as I said, this is not going to be solved by one day’s
action.  So the — you know, the strong statement at the outset; all the
work we’ve done, both before the decision and after the decision; and
then, you know, we will come back.  And you know, the report from the
Secretary is just one step in the process.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They moved the gather time, so we got to go.  
  
Q    So, again, the Hyde Amendment — will you answer my question? 
Really simple.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Phil.  And then (inaudible).  
  
Q    The idea of a public health emergency has been something some
advocates have pressed for.  My understanding is it’s not off the table
but that the consideration may give a window into the complexities that
you guys are trying to deal with right now.  Can you explain, kind of,
the approach as it pertains to that specific item?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Yeah.  So, as you said, we’re really looking at everything. 
And it is definitely not off the table, as are many other options.   
  
When we looked at the public health emergency, we learned a couple
things.  One is that it doesn’t free very many resources.  It’s what’s
in the public health emergency fund, and there’s very little money —
tens of thousands of dollars in it.  So that didn’t seem like a great
option.  And it also doesn’t release a significant amount of legal
authority.  And so that’s why we haven’t taken that action yet.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, ma’am, pro-life Americans — one question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sir, you’re being rude.  
  
Q    Pro-life Americans —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sir, you’re being rude to your colleagues.  
  
Q    All the questions you’re taking are pro-abortion.  So let me ask
you this question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Excuse me —

Q    Senator Marco Rubio —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Caitlin.  
  
Q    — is demanding —  
  
Q    Two questions.  
  
Q    — the federal government not provide sick leave to federal
employees who travel to get abortions.  Should — he says that would
violate the Hyde Amendment.  So, what’s your response to it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sir, take a seat in the back.  You’re being rude to
your colleagues and our guest.  
  
Go ahead, Caitlin.  
  
Q    Two questions.  
  
Q    I’m not (inaudible).  I can stand right here and ask my questions
(inaudible).  
  
Q    The President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sir, please.  Please.  
  
Q    I can ask my question.  She doesn’t want to answer it.  
  
Q    The President, earlier today, encouraged people to go out and vote,
and essentially said, “If you want to change the rights for women, you
have to show up at the ballot box.”   
  
Does that suggest that, with this order, the President has reached the
limit of what he can do unilaterally?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  No, it does not.  It means it’s an important step that we’re
taking today.  And we will continue to look at all options on the table
that are legally appropriate.   
  
Q    I have another question about privacy.  Is the White House
encouraging people in states where abortion is going to be illegal to
not use different apps — period-tracking apps, Google searches on
fertility, those kinds of things?  Is the White House directing people
to stop using those apps?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  I wouldn’t say we’re directing people.  But I think people
should be really careful about that.  And one of the things that HHS did
just last week was — as part of this website and also made public in
other ways — is literal instructions, practical instructions of how to
delete certain apps that are on your phone so that if you want to
protect yourself, you have the ability to do that.   
  
Q    And then, sorry, quickly on the abortion pill: Is the President, is
the administration directing the FDA to loosen restrictions on the
abortion pill?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  The President can’t direct the FDA.  The FDA has to go
through their process.  But — and they are in the middle of a process
not to loosen restrictions but to clarify what the restrictions are and
who can dispense and who can prescribe mifepristone.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Two questions left.  Jeff and then — go
ahead.  
  
Q    Can you give — right here.  Oh, and also, earlier you said the
leaked decision came out two weeks ago.  You probably meant six
weeks.   
  
MS. KLEIN:  Sorry, yes.  
  
Q    The actual one was two weeks ago.  
  
MS. KLEIN:  The actual decision.  Sorry.  Thank you.   
  
Q    Can you give us a sense of what other options are on the table now
that this executive order has been signed?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  I’m not going to preview our process.  But all the things
that you’ve heard about that have been suggested by advocates, by
members of Congress — literally every single one of those things we have
run down and either decided was not a viable option at the moment or are
continuing to run down.  
  
Q    And one question about the pill.  Is this White House studying or
is the administration studying making it easier for people to get that
pill without a prescription?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  Again, the FDA has to go through their process.  It’s — it’s
currently not only not — it is not available without a prescription. 
And — and, in fact, there are part of these — the guidance that FDA has
already issued is pretty specific about it.   
  
So I can’t answer a question about what they might consider in the
future.  But I would say: At present time, it is — it is a pretty
regulated medication.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question.   
  
Q    Thank you.  One of the executive actions announced today was
creating a task force.  Why wasn’t that created after the Dobbs decision
was leaked to help prepare?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  So, we’ve been — you know, a number of us have called it a
task force, a war room.  We’ve been meeting literally every day for
weeks, far before the — not only the decision, but the leaked decision,
to think about all of the options that we could put in place to
respond.   
  
So this just formalizes the interagency work that’s been going on
between the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human
Services — really all of the agencies and across the White House.   
  
And the reason, actually, we decided to formalize it and also to make
clear that it will also be available as a way to communicate and
coordinate with states was when the President met with the governors,
they specifically asked for it.   
  
One of the things that was really interesting to us is that when we’ve
been meeting with state attorneys general, state legislators, and as
well when the President met with the governors — and, by the way, the
Vice President has had a number of meetings, as have I, with all of
those different state officials.   
  
One of the things that has come to the front is the avail — is the
importance of connecting them to each other, creating a network so that
they can learn from each other.  So, you know, states that are looking
at laws to prevent extradition of providers who are providing a legal
service in the state of, you know, where they — where they reside, it
became really clear that this was something that was very much needed. 
So we decided to make it part of this order.   
  
Q    And one clarifying question on the public health emergency.  So, if
— would you say that you — the White House believes it has the authority
to declare the public health emergency to preserve broad access to
abortion services?  
  
MS. KLEIN:  The Secretary of Health and Human Services has to declare a
public health emergency.  And it’s not a question of legal authority
that — he has the authority to do that at any time.  The question is,
“What authority does he gain by declaring a public health emergency?”  
  
Q    Will you take any questions from a pro-life American audience at
all?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks.  
  
Q    No?  You’ll just walk away?  Okay.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Karine, I have a question.  Does the President have a reaction to
the passing of the former Angolan President, Eduardo dos Santos?  I
noticed that you just had your reaction to the passing of — to the death
of the Japanese prime minister.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me — let me just get started, and then I’ll — I’ll
come back to you.  Okay?  Let me just get started with the — with the
briefing.   
  
We don’t have a lot of time.  As we know, the President is going to be
leaving for CIA pretty sho- — pretty soon, and we’re going to gather
very shortly.   
  
But I do want to take a point of privilege and acknowledge Angela Perez,
who is going to be leaving us.  We have many big things to celebrate
today, but you leaving and getting a promotion to the Department of
Commerce as Deputy Press Secretary.   
  
Angela has been with us from the beginning.  She is what we call an “OG
Biden person.”  She was with us on the campaign.  And her tell —
intelligence, her follow through, and humor had been a gift to all of
her colleagues here at the White House.  I know some of you have
experienced her humor in this very room.   
  
And we are going to be incredibly sad to see you go.  But we’re also
going to be cheering you on as you do — go and do really amazing and
great things.  And as I said, today is her last day.  And we love you,
Angela.  Thank you.  Thank you for all that you do.   
  
All right, Aamer, why don’t you kick us off?   
  
Q    Sure.  One question.  I understand we’re tight on time.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Shireen Abu Akleh’s family sent President Biden a letter in which
they noted their “sense of betrayal” with the State Department’s report
on her killing.  It was a very scathing letter.   
  
Will the President meet with the family?  Will he bring up the case with
Israeli officials next week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I haven’t seen the letter as yet.  I have heard
about the letter; I just haven’t had a sens- — a chance to read it.  And
I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s travel and what he’ll be
doing on his travel in the Middle East.   
  
But I can assure you that he has been closely monitoring the
developments of the investigation into Shireen’s killing.  You have
heard us talk about it many times right here at this podium.   
  
Senior American officials also continue to be in touch with Abu Akleh
family.  And we hear their concerns.  We feel their pain.  We can’t even
— we can’t even imagine what they must be going through.  I don’t want
to imagine.   
  
We continue to urge cooperation between Israel and the Palestinian
Authority on next steps.  And we — and we definitely continue to urge
accountability.  
  
Q    And as far as the gather: Is the briefing going to continue?  And
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll go for — I’ll go a little bit longer for folks
who stay.  
  
Q    Okay.  Should people gather and leave at 1:20?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I bel- — they should if they want to — if they want to
catch — (laughs) — the President at the CIA.  But I’ll continue.   
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    And just one quick one before we leave?  Can you give us an update
on the President’s thinking on tariffs and lifting tariffs in China?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so we don’t have anything, clearly, right now,
at this time on — on the — on the tariff decision.  The President, as
I’ve said many times, is considering all options.  This is an important
decision that the President is making on behalf of the American
public.   
  
As soon as we — as soon as we have something, we will we will share
that.  
  
Go ahead, Caitlin.  
  
Q    Some Democratic senators have praised the President’s executive
order today but say that he should be doing more.  What else is the
White House planning on doing?  And does the President believe that he
can do any more on this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President — you heard him speak very
passionately today.  He is going to continue to do everything that he
can — the legal authority that he has — to continue to work and make
sure that we — that we look at all options to protect women, to protect
women’s rights, and their freedoms.  So it doesn’t end today.   
  
It be- — it be- — you know, all of this kind of began on the day that
decision was — the Dobbs decision was made.   
  
But he’s been also very clear — like I said, you heard him today: The
way to — to really address this is for people to make sure that their
voices are heard at the ballot box.  That is what he is calling for. 
That is what we are — we are asking our fellow Americans to make sure
that they speak up and get their voices heard.   
  
Q    But does that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes?  
  
Q    Does that suggest that he believes that he doesn’t have any more
legal authority to act on this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, he said he’s going to — he has — we have continued
to say he’s going to look at every option that he has.   
  
But, look, here’s what we saw — right? — we heard him say that what —
the SCOTUS decision was not driven by the Constitution.  It was driven
by political and extreme raw political power.  A decision that was made
— he disagrees with that decision.  He thinks it’s extreme.  We have to
be sure, and we continue —  
  
He wants to be straight with the American people.  And if you look at
what’s going to happen across the board; if you look at what Republicans
— national Republicans are saying: They’re asking or going to go for a
national ban.   
  
So our work now is — he’s going to — again, continue to do the work that
he can from here.  But also, you know, call on Congress to act.  If they
cannot, we have to make sure that people’s voices are heard at the
ballot box.  
  
Q    And just quickly, has he ruled out the sanctioning of federal lands
for abortion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are — we’re looking at all options. 
Everything is on the table.  We have talked about how, you know, while
this is a — a idea that comes from a good place, it is definitely a
difficult thing to protect the provider or to protect any — any woman
who is on federal land, once they leave.  It puts them in a legal — kind
of an illegal bind.  So it is something that we have to think about when
we have those discussions.   
  
But again, everything is on the table.  He’s going to do everything that
he can from whatever legal authority that he has to make sure that we
continue to protect women’s rights and also the freedom of women.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    In many ways, the President’s rhetoric today was almost declaring
war on the Court.  He talked about galvanizing women voters, especially,
to act.  But he said some things that are kind of unusual for a
President who is an institutionalist, when you’re talking about a
co-equal branch of government.   
  
Is it the President’s view that the Court is not apolitical any longer? 
Is it his view that it is, in fact, motivated by politics in all matters
or just the Dobbs decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: The President respects the
institution.  He respects the Court.  What he doesn’t — what he believes
was unconstitutional, and spoke to this — to this this morning — to this
morning and also prior, is their decision.  He believes the decision
that this Court has made is extreme and it is beyond the pale.   
  
We are talking about, as you know, you know, a constitutional right that
was around for almost 50 years.  And so, when you think about that —
when you think about what was done two weeks ago, the President wants to
speak very clearly and loudly about what we saw and how this will have
an effect, as we know, on women’s rights and women’s freedom.  And
beyond that — it’s going to go beyond that when you think about privacy,
when you think about contraception, when you think what else that — what
else extreme Republicans — Republicans that he has called the “Ultra” —
the “Ultra-MAGA” of the Republican wing is planning to do.  
  
But the reality is: In order to have pro-choice senators, pro-choice
House members, we have to make sure that folks have their voices heard
at the ballot box.  And that is what he’s going to continue to call on
to make sure that they exercise their rights as well.  
  
Q    Is it his view that the Court is now a politicized body or not an
independent judicial panel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he believes that this was done by a war of
political power.  You heard him say that today, that this decision was
not a constitutional decision.  It was beyond extreme.  It will — you
know, it will hurt people’s lives.  It will upend, you know, people’s —
you know, people’s everyday decision on their own body and what they can
decide what they — what they need to take care of their health and how
they want to grow their family.  And so that is incredibly important as
well.   
  
Again, this decision was incredibly extreme.  He’s going to — he’s
called that out.  He’s talked about that very emphatically, as you heard
him today.   
  
And — but we have to also do our part.  We have to do everything that we
can to codify Roe into law.  And the only way to do that is to make sure
that Congress acts.  
  
I’m going to — go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Governor Abbott in Texas issued an executive order
today calling on the National Guard and officials there to apprehend
undocumented immigrants.  So I’m wondering if the administration is
planning any legal response, and if you’ll prohibit the National Guard
from participating?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: The immigration enforcement is a
federal authority, and states should not be mandating it — meddling in
it.  That is just — especially governor of Te- — the Texas governor,
Abbott, who has a track record of causing chaos and confusion at the
border.   
  
So I would refer you to DOJ on any legal matter.  But again, this is an
— immigration enfortment \[sic\] — enforcement is a federal
authority.   
  
Q    TPS for Venezuelans is up for renewal next week.  Do you have any
sense of how the President is planning to proceed there?  And if he’s
not going to renew it, what has — what the circumstances have changed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s
decision on TPS.  I don’t have anything for you at this time to
preview.  
  
Q    And then one last one.  You’ve discussed multiple times that the
only way to, sort of, restore Roe is through legislative action and
electing more Democrats, which I think is undeniably true based on the,
sort of, math.   
  
But in the period, you know, before the ruling was issued, there was an
effort by some Republican senators to pass a sort of scaled-down bill. 
We heard the President today talk passionately about a case — a reported
case of a rape survivor that had to go across state lines.   
  
Is the administration at all interested in engaging with Republicans on
a smaller (inaudible) bill that might protect rape victims’, incest
victims’ right — you know, health of the mother — less than Roe —
undeniably less than, you know, you and abortion activists want, but
more than exists after the ruling?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything to share right now about what
we would do that’s less than Roe.  The President’s priority right now is
to make sure we codify Roe. And that is what is going to bring back the
rights of women and the freedoms that women have.   
  
And, you know, we have to take what the Court did very seriously, even
what <s>Judge</s> \[Justice\] Thomas said about privacy and
contraception and marriage.  That is something that we have to be —
should be ready for.  And that’s why the President laid out what he has
in the past two week — two weeks — whether it is the two executive
authorities that he took on the day that the decision was made on Dobbs,
which is making sure that the FDA provided approved medication to its
full extent, because that is so incredibly important for women who are
looking to have abortion; and also making sure that women who decide to
travel across states have the protection; and everything else that he
talked about today — the privacy component, protecting clinics.  
  
And so that’s what he’s going to continue to do.  He’s going to continue
to see what other legal authorities that he haves — he has to move
forward and protect — to protect those rights.   
  
But the way that we truly get back those freedoms, that constitutional
right that people — the American public had for almost 50 years is we
have to codify Roe into law.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The President mentioned that he’s going to stop by the Japanese
embassy today to sign a condolence book.  Anything else you can share
about how the administration is going to respond to this assassination? 
Any consideration of the President or Vice President traveling for the
funeral?  Anything like that at this point in time?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything to share on the funeral
travel.  I believe — I believe that they haven’t set a date yet for the
former prime minister.  The President mentioned that he tried to give a
call to the Prime Minister of — Kishida, the current Prime Minister,
obviously, to offer up his condolences.   
  
You all saw the President’s statement from this morning, where he is
deeply saddened and outraged that his friend and former Prime Minister
Abe was shot and killed.  We send our deepest condolences to former
prime minister and his family and all those who loved him.  The
President and the American pu- — the American people stand with the
people of Japan in their time of mourning.  We have unwavering
confidence in the strength of Japanese democracy and firmly believe that
the former Prime Minister’s legacy will live on.  
  
For — as far as travel or funeral arrangements, I believe those have not
been set, and I just don’t have anything to share at this time.  
  
Q    One follow-up on that question, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  You can follow up.  
  
Q    Would the administration be open to the possibility of including
President Trump as part of the presidential delegation that goes to the
funeral?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, as far as I know, a funeral date has not been
scheduled.  I would —  
  
Q    They’re doing this July 12, so that would be the same day that the
President is traveling.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — again, I don’t have anything to share with you on
his travel at this time.  But I would refer you to President Trump on
his own plans.  I can’t speak to that from here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  You’ve talked a little bit about privacy
today.  Does the President think it’s appropriate for abortion rights
protesters to intimidate Supreme Court justices when they’re out to eat,
like Brett Kavanaugh, who had to sneak out of a steakhouse last night?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have been pretty clear on this, the President has
been very clear, that we condemn any intimidation of judges in this
specific question here.  We have condemned that.  We have signed — he
has assigned a piece of legislation making sure that they have the
protection that they need.  And so we —  
  
Q    But you never said, “Don’t go to their houses.”  So as long as
they’re peaceful, would you say, “Don’t go to a restaurant that a
Supreme Court justice is at”?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is we condemn any intimidation when it
comes to judges.  We’ve been — the President has talked about this, and
we have put out statements in his name and many, many times.  
  
Q    So there are circumstances that it’s okay if protesters know that
if a justice is out to eat at a restaurant, that pro- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    — that they can go and protest as long as they are what you
consider peaceful?  That’s okay?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we have said that we want to see peaceful
protests.  That’s what we have said.  We want to see the pe- — the
protests be peaceful.  But when it comes to intimidation, that is
something that we have condemned.  
  
Q    So where’s the line?  If these protesters can go to a justice’s
house and they can go to a restaurant, where is it that you don’t think
it’s appropriate for a group of protesters to go?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Where is — I just laid out.  You asked me about
intimidation.  We condemn intimidation.  We condemn any violence.  And
we’ve been very clear that is — it is like clear — it is a clear
definition of what violence is and what intimidation is.  Peaceful
protest — people should be allowed to be — to be able to do that.  
  
Q    In a restaurant?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If it’s outside of a restaurant, if it’s peaceful, for
sure.   
  
Q    Really?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peaceful protest.  Where is — you were — your first
question to me was “intimidation” —  
  
Q    So these justices —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and violence.  
  
Q    — because protesters do not agree with an opinion that they signed
on to, have no right to privacy, is what you’re saying?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, Peter, this is — this is — people have the right
— this is what a democracy is.  People have the right —  
  
Q    Do people have a right to privacy?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Of course, people have a right to privacy, but people
also have a right to be able to protest peacefully.  Peacefully.   
  
Q    Is that safe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s the intimidation and the violence that we
condemn.  
  
Q    Is — is that safe?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter —  
  
Q    Isn’t that creating a potential really bad situation when there are
people — even if they’re being peaceful at the time, they’re angry.  And
that’s why they would be there, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter, we have condemned any intimidation and
violence.   
  
Q    But you just said it’s okay if they go to a restaurant.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I said peaceful protest should be allowed.  We do — we
do commen- — condemn intimidation —  
  
Q    That’s not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and we condemn any violence at any — whatever —
every ty- — whatever type of violence.  We’ve been very clear on that. 
We’ve been —   
  
Q    So President Biden —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And the President has signed — the President has
signed legislation that was passed bipart- — in a bipartisan way in
Congress to make sure that the judges have the protection that they
need.  We — this administration — has provided U.S. Marshals, through
the DOJ, to make sure that these judges are protected.  So we have shown
how we want to make sure that intimidation and violence is not the way
to go.  It is not the way to have a political discourse.   
  
I’m done here, Peter.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    The Mexican President will be here next week.  I want to get from
you what President Biden expects out of that.  And secondly, if you can
respond to the criticism from the Mexican President over the spying
charges against Julian Assange.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll speak to the — to the AMLO meeting — is
what you’re speaking to.   
  
Look, the President and the First Lady look forward to welcoming the
President of Mexico and the First Lady here to Washington next week. 
It’s going to be a bilateral visit, as we’ve spoken about before.  And
they’ll have an opportunity to carry — to work on the summit — to carry
out the work of the Summit of the Americas forward.  That was the summit
that happened in Los Angeles not too long ago, just a few short weeks
ago.  
  
They will discuss a broad and deep agenda, including joint efforts on
migration, food security, and economic opportunity.  And so the
President looks forward to having that conversation, and he’s going to
welcome them next week.  
  
Q    Can you — could you address that second part?  The president made
some very critical comments about tearing down the Statue of Liberty,
you know, if the U.S. proceeds with that — he’s offered asylum there. 
Which — what’s the administration’s response?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we see — we see AMLO, the President of Mexico,
as a partner.  We are — they are welcomed here next week.  We’re going
to have a bilateral meeting.  There will be many conversations that will
be had.  And I’m going to leave it as that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up on one last question?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah, sure.   
  
Q    It’s been reported that the President is considering giving a
speech after the January 6th hearings are completed.  Can you — can you
discuss that with us?  And what’s the — what would be the intent of
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot confirm a speech that the President — the
President may or may not be having.  That is not — right now we are
letting the January 6th Committee hearing go and do their — do their
jobs.   
  
The President has — as he has said many times and we have said many
times, thinks it’s — their work is important.  Is it a — it is an
independent process that they are — a bipartisan, independent process
that they’re running.   
  
And we believe — as the hearings are going on, we believe it’s important
for the American people to see exactly what happened on that day. 
January 6th was a dark day for our democracy.  It was an attack on our
law enforcement.  And so we wanted — we want to respect their process,
and we’re just not going to comment on that while it’s going on.   
  
I do not have a speech to confirm for you at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The White House has taken credit for the recent
drop in gas prices.  Do you believe that the administration’s moves are
more responsible for that drop than, say, changing consumer behavior and
the fact that some recession jitters also seem to be pushing oil prices
under $100 a barrel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you heard from the President today, he — we saw
the gas prices go down for 25 consecutive days and about 25 cents.   
  
While we understand that that is not enough, and we understand that
people are still going through a lot — a lot of pain and with the — with
the cost of gas prices — we know what it means for families.   
  
But we do believe that the President has really taken this on these last
several months: when it comes to Strategic Petroleum Reserve and that
historic 1 million barrels a day; when it comes to the homegrown
biofuels, the ethanol 15, that the President has called on.  Remember
that is only available in the wintertime; we made that available during
the summer.  And all of those — all of the work that the President has
done has helped to blunt the price increase.   
  
Now, remember this price increase is due to Putin’s — Putin’s tax hikes,
Putin’s war — a brutal war on Ukraine.  And that’s why we have seen the
increase of gas prices.  That’s why we have seen the increase — food.   
  
And so, the President is going to continue to do the work.  We know we
need to do more.  That’s why he asked for the gas tax holiday, which we
— is something that we’re calling on Congress to do, something that’s
very, very easy to do that’s going to give some — a little bit more
relief to the American public.   
  
But, again, we are happy to see the decrease of gas prices.  But we know
we need to do more.   
  
Q    Karine?  
  
Q    Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on, I — go ahead, Phil.  I haven’t seen you in a
while.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President shared that tragic story, moments
ago, about the 10-year-old girl who had to travel across state lines to
receive an abortion.  And I’m wondering, has the White House confirmed
that local law enforcement knows the identity of this 10-year-old
victim?  And has the President directed the DOJ to do everything it can
to prosecute the abuser and protect her?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: Anything to do with the DOJ that’s a
— that’s a legal component, I would refer you to DO- — to DOJ.  I don’t
have more to share on the identity of this young woman or the question
that you just asked me.   
  
The President spoke to that — a young woman — just to show how extreme
the decision on — the Dobbs decision was and just how extreme it is now
for American public, the American families when there is no exception at
all.  When you have such a young girl who has to carry out the child of
a rapist, that is unacceptable.  You heard that from him directly.   
  
And this is why he is calling for action.  This is why he’s trying to do
everything that he can from his legal authority that he has.  And so,
he’s going to continue to do that work.   
  
But again, it is — we have to make sure Congress acts.  
  
Q    Right.  But is he taking any steps to protect her?  Or does he
expect that, you know, law enforcement will?  I know he cited her in the
speech, and I know that he wants some of these larger reforms, he wants
Congress to act.  But, I mean, this little one certainly seems to be
(inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think what the President is calling on and
what he has laid out is to protect girls and women like her and beyond —
right? — who do not have the rights and the freedom.  That is why he’s
calling for the action that I just laid out for Congress.   
  
That is why he is using his legal authority and making — and made an
announcement on the executive authority — the executive action today.   
  
And so, he’s going to continue to do that work.  He’s going to do
everything that he can to protect young people who are like this young
girl.  
  
But at the same time, he’s going to call it out and use his bully pulpit
to make it clear of what is happening out there is unacceptable.  
  
Q    And just a very, very quick follow-up.  I asked on Tuesday about
the releases from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  Were there any
conversations before that release about making certain that that oil —
the million barrels a day — stayed domestic?  I mean, was the
administration aware that, you know, some of that oil could end up going
overseas?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So when it comes to the oil, it is something that oil
companies decide what — you know, we cannot control what oil companies
do with their oil.   
  
And so, I would ask — you should ask the oil companies about where they
are sending the oil they purchase and why.  That is not something that
we can answer from here.   
  
The Department of Energy can’t dictate what oil companies do with the
oil they purchase or where they ship it to sell.  That is something,
again, that the oil company decides on.   
  
And again, I would refer you to Department of Energy on that
question.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you.  We got to go.  Okay, go ahead,
Phil.  
  
Q    Just real quick.  The President has been so sharp in his
denunciations of this Court — of this Court’s majority — a majority that
— nobody is going anywhere anytime soon.  If he’s so sharply opposed to
what they’ve done, why doesn’t he support any changes to this Court or
this Court’s majority?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, because the President believes the best way to
use our political capital is to make sure that we do everything that we
can to get Congress to act; to make sure that we do everything we can to
get pro-choice Democrats in the Senate, pro-choice Democrats in the
House; to really codify Roe into law.  That is the fastest way, the best
way that we can get this done.  That’s why he’s calling on the American
people to go to the ballot box and get their voices heard.  And that is
the best way that we can get that done.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  Simon, I owe — I owe you a question.  Go
ahead.  
  
Q    I have two questions.  The former President of Angola, Eduardo dos
Santos, died today at the age of 79.  Does the President have any
reaction or any plans to call President João Lourenço?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I — I don’t have any calls to preview at this
time.  Clearly, it is sad to hear that news.  And, you know, our
sympathies and condolences go out to the family.  I just don’t have a
call to preview at this time.  
  
Q    The second question: I know in the past few weeks you’ve had
questions on abortion, on inflation — everything that goes wrong with
the President.  Is there anything — or can you list a few things that
are going right for this President at this moment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I would point you to the jobs numbers today.  We
saw 375,000 jobs in this pa- — in the past month.  While we understand
what the American public is going through at this time, that is a good
sign.  That is a good sign for the economy.   
  
And we also saw that unemployment rate is — it remains at 3.6.   
  
And in — also, in those numbers, we saw that we are — we have created —
we are back to the pre-pandemic job numbers when it comes to the private
sector, which is incredibly important.  And we’ve added jobs.  We saw 1
million jobs added in this past quarter.   
  
All of those things are very important as we talk about moving this
historic economic recovery into tran- — into a transition so that we can
really truly deal with inflation.  
  
And so I think these numbers — and you heard the President talk about
that.  He listed all of the — all of the items that I just listed in —
at the top of his speech.   
  
And one more thing that someone just asked me as well is: We saw gas
prices drop by 25 cents this past two weeks.  That is also important.  
  
We understand there’s more work to be done.  But a lot of that that we
are seeing is because of the work that this President has done.  When
you look at the jobs number — is because of this — the work that this
President has done.  When you think about the American Rescue Plan, how
it turned the economy back on — all of those things are incredibly
important.  
  
But again, we have more work to do, and we will continue to do that work
on behalf of the American people.   
  
Thank you.  Thanks, guys.  
  
1:47 P.M. EDT
