---
date: '2022-07-05'
modified_time: 2022-07-05 18:48:11-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-05 19:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/05/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:31 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  I hope
everyone had a restful long weekend.  
  
I actually don’t have anything for you at the top.  (Laughter.)  I know
you guys are always excited to hear what I got to say.  
  
But, Darlene, you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Yes.  Thank you very much.  Is the White House looking into the
possibility of having the President visit Highland Park?  The death toll
there has risen to seven this afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President, as you all know, is going to be
traveling to Ohio tomorrow to discuss the American Rescue Plan.  So
that’s the trip that he’s going to be making tomorrow.  
  
We don’t have any plans right now to go to Chicago.  I know some folks
are asking if he’s going to go to Chicago, will he go — I mean, if he’s
going to go to Ohio, is he going to go to Chicago.   
  
The Vice President is going to be there, and she will speak to the
devastation that we — that we all saw with our own eyes yesterday in
Highland Park.   
  
But I don’t have anything to share about — for President’s travel
tomorrow.  He’ll go to — again, he’ll go to Ohio, where he’s going to
talk about the Rescue Plan, the Special Finance — Financial Assistance
Program, in particular.  This program will provide financial relief to
millions of workers in multiemployer plans who face significant cuts to
their pensions through no fault of their own.  
  
But again, nothing to share about him going to Chicago at this time.  
  
Q    Not necessarily tomorrow though, but later this week, next week,
before he leaves for the Middle East?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we just don’t have anything to share.  But again,
the Vice President is going to be there today.  She will certainly speak
to — speak to the tragedy that we saw yesterday.  The President spoke to
this yesterday during the Fourth of July in a very forceful way and
laying out how he and the First Lady saw the tragedy, and he even had a
moment of silence.  
  
But we are not planning — right now, at this moment, I don’t have any
plans of a future trip to Chicago.  
  
Q    And since you mentioned the Ohio trip tomorrow, when the President
is in Cleveland, which is relatively near Akron, do you expect him to
address at all the fatal police shooting of Jayland Walker?  
  
Q    I don’t have anything to share on that either, whether he is going
to potentially — I know it’s about 45 minutes from Cleveland, where the
shooting happened.  We just — right now, we’re going to be focusing on
the trip that we have planned, which is to talk about the American
Rescue Plan and how to help the American public.  
  
Q    And then one final question.  Can you talk about the status of the
letter that Brittney Griner sent to the President?  Has he been briefed
on it?  Has he even read it?  Griner’s wife was on television this
morning; she really wants to hear from the President.  Will he reach out
to her in any fashion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say that the President did read the letter. 
I was there when he read the letter.  This is something — Brittney
Griner being held in Moscow, we believe the Federation is wrongfully —
she’s being wrongfully detained in Moscow at this time.  This is an
issue that is a priority for this President.  
  
As you have heard us say before, he believes that any U.S. national that
is held abroad or detained or held hostage abroad, we need to bring back
safely and we are going to use every tool that we possibly can to make
that happen.  Again, this is a priority for the President.   
  
I do want to share that, on Saturday, Mrs. Griner spoke with National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan.  That is their second call in the past
about 10 days that they have spoken.  Secretary Blinken also spoke with
Mrs. Griner as well recently.  
  
I don’t have anything else to read out as far as a potential call or a
meeting with her family.  But clearly, we believe she was wrongfully
detained.  We believe she needs to come home — she should be home; as
well as Paul Whelan, as well, who’s being held; and any other U.S.
national who is wrong- — being wrongfully detained abroad.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Hi, Karine.  Just to follow up on that: Griner’s coach said, “If
this was LeBron, <s>she</s> \[he\] would be home, right?  It’s a
statement about the value of women, it’s a statement about the… Black
person, it’s a statement about the value of a gay person — all those
things. We know…” as true.  Do you see this as a double standard?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is a President who has put all of the things that
you just laid out — the LGBTQ community, women, people of color — he has
fought for those communities throughout his career.  And you — you have
seen that in policies that he has put forward.  
  
Again, this is a priority for this President.  He’s doing everything
that he can.  The White House is closely coordinating as well with the
Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs, who has met with
Brittney’s family, her teammates, and her — her support network.  
  
So we’re going to continue to have those conversations, and we’re going
to make sure that she — she and others get home safely.  
  
Q    And just to follow up since this is a priority for the President —
I mean, she’s been detained for months now.  Her wife told “CBS This
Morning” that she still has “not heard” from Biden.  “And, honestly,
it’s very disheartening.”  I know it’s a priority, but why has it taken
this long?  And why has it taken a letter from Griner in jail to reach
the President to make this a priority?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, this has been on top of mind for the President. 
Like, I was there when he read the letter.  And he takes this to heart. 
He takes this job very seriously, especially when it comes to bringing
home U.S. nationals who are wrongfully detained.   
  
And you saw the work that his administration did to bring — to bring
home Trevor Reed.  That is the same — the same work, the same focus that
we did and put behind bringing Trevor Reed home, we’re going to do the
same with Brittney Griner and others.  
  
So, again, this is a priority.  We’re going to make this happen.  We’ve
had — she’s — we have been in constant communications — Secretary
Blinken; the Special Envoy, as I just listed out; and also Jake
Sullivan, our National Security Advisor.   
  
We’re going to continue to have those conversations, and we’re going to
continue to make sure we use everything at our disposal to bring her
home and also Paul Whelan and all the others U.S. nationals that are
abroad.  
  
Peter.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  How did the President go from blaming high gas
prices on Putin to Big Oil to small-business owners now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s the thing about that, Peter, is when you
look at — as of this morning, when you look at the crude oil and when
you look at wholesale oil prices as well, they’ve declined about 15
percent.  And so, retail gas prices, however, have only declined just
about 3 percent over the same time period as we have seen with crude oil
prices and the wholesale gas prices.  
  
And meanwhile, those same retailers are profiting; their profit have
gone up about 40 cents — nearly 40 cents in that same period of time.   
  
So what the President is saying is that everyone along that chain,
around that production chain line, needs to — needs to make sure that
they’re doing what is possible, their part, in bringing down the costs
for the American people.  
  
That is what we’re asking.  Consumers should not — should not be the
first to pay and the last to benefit.  
  
Q    Jeff Bezos says the President’s tweet about this is “either
straight ahead misdirection or a deep misunderstanding of basic market
dynamics.”  Which is it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, we completely disagree with Jeff Bezos. 
Look, we will continue to call on everyone along that distribution
chain, as I just mentioned — from oil companies, to refineries, to
distributors, to retailers — to pass their lower cost through to
consumers.   
  
That is what is important: to make sure that we should not make, again,
consumers pay first and get that re- — and get that relief last.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on a different topic: Why is there a voicemail of
the President talking to his son about his overseas business dealings if
the President has said he’s never spoken to his son about his overseas
business dealings?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, first, I’ll say that what the President said
stands.  So if he — if that’s what the President said, that is what
stands.  
  
And second — secondly —  
  
Q    He’s leaving a voicemail about a New York Times article —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But secondly —  
  
Q    — considering — concerning Hunter Biden’s business dealings.  And
it says, “I think you’re clear.”  How is that not him talking to his son
about his overseas business dealings?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re not — from this podium, I am not going to talk
about alleged materials from the laptop.  I will — I am not —  
  
Q    So are you disputing that it’s President’s voice on the
voicemail?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am not going to talk about alleged materials on a
laptop.  It’s not happening.  
  
Q    Are you disputing then that it is not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter, I refer you to his son’s representative.

Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President said the other day that he would
meet with governors and then consider some more potential executive
actions in response to Roe.  So now that that meeting has happened, is
there anything on the table that you are considering in terms of
executive actions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we have said, all options are on the table. 
The President is going to do everything that he can from his legal
authority to make sure that we’re protecting women’s freedoms and
women’s rights.  So that still stands.  That still is something that we
are going to do.  I don’t have an executive order — executive action to
speak to at this time.  
  
As you know, when — when the decision came down almost two weeks ago,
the President took quick action and he announced executive — and he
announced some executive authorities that we believe protect women,
ensure that they — and ensure that they can get access — health —
healthcare access as quickly as possible.  
  
As far as executive actions, I don’t have anything for you to preview.  
  
Q    So just really quickly, is there an update on when the President
will make a decision on Chinese tariffs?  And will he be speaking to
President Xi before he makes that decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have a timeline for you on that.  The
President’s team is continuing to look at our options on how to move
forward.  
  
As you know, the President and President Xi had a conversation back in
March, and we continue to leave all communications lines open from the
President on down.  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just following up on that: The President did say he would have
specific announcements out of the meeting.  So has he changed his view
on that, that there isn’t anything to announce right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  No, not at all.  I don’t think he’s changed his
view on that.  Again, we’re going to do — he’s going to do everything in
his legal — legal authority to make sure that we protect women and their
freedoms and their rights the best that he can from, again, his legal
authority.  I just don’t have anything for you to share at this time.  
  
Q    It just sounded like he had something in the pipeline there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Once we have something, we will be sure to sho- —
share it.  
  
Q    On the matter of the Griner letter: Now that the President has read
it, does he feel it is the type of an outreach to him that he would want
to do some kind of personal response back in a letter form or in some
other way to Griner, if that is doable through channels, or to her wife
or family members — to have a direct response from the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you all read the letter, I presume.  It was out
there in the press.  And it is a deeply personal letter.  As you know,
this President is — takes that very personally as well.   
  
Brittney Griner talked about the Fourth of July, which we just
celebrated yesterday, talking about freedom and how different it means
for her.   
  
You heard the President’s speech, which was also very powerful,
yesterday speaking about that and the time and the moment that we’re
in.  
  
I just — I don’t have anything to share about what — if he’s going to
respond or what that would look like.  I can confirm, again, that he has
read the letter, and it was, as we all know, deeply personal.  And we’re
going to do everything — the President is going to do everything that he
can, in his power, to — to bring her home, along with other U.S.
nationals who are being held — wrongfully detained abroad.   
  
Q    And any — any follow-up on the energy meeting that Secretary
Granholm held?  And the President had said he was looking for solutions
from the oil companies and so forth.  Has there been anything brought
back to the President for him to review or any updates on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, that meeting went very well.  We even
heard from some of the CEOs who came out of that meeting as well.  We
did a readout.   
  
We are look- — still looking to get to solution.  We think that was a
first step.  There’s going to be more conversations.  I — we just don’t
have more to share on the next steps — specific next steps and what has
been presented to the President.   
  
But clearly, we’re looking for solutions.  We want to get that capacity
up.  We want to make sure that refineries are increasing their capacity
so that we can get gas — gasoline out there, we can get diesel out there
so that the cost for the American people come — come on down.   
  
And so that’s what we’re going to continue to work on.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the China tariffs again, the AFL-CIO and other
labor unions have urged the President not to use these tariffs.  The
President is going to Ohio tomorrow.  The Democratic Senate candidate,
Tim Ryan, has also said this would be a major mistake to use those
tariffs.   
  
So how is the President weighing those concerns among labor unions and
some Rust Belt Democrats against other people who are saying these
tariffs should be lifted?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, I don’t have anything to preview or
announce at this time.  Look, there are a lot of different elements to
this, especially since the previous administration imposed these tariffs
in such a haphazard way, in a non-strategic way.  So, we are — we are —
want to make sure that we have the right approach.   
  
And again, his team is talking — is figuring it out and they’re talking
through this.  And once we figure out the right approach — this is about
what is right for the American public, for the American people — we will
have an announcement and we will let you all know.  
  
Q    And on the stalled China competition bill, any calls to Capitol
Hill to read out on that?  What’s the White House’s strategy to try to
get that across the finish line?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, it’s something that we believe is
incredibly important to the American people, getting that competition
bill done.  We are — we are going to continue to have those
conversations on the Hill.   
  
As you know, we don’t read out any personal conversations, but we’re
going to continue to do the work with folks on the Hill to get this
done.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thanks.  A couple questions.  Overall, there was a — there
was a published report today that say overall frustration among
Democrats with President Biden.  Is this administration concerned about
that criticism from Democrats?  
  
And it also says that the President is incapable of the urgency needed
because of Roe v. Wade being overturned.  Any response from the
administration to those published reports?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So when you say “Democrats,” you mean Demo- — elected
officials or —  
  
Q    Mm-hmm.  Elected Democratic officials’ overall frustration with the
Biden administration.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, here’s the — here’s the thing I’ve — I’ve
heard — I’ve heard of this.  The President has shown, if you look at the
different issues that have come up most recently — in particular, let’s
start with gun violence:  The President showed urgency.  He showed
fury.  He showed — he showed frustration.  He spoke to that issue every
time that he could, whether he was in Uvalde or Buffalo or did a
primetime address.   
  
And we were able to get a first step — still a lot more to do — a
bipartisan gun reform piece of legislation, which is something that has
— we have not seen in 30 years.   
  
A lot of that is because of his leadership.  Something — the same thing
that he was able to do 30 years ago, when we saw the assault weapons
ban.  So, that — he showed urgency there, and we were able to deliver in
a bipartisan way.   
  
When it comes — when it comes to Roe v. Wade, within hours of the
announcement of the decision that we heard from SCOTUS, he put forth
executive authorities that went into — that went into effect with the
medication that’s approved medication from FDA, and also making sure
that — calling on DOJ to protect women who are crossing the lines
because they have to make a decision on their health.   
  
And those are things that actually matter.  There’s more work to do. 
He’s going to look at everything that he can do on the legal
authority.   
  
And — but here’s the thing: When it comes to Roe, when it comes to a
precedent that’s been around for nearly 50 years, what needs to happen
is Congress needs to act.  We have to codify Roe.  We have to make sure
that it is the law of the land.  And that’s what he’s going to keep
speaking to.  
  
Q    Well, with the criticism of the President, is this administration
concerned about how the Democrats will perform in the midterm
elections?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, I can’t talk about the midterms
from here.  That will get me into big trou- — (laughs) —  
  
Q    Is the President concerned?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I’m just saying I got to be careful about
that.   
  
Q    Has he expressed any concern?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I got to be careful about that.   
  
Look, the President wants to make sure that we continue delivering for
the American people.  He has said — what I can say from here — if we are
in a position where Congress does not act, as we’re speaking to on Roe
v. Wade, and does not codify Roe, make that — make Roe the law of the
land, then the American public should make their voices heard.  They
should make their voices heard at the ballot box.   
  
And that is something that he’s going to call on.  That is going to be
something that he’s going to speak on very loudly and very — very
aggressively, as you — as you laid out.   
  
And this is an important, important issue.  He has said this was an
extreme decision by the Court.  He has said this is going to change the
lives of so many women, upend their lives, if you will, because of this
extreme decision.  And it should not stand.   
  
And what we saw a couple of weeks ago is not — almost two weeks ago — is
not — is not the end.  It is only the beginning.  And we just have to
keep working towards that.   
  
Q    And finally, as far as — a different matter entirely, but as far as
a letter that was presented to you, signed by 70 members of the White
House Press Corps, any reaction from the administration regarding that
letter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you could say — I responded to you, didn’t I?  
  
Q    Yeah, you did say —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    — you would talk to us.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But that was all I heard.  Is there anything else you could add?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, you know, we’re — we’re coming — you know,
we’re coming into a different — a different place of the CO- — of
COVID.  Right?  Things are starting to open up.  We’re even doing tours
here.  We had 7,000 people out in the — in the South Lawn yesterday,
military families and others, to celebrate Fourth of July, which was a
wonderful event.  It was great to have — to see our military families
out there.   
  
And so, you know, we understand.  We want to make — we want to be
accessible.  We want the President to be — his events to be accessible. 
And we are working to that, with the understanding that we have been
working through, as we look at his events during this pandemic, and
we’re trying to — we’re trying to see what the next steps are.   
  
Q    So, you’re going to open up everything for us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not saying that.  I’m just saying that we’re
willing to work with you on this.  And this is also a priority of
ours.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay?  All right, great.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, just following up on the executive actions — I mean, the ones
that the President had hinted we might hear more of Friday, you say are
still being talked about: I mean, there’s — there’s broad frustration
among voters we’ve talked to, among many Democratic lawmakers that you
had this unprecedented situation of more than a month of knowing pretty
much what was going to be, likely, in the ruling.  You had — the
dynamics on the Court were clear in place when this case was heard.   
  
There’s a lot of frustration of why weren’t those orders deliberated and
decided and ready to roll out at a faster pace, and here we are, about
two weeks later, talking about when that next wave might come out.  I
mean, what’s your response to that general frustration and —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I would — I would — look, I’ll say this: We
understand that the — the frustration.  What we saw the Court do almost
two weeks ago should be frustrating, should be infuriating, and should
have everyone angry — not just women, because this is not just about
women’s rights.   
  
It’s going to, as we saw — as you just mentioned, Clarence Thomas and
what he just said in — in his remarks, it is — we are in an incredibly
scary time.   
  
And so, we have to take their words very, very seriously.  And that’s
not — let’s not forget what Republicans — national Republicans have been
saying for the past couple of weeks: is how they want to make a national
ban.  And so, because of that, the President has been very forceful in
saying that we have to take action.  He cannot just do this alone;
Congress needs to take action.  So that’s number one.   
  
But to your point: Within hours, when this decision came down, the
President used his executive — his executive authority, which matters
here because we know those — those who want to ban all abortions, ne- —
their next moves are going to be medicated abortion and travel across
state line.  And so, we wanted to make that clear and get — and make
sure we got ahead of that, if you will, as we’re seeing what we’re
seeing across the states with the ban — the banning of abortion, for the
next round of attacks.   
  
So that’s what we did first.  Now, we’re going to look at his legal
authority on what he can do on executive actions.   
  
But we — we jumped into action, I would argue, within — within hours of
the decision.  And the actions that we took — those author- — those
executive authorities that we took were in consultation with groups,
were in consultation with legal experts.  We’ve been having these
conversations with them for many, many weeks since we heard of the draft
— the draft proposal.  
  
Q    And quick follow-up on January 6th hearings.  I mean, I know the
White House has been pretty clear that due to the unique situation of
January 6th, that executive privilege is not — is not a top concern
about precedent.  But I’m wondering, given the unique nature of a White
House Counsel’s position, is there any conversations about whether that
sets a precedent for White House Counsel going forward to have to answer
to Congress about deliberations inside the White House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say when it comes to January 6th
— the hearings, the select committee — what we’re seeing: It is
important — the President believes it’s important to get to the bottom
of what happened, for the American public to see for themselves and get
all the information that they can on what happened on that day.   
  
So as it comes to executive privilege, there is no privilege for trying
to overthrow the government.  That’s what the President believes. 
That’s why the President has consistently declined to assert executive
privilege with respect to documents or testimony about the extraordinary
events under investigation by the January 6th Committee.   
  
We’re going to continue to defer to the — to the committee as it
conducts its bipartisan, independent investigation.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On Brittney Griner: You were there when the
President read Griner’s letter.  What was his reaction?  And did he
express a message for Griner and her family?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to share any personal interaction
that I had with the President.  I just wanted to confirm that he did
read the letter.   
  
And I will say, again, this is very personal to him, especially when
someone writes a letter in such a personal way.   
  
He — we have made this a priority.  We have — you know, Secretary
Blinken, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan has spoken to Mrs.
Griner and her teammates and her family.  And so, we’re going to
continue to keep that — that open communication and have very honest
conversations with them.  They’re private conversations, so I’m not
going to share what those conversations have been.   
  
But this is also the case with all U.S. nationals abroad.  Again, this
is a priority for U.S. nationals who are — abroad who are wrongfully
detained.  It is important to the President to bring them home safely,
just like we saw with Trevor Reed very — very recently ago.   
  
And so we’re going to continue to make that a priority, but I’m not
going to share any private conversations.  
  
Q    And then just a follow-up on the pleas from the Griner family on
wanting to personally speak with the President.  After reading this
letter, is that something that the White House at this point is
considering?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — there’s — I just don’t have anything to share on
what communication the President is going to have with Mrs. Griner and
her family.  All I can confirm is that he’s read the letter, and he’s
making this a priority.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    First, just on the Illinois shooting.  Illinois already has a
red-flag law.  It isn’t used that often.  It wasn’t used in this case,
even though the suspect apparently had put some violent imagery online. 
Is your expectation that the gun bill that just passed is something that
would have addressed this kind of situation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I want to be very clear: Yes, the bipartisan gun —
anti — the gun reform bill was an important first step.  It was the
first step that we have seen in 30 years.  The last time was when this
President led the banning assault weapons legislation that lasted for
about 10 years and sunset in 19- — in 2004.  And so, the President
believes that we need — we need to make sure that we ban assault
weapons.  Right?   
  
That is one of the things that’s being reported that this suspect had. 
And so, banning assault weapons is something, again, that he’s going to
continue to fli- — fight for.   
  
With that said, he understand that there’s more work to be done.  The
bipartisan bill is going to save some lives.  Like, that is — that is
true; it will save some lives.  But we need more — we need to do more
work.   
  
And the President is going to continue to do that — to do that fight.   
  
What we know — one thing I would say about red-flag laws, as we’ve seen
them over the past several years, is that when they are implemented,
they do work in red states and in blue states.  And they are also very
much in lined of what a majority of Americans support.   
  
So, again, when they’re — when they’re actually enacted, red-flag laws
are actually effective.   
  
Q    And do —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — do you — I know you don’t have any travel to confirm, but does
the President wants to go to Illinois?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to say about any travel to
Illinois.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then just one other thing that I wanted.  Is it accurate
that the White House was planning to nominate this anti-abortion
Republican judge, Chad Meredith, for a federal judgeship in Kentucky the
day that Roe v. Wade was decided?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we don’t — we — we make it a point here to not
comment on any — on any vacancy, whether it is on the executive branch
or judicial branch, especially those that have not — have not — the
nomination has not been made yet.  So I don’t have anything to say on
that.  It is something that we just don’t comment on.   
  
Q    Will the President ever appoint a judge who doesn’t support
abortion rights to the federal bench?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s a hypothetical that I can’t really
speak to.  I —  
  
Q    That’s not a litmus test for him though?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I’m not going to — I’m going on to litmus
test.  All I can tell you is that we don’t normally speak on vacancies
that — where we haven’t made a decision yet, whether it’s on the
judicial level or the executive branch.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    You’ve mentioned Trevor Reed a couple times.  His release was part
of a prisoner swap.  Should we view that as a viable option when it
comes to Brittney Griner or Paul Whelan or others?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot speak to any discussions that are happening
on how any U.S. national who’s being held abroad and wrongfully
detained, how — what the process is going to be to bring them home.   I
just cannot speak to that from here.  
  
Q    Is there a broad kind of contextual structure in which you look at
prisoner swaps?  Like, why — why was that considered an okay thing in
the Trevor Reed case?  Is there kind of a construct that the
administration follows?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I cannot speak from — about that from here. 
Clearly, there are security and privacy reasons to not discuss the
details of how — of how a release happens.  So it’s not something that I
can speak from here.   
  
I can say that we have the Special Envoy, that this is their focus.  We
are in constant communication with them on that process.  But it is —
just for safety, security reasons, this is not something that I can
speak from here.   
  
Q    Just one more on a different subject — on the China Competition
Bill that Jordan asked about.  The Senate passed that more than a year
ago.  Is there a concern that it was allowed to linger for too long and,
in fact, gave Senator McConnell the opportunity to put the roadblocks
he’s put up in front now because he didn’t move on it until 13 months
later?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re going to — look, it’s unfortunate that
Senator McConnell has taken this approach.  Clearly, that’s not an
approach that’s going to help the American public.  That’s how we see
it.   
  
This competition bill is so — is important for many reasons.  So we’re
going to continue to work with Congress to get this done.  And so, we’re
going to just continue that process.   
  
I’m not going to go into any personal conversations or negotiations, as
we tend to say from here, but, again, this is an important piece of
legislation that we would like to see move forward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  Yesterday, President Biden, in his first
opportunity to address the public in person, on the shooting, he did so
sort of very obliquely and fleetingly.  And then he came back out on
stage about two hours later and spoke a little more.  Was that because
he fe- — he or his team felt he had initially missed the mark?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, he felt that he needed to speak on that himself. 
He just — that was his own decision to move —  
  
Q    But not from the statement.  I mean, from — he came out and he
verbally said at the Fourth of July, “You all heard what happened
today.  Things will get better still, but not without more hard work.” 
And then two hours later, that same evening, he came out and said a bit
more.  Is that because he felt —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — no, my answer is still the same.  He wanted to
make sure that he had an opport- — he had an opportunity to speak to
this, and he took that opportunity that second time.  He spoke to it
very briefly, as you just stated, the first time.  
  
And the second time, you know, he — you know, he got on stage and wanted
to give an update.  He actually, if you remember, he gave an update of
what was currently happening, and he gave a moment of silence.  That was
— that was — that was him.  That was something he decided to do.   
  
Q    And just briefly following up on that: Governor Pritzker said in a
press conference — he said he was “furious,” it was a time “to be
angry.”  You have said, referring to what President Biden said, that he
— he spoke “forcefully” yesterday; he spoke with “urgency.”  
  
I guess I just want to make sure I understand: Do you and the President
believe saying “You all heard what happened today” after yet another
mass shooting — is that your definition of “forceful” and “urgent”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is that there has been many times that
the President has spoken forcefully, urgently about a moment that
currently exists in our country, which is a gun violence epidemic.   
  
And he has done that in primetime on many of your colleagues’ networks. 
He has done it Uvalde, when he — after coming back from Uvalde after he
met with parents and family members in a dev- — they’re dealing with
their devastation.  He did that in Buffalo as well.  And he has shown,
over and over again, how important this issue is.   
  
And it’s not just important during his presidency.  It’s been important
when he was the Vice President and it was important when he was a
senator.  
  
So to say that this President has not shown urgency, it’s just — it’s
just false.  
  
Q    And last final follow-up on that.  On what we were just talking
about, which is guns, but also on a range of issues — abortion rights,
the threat to American democracy — why do you think so many members of
your own party, elected leaders, voters, activists, pundits — why did
they all seem to, in this moment, disagree with that assessment you just
gave?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I can’t speak for them.  I can only speak to
what we’re trying to do.  I can only speak to —  
  
Q    But why do you think that’s not coming through, what you’re trying
to do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I — again, I’m not going to speak for them.  I
would — I would speak — I would go directly to these folks, these
activists, and our Democratic colleagues and speak to them directly. 
And I’m sure they will give you a very clear response on why they feel
that way.  
  
Look, you know, this is a President that has been working tirelessly,
day in and day out, since he’s walked into this administration fighting
for the American public.  
  
That is what matters to him.  That is what is important is delivering
every way that he can to make sure that we get things done.  
  
I mean, let’s not forget: While, again, there’s more work to be done,
there was a bipartisan gun reform piece of legislation that has been
done that has not been done in 30 years.  That matters.  
  
Is there more work to be done?  Absolutely.  
  
Is he going to call for more action and do the best that he can? 
Absolutely.  
  
This is also a president, in his first year of office, has had more
executive actions on gun reform, on fighting gun violence than any other
president at this time.  So that matters as well.  His actions should
peak — should speak as well for how he’s — how he’s delivering for the
American public.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thank you.  I know you said White House doesn’t comment on
judicial vacancies.  But this case, the White House already provided a —
an intent to — an intention to nominate to Kentucky Governor Beshear
that it would intend to nominate Chad Meredith on June 23rd.  So does
the President plan to nominate this individual who has come under
criticism for being — from Democrats in Kentucky and nationally for
being an anti-abortion attorney and a member of the Federalist
Society?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not — I’m not going to comment on something
that has not been decided on that — on any open vacancies.  It’s still —
currently, it is an open vacancy.  And so, I’m just not going to comment
from here.  
  
Q    Is there any deal with Leader McConnell regarding this jump ship
that the President has entered into whereby McConnell wouldn’t hold up
certain judicial appointments moving forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on an open vacancy at
this point.   
  
Q    Then what’s your reaction to all of this response — angry response
from a lot of Democrats in Kentucky — Representative John Yarmuth, Andy
Beshear, others — who have criticized that Biden would nominate somebody
who stands against abortion and holds conservative views?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we haven’t nominated anyone — that’s what I
would say — as of yet.  
  
Let me — okay, I guess I got everybody.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Following —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Following the Highland Park shooting, President Biden’s
Fourth of July message was telling Americans to make sure they vote, but
he didn’t make an explicit call for Congress to act.   
  
So, is that tacit acknowledgment that he sees Congress, as it stands
right now, unlikely to take any additional action?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say the beginning part of your question?  
  
Q    Well, in his Fourth of July message, he urged Americans to go to
the polls and vote.  But he didn’t specifically say Congress needs to
act.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Act on?  Is there something in particular?  
  
Q    Act on gun-control legislation.  So, is that tacit acknowledgment
that Congress, as it stands right now, cannot do that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, Congress did act on gun reform.  There was a
bipartisan bill that was passed.  
  
Q    Is he frustrated that it didn’t go far enough?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President has been very clear that we need
to go further on the gun reform, that he is pleased that there is a —
that — that he was able to sign a bipartisan gun reform bill.  And that
has been the first time, again, in 30 years that we have seen that type
of reform or any type of reform.   
  
Do we need to do more?  Absolutely.  He has been very clear on that.  
  
One of the things that I just mentioned a few moments ago was banning
assault weapons.  That is something that, as we saw yesterday, we saw an
assault weapon was used in a horrific, horrific event yesterday in
Highland Park.  So that is something that he led on 30 years ago and he
wants to continue to see — or see that happen — again, the banning of
assault weapons.  
  
Q    But is that something he believes this Congress can accomplish?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we — this Congress was able to do a
bipartisan gun reform legislation.  So, we’re going to continue to work
with — work with members in Congress to see what else we can do.  
  
Q    Since those mass shootings, has he called any members of Congress? 
Has he planned to set up any meetings?   
  
A mass shooting just happened.  We’re just trying to understand what
he’s done since then.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — I mean, again, he — we saw a gun reform
bipartisan legislation pass.  He signed that into law, which was a first
step.  
  
Yesterday — this happened yesterday.  You heard directly from the
President in a statement.  He spoke on this twice yesterday.  We are
always in constant communication with members of Congress on a slew of —
a long list of issues that are important to the American public.  
  
And so, we will continue to have those conversations.   
  
Q    Is it my turn now?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just a — kind of a specific question.  In a
statement today, several prominent congressional Democrats criticized
President Biden over his comments last week saying that he supports
selling F-16 fighter jets to Turkey.  I’m just curious if the White
House has any response to that criticism, which came from several
members of his own party.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Is it because after Erdoğan’s meeting that he had at
NATO?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Is that what this is coming from?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been very clear about this.  The F-16 — that
conversation about the F-16 and Turkey has been around for some time. 
We’ve talked about this several months ago.  So there’s really nothing
new.  The President has supported that effort.  So, there’s really
nothing — nothing new to that.  
  
Okay.  
  
Q    A Mid-East question and — I’m going to take this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)   
  
Q    A Mid-East question and also a Ukraine question.  Let me start with
the Mid-East.  
  
A U.S. District Court judge has given the administration until August
1st to decide whether to grant immunity to the Crown Prince of Saudi
Arabia in a civil lawsuit filed by his fiancée, obviously, in relation
to his — to his death.   
  
I’m just wondering if the President is willing or ready to weigh in on
that, or if that’s going to happen during his trip, or if that’s
something he’s going to discuss with the Saudis.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that’s a legal determination, so I cannot comment
from here on that because it’s a legal determination.  
  
Q    Cool.  Let’s move on to Ukraine then.  Can I just get the White
House’s assessment on these recent Russian territorial gains and whether
that changes your approach?   
  
And then also with the President of Ukraine calling for a swift end to
this conflict by — by winter, is there a military solution to this
conflict?  And if not, what is the administration doing to reach a
negotiated settlement?  Could this happen at the G20?  Who’s involved? 
Can you lay out any sort of roadmap?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as the President has said — to your last
question, first — as the President has said many times: No conversation
about Ukraine without Ukraine.   
  
What we have been trying to do and have been doing for the past several
months is to make sure that we put — with our assistance that we have
been providing — make sure we put Ukraine in the most — in the most
strongest kind of position so when there is that opportunity to do those
negotiations, they’re able to do that.  
  
But what we have seen from — from President Putin is he has — he is not
in a place or has no desire to negotiate.   
  
So, going to your first question now is: Our approach does not change. 
We are going to continue to support Ukraine.  We’re going to continue to
help Ukraine fight for their democracy, fight for their territorial
integrity.  
  
And, you know — and then, to your second question, going to the second
one — you know, we have said for months that the fighting in the Donbas,
which is where I think you’re speaking about, could be prolonged and
protracted.  That is something that we have been saying for some time,
and we would — we would see with gains and with losses on both sides. 
We’re seeing that today, as you just laid out.  
  
But that doesn’t mean that the Russians have — have been able to achieve
their goals, and that doesn’t mean that the Ukrainians have stopped
fighting.  They are — have — they have shown their bravery.  They will
continue to fight and — and fight for their democracy.  
  
And so, we will continue to support Ukraine.  We have given them the
most amount of support than any other country as it relates to security
assistance.  And that is not going to — and that is not going to stop.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I would like to ask you about the announcement
that the President made in — at the G7 for the Global Partnership on
Infrastructure.   
  
But before that, I would like to know what’s the difference between
President Trump watching TV, even pleading to go to the Capitol while —
while the Capitol was being attacked, and President Biden going to the
beach and having fun while Supreme Court justices are on the attack by a
verbally violent mob?  What’s the difference between those two
leaders?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, what’s the comparison you’re making?  Could you
say the first part?   
  
Q    So, I’m saying now: What’s the difference between President Trump
not doing anything while the Capitol was being attacked and President
Biden not doing anything when protesters — while the Supreme Court
justices were under attack in their own homes with their families and
with their children?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — there are two major differences here.   
  
First of all, our predecessor was very — we have said that his behavior
on that day, on January 6th, was atrocious.  The President has said
that.  And we are going to let the Select Committee — the January 6
Select Committee continue to do their independent review of that — their
hearing.  And you guys all saw for yourselves, the American people saw —
have seen for themselves what — what the — what our precede- —
predecessor has done — his behavior and his involvement.   
  
So that is not the same.  That is absolutely not the same.  We are
talking about what we saw on January 6th.  We are talking about an
attack on our democracy.  We are talking about a very dark day that the
person who was here before us seemingly, if you watch, was very
involved.  So that’s very, very different.   
  
Now, fast forward to — to this President.  This President is fighting
for women’s rights.  He’s fighting for women’s freedom.  He has spoken
out.  He’s been very clear about what needs to happen next.  He put out
two executive authorities that lays out ways that we can protect women. 
He has — he has said that he’s go- — everything is on the table.  We’re
going to see what else we can do.   
  
But he also has spoken very truthfully and very honestly with the
American people, which is: If we want to see Roe become the law of the
land, we also have to act.  We have to hold Congress accountable and
make sure that they act and that that cannot happen.  Then Americans
need to go to the ballot box.  And that is — that is very different.   
  
And to say — and to say that there is no difference, that is — that is
just unbelievably wrong.  
  
Q    But is it a concern that a Supreme Court justice may be harmed
(inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m moving on.  I’m moving on.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Phil.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Oh, hold on.  Go ahead, Phil, and then I’ll
come — I’ll come back to you, Ed.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  I got a policy question about some of the oil that was
released from the Strategic National Petroleum Reserve, but first a
follow-up.   
  
We have all heard it.  The President likes to say “I will always level
with you.”  He says that again and again.  Moments ago, though, you
seemed to dismiss Peter’s question about his conversation with his son,
Hunter Biden, with regards to his business dealings, and I’m wondering:
How is that silence consistent with the President’s promise to always
level with the American public?   
  
Because, you know, in public, he says he hasn’t discussed these business
dealings.  And then, at least according to the voicemail that’s been
obtained by the Daily Mail and the Washington Examiner, it certainly
seems like he was seeking to do exactly that — have a conversation about
these business dealings.  Is he leveling with the American public on
this?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Phil, I hear your question, but what I can tell you
from here, standing at this podium, is that I cannot comment on any
materials from the laptop.  And I would refer you to the representatives
of Hunter Biden.  That’s what I can share with you at this podium, at
this time.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then there’s a Reuters report out this morning that says
that more than 5 million barrels of oil that were released from the
emergency oil reserves were exported to Europe and Asia last month, and
some of it, reportedly, was actually heading to China.  Is the
administration aware of those reports?  And does the President mind that
some of this oil that was meant to ease paying for consumers is headed
overseas?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen that report, so I would honestly have
to go look into it and see what — what the truth is in that — in that
statement that you just laid out and see exactly what’s happening.  I —
I just have not seen that report.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Yeah, so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, and then — I’m so sorry — and then Ebony.  I’m so
sorry, I was supposed to go to Ebony.  But you go quickly, and then
we’ll go to Ebony.

Q    Yeah, the Atlanta Fed GDPNow tracker is showing that the second
quarter — it’s estimating second quarter is negative growth — 2.1
percent.  Should that hold — the U.S. has been in recession for the
first half of this year.  Does the President believe that we are in a
recession, first of all?  Second of all, if that does hold, does the
President accept responsibility for his policies as part of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, do we believe we’re in a recession?  No. 
That’s — that’s my answer to you on that.

So, there is a nonpartisan data that came out recently — the National
Bureau of Economic Research, which I’m sure you know, very well, Ed.  It
determines and defines recession.  And so let me just quote here for a
second.  “In recent decades, the two measures we have put the most
weight on are real personal income less transfer and nonfarm payroll
employment.”  So that is from the nonpartisan National Bureau of
Economics Research, again, determines the definition of recession.  
  
So here are the facts.  The facts are this: We’ve averaged more than
400,000 jobs every month for the past — over the last — I should say,
over the last month — three months.  We’ve held steady — that 3.6
unemployment rate.  Consumer spending remains strong and above
pre-pandemic trends.  Business invest- — investment remains strong, and
household balance sheets remain strong.

So we do not believe that we are in a recession, and we have a
nonpartisan entity to speak to that more directly and more specifically.

Q    One more quick one.  At the G7, there is video of the French
president running up to President Biden and relaying a message, saying
that the Saudis are about at capacity through the UAE.  Did President
Biden ask the French to ask the Saudis to pump more oil through the
UAE?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I did not hear this conversation, so I can’t speak to
that conversation either.   
  
But what I can say is, as we know, the early week of Jan- — of June, the
OPEC+ announced that they were going to increase their capacity for July
and August by 50 percent.

So I will — I will leave that there.  And I think that says a lot about
where they are with their capacity.  And, of course, we welcome that. 
And — but — but, again, I’ll — I’ll leave it to OPEC+ to speak to that.

Go ahead, Ebony.  I know I promised —

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — you a question.

Q    Two quick questions — one on gun reform.  Is there anything or any
consideration that the administration can do when it comes to regulating
military-style ammunition, whether that be in production?  Is there
anything that the Fed can do to move in that capacity?  Since you’re not
getting anywhere with — on guns, what about ammunition?  Any talks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we believe that the best way to really have a
comprehensive gun reform is through legislation, is to work with
Congress as it comes through the federal level.  The President has done
the most executive action than any president at this time in their
administration.   
  
And so now what we are going to continue to do and — and continue to
focus on is to — is to work with Congress to do more.  And one of the
things that I’ve just been pointing out is the banning of assault
weapons, which we believe is incredibly important, as the President led
on this issue back in 1994.

We’re going to — tha- —

Q    The second question, really quickly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    The Senate recesses in August.  A lot of the President’s efforts on
criminal justice basically have stalled, but I want to ask about the
EQUAL Act legislation to end the disparity between crack and powder
cocaine.  The House passed a bill last September — overwhelming
bipartisan support.  Is the President leaning in at all on lawmakers to
send — to get this bill to him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I have to talk to our Office of Leg Affairs on
that.  I do not know where that — that legislation is currently.  I
don’t know if it went over to the Senate.  I don’t know in what — in
what — where the mechanics are on that.  But happy to take that question
to you in the back.

Q    Karine, one more —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we got to go, guys.  Thank you.  We’ll be back —
well, hopefully we’ll see you in Ohio tomorrow.  
  
4:21 P.M. EDT
