---
date: '2022-07-28'
published_time: 2022-07-28 17:36:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/28/background-press-call-on-president-bidens-call-with-president-xi-jinping-of-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on President\_Biden\u2019s Call with President Xi Jinping\
  \ of the People\u2019s Republic of\_China"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:27 P.M. EDT

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, for
joining us today. 

So, as a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official,” and the contents of the call are embargoed
until the end of the call. 

For your awareness and not for reporting, our speaker today is \[senior
administration official\].  \[Senior administration official\] will have
some remarks at the top, and then we’ll kind of take as many questions
as we can.  So, over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And hey, everybody.  Good to be with you today.

So as you all are aware, President Biden spoke with President Xi Jinping
of the People’s Republic of China this morning.  This was the fifth time
the two presidents have spoken since President Biden came into office. 
And the two concluded their conversation over the course of about 2
hours and 20 minutes.

And since I know some folks are asking: The President, as you may have
seen from the photo, was in the Oval Office for the call.  And in the
room were the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan; Secretary of
State Blinken; Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer;
Indo-Pacific Coordinator Kurt Campbell; and Senior Director Laura
Rosenberger.

The call this morning follows the two leaders’ virtual conversation back
in March and builds on a series of recent engagements between the
National Security Advisor, Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense,
Chairman Milley, and Secretary Yellen, and their PRC counterparts.

President Biden has continually emphasized the importance of maintaining
open lines of communication to ensure that the United States and China
manage our differences and work together on areas of shared interest. 
This call was part of our ongoing efforts to do that.

They also discussed the value of meeting face-to-face and agreed to have
their teams follow up to find a mutually agreeable time to do so.

Overall, I would say that the conversation was substantive, it was
in-depth, and it was candid.  And the conversation basically took three
parts.  I should note that I’m assuming all of you have seen the readout
that we put out, so I’m not going to repeat that in detail.  But
essentially to walk you through the conversation, three main parts:

First was a detailed discussion of areas where the two countries can
work together, with particular focus on climate change and health
security, as well as counternarcotics.  The two teams will be following
up on these areas.  President Biden also raised the need to resolve the
cases of American citizens who are wrongfully detained or subject to
exit bans in China, as well as longstanding concerns about human rights.

Second, the two leaders exchanged views on Russia’s war in Ukraine and
the global impacts it is having.

Third, they had an in-depth discussion of Taiwan.  They discussed, you
know, as they always do, areas of difference.  And the two, I would say,
on Taiwan had a — had a direct and honest discussion.  President Biden
reaffirmed the United States’ commitment to our One China Policy, guided
by the Taiwan Relations Act, the Three Joint Communiqués, and the Six
Assurances.

He underscored to President Xi the United States’ opposition to
unilateral changes to the status quo by either side, and commitment to
the maintenance of peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.

The two discussed that the United States and China have differences when
it comes to Taiwan, but that they have managed those for over 40 years
and that keeping an open line of communication on this issue is
essential to doing so.

Finally, just a bit on how the call came about: This call, I think as
many of you know, has been in the works for quite some time.  I know the
President has said many times in recent weeks that he was planning to
speak to Xi soon.

A bit more detail on that: The National Security Advisor proposed that
the two leaders speak in the near future when he met with Director Yang
Jiechi in Luxembourg in mid-June.  The PRC side followed up on that when
Foreign Minister Wong met with Secretary Blinken in Bali, with Foreign
Minister Wong proposing a date for the call.

With that, I think I’ll leave it there and look forward to your
questions.  Thanks so much.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Could we queue up the questions — sorry, queue up
the directions to ask a question, please?

Q    My first question was about Taiwan.  According to China’s state
news agency, President Xi told President Biden that “Public opinion
shall not be violated.  And if you play with fire, you get burned.  Hope
the U.S. side can see this clearly.” 

Could you just give us the U.S.’s version of this portion of the call? 
Was it clear that this was specifically about Taiwan?  Was it perceived
by the U.S. as a direct threat?  And what is the potential retaliation
from Beijing that the U.S. is most worried about at this point?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thanks so much for the question. 
So first of all, I’ll just say at the top: On this question and others,
I’m not going to get into characterizing the PRC’s position on things. 
I will leave that to them. 

I will note that President Xi used similar language in the conversation
that the two leaders had back in November.  But, you know, I’m not going
to get into parsing the various metaphors that the PRC regularly tends
to use on these issues. 

You know, as I said, the conversation between the two about Taiwan: It
was direct and it was honest.  And the two leaders, you know, basically
discussed the fact that the United States and China have differences
when it comes to Taiwan but that they have managed those for over 40
years, and that keeping an open line of communication on this issue is
essential to continuing to do so.  And for us, you know, direct
communication between the leaders is the most essential aspect of that. 

I think I’ll leave it there.

Q    Hey, \[senior administration official\], thanks for doing this.  I
know you’re probably going to give me the talking point that you’re not
going to get ahead of any schedule for the House Speaker, but it’s
pretty clear that this is part of the Taiwan discussion that likely came
up.  And I’m curious what the President told Xi Jinping here on this,
and whether you’re planning to brief Pelosi on this portion of the call
— if the President is going to speak to her directly on this.

And then also on one other area that you need China’s help on, with
respect to energy and how receptive China was on the price cap proposal:
Is China willing at all to use its spare refining capacity to bring down
the price?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, Jenny, for the
question.  And you well anticipated what I was going to give you, which
is, you know, as I noted that the top, the two leaders had an in-depth
discussion of Taiwan.  And as I noted, the President reaffirmed, you
know, our policy.  But I’m not going to get into the details beyond that
on the question of the Speaker’s potential travel. 

I’d note that, you know, no trip has been announced.  And as we’ve said
previously, it’s her decision. 

On the question of price caps: This is not something that was discussed
in any detail in the conversation.

Q    Okay.  I’m just — yeah, not sure if you can hear me.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We got you. 

Q    Okay, great.  So, I mean, looking more broadly at what seems to be
discussed on the call, does the administration feel it can move forward
on other issues like climate change and health security while tensions
are so high over Taiwan?  I mean, could you give us a bit of insight
into the level of China’s displeasure over this?  And is it expected to
make progress in other areas difficult?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for the question.  I’d
say a few things on this.  One: You know, we’ve been saying from the
beginning of this administration that, you know, we believe it’s
important for the United States and China to work together on areas
where our interests align, even when we have substantial differences or
are engaged in competition in a number of different areas.

  
So, you know, our view is that this is what responsible nations do. 
They manage areas where they have differences, and they find ways to
work together for the good of their own peoples and for the common good
of the people of the world.  Certainly, climate change, health security,
counternarcotics — I’d put those all in that bucket.  
  
You know, we’ve been very clear, from our perspective, that those are
things that we need to be able to do.  And I do think that, again, part
of the reason that we think it’s important for the leaders to be having
these conversations with one another and for their senior officials to
be having these conversations with one another, as they have in recent
months and as we anticipate going forward, is very much in order to be
able to manage these issues.  
  
I, candidly, think it’s particularly important for us to have those
kinds of conversations, particularly at the leader level, when tensions
are high.

  
Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing the
call.  Quickly, to follow up on Taiwan — I’m curious: Did President
Biden convey to Xi at all that he has no control really over whether
Pelosi travels to Taiwan, given she’s in Congress and it’s a coequal
branch of government?  I wonder if that was part of his message.  
  
And then, on the economy: If recent Chinese readouts are any measure,
the recent — from past calls, it sounds like Xi put a stronger emphasis
on the importance of, sort of, economic coordination between the two
countries.  So I’m just curious: Did you assess that as a major part of
the conversation or major concern for China?  And what does that
indicate to you about the — about China’s confidence in the health of
its economy?  Thanks.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Michael.  Appreciate the
questions.  Let me take the economic question first.

  
Again, not wanting to get into characterizing the PRC side’s views as a
matter of principle, but we’d simply say, you know, certainly it is
something that did — that did come up and that he did — you know, he did
note belief in the importance of doing so.  
  
I would say that I don’t think the — I wouldn’t necessarily read a
difference in emphasis in public presentation as a difference in
emphasis in private presentation — the two don’t always align — in, I
think, how they read things out.  
  
So — but, you know, in other words, I wouldn’t — I wouldn’t sort of read
too much into that, in terms of what was actually discussed. 

But certainly, you know, coordination between the United States and
China on macroeconomic issues is something that is of great importance. 
It’s something we’ve done for quite some time.  It’s something Secretary
Yellen discussed with Vice Premier Liu He when they had their virtual
meeting on July 4th.  So I think it’s something that we certainly will
be continuing to discuss.

  
You know, again, on the question of Taiwan, I’m not going to get into
any details beyond what I’ve already laid out, other than to note as a
statement of fact that, of course, the legislative branch is a separate
branch of government, separate and coequal branch of government.  So
I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  The readout you gave and the
readout that was sent around doesn’t mention whether tariffs were
discussed.  I’d just like to ask that question.  Did they get into that
at all?  Has there been a discussion of if the U.S. removed some
tariffs, is China reciprocating by moving — removing some of the tariffs
that it imposed in retaliation?  
  
And now that this call has been completed, does that sort of clear the
way for President Biden to make a decision on what he’s going to do
about tariffs?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks.  Thanks so much.  It’s
funny when other stories push what has been the number-one story lower
down the totem pole.  I was waiting for that one.  
  
Yeah, so the — on the question of tariffs, President Biden explained to
President Xi, you know, President Biden’s core concerns with China’s
unfair economic practices, which harm American workers and harm American
families.  But he did not discuss any potential steps he might take with
President Xi.  And I would — it would be wrong to believe that somehow a
decision on any next steps was somehow waiting for this conversation.

Q    Hi, this is actually Kristen Welker on the call for Molly.  Thank
you, guys, so much for doing this.  We really appreciate it. 

Two questions.  I do have one on Taiwan, but I have another one as
well.  On Taiwan, did the President come away from the call with the
sense that President Xi would see a visit by the House Speaker as
escalatory? 

And my second question is on Russia.  Does the President feel and did he
make any headway as it relates to convincing President Xi to alter what
administration officials have called behavior that has “acquiesced” to
Russia?  How did he view that part of the call?  Was there any progress
made there?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  So I’m not going to
sort of characterize the President’s view.  I’ll let him speak for
himself on his views of the conversation, but I’m happy to, again, speak
to what the two of them discussed. 

And, you know, on that front — on sort of Russia and Ukraine — I would
say, the — you know, that the two leaders really exchanged a sense of
both where things stand at the moment with respect to the conflict as
well as their, you know, concerns about where things might develop.  I
would not characterize any particular breakthroughs that I personally
saw in that conversation. 

But obviously, given, you know, the sort of global impact of Russia’s
war in Ukraine, as well as the very specific impact on the Ukrainian
people and on the European continent, it’s an incredibly important issue
for the two leaders to continue to discuss and for President Biden to
make very clear, you know, his concerns there. 

And, you know, on Taiwan, once again, you know, I’m not going to get
into any further details about the conversation.

Q    Hi, can you hear me? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hello.

Q    Yes, can you hear me?  Hi, can you hear me? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes. 

Q    Oh, excellent.  So one question is about the criticism that China
is putting out on the CHIPS Act.  They’re criticizing it as a decoupling
attempt by the U.S. that will benefit no one.  Can we have a response to
that?

And then my second question: Did the leaders discuss South China Sea
tensions?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  Thanks for teeing me
up with a nice softball there on the CHIPS Act, which I think everybody
saw the President’s reaction when it passed the House.

Yeah, so on the CHIPS Act, what I would just say on that is, you know,
number one: You know, I think all of you have heard us talk about what
our approach is to our — to this administration’s China strategy. 
Essentially, it’s three parts: It’s invest in ourselves and align with
our allies and partners in order to compete with China. 

And so, the passage of the CHIPS Act is one of the most important steps
that we’ve been working on in order to really advance the invest piece
of our effort. 

You know, enabling American innovation, enabling American leadership on
a critical area of technology in order to make sure that we continue to
have technological leadership here in the United States and don’t cede
that to China is unbelievably important. 

And so, you know, from our perspective, we see the CHIPS Act as very
much about ourselves and strengthening ourselves from within.  And so,
you know, I think that that’s very much how we see that.  And that’s —
you know, I think that that’s, you know, really, again, a core — a core
pillar of our approach.

They did not have an opportunity to talk in depth about the South China
Sea, but did talk, broadly speaking, about concerns about ways in which
the, you know, Chinese activities are at odds with the international
rules-based order.

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  And I think that’s all the time we have
for questions.  But I believe, \[senior administration official\], you
had one more thing you wanted to add?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, great.  Thanks, \[moderator\]. 
Yeah, I just wanted to note — again, just to come back to a point from
what I mentioned at the top, and then it was, I think, relevant to the
question on, sort of, cooperation and yet at a moment of tensions. 

And one thing I would just note is that the two leaders very
specifically tasked their teams to follow up on a number of these
areas.  There was an exchange at the end about how much work they’d
created for their teams in terms of following up on the specific pieces,
and again, a conversation about a face-to-face meeting being worked out
between the teams. 

So I would say that, from my perspective, there was very much a clear,
affirmative agenda that was put forward and agreed to in — you know, by
the leaders for the teams to work toward.  And I think that’s a really
important piece to keep in mind that was, frankly, a pretty significant
part of the conversation today.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  And thanks, everyone, again, for
joining.

As a reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official.”  And the contents are going to — embargo is
going to lift after the call ends.  Thanks again.

3:47 P.M. EDT
