---
date: '2022-07-06'
published_time: 2022-07-06 16:16:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/06/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-cleveland-oh/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Cleveland,\_OH"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Cleveland, Ohio

1:23 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Hey, everybody.  Okay, so today, the
President is traveling to Max <s>South</s> \[S.\] Hayes High School in
Cleveland, Ohio, to announce new protections for millions of workers in
multiemployer pension plans thanks to the American Rescue Plan.  
  
Up to 3 million Americans face significant cuts to their retirement
benefits because their investments struggled during economic crisis just
during the pandemic or more.  But tha- — but thanks to the ARP, over 200
multiemployer pension plans will receive special financial assistance
and remain solvent through at least 2051 or longer.

The President is strengthening families’ retirement savings while
Republican members of Congress, led by Senator Rick Scott, want to
threaten it by putting Social Security on the chopping blocks every five
years. 

Now, the President will be joined today by Secretary of Labor Marty
Walsh, Senator Sherrod Brown, ARP Coordinator Gene Sperling, and
Cleveland Mayor Justin Bibb, as well as Representative Shontel Brown and
Representative Marcy Kaptur.

And worth noting, as we are in route to <s>Chicago</s> \[Cleveland\],
there is currently a bipartisan bill in Congress that would supercharge
private sector investment in semiconductor manufacturing here at home. 
The Bipartisan Innovation Act is good for workers, good for business,
and good for communities.  And it’s supported by mayors, governors,
CEOs, manufacturers, and unions across the country, including the
Republican Governor of Ohio, Mike DeWine.

Intel announced that it will invest $20 billion to open semiconductor
factories in Ohio, and that could expand to as much as $100 billion if
the Bipartisan Innovation Act is passed.

Senator Cornyn is joining Minority Leader McConnell in holding a
bipartisan bill hostage that would make more in America in order to
protect pharmaceutical companies’ profits.

But we believe we need to do both: increase American manufacturing and
strengthen competitive edge against China and lower prescription drug
costs.  That’s why we need Congress to pass BIA this summer.

And with that, Aamer.

Q    Yeah, thanks.  Has the President had a chance to reach out to the
family of the Al Jazeera journalist since the State Department report? 
Or does he have plans to?

And just secondly, how big of an issue is he going to press this with
the Israelis next week on holding someone accountable?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead of a trip or ahead of
conversations for a trip that hasn’t yet happened.  So I won’t get ahead
of that.  But we have made very clear that we will continue to work both
with Israel and Palestinian Authority to encourage them to bridge this
investigation, because we do not want to — we want to see
accountability, which is incredibly important for — not just for having
accountability broadly, but also for the family as well.

So, to your first question, Aamer, I can say that senior American
officials at the State Department have been in close touch with Abu
Akleh’s fami- — her family and continue to be.

We again express our deepest condolences to the Abu Akleh family and
remain engaged with Israel and, again, the Palestinian Authority on next
steps.

Q    Just one quick other one.  Both Governor Pritzker, on guns in the
aftermath of the July 4th shooting, and Gavin Newsom, since Dobbs
decision, have become arguably more — the most outspoken voices of the
Democratic Party on both of these very fragile issues in the country. 
And I’m sort of wondering: Is there any concern that the President’s
leadership is being overshadowed at this moment when the — a big part of
the American public, including Democrats, that voted for him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What was the first part of the question?

Q    Well, that both Pritzker and Newsom have sort of emerged on guns
and on Dobbs, with — in Newsom’s case — as the loudest and, you know,
most potent voices of the Democratic Party at this point.  Where’s the
President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has been also very loud and also very
focused on those two issues.  When it comes to gun reform, the President
led on that.  One of the reasons that he was able to sign a bipartisan
gun reform bill right before he left for G7 and NATO was because of his
leadership, was because of him being very committed and being very
consistent for more than a year, at least as President, talking about
what we needed to do in light of this gun violence epidemic that we are
currently in.

And let’s not forget this President has had the most executive actions
on gun reform than any other President at this time.  And he not only
has led as President this past a year and a half, but also as Vice
President and as senator — the very, very first, I would say — argue —
the gun reform that we saw, or the last gun reform that we saw was 30
years ago, which this President led, which was on banning assault
weapons.  And so, you know, 30 years later, he was able to sign a gun
reform — a bipartisan gun reform legislation that is now law.

Now, with all of that said, the President believes there is more work to
be done.  He’s going to continue to call on more to be done on dealing
with this gun violence epidemic.  And that does not stop here.  And he
welcomes — he welcomes other voices in the Democratic Party, and he
welcomes other voices in the Republican Party as well to join him in
really dealing with an issue that’s tearing up communities and families.

Q    Karine, is the White House tracking the drama in Boris Johnson’s
government right now?  And are you concerned at all about instability in
the British government at a time when you’re working together on Ukraine
and other international issues?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — and I’ve said this before when I’ve been asked
questions about other governments’ elections — we’re just not going to
comment on another government —

Q    This isn’t an election though.  I’m not talking about an election.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well — nope, you’re right, this is not an election. 
But to be clear, we’re just not going to comment on another government’s
democratic process.  So we’re just not going to comment.

Look, our alliance, our partnership with the United Kingdom continues to
be strong.  And so — but we’re not going to comment on their — kind of
their political process

in their own country.

Q    To follow up on guns, does the President or the White House see
this latest shooting in Highland Park as another perhaps opportunity to
come out and try again to stop or to ban assault weapons?  We haven’t
heard the President talk about that since this latest shooting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, the President first wanted to make sure
that the first responders had the space to do what they needed to do,
which they have.  And he has spoken to that.  He wanted to also make
sure that — you know, families and friends are mourning right now, which
is incredibly important. 

We saw the Vice President in Chicago yesterday.  She went to speak at
NEA, and she stopped — she did a — she did a stop-by to thank the police
officers, the first responders, and the work that they have done.  So
she did that representing, clearly, the administration and the
President, which is incredibly important. 

Look, the President is going to continue to speak about this.  He’s
going to continue to speak about what we — what else we can do to really
deal with gun reform in a real way. 

He is — indeed, you know, welcomes and thankful for this bipartisan bill
that is now law that he signed right before — like I said, right before
he left for Europe.  But the work doesn’t stop there, and he’ll continue
to speak to that.

Q    Karine, on Ohio: You know, Tim Ryan, the Senate candidate, is not
joining the President today and neither is the Democratic gubernatorial
nominee, Nan Whaley. 

I know you listed some people who are, but those are the main statewide
candidates.  And what does that say about the President’s clout in Ohio
that they’re — they’re not joining him today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: We’re in close contact with
Congressman Tim Ryan in particular and work with him, and also — also
Nan Whaley.

We’ve worked — we’ve worked closely with him on — just as it relates to
Tim Ryan — on ver- — on a variety of issues.  And he released a
statement in strong support of the actions we’re taking through the
American Rescue Plan to protect American retirees. 

And though he can’t be there with us today, one of the things that the
President looks forward to is to talk about building an economy around
the power and possibilities of working families and providing financial
relief to millions of workers in Ohio and the rest of the country.

I just listed out a long list of other elected officials who will be
with him on this trip.  And so, I think that counts for something as
well. 

And so, again, Tim Ryan put out — put out a statement supporting —
supporting his trip, and we’re in constant communication with
(inaudible).

Q    His (inaudible) rating in Ohio is — it’s pretty low.  The state has
been moving to the right in recent elections.  There are other states
that he won that he’s, I think, spent less time in.  This is his sixth
visit to Ohio.  Why has he been spending so much time in Ohio?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President has said this himself many
times.  He’s the President for, you know, red states, blue states — for
all Americans.  And if there is something that he can speak to that’s
going to help Americans and American families wherever he goes, he’s
going to do that.  And that’s what we’re doing here. 

I mean, this pension announcement that we’re making via the American
Rescue Plan is going to help — help families tremendously.  You’ll hear
directly from him, and he’ll — from the President in — you know, in a
short few hours.  He’ll lay out exactly what this — what this pension
component of the American Rescue Plan is going to do. 

But again, he will go — he will go wherever he needs to go to talk
directly to the American people.  And you guys have seen him.  You guys
have seen him deal with, you know, everyday Americans whenever he
travels, and he connects, and — and I think it makes a difference for
them to hear from — from their President directly. 

Q    You mentioned the semiconductor legislation.  I’m wondering if you
can give us an update on the White House’s efforts to get that passed,
given McConnell’s threat to pull Republican support for it last week. 
And are you prepared to roll that into a reconciliation package if he
does follow through with that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the — on USICA — this has many names — (laughs)
— the COMPETES bill, CHIPS. 

So the — but the Bipartisan Innovative Act, one thing that we do know is
that it would lower the costs of countless products, including cars, and
end our reliance on imports, which is really important. 

So, the question is — and as you’ve heard me — and you heard me say
earlier — is: Does Senator Mitch McConnell really want to hold hostage a
bipartisan package that would strengthen the American competitiveness
versus China and yield hundreds of thousands of manufacturing jobs, in
particular in Ohio, as we’re headed there today, and Indiana, Idaho, and
other states around the country?

So, we know that this is going to make a difference for the American
public.  And so, this is something that’s important.  We’re going to
continue to work with Congress on this.

To your question about reconciliation: I’m not going to negotiate from
here.  That is another piece of legislation that we’ve been working very
hard on that we know will also bring down inflation. 

So two pieces of legislation that we’re just going to continue to work
hard on.

Q    Can you preview a little bit of what’s in the President’s letter to
Brittney Griner?  And does the public support coming out right now help
or hurt the ability of the U.S. government to get her out of Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me just start with the first — the first part of
your question, which is — and lay this down a little bit about what
happened today. 

So President Biden spoke with Brittney — Brittney’s wife, Cherelle,
today to make sure she knows we are doing everything we can to get
Brittney home as quickly as possible.  President Biden shared the letter
with her — with her that he is sending back to Brittney after receiving
her deeply personal letter on July 4th, which all of you read. 

The President has been clear about the need to see every American who is
wrongfully detained or held hostage abroad released, including Brittney
Griner.  Months ago, he directed his national security team to pursue
every avenue to bring her home safely to her family, friends, and loved
ones.  This has been top of mind for the President.  He receives daily
updates about the status of her — of her negotiations to secure
Brittney’s release, and the U.S. government continues to work
aggressively using every available means to bring her home, along with
other wrongfully detained Americans like Paul Whelan.

And so, this is, again, a top priority for this President. And like I —
like I just read, he gets daily updates on what is happening, how we’re
going to secure her ho- — her efforts to come home and also Paul Whelan.

Q    And there’s been some reports in Russian media about a trade maybe
for Viktor Bout and Gri- — Brittney Griner.  Is that something the U.S.
government would consider?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to negotiate in public on this. 
This is something, clearly, that the State Department, with the Special
Envoy, they are focused on getting home — not just Brittney Griner and
Paul Whelan, but all U.S. nationals who are wrongfully detained abroad
or held hostage abroad home.

This is a priority for this President.  I’m not going to — I’m not going
to negotiate in public on this.

Q    The — how does the White House justify — you’ve talked about
abortion quite a bit.  How does the White House justify the
anti-abortion judge in Kentucky — nominating — attempting to nominate
him even after the leaked document — leaked ruling on the — from the
Supreme Court?  You guys had that May 4th.  We reported on that.  And
then weeks later, you still were thinking about putting an anti-abortion
judge to a lifetime appointment.  How do you — how does the White House
justify that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, again — and I — I know I was asked this
question yesterday. 

(Air Force One experiences turbulence.)  Hold on, everybody. 

I’m just not — we just don’t comment on — on vacancies, whether
executive branch or judicial, in situations where we have not made a
nomination.  We just have not made a nomination on this yet. 

I do want to add and reiterate that the President is proud that we’ve
confirmed more federal judges than tha- — during — than during any of
the pa- — the last three presidents — presidencies at the equivalent
time in their administrations. 

That includes so many history-making firsts to help our judiciary —
judiciary represent the diversity of America, including groundbreaking
new Supreme Court justice.  And that is something that we’re going to
continue to do, and we won’t stop there.

Q    And on Ukraine, Russia just captured its first full Ukrainian
territory since Crimea in 2014.  Is the United States and its allies
going to push an enhanced response to the capture of Luhansk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  An “enhanced response,” meaning —

Q    Whatever you guys — (laughs) — whatever you guys be — would be
willing to do in seeing Russia take over this — the largest territory
since Crimea.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, you know, I was asked this question
yesterday.  And basically, you know, we have said for months that the
fighting in the Donbas could be prolonged or protracted with gains and
losses on both sides — you know, especially what we’re seeing today, as
you just laid out, Eugene.

But that — that doesn’t mean that the Russians have been able to achieve
their objectives here.  And so — and the Ukrainians haven’t given up,
right?  They’re going to continue to fight for their democracy.  They’re
going to continue to fight for their freedom.  And we’re going to
continue to support them as we have been these past several months.  We
have given them the most amount of security assistance than any other
country.  And we’re going to continue to make sure that they’re able to
— you know, to fight for that democracy and their — and their
sovereignty.

Q    And last question: You mentioned the support that the United States
has given Ukraine and continues to give to Ukraine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    The Ukrainian government says it’s going to cost upwards of $700
billion to kind of rebuild.  Is the United States pledging to help lead
that effort and give those — you know, a portion of that money, a lot of
that — those billions of dollars to the government of Ukraine to help
rebuild?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: As the President said last week
when he was in Europe, we will support Ukraine as it defends itself from
Russia’s unprovoked attack for as long as it takes.  The United States
has been the world’s largest donor, as I just mentioned, of security,
economic, and humanitarian assistance for Ukraine. 

And we will continue to coordinate with international partners on our
support for Ukraine as they begin planning for how they will recover and
rebuild after the war.  And so, we’re going to just continue our
support. 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thanks, everybody.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We’ll see you on the ground.

1:41 P.M. EDT
