---
date: '2022-07-20'
modified_time: 2022-07-20 15:07:49-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-20 15:07:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/20/background-press-call-on-the-presidents-actions-to-tackle-the-climate-crisis/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the President\u2019s Actions to Tackle the Climate\_\
  Crisis"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:01 A.M. EDT

 MR. HASAN:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining us today.  This is
Abdullah from the White House.  
  
Today, we’ll be holding a background briefing on the actions the
President will announce while in Somerset, Massachusetts, to tackle the
climate crisis and seize the opportunity of a clean energy future.  
  
As a reminder, the call will be on background, attributable to a senior
administration official.  It will be embargoed until the start of the
President’s remarks in Somerset today.  
  
Not for reporting purposes but for your awareness, joining us for the
call today is \[senior administration official\].  He will deliver some
remarks up top, and then we will take your questions.  
  
Over to you, \[senior administration official\].

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everybody, for joining.  And
really, really excited for an opportunity to talk to you about what the
President will be laying out this afternoon in Massachusetts.  
  
As the President, I think, has said from day one, we really face an
urgent crisis in the changing climate.  It’s something that is becoming
increasingly manifest across our country, whether it’s in the wildfires
or hurricanes, the extreme flooding events, or — as is front of mind for
the 100 million Americans who face different forms of heat advisories
and warnings around the country right now — extreme heat, which it has
shattered 90 records around the country, which is driving folks to face
increasingly severe health ailments, putting people in the ER, and which
drives home the point that this is a clear and present danger for our
country, for our health, for our economy, for our national security. 
And it demands that we take action boldly.

  
In addition to that recognition that what we face is a challenge, what
we face is urgent, what has already been unleashed in terms of climate
is devastating — in addition to making that point, making it vividly and
clearly, the President will also talk about the incredible opportunity
that we have if we get our act together, square our shoulders, and take
on the climate crisis.  
  
And going to Massachusetts is a great opportunity for him to lay that
out in a place that really represents the playbook for what it means to
tackle the climate crisis in a way that can unlock tons of opportunity
for our workers, for our communities, and for our economy.  
  
Brayton Point, where the President will speak, used to be the site of
the largest coal plant in New England — 1500 megawatts, burning coal
since 1963.  
  
The President will speak to how we’ve had these sources of energy that
had been critical to our economy over time and that we’re seeing a
transition to clean energy.  And if we embrace that transition, then
we’ll see what’s happening at Brayton Point happening all around the
country.  
  
Today, Brayton Point is poised to be on the frontier of the clean energy
transformation.  They’re going to be manufacturing subsea cables that
will help tie offshore wind plants into the grid.  They’re going to be
the place where several wind projects actually tie in to the grid,
bringing clean electrons into Massachusetts and into New England from
where it’s being generated off the Atlantic coast.  
  
So, you know, I think part of what the President wants to do this
afternoon is lay out that sense of urgency and the clarity around the
impacts that we’re already seeing, and also to lay out the urgency and
the — and his enthusiasm for tapping into the opportunity that we also
have in front of us.  
  
The other thing that you can anticipate is specific actions underneath
both of those things.  
  
First, on heat, the President will be announcing $2.3 billion in funding
through the FEMA Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities
Program for fiscal year 2022.  
  
This is a program that existed prior to this administration.  But this
is the largest amount of funding under BRIC ever in the history of the
country.  And not only is it large, it is focused on helping communities
build resilience to a broad set of climate impacts, including heat
waves, which is particularly salient; doing it in a way that is going to
support the administration’s Justice40 Initiative and make sure that
we’re lifting up communities that have been disadvantaged.  
  
And then in addition to the announcement on BRIC, the President will be
talking about new guidance from the Department of Health and Human
Services, which will actually allow communities, acting through the
states, of course, to leverage the historic funding that the President
has delivered to the LIHEAP program.  That is the Low Income Home Energy
Assistance Program.  Used to be something that helped folks deal with
heating issues in the wintertime. 

This administration is broadening that program out, calibrating it to
this new climate reality.  And with it, states will be able to establish
cooling centers, they will be able to help folks buy or lend efficient
air conditioning units, help defray the costs that are incurred to keep
cool during the summer for these vulnerable populations.  And that’s
immediate.  That’s an incredibly important thing to get out there.  
  
And then on the opportunity side, I think many of you covered when the
President brought together state and local leaders, industry leaders,
and union leaders together at the White House this past month to launch
the Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership.  Building on
that, the President is going to the Interior Department — direct the
Interior Department to propose the first wind energy areas in the Gulf
of Mexico.  
  
For those keeping score at home — you know, when we came into office,
offshore wind was facing a uncertain future.  Not only did this
administration approve the first commercial wind project, Vineyard Wind
— which actually is a partner in building this facility at Brayton Point
— but it also opened up these wind energy areas all across the Atlantic,
as far south as North Carolina; started opening up wind energy areas on
the Pacific; and today we open up yet another coast and frontier in
expanding offshore wind.  
  
And at the same time, the President is also directing the Secretary of
Interior to advance wind energy development in the waters off the mid-
and southern Atlantic coast and off Florida’s Gulf Coast, alleviating
uncertainty cast by the prior administration.  
  
So those are some of the actions the President will announce.  And
bottom line: You know, I think this is a — this is an opportunity for
the President, in part also, to just come out and provide his take on
where we are on climate — on the urgency, on the opportunity.  And, of
course, he had issued a written statement last week with regard to
action in Congress.  And this is an opportunity for him to also speak to
that.  
  
So with that, maybe, Abdullah, back to you.

  
MR. HASAN:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And we’re
going to go into questions now, but just before we do, I forgot to
mention at the top, we will have embargoed materials coming around
shortly.  Sorry you didn’t get them ahead of the call, but they will be
coming to you soon.  
  
With that, we’ll go ahead and take some questions.  If you would like to
ask a question, please use the “raise hand” feature at the bottom of
your screen.  
  
Again, if you’d like to ask a question, please use the “raise hand”
feature at the bottom of your screen.  
  
And for the first question, we’ll go Coral Davenport.

Q    Hi, guys.  Thanks for doing the call.  \[Senior administration
official\], in addition to making these announcements, is he going to
talk about the regulations that are currently under development at EPA,
give any kind of update, any kind of timeline on those? 

And also, are we going to see anything else later in the week?  Karine
suggested yesterday that there could be more to come.  She said no
climate emergency this week, but it potentially is still on the table. 
Will we see that?  And will we see — I mean, will we see any other — you
know, any other executive authority or orders or anything else in this
space later during this week?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I think the President is going to
be very clear that since Congress is not going to act on this emergency,
he will.  He is going to state it loudly, he’s going to state it clearly
— what he put in his written statement last week, and that is that as
President, he will use his executive powers to combat the climate crisis
in the absence of additional congressional action. 

I think he will also lay out that, in the coming days, he expects his
administration to begin to announce the executive actions that his
administration has developed and is developing to combat this
emergency.  So I think you will hear that from him in his — in his own
words.  And hopefully, that’s responsive to part of your question. 

On the second bit: This administration, really, almost on a daily basis,
from January 21st, has been advancing climate action.  So if you’re
asking me to forecast the rest of the week, yeah, we’re going to keep
taking climate action every single day because that’s been part and
parcel of this administration’s focus.  This is one of the four crises
the President defined when he was inaugurated.  And that direction has
been very clear. 

And I think what he — what he has expressed and what he will express
this afternoon is about accelerating that action, heightening that
ambition, and using the executive powers to combat the climate crisis in
the absence of additional congressional action.

MR. HASAN:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  And we’ll go
to Ben (inaudible) next. 

Q    Hi, good morning.  Can you hear me okay?  (Cat meows.)

MR. HASAN:  We can. 

Q    Thank you.  One of our cats is joining, sorry.  Anyway, I just —
not to overly parse words, but, \[senior administration official\], you
said a moment ago that the President is going to be very clear that
“since Congress is not going to act on this emergency.”  Does that mean
that the President has concluded that there is no longer any option for
a reconciliation package with these large clean energy incentives and
investments?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Ben, thanks.  Thanks for — thanks
for the question.  And I don’t think we can hear the cats. 

But — but, I’ll — you know, I’ll restate it: The President is going to
lay out what he can do, what he intends to do.  He has very specific
executive powers.  He has leveraged executive action to date.  He has
directed his administration to look at a broad set of options for how to
accelerate those actions, to how to implement that — those executive
powers with the highest ambition, and that’s his focus. 

And I think the rest of your question — probably there are other folks
who can who can answer that better.  And, you know, our focus is on what
we can do in light of where we find ourselves between the urgency of
action and the clarity of opportunity that’s in front of us.

MR. HASAN:  All right, thank you, \[senior administration official\].  I
actually do think we are at time now — 11:15.  So, apologies if we
weren’t able to get to your question.  Please feel free to follow up
with me via email. 

And, again, we’ll try to get you the materials as soon as possible. 

Thank you for joining.  As a reminder, the call is embargoed until the
President’s — the top of the President’s remarks.  And it is
attributable to a “senior administration official.”  Thanks for joining.

11:15 A.M. EDT
