---
date: '2022-07-21'
modified_time: 2022-07-22 07:21:00-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-21 07:16:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-covid-19-response-coordinator-dr-ashish-jha-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and COVID-\u206019 Response\
  \ Coordinator Dr. Ashish\_Jha"
---
 
2:24 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  As you all know, I
received a letter from the President’s personal physician this morning. 
We released it to you shortly thereafter in the interest of
transparency.  I have the letter here, and I just want to read it
through so we can get started — before we get started. 

“This morning as part of our routine screening program for the
President, the SARS-CoV-2 virus was detected by antigen testing.  This
result was subsequently confirmed \[by a\] PCR test.

On questioning, President Biden is currently experiencing mild symptoms,
mostly…a runny nose and fatigue with an occasional dry cough, which
started yesterday evening.  Given that he meets USA Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) Emergency Use Authority criteria for PAXLOVID, I
have recommended initiating such treatment. 

The President is fully vaccinated and twice-boosted, so I anticipate
that he will respond favorably, as most maximally protected patients
do.  Early use of PAXLOVID in this case provides additional protection
against severe disease.  He will isolate in accordance with CDC
recommendations.  I will keep your office updated with any changes in
his condition or treatment plan.”

I also wanted to provide you with a brief readout of the President’s
activities today.  The President has been working from the Residence,
like so many of us have during this pandemic, doing calls with senior
staff, including the Chief of Staff, myself, and Dr. Jha, who’s here
with us.  As — as we read out, the President also called Senator Casey,
Representative Cartwright, mayors of Scranton, Mayor of Wilkes-Barre,
and Representative Clyburn.  The President also called a few of his
cousins from Scranton, who were set to attend today’s events in
Pennsylvania.  And he spoke with Ambassador Gitenstein and Cornyn. 

You all have seen the photo he posted on — and the video that was just
released to all of you out of transparency moments ago.  The President
will continue to work from the Residence.

Today, as you all know, as I just mentioned, and as we sent out earlier,
Dr. Ashish Jha, our COVID-19 Response Coordinator, is joining us today
in the briefing room.  And as I tweeted out earlier, Dr. Jha and I spoke
to the President this morning.  And he said he’s feeling fine, he has a
little dry — dry cough, as I just mentioned from the doctor’s letter, a
little runny nose.  He’s feeling tired, but he’s working very hard on
behalf of the American people. 

And with that, Dr. Jha.

DR. JHA:  Great.  Good afternoon, everybody.  I’m pleased to be with
you.  So as Karine mentioned, I spoke to the President earlier.  I also
spoke at length with Dr. O’Connor, who is the President’s personal
physician.  And I’m happy to share the readout of these conversations
with you, and then I’m happy to take questions.

In terms of my conversation with the President, he sounded great.  I
asked him, you know, “Mr. President, how are you feeling?”  He said,
“I’m feeling fine.”  He said he was — he was feeling fine, he’d been
working all morning.  He hadn’t even been able to finish his breakfast
because he had just been busy. I encouraged him to finish his breakfast.

In terms of my conversation with Dr. O’Connor, we talked at length about
what happened this morning.  As Karine mentioned, the President got his
regular testing that he does on — on his regular cadence.  After he
tested positive, he reported these symptoms that have been described. 
Dr. O’Connor examined him thoroughly.  He found his exam to be normal,
to be at his baseline.  And — and then, obviously, he recommended that
the President take Paxlovid.  The President accepted that recommendation
and has started Paxlovid and taken his first course already.

I want to also just take a minute to sort of mark this moment.  You
know, because the President is fully vaccinated, double boosted, his
risk of serious illness is dramatically lower.  He’s also getting
treated with a very powerful antiviral, and that further reduces his
risk of serious illness. 

And it’s a reminder of the reason that we all work so hard

to make sure that every American has the same level of protection that
the President has, that every American has the same level of immunity,
and why we have worked so hard to make sure that people have access to
lifesaving treatments like Paxlovid.

These are incredibly important things for the President to have. 
They’re incredibly important things for every American to have.  And we
have worked very hard over the last 18 months to make sure we have
plenty of vaccines; that we have plenty of therapies; that people can
get tested on a regular basis, as the President does, because testing
allows you to identify an infection early and get started with treatment
early.  And we all know, for medicine, that early treatment is always
better.

Let me also take a moment to talk about BA.5.  If you’ve listened to me
at all in the last couple of weeks, you’ve heard me talk a lot about
this subvariant of Omicron that is now 70, 80 percent of all infections
in the United States. 

It’s a reminder to everyone: If you are over 50, the way I am, the way
many of you might be — if you are over the age of 50 and if you’ve not
gotten a vaccine shot in the year 2022, you need to go get one.  You
need to go get one now, because it will dramatically improve your
protec- — level of protection, reduce your risk of having serious
illness.  It’s the best thing that people can be doing.

Let me just finish by saying: Obviously, we work hard to protect the
President, make sure he’s — that he’s been vaccinated and boosted, has
access to treatments.  We also have been working very, very hard to make
sure every American has access to the same things, because every
American deserves access to the best vaccines, the best treatments, and
they are widely available.  And I want to use this moment to remind
everybody of that and to remind everybody to avail themselves of that. 
Get vaccinated.  If you have a breakthrough infection, get treated; it’s
the best thing you can do to protect yourself.

Let me stop and take questions, and I know you will as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah.  We’ll both take questions.  But go
ahead, Nancy. 

Q    Thank you so much, Dr. Jha.  Has the President been tested to
determine which variant he has?  Is it BA.5?  And if so, what does that
say about his prognosis?

DR. JHA:  It’s a great question.  The virus has been sent off for
sequencing.  It takes usually about a week for that sequencing to come
back.  That’s under normal circumstances.  He’s the President; the
sequencing will get prioritized.  So we should have answers sooner than
that, but you can’t just tell from a regular test what kind of variant. 
So the sequencing results will be back at some point less than a week
from now.

Q    And has the President had to halt any of his regular medications
now that he’s taking Paxlovid?  And what are you doing to mitigate the
risk from halting those medications? 

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so this is a — I had a conversation with — about this
with Dr. O’Connor.  There are two medicines.  He’s on Eliquis and
Crestor, a cholesterol-lowering medicine and a blood thinner for his
atrial fibrillation, both of which need to be stopped when you take
Paxlovid.  It’s a very standard, common thing that we do when we give
people Paxlovid.  And you don’t need to do anything in those
circumstances.  They both get stopped for the five days that he’s on
Paxlovid, and then they get restarted.  And it’s totally fine and pretty
normal practice.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Where exactly was the President infected?

DR. JHA:  Where was he infected?  I don’t think we know.  I certainly
don’t know.  If you have — if you have any thoughts on that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, I don’t think that matters.  Right?  I think
what matters is we prepared for this moment.  I think what matters is
what Dr. Jha just laid out.  If we look at where we were a year and a
half ago, this is a President — when he walked in, one of his first
priorities was to make sure we had a comprehensive plan to get people
vaccinated. 

And so now, today — look — if you look to today — more and more people
are getting closer to having a more normal life, vaccines are
available.  And as Dr. Jha said, if you have not gotten vaccinated,
please do.  If you have not — if you’re — if you have not gotten
boosted, please do.  These are — these are treatments that are going to
keep you safe. 

And I think that’s what matters here — is making sure that we continue
to do the work.  And the good thing is that the President, again, has
been vaccinated and double boosted.

Go ahead.

Q    We know that rebound COVID cases have been a concern in some
individuals who take Paxlovid.  Are there any precautions you can take
to try and prevent that?  And how concerned are you that that could
potentially hinder his return to the office? 

DR. JHA:  It’s a great question.  So let me tell you what we know about
rebound. 

So we’ve looked at the clinical data on this, because if you look at
Twitter, things — it feels like everybody has rebound, but it turns out
there’s actually clinical data.  If you look at major health systems
that have given out Paxlovid to tens of thousands of people, rebound
rates are around 5 percent.  There are some studies that say it’s maybe
7, 8 percent, some that say it’s 2 percent, but it’s in the single
digits.  So it happens; it’s not that frequent. 

But here’s the key point about rebound, which is: When people have
rebound, they don’t end up in the hospital, they don’t end up
particularly sick.  And the goal of Paxlovid is to keep people from
getting seriously ill.

And so it continues to work.  You know, his physician is in charge of
taking care of him.  Obviously, the President will continue to be
monitored, as he is.  But the Paxlovid is working really well at
preventing serious illness, rebound or no rebound.  And that’s why he
was offered it, and that’s why the President took it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re just going to move —

Q    And you mentioned the symptoms that the President has had so far —
runny nose, fatigue, dry cough.  What other symptoms are you looking out
for at this point?  Obviously, this is the beginning of this.  And what
would warrant hospitalization?

DR. JHA:  So, right now, he feels really well.  Our expectation is that
he’s going to continue to have mild illness.  And he’s going to be
monitored for symptoms.  I mean, if you ask him, you know, kind of every
day — I asked him, like: How is he feeling?  Is he having any other
symptoms?  He’s not.  And I think we’re going to continue monitoring
that. 

And — and — I don’t — like, I think that is the plan right now, is that
he’s going to get care the way he would — I mean, I was going to say
“the way he would any other person.”  He’s the President, so obviously,
he gets extra attention.  But I don’t think we have any expectations of
any other symptoms at this point.

Q    Have you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to — hold on, I’m going to go to the back. 

Go ahead.  Go ahead, April. 

And then I’ll come back.  I want to make it to folks —

Q    I want to follow up on that, on a couple of questions.  So if the
President’s — if the President’s oxygen level went down, would he be a
candidate to go to the hospital?

DR. JHA:  I don’t — so, at this point, we don’t — I generally want to
avoid hypotheticals.  He is breathing well.  His oxygen level is
normal.  And he’s — you know, I was going to say resting comfortably. 
He’s actually not resting comfortably, he’s working comfortably in his
Residence.

Q    But that’s not a hypothetical on COVID, sir. 

And the next question: In this moment, we understand that the incubation
of COVID is 2 to 14 days.  Has the White House reached out to those the
President has been in contact with, personal — in-person contact with,
in that period of time?

DR. JHA:  So CDC has very clear protocols on this in terms of when
people are contagious pre-symptoms.  The White House Medical Unit is
conducting right now a contact tracing, and they are contacting every
single person who meets the CDC definition of a potentially close
contact.

Q    And speaking of the CDC — this is the last question: The CDC says
if you are in a high-risk area — and a large swath of the nation is in a
high-risk area — they recommend wearing masks indoors.  In this White
House, we’re still seeing people back and forth.  D.C. is a high — is in
the “high” category.  Is there now a push to tell people to start
wearing the masks indoors, especially as the President now, we see, has
COVID?

  
DR. JHA:  I actually, off the top my head, can’t remember

where D.C. is on the — on the — on the orange, yellow, green map.  So
I’m not going to kind of do this off —

But the bottom line is we follow CDC guidelines, and the policy at the
White House is to follow CDC guidelines in terms of mask wearing based
on — based on CDC’s COVID Community Levels.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ashley.

Q    Thank you.  Will the President resume public events in 5 days if he
tests negative, or will the White House be more cautious and have him
isolate for 10 days?

DR. JHA:  So the plan right now is to follow — it’s actually — we do CDC
guidelines, but we actually go beyond CDC guidelines.  So he’s certainly
going to isolate for at least five days, and he will return to normal
activities after he’s had a negative test.

Q    And I’m also curious what precautions — we saw that video the
President put out.  What precautions did you take for the person who
filmed the video?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I just want to touch on a couple of things.  So,
look, right now, we saw — we heard from the doctor, Dr. O’Connor, his
personal doctor, and he has mild symptoms, and he’s continuing to —
continue to do the work of the presidency from his residence, and I
think that’s important.

And, you know — and to your question, April, every — every person reacts
to COVID differently.  So it is — it is a hypothetical, right?  We have
— we’re going to keep an eye — the doctor is going to keep an eye on
him.

I think what’s important though — and I really want to take this
opportunity to say this; and Dr. Jha said this as well — is that he is
vaccinated and he is double boosted, which gives him protection — right?
— which makes — which makes it — puts him in a good position, just like
every other American that he fought so very hard for to make sure that
we had a comprehensive COVID plan to get people vaccinated, boosted, and
also Paxlovid, right?

And so, what’s — what we need to know is he has mild symptoms and he is
going to continue to do his work, as we’ve seen from the video.

Ashley, I’m going to take your question right now.

Look, in the — in the video that you saw, there was a vid- — his
videographer was there with him, wore an N95 mask, had the appropriate
distance — the six-foot — the six-feet distance.  And the same — same
situation as well with the pho- — with the photo. 

And as you saw in the video, he was outside.  So we did that outside. 

And with the photo, he took off his mask so that we can — so that the
American people could see him and see directly — you know, see the work
that he’s doing and that he’s sitting at his deck — desk continuing to
do his work. 

But just wanted to give that.

Go ahead, Dr. Jha.  I don’t know if there’s —

Q    If I could ask a question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask whether there was any consideration given to other
treatments other than Paxlovid, such as a monoclonal?  It isn’t — it’s
been unclear how the two work together.  Is it more serious cases that
get a monoclonal?  Can you walk through that?

DR. JHA:  I think they’re two good choices for therapies.

Q    One or the other?

DR. JHA:  I think they’re two good choices.  There are people who get
both.  I think this was a decision made by Dr. O’Connor, in consultation
with certainly the President, the patient. 

And I also know that Dr. O’Connor spoke with infectious disease experts
at Walter Reed and at George Washington University.  That was all part
of the plan, by the way.  We’d always sort of planned that if the
President got infected, we would consult with experts.  He did.  And
based on that, that was a recommendation that Dr. O’Connor made.  And
the President accepted that recommendation.

Q    Would that be an option if the case were to worsen?  If someone who
gets Paxlovid, things go — get worse, do they — can they get a second
iteration (inaudible) —

DR. JHA:  In terms of his clinical care, first of all, Dr. O’Connor is
going to drive that process with consultation from experts, not just at
those institutions but, really, around the country.  And I think he’s
going to make decisions based on what is happening with the President
and his condition.

Right now, the President is feeling well.  He described it as — himself
as “feeling fine,” with mild symptoms.

Q    And we’ve seen, with rebound cases, second courses of Paxlovid. 
Would the President, if he had a rebound case — in other words, tested
positive after testing negative — get a second course of Paxlovid?

DR. JHA:  A lot of hypotheticals there of lots of things that might
happen down the road.

Q    But that’s what happened with Dr. Fauci.  It’s not that out of the
question.

DR. JHA:  I understand.  No, it is a hypo- — but it is a hypothetical. 
The President feels fine right now.  I don’t think — you know, I think
we will cross that bridge if that happens, but at this point, really
focused on just making sure the President continues to do well.

Q    And, I’m sorry, just very — very quickly.  Just to clear the
timeline: He popped on a routine screening test, and then spoke to
doctors about his symptoms, as opposed to saying, “Hey, I have
symptoms.  Let’s do a test.”  That’s the order of things?

DR. JHA:  He was scheduled to get his test this morning.  He came back —
it came back positive. 

And on questioning — as I understand it from Dr. O’Connor: On
questioning, reported that, yes, he was having these mild symptoms.

Q    All right.  Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And just to add, you guys saw him

yesterday.  He was in in Massachusetts, Somerset.  He spoke for 20
minutes in 93-degree weather.  It was incredibly hot.  He was — he was
feeling fine.  You know?  Where most of us were looking for water and
trying not to pass out — (laughter) — the President was delivering
remarks on a very important issue, on climate change, as you all saw.

I do want to add just that — that, as we’ve stated — Dr. O’Connor — you
all will hear — get daily updates from Dr. O’Connor on how he’s doing. 
So I just wanted to add that.  And we’ll just continue to (inaudible).

Go ahead.

Q    A couple simple questions, if I can.  First of all, was the
President ever identified as a close contact to anybody else in the
course of the last 72 to 100 hours, say? 

DR. JHA:  Not that I know of.  Do you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say — I’ll say this: The process is — we
are starting our process that we — our protocol process on close
contact.

Q    Was he ever identified as a close contact to somebody else, though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, to someone else?  That part I — we would have to
find out.  I can’t speak to. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can say is our process — because as we — as we
all stated, he is now positives.  We are doing our process too for our
close contact component.

Q    So then how many people have been identified as close contacts to
him, without detailing the specifics?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, just — we are just starting our process.  So, I
don’t —

Q    How many — to this point, how many have been (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying we’re just starting our process.  I
don’t have a number to read out to you.  I told you that he called the
members — the congressional members that traveled with him yesterday. 
But we’re just starting out our process right now.

Q    Has anyone else at the White House tested positive this week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as we have — as we normally do, if they are — if
they are a close contact to the President, we normally provide that
information.  I — when I tested positive and I was a close contact to —
well, out of abundance of caution, actually; I was not.  But because I
had traveled with him, we shared that information.

But we have a protocol here that we will continue to — to follow when it
comes to who’s a close contact to the President and making sure that we
make that clear. 

And in December of last year, when he — when there was a — when he was
traveling and there was someone who was a close contact to him, we
shared that as well.  So we’ve been transparent on that.

Q    But in simple terms, is anybody else in the West Wing or at the
White House positive now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right now, all I can tell you — if they are — our
protocol is: If they are a close contact with any of the principals, we
share that information.

Q    So you can’t say beyond that. 

Let me ask Dr. Jha one final question if I can.  We saw the President’s
video, and I understand the desire of the White House to show the
President six feet away.  The individual shooting it was wearing a
mask.  But for regular Americans who are watching this right now, what
would your recommendation be?  Should Americans who are positive for
COVID, if they are in public or in any place at any time, always wear a
mask?

DR. JHA:  So the CDC guidance on this is clear.  People should isolate,
and they should be — they should — if they’re going to be in close
contact with anybody else, they should definitely be wearing a mask.

The President was more than six feet away from the camera person who was
wearing an N95.  Again, in that video, you saw that it was outside.  So
I think it was, from a safety point of view, a very safe thing to do.

Q    Thank you, Dr. Jha.

Q    If I could ask a fast question of Dr. Jha —

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry, I’m going to — I’m going to — I’m going to call
on everybody.  I’m going to call on everybody.  I promise I’m going to
call on everybody.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you explain the testing cadence and the
rationale behind it?  You know, given the rise of BA.5 and the fact that
the President has been traveling and having big events, why doesn’t he
get a daily test?

DR. JHA:  So the testing cadence is determined by Dr. O’Connor, his
personal physician.  He gets tested very regularly.  I don’t really
think there’s a huge advantage of testing, like, every day.  I think —

Q    So had he tested yesterday morning, for example, he might have
tested positive in time to not go to that trip and expose any number of
people.  Right? 

DR. JHA:  The President — look, he — the protocol behind the President’s
testing has been both developed by Dr. O’Connor, but I think also has
gone through a lot of vetting.  It’s — it’s what we use to protect the
President and those around him.  And it’s been — I don’t have anything
else to say beyond the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — look —

DR. JHA:  — kind of the protocol we have.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, like Dr. Jha said, it is between — it is between
him and his personal doctor on that protocol.  He has a regular cadence,
as we have spoken about before.

We shared with all of you on Tuesday that he tested negative.  And the
reason why he — you saw him yesterday.  I just said he was speaking in
front of many of your colleagues outside for 20 minutes in a — on a
very, very hot day.  And it wasn’t until later — later in the day, in
the evening, that he was feeling a little tired.  And he was tested
today.

Look, this goes back to where we have come, from where we started.  We
have — the President has done the work to make sure that more than 200
million people in this country have been vaccinated, more than 100
million people in this country have been boosted.  That’s because we
have a comprehensive plan to make sure people get vaccinated so that
they can be protected. And so that is what’s most important here.  He
has mild symptoms.  He continues to work.  And like many Americans, this
is a — you know, we have to make sure that we send out message to make
sure to get vaccinated and boosted if you haven’t yet.

Q    And one more.  Does the President, does the White House — are there
any regrets about the amount of time in sort of recent days and past
weeks that we’ve seen him unmasked, shaking hands with people, hugging
people, fist bumping, in close contact with crowds?  In retrospect, was
he too casual?

DR. JHA:  No.  I mean, look —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not at all.

DR. JHA:  The way I look at this is — I’ve said this before from this
podium — we have an incredibly contagious variant.  And we’ve had a
protocol that I think has done a very good job protecting the President.

The most important part of that protocol, by the way, is making sure
that he was up to date on his vaccines, that we had access to
treatments.

The President wants to get out there and be with — and meet American
people and engage.  And we always said that this was a possibility.  I
think I even said it from this stage that this was a possibility.

And I think that the protocols have kept him from getting infected.  And
— but we knew that this was a possibility with this incredibly
contagious variant.

The good news is — and this was always the point — the good news is: He
is — his immune system is very well protected, given the four vaccine
shots he’s gotten.  He’s getting treatment.  He has mild symptoms.  He’s
feeling “fine” — his words.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Dr. Jha, if I could please ask you about the President’s age.  He’s
79 years old.  What level of concerns does that add when someone like
him tests positive?

DR. JHA:  Very simply, I would begin with: What’s his immune status? 
And what — and the — and what are his access to treatments?

And the bottom line is: Given how much immunity he has from vaccines,
given that he was started on treatments right away — like, literally had
symptoms this morning, and he got started on Paxlovid this morning — I
think his — all of those things very dramatically reduce his risk of
serious illness.  And that’s really the goal here, is to — is to prevent
serious illness, to keep that risk as low as possible.  I think he’s
gotten that full set of protections.

Q    And in terms of monitoring his oxygen, is that something that will
be done hourly, something that will be done a couple times a day?  Just
walk us through, if you could, the oxygen levels and the concern that
could raise.

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  I don’t actually know how often.  What I will say is
that he’s monitored very regularly.  He’s feeling well.  His oxygen
level was checked this morning; it was normal. 

And the exact, sort of, frequency of that is decision between him and
his physician, and really Dr. O’Connor making that call.

Q    Karine, if I could ask you, you said it doesn’t matter where he got
it.  But how can it not matter where he got it if that is something
that, of course, is involved in contact tracing?  This administration is
taking it very seriously.  How can it not matter —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what I —

Q    — where he got it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what I was trying say is: What’s important now is
that he has mild symptoms, is that he is working from — from the
Residence on behalf of the American people.  That’s our focus. 

Look, we knew this was going to happen.  As Dr. Jha said, you know, when
he was — when he joined me at the briefing — in the briefing room not
too long ago, he said this is — this is — you know, everyone was — at
some point, everyone is going to get COVID. 

What is important is to make sure that you have — you get the treatment
that is — that we have provided for folks, whether it’s get — make sure
you get vaccinated, make sure you get boosted.  And — and then we have
Paxlovid that is made available because of this President. 

So what I am trying to say is: The moment that we’re in right now is
what matters as we’re talking about the President and his treatment and
how he’s feeling and how he’s continuing to work on behalf of the
American public. 

I’m going to move around because I know there’s a lot.  Zolan, go
ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  I —

Q    Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll come back to you. 

Q    Karine, you said that he was feeling fine yesterday during his
speech but that he started to feel tired later on in the evening.  I
just want to clarify: Can you say exactly when he started feeling mild
symptoms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I cannot say exactly when that occurred.  I could say
that — that, you know, he told us this morning he had a nose — a — a
runny nose.  He had a dry cough.  He was a little bit fatigued.  He did
say he had restless sleep. 

And when that occurred, he got the antigen test, tested — tested
positive and then was given a PCR test. 

I cannot pinpoint the exact moment. 

And, you know, we were transparent.  I got the letter from — we put out
a statement as soon as we — we did the test and were able to put out the
information.  So we were transparent in giving out the statement.  We
were transparent in sending out the letter.  And we will have daily
updates from his doctor on — on his status.

Q    In terms of the search for close contacts, I understand that’s
underway now, but there should still be able to be some confirmation of
at least some individuals who were a close contact.  He was with
multiple members yesterday on Air Force One.  He was with the First Lady
of Ukraine as well on Tuesday.  You know, was — can you tell us if the
Vice President is a close contact; if those members that were on the
plane are considered close contacts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so when it comes to the Vice President — she
spoke to this earlier today.  She just gave comments and she spoke with
the Pres- — the President.  I will let her speak to that. 

You heard from the First Lady.  Of course, she’s the First Lady, and so
she spoke — she spoke — she said she tested negative, and clearly, she
is a close contact. 

Look, you know, I’ll say this: Our commitment since last July is to
disclose when the President or one of the four principals is a close
contact of staff who tested positive, as defined by the CDC — this is a
definition by the CDC — or when he tests positive, which is what we’re
doing to all of — for you all of you today. 

So, for example, we were transparent with the Vice President.  We were
trans- — when she tested positive, when the Second Gentleman tested
positive.  And we’re being — we’re doing that currently right now with
him.  So we are transparent when the — President Biden was a close
contact of a staff member, as I mentioned, in December.  And — but for
privacy reasons, we will not get into more details as it relates to
that. 

So we’re starting the process.  I don’t have a number, a list of folks
to share with you.  I think that if — I know some of your colleagues
traveled with us.  If there are any concerns or questions, feel free to
reach out to us.  We’re happy to — if you have personal questions about
yourself, feel free to reach out.

Go ahead.

Q    I have one more.  Just — Ashley asked as well, I think, about
moving forward — the five-day quarantine, whether or not he would
immediately resume.  I believe you said that he would quarantine for
five days and then he would resume when he tests negative.  But I just
want the connective tissue here: If he tests negative on that fifth day,
would he resume his schedule as normal?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so the CDC’s guidance on this is very clear: You have to
isolate for five days.  CDC says that you can resume after five days
without a negative test, as long as you wear a well-fitting mask.  We go
above and beyond that at the White House, and we — the President will
get tested.  And as long as he’s isolated for five days, meeting the
kind of CDC requirement, we will wait until he gets a negative test —
negative antigen test — before he returns to activity.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Karine, how does the White House adjust to having a President with
COVID?  Who has access to him?  Is he staying in one room, a series of
rooms?  What’s the physical situation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So as I just stated, he is isolated in the — in the
White House Residence.

Look, the President could be a President anywhere, right?  It doesn’t —
it doesn’t matter where he’s located.  He has the technology, he has the
tools — what he needs — the communications — what he needs to continue
to doing his job.

Q    And has staffing here been adjusted at all?  Fewer people around?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There has been no change to our protocol as of date —
as to date. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think you just had —

Q    I know.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I got — I got to go.  I got to go around.  Yeah, I
got to go —

Q    (Inaudible.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Your colleagues are going to kill me.  I got to go
around.

Go ahead, Tam.

Q    Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to — and we’ll go to the back.

Q    I just want to parse the timeline a little bit.  I think there may
be a comma in the doctor’s statement, and I just want to clarify.  Did
he start experiencing the cough last night or all of the symptoms last
night?

I guess my question is: When did he start experiencing fatigue?  When
was the first sign of fatigue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) you spoke to the doctor.

DR. JHA:  Yeah, I mean, I — I spoke to the doctor.  I spoke to the
President. 

You know, my understanding is — and, again, his doctors spent a lot more
time with him than I — I mean, and I haven’t spent time with the
President; I just spoke to him on the phone.

The President felt well all day yesterday.  I think late in the evening,
he felt some amount of fatigue after a long day of travel.  I don’t
know, I — there are a lot late evenings where I feel some amount of
fatigue.  I don’t know about all of you. 

He went to bed.  I asked him how he slept.  He said he just had a bit of
a restless night.  And this morning, got his routine tests that he
does.  And then when Dr. O’Connor probed him further on symptoms because
he tested positive, that’s when he mentioned, “Yeah, maybe I was a
little tired last night.”

So, I really think his symptoms you could say either began late last
night or early this morning.

Q    Did he have any fatigue or runny nose or anything like that on
Sunday, Monday, or Tuesday?

DR. JHA:  He felt totally normal and said that he felt — at least to me,
he said he felt totally normal all day yesterday. 

Q    Has he experienced any fever or brain fog or other symptoms of
COVID? 

DR. JHA:  He’s had no — no fever.

Q    Okay.  And could we get the President’s physician here so that we
can not play the game of telephone?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think this is a game of telephone.  You have
Dr. Jha, who is a medical doctor himself, who runs our COVID-19
response. 

You’re going to hear regularly through a statement from Dr. O’Connor. 

And so we are going to be as transparent as — we are going to be
transparent, as we have been.  We put out a statement this morning.  We
put out a letter from Dr. O’Connor.  You have both of us here taking
your questions and answering them. 

You saw a picture of the President.  You saw a video of the President. 
And so we are doing this very differently, and we’re going to continue
to provide information for — for all of you and also the American
public. 

I’m going to continue to go around.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much.  While doing contact tracing, will you reach out
to some of the officials the President met last year \[sic\] while
traveling abroad, or is that too — you know, too far away?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so contact tracing for people in the last 48 hours who
were — after he tested positive. 

So, if somebody met with the President a week ago, they would not be
considered a close contact.

Q    So, you do — you won’t, you know, search for maybe people, like,
positive with COVID that he met with last week or —

DR. JHA:  Oh, are we going to do —

Q    — that (inaudible) —

DR. JHA:  Are we going to go looking a week ago to see who —

Q    Yes.

DR. JHA:  — might’ve given?  That’s not — I mean, no. 

The purpose of contact tracing is to make sure that anybody who might’ve
been exposed is so identified to prevent onward transmission.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  To follow up on Steve’s question, I think you had
said that there was no change to protocols here.  Do you mean the West
Wing, for change of staffing protocols?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think that’s — that was Steve’s question.  I just
don’t have an update on that.

Q    Okay.  How about the Residence though?  Is there a reduction in
staff while the President is in isolation?  And how are operations
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to — we’re going to follow CDC guidance —
right? — which is — which is for the President to isolate and to make
sure there is a, you know, very, very, very minimal footprint.  Because
our goal is to make sure that we keep others safe. 

Q    So there’s just — there are limited people that will be around the
President in the next —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, if — yes, if anyone, to be quite honest,
because we are going to follow CDC guidance.

Q    And to follow on what you had said earlier about we’ll be getting
updates from Dr. O’Connor — will that be statements every day coming
from you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’ll be statements.  It’ll be daily statements from —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I — it could be from — directly from him.  I
believe it’ll be directly from him, but you will get a daily statement.

Q    But he won’t necessarily come here and do a briefing with you guys?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to give daily statements, just like we
provided the letter with transparency.  The letter he provided to me, we
made sure that you all saw.  And we’ll continue to make sure that you
guys get an update on the President on a daily basis. 

Okay.  Go ahead.  (Inaudible.)

Q    Just following up on Tam’s question, actually, about Dr. O’Connor. 
There’s obviously a few questions you can’t answer about the timeline,
about monoclonal antibody treatments, about the medications he’s on. 
Why isn’t he at the podium right now to answer those questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I believe Dr. Jha spoke to the medication he’s on
— the monoclonal, right?  That is something that is — right now he’s on
Paxlovid.  Right?  We’re going to — if anything changes, we will be sure
to share that.

And so that’s — that’s what we’re going to do.  We’re going to continue
to have daily — daily updates to all of you.  I think this — I think the
letter that the President — that the President’s doctor put out was
pretty — was pretty clear and specific and said that he is on Paxlovid.

Q    And just to follow up: On isolation, that’s obviously different
from quarantine.  What does isolation mean in this White House?  And
what will happen to the First Lady when she returns?

DR. JHA:  So, isolation — well, yeah — so just for everybody to know:
Isolation is when you’re positive and you’re isolating.  Quarantine is
if you’ve been exposed.  So that’s the kind of difference in
terminology.

The isolation protocol is he is going to stay in his Residence.  We’re
going to absolutely minimize the footprint. 

I don’t — I don’t actually know what the plans are with the First Lady
in terms of — I’m assuming she’s going to stay isolated from the
President as well.  But — but that’s a — that’s a — I don’t know if you
have anything more on the First Lady, but obviously, I think she will
continue to — she will stay away from the President as well.

That’s her decision though.  We don’t try to tell the First Lady what to
do.  (Laughter.)  I feel some trepidation talking about what the First
Lady will do vis-à-vis the President.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — (laughs) — so, first of all, the

First Lady spoke to this directly.  She’s feeling fine.  So I just want
to make sure that’s clear.  And she’s going to continue to follow the
CDC guidance, and she’s going to continue to wear a mask.  And so that’s
what she is going to — that’s what she’s going to do moving forward.

Go ahead. 

Q    Dr. Jha, you said — you talked about the testing cadence that he
had, but for while he has COVID, what’s the testing cadence going to
be?  Will he be tested daily?  And will those be rapid tests or PCR
tests?

DR. JHA:  So, I don’t know that there’s much value of a PCR test at this
point, because it’ll be positive for a while, right?  So, I don’t
actually know what his testing cadence is going to be.

Again, CDC does not recommend any testing for the first five days.  He
will obviously be positive for some period of time.  He will get — he
will stay in isolation for five days.  He will definitely get tested
after that and will stay in isolation until he turns — until he turns
negative.

But any testing he has moving forward will largely be an antigen test.

Q    You said that his oxygen level was normal.  Can you be more
specific about what his oxygen levels are?

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  He’s feeling fine.  He’s breathing fine.  His oxygen
level was normal.  There were — he got a full physical exam.  There were
no issues or no concerns in Dr. O’Connor’s assessment of him, in terms
of his physical exam.

Q    And last question, Karine.  Sorry.  CDC guidance is: People who are
close contact, who are up to date on the vaccine — correct me if I’m
wrong Dr. Jha — are to wear a mask — a well-fitting mask for 10 days
after being exposed to — possibly exposed to someone.  You were on the
plane with the President yesterday, other members of staff were, and
you’re not wearing a mask right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  That’s why when somebody was asking me do we
have a list of close contact, I am not considered a close contact. 
According to the CDC guidance, I am not considered a close contact.

Q    Dr. Jha, can you expand on that?  Why she’s (inaudible).

DR. JHA:  I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I — I could expand on it myself.

Q    Yeah, sure.  That’s great.  Yeah, that’s fine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But according to the CDC guidance, yes, I was with the
President, but it was under 15 minutes.  I was with him in short amount
of time.  I was wearing my mask the whole time.

So, to your question, Peter, when you were asking me about that, it’s
not that simple; it’s not that easy.  There’s a process that it has to
go through.

And just because I was with the President yesterday — you all saw me
with the President — I am not considered a close contact.

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Paxlovid has emergency use authorization for
patients who are at high risk for progression to severe disease.  So,
clinically speaking, either because of his diagnosis or his age, or any
underlying conditions, or otherwise, is the President at high risk for
progression to severe disease?

DR. JHA:  So, if you look at the EUA of the FDA, then it links to a CDC
website that gives you what are the risk factors.  And — and age is
certainly one of them.  And I have made the point that I think anyone
over the age of 50 is somebody who is eligible for Paxlovid — and
obviously people under 50, if they have serious chronic disease as
well.  But I believe anybody over the age of 50 is eligible for
Paxlovid.  The President is above the age of 50.

Q    And then, can you just confirm for us that there were no positive
cases around the President in the last couple of days or that he was not
a close contact of anyone who was positive?

DR. JHA:  I think you’ve answered this, but feel free.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’ve already answered.

Q    I don’t think we got an answer.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Either — no, I did.  I answered it.  I told you what
our protocols are. 

And we have said —

Q    But it wasn’t a “yes” or “no.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I told you what our protocols were.  And as we
have been committed since the last July, we disclose when the President
or one of the — or one of the four principal is a close contact of a
staff who tested positive as defined by the CDC.  This is defined,
again, by the CDC.

Or when he tests positive, as we are doing today and being very
transparent about that.

Q    Are we supposed to assume then, because we didn’t hear from you,
that that’s a “no”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s not what I’m saying.  I am saying that we —
when there is a close — when there is a close contact to the President,
we actually give that information out and we actually share that
individual, who’s a staff member, if they have tested positive.  That
has been — that has actually been our — our protocol since past — this
past July, so a year.

Q    So we didn’t receive anything like that, so am I to assume that
there is — there was nothing that happened, there was no positive case
where the President was a close contact?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, you’re — you’re safe to assume that because
that’s what we have been committed to doing since the last July, which
is about a year ago.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’re going to go — continue.  Go ahead.

Q    The message that some people are going to take from this is that’s
it’s inevitable that everyone is going to get COVID at some point.  I’m
wondering if you think that’s a reasonable assumption for people to make
about this.  And also, what does it say about the state of the pandemic
and how much longer this is going to be a part of our lives in this way?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, so based on the CDC data, about 70-plus percent of
Americans have been infected.  And — and I have said, I think from this
podium, that I don’t believe that every American will be infected, but I
think infections are obviously — given how incredibly contagious the
current subvariant is, that Omicron has been in general, that we’ve seen
a lot of Americans get infected.

At this point in the state of the pandemic, I think the other — our
strategy on this has also been very, very clear: We have a two-pronged
strategy. 

Number one is prevent serious illness, which I think is essential.  And
that strategy, as you’ve heard me articulate, is a combination of making
sure people are up to date on their vaccines and getting treatments if
they’re eligible. 

And then the second part of the strategy is doing what — everything we
can to keep infections down.  And that’s recommending masking in crowded
indoor spaces and high-transmission areas; making sure testing is widely
available; working on improvements in indoor — in air quality and
ventilation.

Those are the things we’re working on.  And — and given that 70 percent
of Americans have been infected, it’s obviously a highly transmissible
virus.  And we are going to continue working on keeping both infections
down and really working hard to make sure serious illness is limited.

And I think, by the way, that is working.  I mean, if you look at how
many infections there have been, about where we are right now on
hospitalizations and deaths — a tiny fraction of where we’ve been in the
past.  
  
So I think our strategy is largely working.  But it is a two-pronged
strategy that focuses both on serious illness and infections.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I have two follow-ups: one for Dr. Jha and then one
also for you, Karine.  
  
The through line of this briefing has been that things are different now
and that you’re better prepared, obviously, because of the vaccine and
then some of these drug therapies.  So this might be comparing apples to
oranges, but the previous President was moved from the White House to
Walter Reed.  And one of the explanations that was given at the time was
that they had better facilities there.  
  
Are you confident in, you know, all exigent circumstances, that you have
everything that you need here at the White House, in terms of
facilities, to prepare for — for anything that may come and protect the
President’s health?  
  
DR. JHA:  What I can say is the President is right now working
comfortably in the White House, doing well.  And, you know, there are
obviously a lot of resources available here at the White House to take
care of them.

  
Walter Reed is always on standby for Presidents, right?  That’s always
an option.  That’s true, whether the pa- — the President had COVID or
not.

  
But right now, we feel very confident.  The President is doing well. 
He’s got very mild symptoms.  He is really getting the state-of-the-art
treatment, which, by the way, is available to every American.

And — and he’s doing very well in the residence under close monitoring
from his physician.  
  
Q    And then, Karine, you addressed this moments ago when you were
asked about your earlier statement that it didn’t matter where he picked
this up.  Obviously, the most important thing is how the President is
doing in the here and now —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — but will you let us know if you do figure out where the President
did pick up this virus?  I mean, it certainly does matter, at least for
history.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the — the President travels,
right?  He travels a lot.  He engages with a lot of people.  
  
Again, what I was trying to say and what I was wanting to be sure that
we understood is, again, the here and now.  Like right now, we are — we
are explaining to you how he’s feeling, how he’s doing.  You’ve heard
from him directly.  
  
We’re going to continue to do that.  We are going to do, you know,
contact tracing, as far as who he was around these past 48 hours, as Dr.
Jha just laid out.  
  
But it is — I mean, you know, it is not the easiest thing — right? — to
find out exactly where — where someone got COVID.  I do not know — when
I got COVID, I have no idea who I got it from.  
  
But we want to make sure that the people that he was around gets — if it
is indeed a close contact, that they are made aware.  And so that is our
focus at this time.  
  
Q    Dr. Jha, can you clarify your recommendation to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold on one second.  Simon, I promise I’ll get to
you.  Just give me one second.  I’m jumping around.  Okay? 

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks very much.  So I just want to be clear on some of the
timeline here.  The President started developing symptoms last night. 
So did he at that stage, then, isolate in line with the CDC
guidelines?  
  
DR. JHA:  So the President felt tired last night. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

DR. JHA:  Felt tired last night.

Q    Can we be clear, then, from the physician’s letter that these other
symptoms — I think Tam brought up the issue of the commas, but it could
suggest that he had a runny nose and occasional dry cough last night. 
So are you saying he didn’t have those symptoms?  It was just purely
fatigue?  
  
DR. JHA:  When I spoke to the President today and I asked him, he said
he felt tired last night, went to bed, didn’t have a great night of
sleep — we’ve all had those — woke up this morning, got tested, and then
when was asked about symptoms, reported that indeed he had, this
morning, some runny nose and a — and a dry cough.  
  
Q    Was he tested because of that?  
  
DR. JHA:  No.  
  
Q    Just to follow up —  
  
DR. JHA:  No.  No, he was — this was part of his regular cadence of
testing.  
  
Q    So he had those symptoms — the runny nose and the cough —  
  
DR. JHA:  This morning.  
  
Q    — but didn’t isolate at that stage?  
  
DR. JHA:  This morning.  
  
Q    It wasn’t until he tested positive?  
  
DR. JHA:  Yeah, I — my understanding is that the symptoms — those —
those symptoms were this morning.  
  
Q    But the CDC guidance says if you have symptoms, you should isolate
at that point.  It sounds like he only started isolating when he had the
positive test.

  
DR. JHA:  My understanding is that he had the — the sore throat — not
sore throat; he did not have sore throat — runny nose and dry cough this
morning.  That’s when those symptoms were identified.  
  
I think whether you can say whether he had fatigue last night or he just
felt tired last night and he went to bed — I think that’s pretty
normal.  
  
Q    But the point is he then had these other symptoms before testing
positive, because he was then questioned about it.  Right?  Or did they
— did they develop at the same time as the positive test?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, my understanding is that those symptoms developed this
morning.  And he had a test as part of his regular testing cadence. 

Are you asking, like, within minutes of, like, when —

Q    Well, yeah, because the CDC guidance —

DR. JHA:  Yeah.

Q    — says you should isolate if you have symptoms.  So —

DR. JHA:  Yeah, as soon as you became aware of your symptoms.

Q    So I’m asking: Did he start isolating only after the positive test
and he had the symptoms before the positive test? 

It sounds like he had the positive test, was then questioned about any
symptoms he had, and he said, “Ah, yes, I do have these other features”
— which would suggest he didn’t comply with the CDC guidance.

DR. JHA:  I think he became aware of his symptoms of runny nose and sore
throat this morning, thus when he developed the symptoms.

Q    He had — yeah, but before or after the test, is what I’m asking.

DR. JHA:  I don’t know the — I don’t know the exact, like, hour that he
developed — that he became aware of his symptoms.

Are you asking, like, within minutes — like, when exactly did his
symptoms be- —

Q    Well, that — that would be nice, and that would be perhaps one of
the reasons for having his physician up here answering these questions.

But I’m — can you see the point I’m getting at?  The point is: You don’t
isolate when you’ve had a positive test.  You isolate when you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I actually don’t —

Q    — have the symptoms.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I actually —

Q    But that’s what the CDC guidance —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I —

Q    — clearly says. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I see what you’re trying to do, but it’s not
the case for everyone. 

The President went on a trip.  He came home last night.  He was — he
felt a little tired.  He felt a little restless sleep.  I think most of
us who traveled yesterday were probably a little tired by the end of the
day.  He went to sleep.  And he had a regular cadence.  Took a test. 

And when — after he took a test, the doctor questioned him and said,
“Hey, you know…” — he probably asked whatever questions he asked of the
President.  And he said, “Oh, yeah, by the way, I have a runny nose and
a dry throat.”  A runny nose and a dry throat.  I mean, you know, that
is — (laughs) — I mean, that is not — it’s not a fever.  It’s not a
massive headache.  It is a runny nose and a dry throat, which many
people —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — which many people who do not have — test positive
for COVID have. 

I mean, so I think — I think what you’re — what you’re trying to get at
— right? — is just — you know, it is just — it’s a bit far-reaching. 
And the moment that he tested positive on an antigen — he took a PCR
test, tested positive, and then he began to isolate. 

We’re going to move on.  We’re going to move on. 

Q    I’m not getting — getting — trying to get at anything.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we’re going to move on.

Q    I’m asking if he followed the CDC guidance.  That’s all.

DR. JHA:  He did. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, he did.  He followed CDC guidance, but you’re —
the — what you’re trying — the connection you’re trying to make is a bit
far-reaching. 

Go ahead, sir.

Q    Yeah, you said that the Walter Reed suite is always ready.  What
conditions would you need to see from the President to take a trip over
there?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, what I’d say is — again, in general, I don’t want to get
into hypotheticals.  The President is — right now has very mild
symptoms.  He’s got a mild illness.  He’s feeling reasonably well.  His
words, he’s feeling “fine.”  He’s working.  He’s getting the care he
needs here. 

And my — you know, and so — so that’s all I really have to say at this
point.  And I think hypotheticals about what might happen in the future
are sort of hard to — and there’ll be a decision, by the way, made by
Dr. O’Connor, his physician.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, we’re just going to take a few more from
the back. 

Go ahead.

Q    Okay.  Thank you.  Dr. Jha, can you clarify your recommendation to
the First Lady?  Obviously, the White House is a big place — 132 room,
35 bathroom.  (Laughter.)  So the President has a big place to isolate. 
Is he going to — will you recommend that he isolate from the First
Lady?  It — would that be your recommendation?  (Laughter.) 
(Inaudible.)

DR. JHA:  Like, you’re just going to try to get me into trouble, aren’t
you?  In terms of —

No, I think he should isolate and that he should follow CDC guidelines. 
He should isolate.  He is isolating.  Not “should”; he is isolating. 

And I think the First Lady is — because she — you know, I think she is
wearing — she has tested negative.  She has been wearing a mask.  I have
to say, I have not engaged on the question of what happens when the
First Lady returns back.

I — I don’t know if you have anything else on it for them. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead. 

Q    Yeah.

Q    And I have a follow-up.  And then, on masks: The President wears a
mask, he’s well protected, but he still got COVID.  Is this the time to
really realize that masks may not really be as effective as, you know,
we tried to make them to be?

DR. JHA:  So, I think the science on masks is actually quite clear.  And
there is broad agreement among public health and science experts that
masks work.  Higher-quality masks work better than lower-quality masks.
 He wears — every time the President wears masks, he wears high-quality
masks.  Masks are not a panacea.  And, obviously, the President, you
know, engages with people both indoors and outdoors. 

And — and there was never, I think, an understanding on our part that we
could keep the President from having zero chance of getting infected. 
Like, he’s got very close, very strong protocols around him, but we
always knew that this was a possibility.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, sir.

Q    Two questions that I think haven’t been asked yet.  First of all,
given that the President now has tested positive for COVID, will there
be a reevaluation of the protocols that were put in place at the White
House to protect him from getting COVID in light of his condition being
in a different place?

And the second question is: For folks out there who may now hear from
their employer, “Well, the President of the United States got COVID and
he kept working…” when someone thinks they need to take a sick day
because they got COVID, how do you — how would you answer that or how
would you address that question?

DR. JHA:  Well, I believe people, if they feel ill, should absolutely
get sick time to recover.  The President feels well and feels capable of
continuing to work.  Obviously, his schedule is modified.  Right?  He’s
not going to be able to make the same trips, but he’s able to work from
home. 

And — but I feel very, very strongly that if people feel ill, people
feel sick, they absolutely should get time to recover.  That’s something
— so that was your second question.  What was your first one?

Q    The first question was the COVID protocols –-

DR. JHA:  Oh, the COVID protocols.

Q    — the testing for being in the same room as the President and the
like that were designed to — now that his risk situation has changed
when he recovers —

DR. JHA:  Yeah.

Q    — will there be a reevaluation of the protocols at the White
House? 

DR. JHA:  Yeah.  Right now, I’d say we’re focused on — on making sure
the President continues to do well.  He can — he’s thankfully doing well
because of the fact that he is vaccinated, boosted, getting treated.  I
don’t think there’s been any discussion of whether the protocols need
any kind of change.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Two more, and then we’re going to go.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Let me follow on Dr. O’Connor.  Neither of you
has seen the President today.  Neither of you is treating the
President.  The question is: When will Dr. O’Connor come out?  Because
to just put out a statement and shield him from questions would be the
least transparency of any White House in 50 years on a presidential
illness.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow, I wholeheartedly disagree on your last
statement.  Wholeheartedly disagree on your last statement.

So, we are doing this very differently — very differently than, I would
argue, than the last administration.  And I am happy to have that
conversation with you.

Number one, we did not see the President because we are following CDC
guidance.  And the CDC guidance is to make sure that we have minimal
contact with the President and allow him to isolate and allow him to,
you know, get his treatment to — to get better, right? 

He’s having, again, mild symptoms and is able to work from — from home. 

I think — I believe, we believe — getting direct information, pretty —
pretty much detailed information from this letter that we, in a
transparent way, shared with all of you on how he was doing, and we have
committed to do that every day.

I’m going to take the last question.  Go ahead, Brett.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two questions.  One, I’m curious, Dr. Jha, what
does the President’s age and sort of his status — does that affect his
risk for long COVID?  Or what can you tell us about the potential for
long COVID and how you’ll monitor that — that risk?

DR. JHA:  Yeah, I’m not aware of data — and maybe it’s out there — but
I’m not aware of data that age is a — among adults — I think there’s a
different thing for kids.  But I think among adults, I’m not aware that
they’re — that age is a significant risk factor for long COVID. 

Obviously, the President gets excellent care from his physician as he
will during the current mild illness that he is — that he is suffering
through.  And if he has any persistent symptoms, that they’ll — they’ll
get assessed and addressed by his physician.

Q    And then, just secondly, I guess more broadly maybe: I was hoping
you could kind of explain what the risk of reinfection is with this
current variant.  I know there’s some uncertainty about, you know, if
you — if you get the virus, you know, how long you’re protected for and
immune for.  I was hoping you could just speak to that and whether
that’s changed with the current variant that’s spreading.

DR. JHA:  That’s a really good question.  What we know is that if you
were infected with previous versions of Omicron — BA.1, let’s say, from
the January wave — you don’t have a whole lot of protection against
BA.5.  And that’s the dominant variant that it is — that we have in the
— in the U.S. right now.

If you get infected with BA.5, what is your level of protection against
future variants?  We just have no evidence and no data on that.

So, what I have been very clear on is: People who have been previously
infected in the past may not have a lot of protection against infection
from BA.5.  We don’t know if the President has had BA.5.  Again, he’s
going to get sequencing.  But obviously we will be data driven in — as
we learn more about this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you, everybody.

Q    Karine, on the Vice President, real fast: Is there a plan in place
to transfer power to Vice President Harris if the President’s situation
gets worse?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is — has mild symptoms.  He’s able to do
the business of the American people from the Residence, and that’s what
matters right now.

So there’s no plan in place then?

3:22 P.M. EDT

\###
