---
date: '2022-07-19'
modified_time: 2022-07-19 08:57:24-04:00
published_time: 2022-07-19 08:57:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/07/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-cea-member-jared-bernstein/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and CEA Member Jared\_\
  Bernstein"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:16 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Hello.  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Okay.  So today I’d like to welcome Jared Bernstein,
member of the Council of Economic Advisers, back to the briefing room. 
Jared is here to talk about the strong economic progress we’re making
and the enormous opportunities Congress has ahead to continue that
progress.  
  
We’re really glad to have him here again.  And, Jared, I welcome you
back to the podium.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, thank you so much.  I have an opening statement,
after which I’ll take questions.

President Biden, who grew up in a family where the price of gas was a
kitchen table issue, has elevated easing price pressures as his top
economic priority.  We economists think of this in terms of inflation,
inflationary expectations, interest rate changes — a vast array of
complicated concepts and measurements.

But the fact is that it comes down to affordability and the need among
American households for a bit of breathing room in making ends meet. 
Therefore, we’re very happy to report that the current drop in the price
of gas, down 50 cents per gallon over the past 34 days, is one of the
fastest decline in retail gas prices in a decade.

At current prices, the average American driver will spend about $25 per
month less on gasoline than they would have if prices had stayed at
their June peak.  Economy wide, that means American drivers are saving
around $190 million each day from lower gas prices.  And since gasoline
prices affect the prices of other goods and services through
transportation costs — food is a good example — both households that
drive and households that don’t yield some benefit from lower gasoline
prices.

Now, the decline in retail gas price is not a daily blip.  The chart
behind me shows that gasoline prices have declined every single day for
the past 34 days.  Just yesterday, we witnessed the largest single-day
decline in national gas prices since 2008.

As we all know, in contrast to the, quote, “law of one price” they teach
in Econ 101, gas prices vary from place to place.  But according to an
industry analyst, around 20,000 gas stations across over 30 states are
now charging less than $4 per gallon.

Now, we know this is a volatile market; that’s one reason we’re
highlighting a trend here and not a blip.  But if you look at the about
$20 decline in the price of oil since early June, as well as the drop in
— that’s on the next chart — as well as the drop in the wholesale gas
price, we think it’s reasonable to expect more gas stations to lower
their prices in response to lower input costs and thus, barring
unforeseen market disruptions, to see average prices fall below $4 per
gallon in more places in coming weeks.

While there’s a lot that goes into setting the global oil and gas price,
the historic actions taken by President Biden to address the impact of
Putin’s invasion of Ukraine have helped and continue to help to increase
the global supply of oil and therefore are in the mix of factors driving
down the price.

Because the President’s announcement on releasing 180 million barrels
from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve and another 60 million from our
global partners was back in March, I suspect there are people who forget
about this critically important intervention in energy markets.  But
this action is very much in play in today’s market, currently releasing
a record 1 million barrels of oil per day on average and 84 million
barrels so far.

These releases have had an outsized effect at a time when the market is
especially tight.  In fact, as one leading oil market analyst put it,
quote, “The U.S. has become the world’s oil barrel of last resort,
single handedly keeping prices in the energy market from exploding even
higher by selling a large chunk of its Strategic Petroleum Reserve.” 
End quote. 

Two further points before I take — we take your questions.

As gas prices are coming down, our labor market, which is where
working-age families get most of their income, remains historically very
strong.  Job gains continue to come in at historically high levels. 
Private sector employment has surpassed its prior peak.  And the jobless
rate has been at 3.6 percent — just about its pre-pandemic level — for
four months in a row.

As someone who has carefully tracked labor market recoveries for
decades, I assure you that this one is already in the record books for
the speed of its recovery.  And there’s no question that the American
Rescue Plan, with its shots in arms and checks in pockets, helped to
achieve that goal.

Finally, while the lower gas price creates some much-needed breathing
room, American households need a lot more.  Congress has enormous
opportunities to help by continuing progress on both prescription drug
costs, the cost of health coverage, and long-term growth with CHIPS Act.

I cannot overemphasize the importance, at this moment in our economic
expansion, for taking action on these crucial supports for family
budgets and for long-term growth and economic security.

Thank you.  And Karine will call on folks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Jared, is the administration preparing for a
recession?  And how do you react to companies, like Apple, and banks
saying today that they intend to slow hiring because the economy is
slowing?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  So let me tell you a little bit about the way the
National Bureau of Economic Research Business Cycle Dating Committee —
that’s the group that decides recessions — makes their call.

They weigh a couple of variables pretty heavily, and one of them is
payroll employment.  Now, based on payroll employment — which, by the
way, of course, relates to the unemployment rate, 3.6 percent — an
historically very low unemployment rate for the past four months — those
kinds of statistics are anything but recessionary.

Now, that’s very much a look at the job market today.

Slightly more forward-looking is: If you look at consumers — and, by the
way, the bank reports, I thought, had this in their earnings reports —
they talked about the strength of the American consumer.  If you look at
retail sales from just last week, you’ll see American consumers still
helping to fuel an economy that’s delivering really remarkable job
gains.

So I think — and, by the way, that in itself relates to something I kind
of referenced in my opening comments: the fact that not only do people
have the benefit of an historically strong job market behind them, a
real tailwind in this economy, many also still have excess savings; this
is one of the things that’s helping to fuel consumer spending, which,
again, is 70 percent of our economy.

So I think if you look at the strength of the current economy, if you
look at the strength of the labor market, if you look at the strength of
consumer spending, you would conclude that where we are right now
remains solidly within expansion.

Q    Okay.  And just one follow-up to that.  I’m sure we all remember, a
year ago, other colleagues of yours stood here and said inflation was
transitory and was not going to last, and it was certainly not going to
go up to where we are now.  Do you think it’s possible in a couple of
months you might regret standing here and saying we’re not about to be
in a recession?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, I want to be very clear what I’m saying.  What I’m
saying is that based on — based on consumer spending, based on payroll
employment, based on where the unemployment rate is, I think we can
confidently say that these numbers that we’re posting are very much
inconsistent with a recessionary call, given where we are right now.

I think that is the most accurate way to assess the answer to that
question.

When it comes to transitory, I think the answer there is that we were
careful, when we were talking about that, to consistently reference the
forecasts that were out there, the view on inflation’s trajectory by not
only pretty much every forecaster we could find, but of course, the
Federal Reserve as well.

And so this was a period where we, you know, hadn’t seen new variants of
the — of the virus; where the war in Ukraine, of course, was not yet a
reality.

So I think that if you look at the — look at the general trajectory of
where the forecasts were pointing in there, that was generally the way
in which we tried to talk about that.  And I think that’s — that’s worth
going back and seeing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, MJ.

Q    Jared, Senator Manchin said that he is a no-go on the climate deal
because he has concerns about inflation.  Is there a scenario where you
all try to wait for better inflation news and then try again on that
front?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, let me just start by saying, you know, “better
inflation news,” I mean, that’s a — again, getting into a level of
forecasting that I’m not going to do in this period of uncertainty.

What I can very much assure you, though, is that the price of gas is
considerably lower in July than it was in June, and this is something
the President referenced when the June CPI report came out.

We’re talking about, as I mentioned in my opening comments, a situation
where the price of gas is falling at about the fastest rate it has in a
decade and where more than 20,000 gas stations now are selling gas for
less than $4 a gallon.  That will show up as some easing of prices.    
  
I think when it comes to reconciliation, the President has a view that
was very clearly laid out in a statement last Friday: He will always
follow a legislative path to get the deal done for the American people
to deliver the kind of relief, both near term and long term, that he
came here to administer.  But if — if that — if part of that legislative
path to reconciliation closes, we have other options.  
  
We can certainly pursue reconciliation with two critically important
policies — lowering the cost of prescription drugs and lowering the cost
of health insurance premiums to folks who get that from the — from the
exchanges.  
  
Particularly on the — those are both really important.  Let me say a
couple of words about them.  
  
When you’re talking about the exchanges, you’re talking about 13 million
people who are looking at a potential increase in their average premiums
of $800 a year.  
  
Now, the Center on Budget, where I used to work, did a calculation
showing that for a couple 60 years old with $45,000 — so not rolling in
dough, exactly — failing to extend these enhanced premiums would raise
their premium costs by $1,900.   
  
Now let’s talk about prescription drugs for a second.  Presidents from
both parties have long tried to accomplish this critically important
measure to stop prohibiting Medicare from competing in — in the market
to lower drug prices for our seniors.  
  
Now, I think you have to ask yourself why it is that in other countries
people pay two to three times less than we do for the same drugs.  The
same pill costs two to three times more here than it does there.  
  
The relief that we could deliver to our seniors, from allowing —
allowing prescription drugs to compete, as the President has stressed,
is not just essential for their living standards and their wellbeing; it
is a way to actually ease inflationary pressures.  
  
So this is a very clear choice of whether you stand with Big Pharma or
whether you stand with American seniors and the Medicare program —
which, by the way, would be $100 billion better off over 10 years if we
can achieve this in reconciliation.  
  
Now, the Democrats appear to be aligned on that.  And that — that, along
with the — with the premium coverage, would be an absolutely huge win
for reconciliation.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Ashley.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Following up on Jeff’s question about transitory
inflation, I’m curious what made the White House realize that the phrase
was inaccurate and also politically problematic.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I think it has to do with the — I’m going to use an
economics word — the periodicity, which is —  
  
Q    The what?  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I’m — see, this is — this is why you do a better job
than I do.  
  
I think it has to do with the ambiguity about the length of that word is
what it has to do with.  I think it has to do with the ambiguity about
the length of that word.  
  
Some people hear “transitory,” and they’re going to think weeks and
months.  Others hear “transitory” — particularly, probably, economists
who are used to the broader ups and downs of cycles — and think longer
periods.  
  
And I think the lack of specificity about the cadence that was implied
by that word — the temporal cadence implied by that word — led to a
level of ambiguity that wasn’t serving the debate very well.  
  
Q    And what about just the second part about “politically
problematic”?  Was that something you were hearing from voters, seeing
show up in polls that that language was hurting the President
(inaudible)?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I think that when it comes to, you know, politically
problematic, you’ve heard the President say in recent days that this is
— that the inflation is unacceptably high and that bringing it down is
his absolute number one domestic priority.  And I think that that is all
you need to know in terms of what he is dispatching his economics team
to do in that front.  
  
Now, I also think — and let’s not lose this, because I think it’s really
important, and this is why I tried to focus in on my comments at the top
— is that his actions — this is — this is not just forward-looking; it
is, but it’s not just forward-looking.  Actions he has taken thus far
are providing real relief to the American people, okay?  
  
His release of oil from the Strategic Reserves, his increase in E15
ethanol — these are not the only reasons that the price is behaving as
you saw in those charts, but they are in the mix.  
  
The President’s actions taken thus far are helping to provide real
relief, real breathing room for the American consumers at the pump.  
  
So this is not just an aspirational goal of this President.  This is
something he and his team are actively working on.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  In the back.

  
Q    Thank you, sir.  I have two questions.  The first quick one is — I
guess, does the council have an estimate for how much the
administration’s regulatory changes have combatted or contributed to
regulation — to inflation thus far?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  I think, in many ways, we’ve been talking about a lot of
that already.  I mean, I just mentioned the E15 ethanol waiver, so
that’s a waiver that helps increase the supply of gas — gasoline,
particularly in the Midwest.  
  
I think, certainly, if you broaden, sort of, the regulatory scope to
consider executive actions and rule changes, you see a lot more.  I
mentioned the Strategic Reserve release.  
  
We’ve talked — we haven’t talked about this yet, but the President has
made real progress in helping to ameliorate food price pressures through
issues that include double cropping, taking action on fertilizer prices,
ocean shipping.  
  
So all of these are actions that he’s taken.  In some cases, they’ve
involved legislation, but in many cases they haven’t.  
  
Q    And then my second question: Tomorrow marks the one-year
anniversary of President Biden insisting that high prices and inflation,
in the President’s words, were “expected to be temporary.”  A lot of my
colleagues have asked similar questions, but I’m wondering how much
faith can the American public put in future White House assessments
about the economy, about inflation after they saw that inflation number
increase month after month, and before the Russian invasion of
Ukraine?  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Well, let me say two things.  First of all, I tried to
answer as fulsomely as I could, some of that — part of that question
earlier.  But let me ask you to focus on what we’re trying to talk about
today, which is something that is happening in the here and now.  
  
The chart is not up, but that first chart, which we can certainly make
available to you, that shows we’re not talking about looking around any
corner here.  We’re talking about what has happened in the past 34 days
to prices at the pump.  They’ve fallen 50 cents, and you heard me go
through some of the numbers in terms of the relief for American
drivers.  
  
At the same time, we are not stopping there.  Okay?  This is nothing
close to a victory lap, because we have much more to do to achieve the
President’s agenda of helping families get some breathing room in this
tough environment, which is characterized by, of course, such highly
elevated prices.  
  
Now, if you can help people with prescription drugs, drugs that cost two
or three times less in other countries for the same pill; if you can
help a 60-year-old couple with a $45,000 income not have to pay another
$1,900 to get their insurance coverage, you are accomplishing the
President’s goals.  
  
Now, to do that, we need Congress to align and work with us.  And, you
know, Democrats — many Democrats are there when it comes to prescription
drugs.  
  
This is something that President Trump said he wanted to achieve.  And,
you know, he didn’t get there.  This President is pushing hard to
achieve that goal.  
  
One last point on this.  I’ve talked about mostly near-term relief,
because that’s so important for families who are seeking a little bit of
breathing room right now.  But there’s another piece of legislation on
the docket.  And that, of course, is CHIPS.  And this is something that
has had real bipartisan support.  I believe it got — I believe an
earlier version got 68 votes in the Senate.  
  
I think it is absolutely and critically important for this nation to
invest in domestic production of microprocessors.  Again, not only would
this be a criti- — not only would this be a highly favorable investment
for growth and for jobs, it would be disinflationary, because one of the
areas where we see inflationary pressures is, of course, in autos, which
now very much depend on chips.  
  
To be clear, that’s not a near-term intervention.  That’s not going to
show up, you know, in the next couple of months.  But longer term,
absolutely.  Supply chain, same thing.  
  
Q    Aren’t you having it both ways, Jared?  Because when the gas prices
go up, it’s got nothing to do with the President; when we see some
decline, you want him to get the credit.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  Look, I think that — that there’s — there’s no both-way
thinking here at all.  I think that there has been a consistent, I
think, pressure on this White House to try to do everything it could to
ameliorate inflationary pressures.  And the President has reacted from
the beginning, talking about how this was such an important priority to
alleviate these pressures on behalf of the American people.   
  
So what did he do?  He put his head down and got to work, and got us to
work, to do everything we could to achieve that goal.  
  
He then presided over the largest historical release of barrels of oil
from the Strategic Reserve — 180 million barrels.  Then he talked to
global partners to get them to kick in another 60 million.

Q    So when they rose, it was Putin’s fault.  When they’re coming down,
he gets the credit.  Is that (inaudible)?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, I very much disagree with that framing.  I think
what’s happening here is a President who is working tirelessly to
address the largest constraint — probably the toughest constraint —
facing American households right now: the budgetary impacts of these
elevated prices.  And we’re showing you here today some real results,
partially — that partially derived from concrete efforts he’s taken.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Eugene.

Q    With the different economic data releases we’ve seen, they aren’t
really consistent with each other.  So, out of all of the choices of
indicators, what does the administration see as the most important
indicators for how the economy is doing?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  That’s a great question.  So, there is no most important
indicator at the CEA.

Q    A group of indicators then.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, a group of them.  So, at the CEA, we — we just —
we just look at all of them.

And I think where I would take your question is that — we don’t give all
of them — it’s sort of like I was talking to this gentleman before about
the different weights that economists put on these variables when we’re
trying to assess the conditions of the business cycle. 

I think this is particularly relevant in the area of GDP. So, in terms
of real GDP, if you look at consumer spending and business investment,
you actually see some very solid numbers. And these are some of the
numbers — and particularly consumer spending — retail sales, consumer
spending, personal income, taking out transfers — these are some of the
measures that the Business Cycle Dating Committee look at, and so we’re
looking at them too.

And if you get under the hood of the GDP report from the Q1 — and we’ll
probably be — and we’ll certainly be getting under that same hood in Q2
— one of the things you see is consistently strong consumer spending.

Now consumer spending is 70 percent of our economy.  That’s actually
uniquely high.  In Europe, it’s about 55.  In China, it’s about 45.  So,
you know, I could tell you stories about my family and some of the
orders that I’ve seen come in from our own consumer preferences. 
They’re — (laughter) — this is a very —

Q    Please do.  (Laughter.) 

MR. BERNSTEIN:  This is a — I won’t.  I’m — this is a very acquisitive
nation —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

MR. BERNSTEIN:  — when you compare our consumer spending shares to other
countries.

So, when you’re looking at an economy with a 70 percent consumer
spending share, and then you look at a labor market, which is, of
course, as I said in my comments — which is, of course, where most
working people get their income; it’s from the labor market — and you
look at the level of elevated savings, which, again, has the
fingerprints of the Rescue Plan on it, you get a sense of what we’re
looking at in terms of economic indicators that continue to fuel pretty
robust consumer spending.

And that’s a — that’s an important, I think, element of the current
economy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let’s take a few more.  Go ahead.

Q    So, a quick one on student loan debt and cancellation.  Does the
White House believe — does the White House have any concern that
canceling any amount of student loan debt will further aggravate
inflation?  And what kind of a status update can you give us on the
President’s deliberations on that?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  I’m not going to get ahead of the President and give you
any kind of a status update.

What I will say are things that, you know, I myself have said and NEC
Director Brian Deese has said — that if you think about the inflationary
implications of student debt relief and you think about the — those of
restart — restarting payments — they push in different directions.  And
we think that the — we think, broadly speaking, that the — those effects
would essentially neutralize.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, Jared.  You said over the weekend that the President is
going to look to enact his climate agenda with or without Congress.  But
realistically, how much of it can he enact without Congress, especially
now that the Supreme Court has tied his hands to some degree when it
comes to emissions regulations at the EPA?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  I think, realistically, there is a lot he can do and
there is a lot he will do.  The President will aggressively fight to
attack climate change because he knows it’s one of the reasons he’s
here.  And it is absolutely core to transitioning from where we are to
where we need to be.

Now, I think I’ve given you a fulsome sense today of — that both of the
sides of that transition are important: affordability at the pump, yes,
but we also have to plot a path to clean energy.

I said over the weekend that it’s kind of unfathomable to me that — that
one wouldn’t appreciate this urgency.  If you look at the costs to our
economy of floods, of droughts, of fires; if you look at the global
economy and you see the kinds of heat waves that are occurring right
now, scientists will tell you all day that this very much relates to
global warming.  You’re talking about something like 100, 120 billion
dollars a year in costs to our economy.

If you think about the geopolitical costs occurring when a Russian
plutocrat weaponizes energy and fossil fuels and funds this unjust
aggression against Ukraine with it, you get another sense of just how
important it is to intervene.  And this all comes from conversations
we’ve had with the President.  That’s how urgent this is.

Now, you asked what can he do.  Let me start by telling you a little bit
about what he has done.  He has taken unprecedented action already to
tackle the climate crisis.  He’s invoked the — and this is
non-legislative — he’s invoked the Defense Production Act to make more
clean energy in America.  He’s jumped-started the offshore wind
industry.  He has set the strongest emissions standards ever.  And it is
our firm belief that he can and will continue to do so if the
legislative path is closed to him.  But he will also pursue that path as
well.  And this is how important and urgent it is to him.

Q    So then why do you think that — you know, you just laid out the
costs of inaction.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yep.

Q    Clearly, Senator Manchin believed that the cost of action was too
high in the face of high inflation.  Why do you think you weren’t able
to convince him that the cost of doing nothing would be higher?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  You know, I’m just — I just don’t have a great answer to
that question.  I mean, I think what we can do — and, you know, I hope
I’ve been a little bit convincing here in my conversation, but, you
know, I’ve worked for Joe Biden for a long time, and I’ve found him to
be profoundly convincing in this area. 

And, you know, he’s someone who’s been in the Senate for decades, so
it’s not like he grew up in a world where climate change and global
warming were, you know, the top of the agenda.  But his understanding of
that, his deep appreciation of the urgency of what I’ve just described
of you is — is as high as I’ve been stressing in my comments today.

So, I find — you know, I, personally, and I think lots of other people —
there were 81 million people who voted for him — find him extremely
convincing on this.  And when he says — you know, when “Fightin’ Joe
Biden” says he’s going to keep fighting for this issue, you know, I
think we should all believe him.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Two more.  Go ahead, Franco.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, Jared.  You talked earlier about the importance of
the prescription drugs efforts, but you also kind of took a sigh of deep
breath when asking the inability to convince Manchin on climate change. 
I mean, how — or how is the reduced or the smaller reconciliation
package — I mean, does the White House feel that’s a defeat?  And if
not, how not so?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Not even close.  I mean, the — accomplishing the
prescription drug agenda that the President has been talking about and
underscoring since before the campaign — I was his chief economist when
he was the Vice President lo these many years ago, and he was talking
about the importance of it back then.

I remember briefing him on these points about how prescription drugs are
two to three times more expensive here; how we could save Medicare $100
billion over 10 years by injecting competition into — into this — into
this space.  That just resonated with him, I think, probably ever since
he’s been aware of the issue.  And achieving that would be an absolutely
landmark goal not just on behalf of American seniors and their living
standards, but on behalf of this absolutely essential and much-loved
program called Medicare.

Q    But considering where the original proposal was, I mean —

MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, let me — I see where you’re going.  So, considering
where the original proposal was, I want to refer you to the comments I
just made. 

Sure, we will — this President will always try to pursue a legislative
pla- — path to get the best deal for the people who sent him up here to
do just that.

But if that path closes, he will find another path.  And he’ll keep
working on the legislative path.

Joe Biden is someone who’s been pulling legislative rabbits out of hats
for, you know, 30 — for three or four decades now, and he’s going to
continue to do so. 

So, whatever paths are open to — whatever paths are open to us, we will
take.  When those paths are closed, we’re going to find other paths. 
That’s how important this agenda is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jim.  And then Kelly O, you’ll have the last
one.

Q    Back to reconciliation.  Obviously, one of the parts of the
President’s agenda had been a global tax deal that this administration
has led the world in sealing.  But now, because of the dropped tax
provisions in reconciliation, the United States will not be in
compliance with the deal that it negotiated essentially.  How can you
possibly expect the rest of the world to follow along if the U.S. is not
going to actually be in compliance with the deal?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, let me say a few things about that, kind of warming
up to the answer, because I want to just give a little bit of a runway. 
First of all, I do want to give — I do want to give a real shout-out to
Secretary Yellen, who’s worked very hard in this space and has
accomplished a lot in terms of working with our global partners.

And I think one of the things you got when Joe Biden came to the White
House is a President who was going to reengage with global partners in a
way that delivered the progress we’ve made thus far.

I also want to say something about this idea that has come up in some
recent discussions that somehow increasing taxes leads to higher
inflation.  It’s hard for me to even put the phrase together because I
think it’s — it’s really — it’s really the other way.

When you — when you increase taxes, particularly on those the most —
particularly on those at the highest incomes — so you’re not talking
about people who are liquidity constrained for whom inflation is nearly
the problem that it is for middle- or lower-income people.  When you’re
talking about tax increases for those at the top of the income scale,
this is deficit reducing, and reducing the deficit is disinflationary,
not inflationary.

By the way, just a side note here — I was just looking at some of these
numbers in my preparation for the shows I did yesterday: The budget
deficit has come down 77 percent in this fiscal year, in the nine months
of this fiscal year, from October 21 through June 22.  That’s the
largest decline on record over that part of a fiscal year.  And I know
some people say, “Well, that’s all just spending coming off of the
Rescue Plan.”  In fact, spending is down — spending is down eigh- — I
think I have these numbers right.  Yeah.  Spending is down 18 percent. 
Receipts — tax receipts are up 26 percent. 

I’ll put these later out on my blog today, @EconJared46.  (Laughter.) 
I’m going to put these out, so I have these I — I’m pretty sure I’m
remembering them correctly.  So —

Q    About the global tax deal?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, I’ll get back to that in a second.

Q    Okay.  
  
MR. BERNSTEIN:  So, deficit reduction — deficit reduction is
disinflationary, and tax increases, you know, fit into that.

Now, in terms of the global tax deal, there’s a lot of moving parts
going on with that right now, Jim.  The President remains fully
committed to this; the Treasury Secretary fully committed to this.  We
have a staff that’s worked on this intensely for month after month after
month.  And it is — it is — any rumors of its demise are hugely
premature.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Kelly O, last question.

Q    I have one quick follow-up and then one question.  On the issue,
right off the bat, that Jeff asked about — preparing for a recession:
Understanding that you made it clear that you don’t see those factors,
how important is it for you to give the President guidance on what could
trigger a recession so that he can take action?

And then secondly, what have you learned from your national security
colleagues about what came out of Saudi Arabia and how that might affect
gas prices and your expectations on what OPEC and others might do in a
few weeks?  “In a few weeks” is what the President had said.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Let me start with the second part of your question.  We
saw Saudi Arabia say it would work to increase its capacity for oil
production.  And I’d refer you to them for more information on that.

Remember, they’re a key member, of course, of the OPEC cartel.  And as
the President said, we welcomed their decision — OPEC’s decision — to
increase production by 50 percent above what was planned for July and
August.  So that’s already in the mix.

Now, in terms of keeping the President abreast of these issues, one of
the things we do at CEA — I don’t know how — this is one of the ways we
spend a lot of our time, and I suspect folks know about it, but just so
you know — is that every economic report that we get, we write up and we
put it in the President’s book: industrial production, GDP, jobs,
inflation, every — retail sales.  We, and particularly Chair Cecilia
Rouse of the CEA, are in very close contact with the President and
senior staff, always updating him on economic conditions.  So there’s
nothing I’ve told you today that he doesn’t know.

Q    And so in terms of his preparation for the potential of a
recession, he’s getting advised on that on a day-to-day basis?

MR. BERNSTEIN:  He is getting full information, just as I hope I’ve
given you today, on current economic conditions and anything we can see
around the corner.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you so much, Jared.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you for your time.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  My pleasure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We kept you long.  Thank you.

All right.  Come back any time.

MR. BERNSTEIN:  (Laughs.)  My pleasure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I forgot —

Q    He’d be a good Scrabble partner.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right?  I agree.  I agree. 

And welcome back to everyone who traveled with us to the Middle East.

Okay, I have one thing at the top, and then we’ll get going.

So I want to call out a few reports from over the weekend that
illustrate exactly what we are talking about when we say the impacts of
the Court’s decisions are devastating, extreme, and threaten — and
threaten women’s lives.  This is the Court decisions on Dobbs that came
down almost three weeks ago.

These reports also pull back the curtain on what some elected
Republicans officials are trying to do by taking away your rights,
taking away freedoms, and taking away privacy.

First, before Texas’s extreme abortion law took effect, it was reported
that one woman there received a standard procedure for a first trimester
miscarriage.  But after the extreme law, it was reported that when she
had another first trimester miscarriage, the same hospital wouldn’t
perform the same standard procedure.  Instead, they sent her home.  They
told her to return to the hospital only if her bleeding was so excessive
it filled a diaper more than once an hour.

This is outrageous.  
  
Now, another report we’re hearing: Republicans in Congress — more than
100 of whom have already said they’re in favor of a natio- — of a
nationwide abortion ban — are being urged by extremist groups to focus
on instituting such a ban at the federal level.  
  
So I want to repeat that again: a ban at the federal level, not just
state by state.  
  
So this would criminalize doctors and other healthcare providers who
provide abortions in every state across the country.  It’s becoming
clearer by the day that congressional Republicans want to strip away
rights, starting with a nationwide abortion ban and moving on to
marriage equality and contraception.  
  
With that, I welcome you to your first time in the AP seat, right?  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Seung Min, go ahead.  
  
Q    A couple quick questions on the Saudi trip.  And I’m wondering if
the President believes that the trip was a success and worth the
criticism that he faced domestically. 

And also, following up a little bit on Kelly’s question, when precisely
will Americans start to see tangible benefits coming from the trip?  Is
it the next OPEC+ meeting?  The President did seem to indicate something
in the coming weeks.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just going back — starting with your last question
first — and Jared basically touched on this, which is: We have to
remember, in early — in early June, OPEC+, which is — Saudi Arabia
clearly chairs OPEC+ — made that announcement that we welcomed about
increasing their production 50 percent in July and August.  
  
The conversations that the President had in Saudi Arabia, in the
bilateral meeting — that he actually read out, as you all know, in a
press conference that same Friday in Jeddah — they talked about energy
securities.  And Jake Sullivan actually said this as well, is that we
measure — we will measure success in the — in the next couple of — next
couple of weeks.  We anticipate to be an increase of production.  But
again, it’s going to take the next couple of weeks.  And that will be up
to OPEC+.  
  
Q    And also, the President has talked, obviously, a lot about his
support for a free and independent media, and so I’m wondering why the
U.S. press did not get access to that greeting between President Biden
and the Crown Prince and we had to rely on Saudi state media for the
images of that fist bump.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first — first thing, because I do want to touch —
you asked me another question about what we believe got done.  So let me
just read off a couple of things there.  And I’ll get to your — your
most recent question there.   
  
So, just so that folks know: Saudi Arabia announced it will open Saudi
airspace for flights to and from Israel — a historic decision that will
pave the way for a more integrated, stable, and secure Middle East.  
  
As you know, when Jake Sullivan and I gaggled on the plane when the
President flew from Israel to — to Saudi Arabia, that was a historic
flight.  So just want to make sure that we — we acknowledge that.  
  
The GCC+3 pledged billions to address food — food security resulting
from Putin’s war against Ukraine.  
  
Saudi Arabia committed to support global oil market balancing for
suspended economic growth.  This is what you were just asking me about. 
The United States has welcomed the OPEC+ decision to increase production
by 50 percent.  
  
On the climate crisis, which is also part of the agenda, we’re
collecting invest- — collectively investing hundreds of billions of
dollars in clean energy initiatives, increasing our climate ambition and
working together to diversify supply chains and invest in critical
infrastructure.  
  
And we’re doing everything possible to extend and strengthen the
U.N.-medic- — -mediated truce in Yemen, which is the first one in seven
years, where 70,000 Americans work and live.  And so, again, we’re
seeing the longest peace in that — there in Yemen in some time.  
  
To your — to your first question: Look, we — as you know, we tried ev- —
we do everything that we possibly can when we go to a host country to
make sure that you all have access, that there is transparency, which is
why you heard from the President directly and he held a press conference
that Friday in Jeddah, as I just mentioned, so that he can read out
himself what — what occurred in the bilat.  And also, you all were able
to ask questions.  
  
Sometimes it is not perfect; we understand that.  But we want you to
know we do everything that we can to make sure that you all have
access.  We did that with the bilat, by having a pool spray at the top,
and other — other — other meetings as well.  
  
So we — we do our best.  We want to make sure, again, that you guys hear
from the President directly, you get to see what is occurring in some of
the — some of these meetings that are happening.  And we will continue
to make sure that we make that a priority as we — as we continue to do
our travels.

  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the President — now that he’s back from —
from Saudi Arabia, does the President still believe that Saudi Arabia
and the Crown Prince should be considered a pariah, or did this trip
change his view about that?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you heard from the President again on Friday,
he made very clear that how he — that he made his views very clear to
the Crown Prince on that during their bilat meeting.  And he even said
it would be inconsistent — right? — for a President of the United States
not to speak of our values, not to — not to talk about human rights. 
And it would be inconsistent, to be quite frank, of Joe Biden not to do
that.   
  
So he was very clear about where — about where he stood about Jamal
Khashoggi’s death, murder.  He mentioned it from the start of their
meeting.  
  
And when it comes to — you know, his — his comments stand.  You know,
they — he has — he has been pretty clear about that, about — about where
he stands on the comments that he made during the campaign.

And look, I think one of the other things that I do want to be very
clear about is, you know, if we’re going to talk about human rights, if
we’re going to talk about our values, we believe — he believes it’s
important to have that straightforward leader-to-leader conversation.  
  
The President has talked about that many times, about how important it
is to talk directly and frankly with leaders when it comes to our
values, when it comes to issues like human rights.  And he will continue
— he will continue to have those conversations.

Q    And yet the Saudis say that that conversation about Khashoggi never
happened.  The foreign minister says he was there and he didn’t hear the
President confront MBS in that way.  So are they lying about that?  And
if so, does that indicate that, actually, they are not getting the
message?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: The President was asked this
question and he spoke to it directly.  And I do believe that, you know,
if — if anyone telling you differently about what the President said,
they weren’t listening to the President himself when he was asked that
question, when he spoke about how he brought up the death of Jamal
Khashoggi.  So I’ll leave — I’ll leave it to what the President said
when he was asked directly most recently about that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  On the Uvalde school shooting, was the
President briefed on the findings by the Texas state legislators
investigating the law enforcement response, the report that was just
released?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So he’s — he’s aware of the report.  I will say this:
It is — it is devastating — the report.  It adds — and, frankly,
unacceptable — the report that came out just, I believe, just
yesterday.  You know, it adds on more questions to how law enforcements
reacted, their role on that — on that day — on that tragic day.

As you all know, we’ve mentioned this before and you heard from the
Department of Justice, they are doing their own review.  And so I will
leave that — their own independent review of what — exactly what
happened that day.  And so I will leave that to them on any further
comments.

Q    And what was the President’s reaction when he was made aware of
this? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I wasn’t there when he was made aware, but I do
know that he is — he’s aware of the report.

Q    And on oil and gas prices, Jared Bernstein came out, seemed to
highlight these prices being down.  But many industry analysts think
that this could be just a temporary reprieve, that these prices could
very well be going up again, maybe even in the fall.  Oil was trading
above $100 today.  How concerned is the administration that oil and gas
prices could be on the upswing again in the short term?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President is going to continue to do
everything that he can to make sure that the — the American public gets
that — continues to get that little bit of relief.

Look, what we’re seeing here today, what we’re seeing in the last 34
days and that 50 cents — now we’re seeing 50 cents on average per gallon
that has come down.  We see, in 30 states across the country, we see a
gallon — we see gas at $3.99. 

Like — like Jared said, we’re not doing a victory lap, but this is
important.  This is important to note that the work that we have done,
the work that we will continue to do is going to give relief — $25 a
month — to American families.

We’re talking about nurses.  We’re talking about teac- — teachers.
 We’re talking about firefighters.  This is going to have a real impact
on their lives.

And — and so, look, you know, what we’re looking at is what we’re seeing
currently, what we’re seeing at this moment.   And I think it’s
important to lift that up.  
  
And again, the 1 million barrels a day from the Strategic Petroleum — a
historic — historic action by the President; the 240 million barrels
that the President was able to get leaders to do; the ethanol 15, which
is the homegrown biofuels which helped lower gas prices across — in gas
stations across the country — all of these actions are important.

Now, do we need to do more as we talk about inflation, as we talk about
the elevated number that we’re — that we’re seeing in inflation?  Yes. 
That’s why the President is going to continue to work with Congress to
make sure that we’re lowering costs for the American families — like
prescription drugs, for example.  And if we are able to do that, we are
on the cusp, as Jared was saying, to making — to really winning against
one of the wealthiest special interest groups, which is Big Pharma.   
  
All of these things are important to note.  And again, we’re just going
to continue doing the work.  But also, we want to highlight what has
occurred these past 34 days.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Karine, what is the White House’s strategy now for engaging with
Senator Manchin going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as — as we like to say here, we’re not going to
negotiate in public.  We — you know, the President and Senator Manchin
have a very close relationship.  We will continue to have the
conversations that we have been having with him for the past 18 months
on a different — a variety of issues.  But again, not going to negotiate
in public.   
  
But we do want to — want to lift up, you know, what we’re — what’s about
to happen.  What we’re on the cusp of doing with the reconciliation bill
is going to impact tens of millions of Americans lives.  And that
matters as we’re looking at healthcare. 

When it comes to climate change, you saw the President’s statement just
recently: If Senate doesn’t act on that and doesn’t take action on
climate, he has a contingency plan, which is using his executive
authority to make sure that we take — take on climate — climate change
in a way that’s going to be effective.

I don’t have anything to read out to you on that particular action.  But
again, we’re not going to negotiate from here, and we’re going to just
continue to make sure that we deliver for the American public.

Q    Do you feel like Senator Manchin led the White House on with regard
to climate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to negotiate in public here.  I’m
not going to lean in or give any — pull back the curtain on private
conversations.

What we’re — we are prepared to act if need be, if Senate is not able to
include the climate provisions that we have discussed.

But again, what we’re seeing right now with — with the reconciliation as
it relates to Medicare and being able for Medicare to negotiate bringing
down drug prices, that is an important step.  So, we’re going to
continue to do the work.

Q    And when you say and the President says he’s prepared to act on
climate, what’s the timeframe for that?  Do you wait until the fall?  Do
you get started before that?  What’s the overall timeframe?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have a timeline for you at this point.  As
you know, discussions, negotiations are currently happening.  And so we
will see where the Senate lands.

Q    You spoke before the trip about advising the President about
reducing contact due to COVID and the variants.  And we saw some fist
bumping, but we also saw some embraces and some handshakes and so
forth.  So just for record-keeping purposes, has the President had a
negative test since he returned home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that’s a good question.  I would have to check with
our team.  As you know, he gets regularly tested, as — as — you know, as
the advice from his doctor.  So he has a regular cadence that his doctor
decides on. 

We did provide, on — on the gaggle last week, I provided that he had
tested negative on his — right before heading out to the Middle East. 
And then we sent out a pool note, as — I believe as we were going to
Saudi Arabia, because there were testing requirements, and he had tested
negative then.

I will work to get that information for you. 

Q    If we could make certain of that —

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    — since we don’t see him in public today.

And the First Lady of Ukraine is coming and has scheduled for a visit
with Dr. Biden.  Do you expect the President will drop in on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any more details to share with you. 
I know she’s meeting with Secretary Blinken today.  She’s meeting — this
is the First Lady of Ukraine — is also going to be meeting with
Administrator Power.  
  
Once we have more information on our side on what the schedule looks
like this week and if that includes her, we will certainly share that.

Q    Karine, I —  
  
Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’ll come to you after.

Q    Just following up on something — something the Vice President said
today.  Does the President agree with her that the recent Supreme Court
decision on abortion access is similar to slavery?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen her comments.  I would like to see her
comments for myself before —

Q    The comment was, “We know, NAACP, that our country has a history of
claiming ownership over human bodies.  And today, extremists, so-called
leaders, are criminalizing doctors and punishing women from making
healthcare decisions for themselves.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, she is correct: Today’s decisions are
criminalizing doctors and essentially taking the rights away from women,
taking the freedom away from women, really taking away people’s
privacy.  That does matter, and that is important.

Q    And she’s invoking slavery.  So the President agrees?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, for me — I appreciate you reading out what she
said — I need to actually see exactly what was — what was — what was
said and in what — in what complete context.  That’s what I need to do
as a spokesperson for the administration.

But I will say that second part of what you just said, the Vice
President is actually right.  I just — I just — at the top, I just laid
out what women are going through in this country because of an extreme
decision that SCOTUS made.  Because of what they did, it is going to
upend and change the lives of women across the country. 

And we have to be — we — now we have to be mindful about contraception,
we have to be mindful about marriage equality, because they have made it
really clear — extreme Republicans, ultra-MAGA Republicans have made it
clear that that is what they’re going after next.  So that does matter.

Q    And then following up about this comment that the Saudis say did
not happen but the President says did happen: Did you personally hear
the President raise the issue of Khashoggi’s murder with MBS?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I trust the President.  He — he made those comments,
as you heard directly from him, during — during the press conference. 
And he said at the top of the meeting, he mentioned Jamal Khashoggi.

And so —

Q    But you did not hear him say that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just saying to you that the President himself — I
was not in the meeting, to answer that question.  But the President
himself said and laid out very clearly — and — and just to be clear,
that press conference happened because he wanted to make sure that you
all heard from him directly.  That was the President’s decision.  He
wanted to make sure that he read out what occurred in the bilateral
meeting with — with the Saudi — Saudi Arabia government.

Q    But — so, ultimately, we get back from this trip, there’s no new
peace talks in the Middle East, there’s no new commitment to increase
oil production in the Gulf.  So what was the point of this trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just read out earlier, Peter, of all of the things
that had occurred that we — some of the do-outs or the — some of the
things that we were able to get done during this trip.

Look, I want to — let’s step back for a second and talk about what the
President was trying to do on this trip.  If you look at this region,
the Middle East, it’s a critical region. The President — his intent was
to make sure that there was not a vacuum in the region so that you
didn’t have China and Russia stepping in trying to fill that vacuum.

And so it’s important for the United States to make sure that we’re
having those conversations, direct leader-to-leader conversations, and
that we — and that we talk about our national security, we talk about
food security, we talk about climate change.  All are issues that are
important to the American family.

And so as it relates to the oil production — I talked about and Jared
talked about what OPEC — OPEC+ did early in June — we are confident that
we will be able to measure how — the success of those conversations that
the President had in the next several weeks.

Q    Why not insist on a commitment though?  He gets back with no
commitment, and the price of oil per barrel shot up.  Is that what the
President wanted, to go there and have the price of oil get more
expensive?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s — so, again — but again, we have seen gas
prices go down in the past 34 straight days — go down —

Q    Aren’t they still $2 a gallon higher than when you guys took office
though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  First of all, we have to look at the imp- — at how we
got there, right?  You think about the war that Russia has taken on in
Ukraine — an unmitigated war, a war that is brutal and that has had an
effect on the price gases going up almost $2.  We have talked about that
endlessly.  And also, we are also in a once-in-a-generation pandemic. 

So there are outside factors that has led to gas prices going up, to
food prices going up, to inflation going up.  So that is really
important.

What we have seen in the last 34 days is that gas prices have gone down
by 50 — on average, by 50 cents a gallon.  That matters.  That matters
to teachers, that matters to firefighters, that matters to nurses, that
matters to everyday people.  And the President is going to continue to
do the work to make sure the prices go down.

I’m going to go — I’m going to continue, Peter.  Thank you.

Actually, let me try and go to people I haven’t called on.  Go ahead,
Jenny.

Q    Thanks.  Jared was just talking about the broader reconciliation
bill, which would have increased taxes on the wealthy, and he said this
is not something that he views as inflationary.  You know, you guys have
talked about how this would reduce the deficit.

So with Senator Manchin saying his exact, you know, concern with doing a
bill like this is inflation, does the White House regard that claim as
credible?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: We have heard from economic experts
out there.  We have heard from even Jason Furman, folks who are critical
of us who have said that — said the opposite: that the President’s plan
on reconciliation will actually bring down inflation — an anti-inflation
bill, if you will.

And if you look at — if you look at — when you bring down the deficit,
as you all know, that actually will help inflation.

So, look, I’ll lead you to the expert.  I am not an economic expert. 
But they have said themselves this is an anti-inflation bill and it will
help — help with that fight and what we’re trying to do, which is our
number one economic priority, the President’s number one economic
priority, which is bring inflation down.

Q    So you don’t really see Senator Manchin’s claim that inflation is
why he pumped the brakes on it as a credible claim?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t — I am not a spokesperson for Senator Joe
Manchin.  As you know, I am a spokesperson for the President of the
United States.  And what I can tell you is what experts have said —
economic experts have said.  And so that’s where I will send you.

Q    And one more on the CHIPS bill, which seems like actually it’s
moving forward this week. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)

Q    So, congrats.  There’s a — there’s a provision that seems to be a
little bit fluid on whether or not to prohibit certain investments if
you take semiconductor subsidies in China.  Intel is one of the
companies that is lobbying against this.  What’s the White House stance
on this?  And do you have a message for Intel and companies like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: The CHIPS Act is intended to bolster
American competitiveness and our own domestic supply chain security. 
That’s why we continue to support strong guardrails, as you — as you’re
alluding to there, Jenny, which also have bipartisan support in
Congress, to make sure CHIPS incentives generate more semiconductor
investment here in the U.S., not in China.  So — and guardrails help
slow the growth of investment in China.  That is why such an important
part of the bill — it is such an important part of the bill.  And — and
we believe in strong guardrails.

Go ahead, Ken.  I said I would get back to you.

Q    Yeah.  Karine, on Ukraine, President Zelenskyy replaced his head of
domestic intelligence and the prosecutor general.  He said during the
weekend that hundreds of treason investigations have been opened on new
employees of law enforcement agencies.  Is there any concern that Russia
may be infiltrating Ukraine security networks and undermining the war
effort?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, I’ll say this: You know, we, per usual,
don’t speak to any personnel arrangements or domestic politics.  That is
not something that I will do from him here. But I’ll say this: For our
part, we will continue to work with our partners in Ukraine to help them
defend against Russian aggression and with the Ukrainian Prosecutor
General’s office as they document the war crimes and atrocities that
Russian forces in Ukraine are committing.  We also continue to support
Ukraine’s ongoing anti-corruption reforms as well.

Q    And Senator Cruz, over the weekend, said on his podcast that the
Supreme Court was clearly wrong in overreaching when it legalized
same-sex marriage in 2015.  What is the White House view on that?  Is —
does that raise a lot of concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll — it should — it should raise concerns.  As
we know from the Dobbs decision, one of the things that we saw from —
from <s>Judge</s> <s>Thompson</s> \[Justice Thomas\] is that they’re
looking to go further, whether it’s privacy, contraception, or marriage
equality. 

Now, you know, you all know that this President has supported marriage
equality for some time.  This is something that he believes in, and this
is something that he will — he will continue to fight for.

I’m trying to call folks I haven’t called on.

Oh, go ahead.  Sorry.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Did the President urge Saudi Arabia to stop
purchasing oil from Russia?  Because Saudi Arabia has actually doubled
its Russian oil imports this quarter, which is, of course, helping
Russia’s cash flow.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I — I don’t have anything to read out for you on
that.  As you know, at the G7, one of the conversations that came up
when the President was there recently in Europe, in Germany
specifically, was how to put a cap on Russia — Russia oil.  That is a
conversation that was started.  It is continuing on the staff level. 
And that, as you know, will have an effect on — on the price of Russia’s
oil.  And so, we’re continuing to have those discussions. 

Q    And you spoke earlier about the President’s contingency plan
regarding taking executive actions on climate, but do you believe the
President can still keep the commitments he made to world leaders on
reducing emissions through executive actions if Congress fails to act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re going to do everything that we can to make
sure that we are taking action on climate — the climate crisis.  And so,
again, the President has — I think Jared read this all — read this
already, but just want to reiterate what he said: From day one, he fina-
— the President finalized regulations to rapidly phase out super
pollutants.  He jumpstarted the offshore industry.  And he set the
strongest-ever emissions standard for cars and trucks. 

So this is something that is incredibly important to the President.  He
thinks it is — it is urgent to act on the climate crisis, to take
action.  And that’s why if Congress — Senate doesn’t act on the climate
component of reconciliation, he’s ready to take executive — use his
executive authority.

All right.  I’m going to see who I haven’t called on.  Go ahead.  Go
ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senator McConnell says President Biden planned to
nominate Chad Meredith, an anti-abortion Federalist Society member for
Kentucky District Judge position as a, quote, “personal friendship
gesture.”  Why would the President do that when he’s vowed that DOJ will
do everything in their power to protect women’s access to abortion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what I’ll say on that is that, as you heard from
Rand Paul, he was not ready — he’s not — he’s not ready to move forward
with the blue <s>chip</s> \[slip\] — is that process in the Senate.  And
so we are not going to be nominating Chad Meredith.

Q    Was it initially a personal friendship gesture, as Senator
McConnell said?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That part of — of your comment is not something that
I’m aware of.  I’m just telling you where we are currently at this time.

Q    But generally speaking, why was the President planning to nominate
Mr. Meredith in the first place, given that he has said that DOJ would
do everything in its power to protect abortion access for women?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that doesn’t — that doesn’t change anything. 
DOJ is going to do everything in its power.  You heard directly from the
President about that.  You heard — he signed an executive order on what
DOJ is going to do and what — and formalizing what DOJ is going to do,
and formalizing what HHS is going to do.

That is something that the President is in — is very much committed to. 
And certainly, he’s not going to back away from that.  He wants to make
sure that women’s rights are protected. Just talked about what could
happen next, which is a national ban on abortion, which would be
devastating for so many women across the country.  We talked about what
else Republicans are thinking about doing when it comes to
contraception, when it comes to privacy, when it comes to marriage
equality. 

This is — this is a very serious time.  And we need to make sure that we
are paying attention to what potentially could — could be happening
next.  And so, again, I don’t have much more to add on your question.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Is the administration in touch with the
authorities in Ghana?  I know the — Ghana declared today their first —
their first-ever outbreak of Marburg virus disease.  Is the White House
in touch with them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that last part.  The what disease?

Q    Marburg.  It’s called Marburg —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mar- — okay, let me —

Q    — virus disease.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, let me go back to the team and get more info on
— for you on that.

Q    And then, what’s your strategy in reassuring the international
community that, yes, the President met with the killer of Saudi Arabia
but the U.S. remain committed in human right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — so this is what I said earlier to someone
who asked me: The President be- — the President believes that it is
important — as we are talking about human rights, as we are talking
about American values, it is important to have those frank and direct
conversations with leaders and be very, very clear on where we stand as
a country.  
  
This is what the President — you heard directly from him when he held a
press conference in Jeddah, as I’ve stated many times at this point
today, this afternoon.  He made that very clear.  He spoke directly, he
spoke firmly, and that is a convers- — a continuing conversation that he
is going to have.  
  
Human rights issues come up frequently when he is meeting
leader-to-leader.  That will not stop.  That will not end.  And this is
something that the President has been committed to for — for his entire
career.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just picking up on climate, you mentioned that
there’s no timeline on the administration taking action.  But does the
administration have an executive order or executive plans ready?  Or is
— does there need to be a process to consult, to plan?  I mean, how far
along are you in the process?  I mean, how have you been preparing for
the contingency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have a timeline for you at this time, is
what I was trying to say.  Look, I’m not going to comment on any
specific action.  I don’t want to get ahead of the process — of the
policy process, and certainly don’t want to get ahead of the
President.  
  
But what I — the point that we are trying to make here is that he is
committed to taking action on climate — on climate change, on clim- —
taking action on climate.  
  
But right now, I just don’t have anything to share at this point.

  
Q    But is there anything you can share on what — how has the
administration been in the process of preparing for this type of
contingency?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not getting ahead of the policy process.  
  
Q    Okay.  One more.  Can you just say when the President will announce
his decision on China tariffs?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I — we — I don’t have anything more to read out
for you on China tariffs.  
  
Look, the way that it was handled by the last administration was — was —
you know, they — it got — it was bungled.  If you — if you — if I’m
going to be really, you know, honest here, it was not done in an
effective way.  China has not done their part.  And so, the President
wants to make sure that — that his team is looking at every option, is
looking at exactly how to move forward.  
  
We just don’t have an announcement to share or anything to preview at
this time.

  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Just to go back to Senator Manchin and the energy provisions, he
said on the radio, on Friday, that he didn’t tell Senator Schumer that
he was out on the energy and climate provisions, just that he wanted to
see another month of inflation data.  So if it’s such a crisis that the
President is bent on dealing with — the climate crisis — why not wait
another month to see what the inflation data, which the administration
thinks will be better, look like and see if you can get Senator Manchin
on board for legislation?  Is the President effectively saying he
doesn’t believe that the odds are good of that happening if he waited an
extra month?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Well right now the Senate is still hav- — are still
in talks; they’re still negotiating.  And so the President has put — put
forth a contingency plan.  If that climate change provision that we have
been discussing is not in that Senate reconciliation plan, he will
act.   
  
But right now, we’re — we’re letting the negotiations happen.  We’re
letting that process continue.  Again, we don’t negotiate in public.  
  
But again, what we’re trying to say here is the President is — is ready
to act when — if needed.

  
Q    Well, because in his statement he said he wants a bill by August,
which would seem to rule out waiting for Senator Manchin.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the process is still — is still
happening.  I’m not — I’m not going to get ahead of the President.  It —
we are — what is today?  July — I don’t even know.  July 18th? 
(Laughs.)  And so, let — we’re going to let — let the Senate work on the
reconc- — reconciliation bill, let them have the — the conversations and
negotiations.  I’m just not going to get ahead of that at this time.

  
Okay.  Go ahead, Ashley.  
  
Q    Asking sort of the flip side of Jim’s question, I’m curious: Was
there anything Senator Manchin ever conveyed to the White House that
gave you guys any reason to believe that a West Virginia Democrat, in a
state that Trump won by almost 40 points, who’s accepted millions of
dollars from the fossil fuel industry would ever support any sort of
climate provision?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to comment on private conversations. 
Again, that is not something that we do here.  We say this all the
time.  I’m not going to comment on any back-and-forth that has occurred
with Senator Manchin or any other congressional member.  We’re going to
let the Senate continue to negotiate. 

When it comes to what we are seeing right now with the prescription
drugs — I have said this; Jared said this — that is — that is — we’re on
the cusp of a big win here, which is incredibly important for tens of
millions of Americans, as we speak about Medicare and them being allowed
to negotiate drug prices.

  
  
Q    So just following up briefly: More broadly, I mean, do you have any
reason to believe that you didn’t waste your time trying to get Senator
Manchin on board for any sort of climate, you know, legislation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into private conversations.

Okay.  All right, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I would like to ask about Moscow using energy
as a weapon in Europe.  There is a growing fear that Russia will not
restore natural gas deliveries to Europe after its ongoing annual
maintenance of Nord Stream 1, which could lead to a serious crisis in
Europe, to gas rati- — rationing.  How concerned is the President that
it may weaken Europe’s resolve?  And what the U.S. is doing to help?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple of things.  I just want to lay this down,
because it’s an important question that we want to address.  
  
So following, as you know, the further invasion of Ukraine, Russia
continues to use natural — natural gas as a political and economic
weapon, as you’re — as you’re stating, Merrick.   
  
Russia’s energy corrosion has put pressure on energy markets, raised
prices for consumers, and threatened global energy security.  
  
These actions only underscore the importance of the work both the United
States and the European Commission are doing to end our reliance on
Russian energy.

President Biden formed a task force, as you all know — we’ve announced
that here — on European energy security with EU President von der
Leyen.  The task force has met regularly to discuss options to reduce
Europe’s depen- — demand for natural gas.  It has also met with key
stakeholders to promote the deployment of heat pumps, smart thermostats,
and energy demand response solutions. 

So, we are also partnering to diversify energy supplies to Europe. 
Since March, global LNG exports to Europe have — have risen by 75
percent compared to 2021, while the U.S. LNG exports to Europe have
nearly tripled.  So, we continue to work with our European partners to
reduce the dependence on energ- — of Europe on Russian energy, to be
exact.

Q    Is that enough to help Europe to survive the winter?  Russia may at
any point, anytime, cut gas — natural gas deliveries to Europe.  It’s
real fear in Europe right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we understand that.  That’s why we created the
task force, and the task force is going to do everything that we can to
make sure that we deal that the depend- — that we deal with the
dependence that Europe — European countries have on — on Russian oil.

Look, we have seen — I just laid out — we have seen some progress.  And
so, we’re going to just kind of continue to work with our European
partners.

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, I’d like —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I was calling the gentleman in front.  Go ahead.

Q    On abortion: In two weeks, Kansas is going to vote — they’re going
to be the first state to vote on the abortion issue.  How much stake is
the administration putting on the result of that election, given the
fact that, you know, they’re going to be (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can’t speak directly to any specific elections. 
Look, the President has made clear: When we — when we — when we talk
about — when we talk about choice and we talk about where we are
currently with abortion, when we talk about Republicans who are trying
to make a national ban across the country, this is very serious,
dangerous outcomes that could — that are — that we’re facing with.

And so the President has been very clear: To make sure that Americans
get their voices heard and take it to the ballot box, that is the way
that we’re going to see real change.  That is the way that we can use
our political power.

He’s going to continue to say that but, at the same time, do everything
that he can as — from his executive authority, to — to what he can with
the federal government, to protect — to protect women.

Q    And then marriage came up earlier.  The House is expected to vote
on the Protect Our Marriage Act, I think tomorrow.  How much work will
the administration be doing to try and get that bill through the Senate
where it’s going to face much more (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we support that act, and we — we applaud — we
applaud Congress for moving forward.

As I mentioned earlier when I was just asked a question about marriage
equality, this is — this is an issue that the President has been
fighting for and speaking about for many, many years.  And so this is
certainly something that we support.

  
Go ahead.

Q    One of my colleagues at Politico are reporting today that the ACLU
obtained, and has since released, records publicly from DHS that show
use of mobile location data harvested from apps on hundreds of millions
of phones.  DHS was then able to use 336,000 location data points across
North America.  
  
This started under the Trump administration, and contracts have been
renewed under the Biden administration, basically tracking — knowing
where people are.  
  
When it comes to what DHS does, the work that DHS does, does the
President stand by using location data on this scale, especially in
light of concerns of the use of phone data when it comes to
period-tracking apps, which the administration has talked about quite a
bit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not seen this data, so I need to take a
look at it so that I can respond in a way that’s — that’s fulsome and be
able to answer your question.  I just haven’t seen that data.  But I
refer you at — any more specifics on that — clearly, I’ll refer you to
the Department of Homeland Security.

Q    But in general, does the administration — how does the
administration feel about using location data on their —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Honestly, Eugene, I just need — in order for me to
respond to your question, I just need to see exactly what you’re asking
me about and what — and what the data is.  I can’t do that without
knowing the specifics.

Q    And back to the firing of the Prosecutor General in Ukraine, how
concerned is the administration, given how closely she’s been working
with AG Garland?  And she was also replaced by someone who’s been
credibly accused of corruption.  How concerned is the administration
(inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: Like I said, we don’t get
involved and don’t comment on any political domes- — domestic politics
that happens in another country.  
  
We’re going to continue to work closely with Ukraine on their fight for
democracy, on their fight against Russia’s aggression, and also their
corruption reform.  As I just stated, we’ll work — we’ll continue to
work with them on that.

Okay.  I’ll take one more question.  Let me — go ahead.

Q    Without congressional action on climate, does the White House, does
the President see any viable path for reaching his goal of the U.S.
cutting carbon emissions in half by 2030?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that again.  I didn’t hear you.

Q    Without congressional action on climate, does the President see any
viable path to reaching his goal of cutting carbon emissions in half by
2030?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, negotiations are still happening, and so we
leave that to Senate and see exactly what is — what the next — what the
process is go- — where the process is going to land.

The President is, again, ready to act, ready to take executive authority
— use his executive authority if — if that climate change provision is
not included in the reconciliation bill.

I’m not going to get into specifics or get into hypotheticals at this
time, but we’re going to continue — again, to just let the Senate work.

I’m — MJ, I know you had a question.  I’m going to let you go ahead and
ask a question.

Q    I —

Q    Does he think that goal can be reached just using executive
authority?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.  Let’s
see where negotiations go.  The President — as you know, as we have said
— he is committed to taking on — taking on climate change.  He thinks
that it is urgent to do that; there’s an urgent matter to do that now. 
And — and so we’re going to — we’re going to let the negotiations
continue.  Again, I’m not going to negotiate from public or speak to
hypotheticals.

Go ahead, MJ.

Q    I have two quick questions.  First, on the baby formula: The recent
data indicates that more than 20 percent of formula products are still
out of stock.  Just wondering what the White House’s assessment is right
now of why that is the case, particularly given that we’ve seen, you
know, for weeks now, a ton of formula being flown into the country.  And
does it have a sense of when things will actually start to normalize?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll say this: The federal government has worked in
lockstep with private — private sector to ramp up domestic production
and to increase the supply of safe infant formula, which we understand
is incredibly critical for families across the country as they’re trying
to make sure that they’re feeding their — their babies, their children,
safe — safe baby formula. 

This is what this is all about — safety — and that’s our priority here,
but also making sure that we’re doing everything that we can to get — to
get that out. 

We’re ramping up domestic production, including invoking the Domestic
Production Act, as you all know, which has allowed companies to increase
production.  We’re increasing imports.  Already, the FDA has granted
enforcement discretion for companies to import over 524.1 million
8-ounces bottles worth of infant formula, including over 5 million
bottles of medical specialty formula, which is important as you’re
asking me about formula and bottles. 

And third, we’re enhancing WIC flexibilities by waiving rules and
restrictions that prevented low-income mothers from getting formula. 
All 50 states have taken action issuing more than 200 waivers. 

Look, this is a priority, continues to be a priority for us.  We’re
going to do everything that we can to increase production.  But — and —
but again, we want to make sure that the safety is first.

Q    And I just had one more follow-up on the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — Saudi trip.  When the President came back from his trip, he was
asked if he regretted the fist bump with the Saudi Crown Prince, and he
said, “Why don’t you guys talk about something that matters?”  Can you
just help us understand why he suggested that that fist bump did not
matter?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, here’s the thing: I think the way that the
President looks at this is — is what were the issues, the agenda that
was discussed, the policies that were — that were discussed, and what
were the deliverables. 

And so, you know, when the President goes out to — just across the
country and has these meetings, it is very important — you hear us talk
about this all the time — having that leader-to-leader conversation. 
This is a President that has been, you know, a senator for decades.  He
was the Vice President.  He was the President.  He understands how — how
this — these interaction works.  He understands how these relationship
works.  He has — he has experience in it that is — that he believes is
incredibly critical and important.

Look, again, when he went to the Middle East, it was making sure that
there was not a void for countries like Russia or China to — to step
into; to make sure that we were responding to Iran; to make sure that he
had conversations not just with Saudi Arabia, but 12 — a dozen other
leaders that were at the GCC+3.  And not only that — he was in Israel
right before he got to Jeddah.

So these are important — he believes these are important policies that
are going to help the American public.  That’s what he’s there for. 
When he goes out — yes, the region is important; yes, the region is
critical.  There’s national security conversations that need to be had
and other agenda items that need to be talked about.  But also, we’re
talking about the Americans’ interests.  We’re talking about how
important it is to make sure that we are delivering as well here
domestically. 

And so that is — that is the focus of the President.

Q    But on that comment, he does certainly understand why for a lot of
people, including Jamal Khashoggi’s family or colleagues —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely.

Q    — that fist bump and that meeting with MBS mattered a lot, right? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: The President spoke to — he was
asked directly about Khashoggi, his fiancée.  And he — you know, our
hearts go out to — to her.  Right?  Our hear- — our hearts go out to his
family, of course, and to his colleagues.  Of course, we understand the
pain that they are — that everyone is going through. 

That’s why when the President came into office, he released the
Khashoggi report — something that the last administration did not do. 
This is a promise that he made to Congress.  This was a promise that he
made to the American people, to do that.  And he took it a step further
to make sure that there was the Khashoggi ban, which is that — which
deals with visa and travel — and that has been used more than 70 times.

But we understand the pain that people are feeling, but he also wants to
make sure — he also wants to make sure that we’re talking about the
policy, that we’re talking about the agenda, that we’re talking about
what occurred that is going to help the American public as well. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you tomorrow.

4:39 P.M. EDT
