---
date: '2025-06-04'
modified_time: 2025-06-04 15:49:49-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-04 15:48:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/06/presidential-message-on-the-83rd-anniversary-of-the-battle-of-midway/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 83rd Anniversary of the Battle of Midway
---
 
Today marks the 83rd anniversary of America’s seminal victory at the
Battle of Midway—a watershed moment in World War II that set the Allied
Forces on the path to ultimate triumph over forces of evil.

After the shocking attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, Imperial
Japan surged across the Pacific—dealing Allied forces a series of
defeats from the fall of the Philippines, to the capture of Hong Kong
and Singapore, to devastating air raids over Australia.  With the U.S.
Navy still reeling from the surprise attack, Japan’s ruthless push for
regional dominance seemed unstoppable. 

By the summer of 1942, Japan set its sights on Midway Island—a tiny
American outpost with massive strategic value, just over 1,000 miles
from Hawaii.  The Japanese plan was clear: lure what remained of the
battered U.S. Pacific Fleet out of Pearl Harbor, destroy it, and capture
Midway, from where they would launch further offensives across the
Pacific.

President Franklin D. Roosevelt knew our Armed Forces had to act
decisively.  He tasked Admiral Chester Nimitz, a submariner and newly
appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Pacific Fleet, with launching a
full-scale effort to restore the Navy’s remaining ships to fighting
condition.  With vital intelligence from American codebreakers, the
Allies stayed one step ahead, anticipating the major elements of Japan’s
strategy.

At dawn on June 4, 1942, the U.S. Navy struck back.  Despite facing a
larger enemy force and suffering heavy losses, the U.S. fleet under the
command of Admirals Jack Fletcher and Raymond Spruance fought with
unmatched resolve.  In the course of twenty-four hours, they sank four
Japanese aircraft carriers, destroyed a heavy cruiser, and crushed
Japanese hopes of advancing deeper into the eastern Pacific—paving the
way for our Nation’s acceptance of Japan’s unconditional surrender and
the end of World War II in 1945.

Today, former enemies stand united as allies.  The United States and
Japan have forged an enduring partnership built on the shared values of
freedom, sovereignty, and an abiding commitment to peace across the
Indo-Pacific.  Together, we are advancing the causes of safety,
security, prosperity, and liberty—all while confronting threats from
China and North Korea.

The epic Battle of Midway stands to this day as a glorious reminder
that, even in the face of long odds, perilous danger, and tremendous
uncertainty, no challenge is too great for the strength of the American
spirit.  As our Nation commemorates this legendary battle, we honor the
grit of our servicemen, we pay tribute to the sacrifice of our veterans,
and we vow to carry forward the legacy of the fallen heroes who secured
victory over tyranny in the Pacific 80 years ago.
