---
date: '2025-06-04'
published_time: 2025-06-04 17:50:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/06/first-lady-melania-trumps-message-to-federal-trade-commission-underscores-commitment-to-child-protection-online/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "First Lady Melania Trump\u2019s Message to Federal Trade Commission Underscores\
  \ Commitment to Child Protection Online"
---
 
Today, First Lady Melania Trump reaffirmed her commitment to the
protection and well-being of children and youth in the digital space by
sending a written message to participants of a Federal Trade Commission
(FTC) workshop entitled, “The Attention Economy: How Big Tech Firms
Exploit Children and Hurt Families.”

In her message, **Mrs. Trump said**, “I look forward to hearing the
outcomes from this workshop so we can continue to shape federal policies
that protect children. We will work together to develop tools to empower
parents and youth, and we will lean on tech executives in the private
sector to do their part.” She went on to thank FTC Chairman Andrew
Ferguson for his leadership on this issue. The full text of First Lady
Melania Trump’s message is included below.

“I’m also incredibly grateful to the First Lady for her leadership on
the ‘TAKE IT DOWN Act’. Getting legislation done in any circumstance is
very difficult, and the ‘TAKE IT DOWN’ Act could not have gotten through
Congress without the First Lady’s intervention and leadership,” **said
Andrew Ferguson, Chairman of the Federal Trade Commission.** “The First
Lady’s advocacy in particular was extremely valuable to get this bill
across the finish line,” he continued.

Mrs. Trump’s message for the FTC workshop reflects her ongoing
commitment to promoting public and private sector collaboration for the
well-being of children and youth. Today’s event follows President
Trump’s
[signing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/05/first-lady-melania-trump-joins-president-trump-for-signing-of-the-take-it-down-act/)
of the “TAKE IT DOWN Act,” a new law that empowers individuals and
families to request the swift removal of non-consensual explicit
imagery—including content generated by artificial intelligence. Mrs.
Trump
[championed](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/03/readout-from-first-lady-melania-trumps-roundtable-discussion-on-online-protection-and-the-take-it-down-act/)
the passage of the “TAKE IT DOWN Act” through Congress, as part of her
[BE BEST
initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/videos/take-it-down-act-signed-into-law-%F0%9F%87%BA%F0%9F%87%B8/),
which has long focused on children’s well-being and online protection.

Click
[here](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/events/2025/06/attention-economy-tech-firms-exploit-children)
to read more about the FTC event.

**Full Text of First Lady Melania Trump’s Message:**

I send my greetings to those gathered at the Federal Trade Commission’s
Attention Economy Workshop.

At the White House, we recently celebrated the signing of the “TAKE IT
DOWN Act” as part of my BE BEST initiative, which is focused on
promoting children’s well-being and safety—especially in the digital
space. This new law reflects those values and marks real progress. But
our work is not complete.

I look forward to hearing the outcomes from this workshop so we can
continue to shape federal policies that protect children. We will work
together to develop tools to empower parents and youth, and we will lean
on tech executives in the private sector to do their part.

Like many of you, I’ve met with survivors and families whose lives have
been affected by non-consensual intimate imagery and deepfake abuse. Let
their courage continue to inspire us to find solutions to protect
children and youth from online harm. My thanks to Chairman Ferguson for
his leadership, and I thank all of you for your hard work to secure a
safer future for our children.

\###
