---
date: '2025-06-12'
published_time: 2025-06-12 18:45:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/06/statement-by-the-president/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Statement by the President
---
 
Today, I signed into law (1) H.J. Res. 87, “Joint Resolution providing
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States
Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency
relating to ‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control
Standards; Heavy-Duty Vehicle and Engine Emission Warranty and
Maintenance Provisions; Advanced Clean Trucks; Zero Emission Airport
Shuttle; Zero-Emission Power Train Certification; Waiver of Preemption;
Notice of Decision’”; (2) H.J. Res. 88, “Joint Resolution providing
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States
Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency
relating to ‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine Pollution Control
Standards; Advanced Clean Cars II; Waiver of Preemption; Notice of
Decision’”; and (3) H.J. Res. 89, “Joint Resolution providing
congressional disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States
Code, of the rule submitted by the Environmental Protection Agency
relating to ‘California State Motor Vehicle and Engine and Nonroad
Engine Pollution Control Standards; The ‘Omnibus’ Low NOX Regulation;
Waiver of Preemption; Notice of Decision’”.  

These bipartisan measures prevent California’s attempt to impose a
nationwide electric vehicle mandate and to regulate national fuel
economy by regulating carbon emissions.  Because of the joint
resolutions I signed today, California’s Advanced Clean Cars II,
Advanced Clean Trucks, and Omnibus Low NOX programs are fully and
expressly preempted by the Clean Air Act and cannot be implemented.  

Preemption of these programs is essential to preserving the
Constitution’s allocation of power both among the States and between the
States and the Federal Government.  It is the Federal Government, not
States, that should establish vehicle emissions standards given the
inherently interstate nature of air quality; a patchwork of State
vehicle regulations on this subject is unworkable.  Our Constitution
does not allow one State special status to create standards that limit
consumer choice and impose an electric vehicle mandate upon the entire
Nation.

  
As the Congress’s joint resolutions make clear, California’s attempts to
impose an electric vehicle mandate, regulate national fuel economy, and
regulate greenhouse gas emissions are not eligible for waivers of
preemption under section 209 of the Clean Air Act.  This provision of
the Clean Air Act authorizes the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
to grant waivers to California to address only compelling and
extraordinary localized issues.  It can never again be misused to
regulate greenhouse gas emissions, which inherently do not have
localized effects, much less compelling and extraordinary local effects,
or vehicle emissions across the Nation.

  
Under the Congressional Review Act, the EPA cannot approve any future
waivers that are “substantially the same” as those disapproved in the
joint resolutions.  The core of the waivers at issue are their
authorization of California to regulate greenhouse gas and NOX emissions
from internal combustion engines and to impose what amounts to an
electric vehicle mandate across the Nation.  Accordingly, the joint
resolutions prohibit the EPA from approving future waivers for
California that would impose California’s policy goals across the entire
country and violate fundamental constitutional principles of federalism,
ending the electric vehicle mandate for good.  

                              DONALD J. TRUMP  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    June 12, 2025.
