---
date: '2025-06-22'
modified_time: 2025-06-22 20:29:37-04:00
published_time: 2025-06-22 20:29:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/06/presidential-message-on-the-80th-anniversary-of-the-battle-of-okinawa/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 80th Anniversary of the Battle of Okinawa
---
 
On this day 80 years ago, victory was wrested from the depths of hell
when American forces triumphed over the Imperial Japanese Army in the
Battle of Okinawa—a brutal and blood-soaked triumph that was the single
costliest victory in the Pacific Theater of World War II.

On April 1, 1945, American forces approached the Japanese island of
Okinawa expecting a hard-fought but swift battle to secure the island as
a vital airbase for the Allies.  Instead, they were met with what was
later termed the “Typhoon of Steel”—*kamikaze* attacks from the air and
sea, and Japanese soldiers deeply entrenched in a system of caves,
tunnels, and mountain redoubts, committed to fight to the bitter end. 
For weeks, our Soldiers, Marines, and Sailors endured a prolonged and
gruesome battle of attrition, punctuated by relentless ambushes in the
rain and mud and unthinkable psychological torment.  The Battle of
Okinawa demonstrated to the world that, while on the back foot, the
Japanese would not easily surrender, and that victory would come at an
astounding cost.

Throughout nearly 3 months of grueling warfare, more than 180,000
American service members withstood horrors beyond imagination to secure
Okinawa Island.  By the time the Allies prevailed on June 22, 1945, more
than 12,000 Americans had perished, with tens of thousands more
wounded.  Months later, on September 2, Japan surrendered
unconditionally—finally ending the bloodiest war in the history of the
world.

Today, we honor the grit, courage, and unwavering tenacity of every
American warrior who withstood unbearable carnage to bring the Allied
forces to victory over the forces of imperialism.  Their service and
sacrifice, along with that of their fellow brothers in arms, are a
tribute to the selflessness and stalwart bravery of their generation—the
Greatest Generation. The legacy of that sacrifice includes our alliance
with Japan—forged after that terrible conflict—that embodies our shared
commitment to freedom and openness, which is a beacon for the world. In
southern Okinawa, the Cornerstone of Peace monument rests on the site
where the fighting ended, serving as a somber reminder that the shared
tragedy of war and loss of life touches every generation.  Every
American soul inscribed on that black granite wall will be forever
remembered as an immortal champion of valor, liberty, and sacrifice.

On this 80th anniversary of the Battle of Okinawa, our Nation pays
tribute to the fearless young warriors who endured unimaginable
devastation—and we honor those who valiantly laid down their lives for
the sacred causes of freedom, sovereignty, and human dignity.
