---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-22'
modified_time: 2021-02-22 19:35:52-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-more-than-500000-american-lives-lost-to-covid-19/
published_time: 2021-02-22 19:35:51-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the More Than 500,000 American Lives Lost to\_\
  COVID-\u206019"
---
 
Cross Hall

6:01 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Each day, I receive a small card in my pocket that I
carry with me in my schedule.  It shows the number of Americans who have
been infected by or died from COVID-19.  Today, we mark a truly grim,
heartbreaking milestone: 500,071 dead.  That’s more Americans who have
died in one year in this pandemic than in World War One, World War Two,
and the Vietnam War combined.  That’s more lives lost to this virus than
any other nation on Earth. 

But as we acknowledge the scale of this mass death in America, we
remember each person and the life they lived.  They’re people we knew. 
They’re people we feel like we knew.  Read the obituaries and
remembrances.  The son who called his mom every night just to check in. 
The father’s daughter who lit up his world.  The best friend who was
always there.  The nurse — the nurse and nurses — but the nurse who made
her patients want to live.

I was in — just in Kalamazoo, Michigan, at the Pfizer vaccine
manufacturing facility.  There, I met a man when I walked in, whose
father-in-law was dying of the virus.  He was sad.  I asked if I could
call his father-in-law.  He said his father-in-law was too sick to
speak.  But then he said, but could I pray for him — could I pray for
him. 

We all know someone — fellow Americans who lived lives of struggle, of
purpose, and of hope.  Who talked late into the night about their
dreams; who wore the uniform, born to serve; who loved, prayed, and
always offered a hand. 

We often hear people described as “ordinary Americans.”  There’s no such
thing; there’s nothing ordinary about them.  The people we lost were
extraordinary.  They spanned generations.  Born in America.  Immigrated
to America.  But just like that, so many of them took final breath alone
in America.

As a nation, we can’t accept such a cruel fate.  While we have been
fighting this pandemic for so long, we have to resist becoming numb to
the sorrow.  We have to resist viewing each life as a sta- — as a
statistic or a blur or on the news.  And we must do so to honor the
dead, but equally important, care for the living and those left behind.

For the loved ones left behind, I know all too well — I know what it’s
like to not be there when it happens.  I know what it’s like when you
are there, holding their hands.  There’s a look in your eye, and they
slip away.  That black hole in your chest, you feel like you’re being
sucked into it.  The survivor’s remorse.  The anger.  The questions of
faith in your soul. 

For some of you, it’s been a year, a month, a week, a day, even an
hour.  And I know that when you stare at that empty chair around the
kitchen table, it brings it all back, no matter how long ago it
happened, as if it just happened that moment you looked at that empty
chair.  The birthdays, the anniversaries, the holidays without them. 
And the everyday things — the small things, the tiny things — that you
miss the most.  That scent when you open the closet.  That park you go
by that you used to stroll in.  That movie theater where you met.  The
morning coffee you shared together.  The bend in his smile.  The perfect
pitch to her laugh.

I received a letter from a daughter whose father died of COVID-19 on
Easter Sunday last year.  She and her children — his grandchildren —
enter Lent this season, a season of reflection and renewal, with heavy
hearts.  Unable to properly mourn, she asked me in the letter, “What was
our loss among so many others?” 

Well, that’s what has been so cruel.  So many of the rituals that help
us cope, that help us honor those we loved, haven’t been available to
us.  The final rites with family gathered around.  The proper homegoing,
showered with stories and love.  Tribal leaders passing \[with\]out the
final traditions of sacred cultures on sacred lands.

As a nation, we cannot and we must not let this go on.  That’s why the
day before my inauguration, at the COVID-19 Memorial at the Reflecting
Pool on the National Mall, I said to heal — to heal, we must remember. 
I know it’s hard.  I promise you, I know it’s hard — I remember.  But
that’s how you heal: You have to remember.  And it’s also important to
do that as a nation.

For those who have lost loved ones, this is what I know: They’re never
truly gone.  They’ll always be part of your heart.  I know this, as well
— and it seems unbelievable, but I promise you: The day will come when
the memory of the loved one you lost will bring a smile to your lips
before a tear to your eye.  It will come.  I promise you.  My prayer for
you though is that day will come sooner rather than later.  And that’s
when you know you’re going to be okay — you’re going to be okay. 

And for me, the way through sorrow and grief is to find purpose.  I
don’t know how many of you have lost someone a while ago and are
wondering, “Is he or she proud of me now?  Is this what they want me to
do?”  I know that’s how I feel.  And we can find purpose — purpose
worthy of the lives they lived and worthy of the country we love. 

So today, I ask all Americans to remember: Remember those we lost and
those who are left behind.

But as we remember — as we all remember, I also ask us to act.  To
remain vigilant, to sa- — stay socially distanced, to mask up, get
vaccinated when it’s your turn.  We must end the politics and
misinformation that has divided families, communities, and the country,
and has cost too many lives already.  It’s not Democrats and Republicans
who are dying from the virus.  It’s our fellow Americans.  It’s our
neighbors and our friends — our mothers, our fathers, our sons, our
daughters, husbands, wives. 

We have to fight this together, as one people, as the United States of
America.  That’s the only way we’re going to beat this virus, I promise
you.  The only way to spare more pain and more loss — the only way these
millstones \[sic\] no longer mark our national mourning — these
milestones, I should say — no longer mark our national mourning.  Let
this not be a story of how far we fell, but of how far we climbed back
up.  We can do this. 

For in this year of profound loss, we have seen profound courage from
all of you on the frontlines.  I know the stress, the trauma, the grief
you carry.  But you give us hope.  You keep us going.  You remind us
that we do take care of our own.  That we leave nobody behind.  And that
while we have been humbled, we have never given up.  We are America.  We
can and will do this.

In just a few minutes, Jill and I, Kamala and Doug, will hold a moment
of silence here in the White House — the People’s House, your house.  We
ask you to join us to remember, so we can heal; to find purpose in the
work ahead; to show that there is light in the darkness. 

This nation will smile again.  This nation will know sunny days again. 
This nation will know joy again.  And as we do, we will remember each
person we’ve lost, the lives they lived, the loved ones they left
behind.  We will get through this, I promise you.  But my heart aches
for you — those of you who are going through it right now. 

May God bless you all, particularly those who have lost someone.  God
bless you.

6:11 P.M. EST
