---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-17'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/17/remarks-by-president-biden-before-meeting-with-labor-leaders-to-discuss-the-american-rescue-plan-and-infrastructure/
published_time: 2021-02-17 17:58:47-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Meeting with Labor Leaders to Discuss the\
  \ American Rescue Plan and\_Infrastructure"
---
 
Oval Office

4:06 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Everybody, come on in.  Don’t get hurt.

Every once in a while, as President, you get to invite close friends
into the Oval.  (Laughs.)  I was kidding these guys before. 

This is American labor.  And I said from the beginning of my campaign,
throughout my whole career: The middle class built this country, and
labor built the middle class.  And I think we have an incredible
opportunity to make some enormous progress in creating jobs —
good-paying jobs, Davis-Bacon and prevailing wage jobs — to rebuild the
infrastructure of this country in a way that everybody knows has to be
done.

I promised — and a lot of these folks have been my friends for a long,
long, long time.  As they say in parts of my state, “These are the folks
that brung me to the dance.”  And I appreciate their friendship. 

And as I said — when some of you were in here when I was with the
business community, I said I want to make it clear I’m a labor guy, and
there’s no reason why it’s inconsistent with businesses growing either.

So what we’re doing here today, we’re — I asked them to come in — we
want to talk about the Recovery Act we have here that we’re trying to
pass — and I think it’s going to get done — and building infrastructure
in this country. 

We are so far behind the curve.  We rank something like 38th in the
world in terms of our infrastructure — everything from canals to
highways to airports to — everything we can do, and we need to do, to
make ourselves competitive in the 21st century. 

And so the Vice President and I are looking forward to this meeting, and
we’re going to have a good conversation.  And I think, you know,
American workers and the whole economy is going to grow in a way that we
haven’t seen it grow in a long time.  This is the time for us to move. 

So, anyway, I’ll let you know.  We’re going to have a long conversation
here.  I don’t know how long, but we’re going to have a conversation as
long as they’re willing to put up with me, and talk about how we’re
going to get this done.

So, thank you all for coming in.

Q    Mr. President, what did you learn from Americans last night about
what they want in this plan?

THE PRESIDENT:  I learned, based on the polling data, they want
everything that’s in the plan.  Not a joke.  Everything that’s in the
plan.  I — the fact is that I’d like to — I asked a rhetorical question:
Those who oppose the plan, what don’t they like?  What particular
program don’t they like?  Don’t they want to help people with
nutrition?  Don’t they want to help people be able to pay their
mortgages?  Don’t they want to help people get their unemployment
insurance?  Don’t they want to make sure that people are able to stay in
their homes without being thrown out of their homes in the middle of
this god-awful pandemic?  What don’t they like? 

And the truth of the matter is, the polling data from last night, and
all the polls you’ve all done — they come from you guys; not you
personally, but your networks and your organizations — show that
somewhere between 64 and 69 percent of the American people think we have
to do this.  And it’s not about the money; it’s about in order to do
everything from open schools, as we should, to make sure that we’re
generating income for people who are in real trouble.  It’s about how
much it costs.  The federal government has to chip in, make sure we get
this done. 

And as I said, almost every major economist in the country, and
International Monetary Fund as well, says it’s going to grow the
economy. 

And that’s what we’re talking about here.  We’re going to talk about how
we grow the economy.

So thank you all for coming in.  Appreciate it.  Appreciate it.  Thank
you very much.

Q    Anything about Netanyahu?

THE PRESIDENT:  A good conversation.

END             4:10 P.M. EST
