---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-19'
modified_time: 2021-02-19 13:47:22-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/19/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-2021-virtual-munich-security-conference/
published_time: 2021-02-19 13:47:20-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 2021 Virtual Munich Security\_Conference"
---
 
East Room

11:17 A.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. Ambassador.  And it’s great to be with
Angela and Emmanuel.  We just spent part of — from Washington’s
perspective — the morning together.  But I want to say hello to everyone
and thanks, you — at the Munich Conference for hosting this special
session. 

For decades, as you pointed out, I’ve participated in the Munich
Security Conference — as a U.S. senator, joining my colleagues on both
sides of the aisle to affirm the importance of the transatlantic
partnership; three times as the Vice President of the United States,
including delivering the first international foreign policy address of
the Obama-Biden administration in the first months we were in office. 

And two years ago, as you pointed out, when I last spoke at Munich, I
was a private citizen; I was a professor, not an elected official.  But
I said at that time, “We will be back.”  And I’m a man of my word.
 America is back.

I speak today as President of the United States at the very start of my
administration, and I’m sending a clear message to the world: America is
back.  The transatlantic alliance is back.  And we are not looking
backward; we are looking forward, together. 

It comes down to this: The transatlantic alliance is a strong foundation
— the strong foundation — on which our collective security and our
shared prosperity are built.  The partnership between Europe and the
United States, in my view, is and must remain the cornerstone of all
that we hope to accomplish in the 21st century, just as we did in the
20th century.

The challenges we face today are different.  We’re at an inflection
point.  When I spoke to you as a senator and as even as Vice President,
the global dynamics have shifted.  New crises demand our attention.  And
we cannot focus only on the competition among countries that threaten to
divide the world, or only on global challenges that threaten to sink us
all together if we fail to cooperate.  We must do both, working in
lockstep with our allies and partners.

So let me erase any lingering doubt: The United States will work closely
with our European Union partners and the capitals across the continent —
from Rome to Riga — to meet the range of shared challenges we face. 

We continue to support the goal of a Europe whole and free and at
peace.  The United States is fully committed to our NATO Alliance, and I
welcome Europe’s growing investment in the military capabilities that
enable our shared defense.

You know, to me and to the United States, and to us, we’ll keep article
— we’ll keep faith with Article 5.  It’s a guarantee.  An attack on one
is an attack on all.  That is our unshakable vow.  And the only time
Article 5 has been invoked was after the United States was attacked on
9/11.  You, our allies, joined us to fight al Qaeda, and the United
States committed to consulting closely with our NATO Allies and partners
on the way forward in Afghanistan.

My administration strongly supports the diplomatic proc- — process
that’s underway and to bring an end to this war that is closing out 20
years.  We remain committed to ensuring that Afghanistan never again
provides a base for terrorist attacks against the United States and our
partners and our interests. 

Our European partners have also stood with us to counter ISIS.  Just
this week, NATO Defense Ministers endorsed a significantly expanded
training and advisory mission in Iraq, which will be vital to the
ongoing fight against ISIS.  We cannot allow ISIS to reopen and regroup
and threaten people in the Middle East, in Europe, in the United States,
and elsewhere.

And while the United States is undergoing a thorough review of our own
force posture around the world, I’ve ordered the halting of withdrawal
of American troops from Germany.  I’m also lifting the cap imposed by
the previous administration on the number of U.S. forces able to be
based in Germany. 

I know — I know the past few years have strained and tested our
transatlantic relationship, but the United States is determined —
determined to reengage with Europe, to consult with you, to earn back
our position of trusted leadership.

Earlier today, as was referenced, I participated in the first meeting of
the G7 leaders, where I spoke about the dire need to coordinate
multilateral action to address COVID-19, the global economic crisis, and
the accelerating climate crisis, and so much else. 

Achieving these goals is going to depend on a core strategic
proposition, and that is: The United States must renew America’s
enduring advantages so that we can meet today’s challenges from a
position of strength.  That means building back better our economic
foundations; reclaiming our place in international institutions; lifting
up our values at home, and speaking out to defend them around the world;
modernizing our military capabilities while leading with diplomacy;
revitalizing America’s network of alliances and partnerships that have
made the world safer for all people. 

You know, I hope our fellow democracies are going to join us in this
vital work.  Our partnerships have endured and grown through the years
because they are rooted in the richness of our shared democratic
values.  They’re not transactional.  They’re not extractive.  They’re
built on a vision of a future where every voice matters, where the
rights of all are protected and the rule of law is upheld. 

None of this has fully succeeded in this — none of us has fully
succeeded in this <s>division</s> \[vision\].  We continue to work
toward it.  And in so many places, including in Europe and the United
States, democratic progress is under assault. 

I have known for — I’ve known many of you for a long, long time, and you
know that I speak my mind, so let me be straightforward with you all: We
are in the midst of a fundamental debate about the future and direction
of our world.  We’re at an inflection point between those who argue
that, given all the challenges we face — from the fourth industrial
revolution to a global pandemic — that autocracy is the best way
forward, they argue, and those who understand that democracy is
essential — essential to meeting those challenges. 

Historians are going to examine and write about this moment as an
inflection point, as I said.  And I believe that — every ounce of my
being — that democracy will and must prevail.  We must demonstrate that
democracies can still deliver for our people in this changed world. 
That, in my view, is our galvanizing mission. 

Democracy doesn’t happen by accident.  We have to defend it, fight for
it, strengthen it, renew it.  We have to prove that our model isn’t a
relic of our history; it’s the single best way to revitalize the promise
of our future.  And if we work together with our democratic partners,
with strength and confidence, I know that we’ll meet every challenge and
outpace every challenger. 

You know, we must prepare together for a long-term strategic competition
with China.  How the United States, Europe, and Asia work together to
secure the peace and defend our shared values and advance our prosperity
across the Pacific will be among the most consequential efforts we
undertake.  Competition with China is going to be stiff.  That’s what I
expect, and that’s what I welcome, because I believe in the global
system Europe and the United States, together with our allies in the
Indo-Pacific, worked so hard to build over the last 70 years. 

We can own the race for the future.  But to do so, we have to be
clear-eyed about the historic investments and partnerships that this
will require.  We have to protect — we have to protect for space for
innovation, for intellectual property, and the creative genius that
thrives with the free exchange of ideas in open, democratic societies. 
We have to ensure that the benefits of growth are shared broadly and
equitably, not just by a few. 

We have to push back against the Chinese government’s economic abuses
and coercion that undercut the foundations of the international economic
system.  Everyone — everyone — must play by the same rules. 

U.S. and European companies are required to publicly disclose corporate
governance — to corporate governance structures and abide by rules to
deter corruption and monopolistic practices.  Chinese companies should
be held to the same standard. 

We must shape the rules that will govern the advance of technology and
the norms of behavior in cyberspace, artificial intelligence,
biotechnology so that they are used to lift people up, not used to pin
them down.  We must stand up for the democratic values that make it
possible for us to accomplish any of this, pushing back against those
who would monopolize and normalize repression. 

You know, this is also — this is also how we’re going to be able to meet
the threat from Russia.  The Kremlin attacks our democracies and
weaponizes corruption to try to undermine our system of governance. 
Russian leaders want people to think that our system is more corrupt or
as corrupt as theirs.  But the world knows that isn’t true, including
Russians — Russia’s own citizens. 

Putin seeks to weaken European — the European project and our NATO
Alliance.  He wants to undermine the transatlantic unity and our
resolve, because it’s so much easier for the Kremlin to bully and
threaten individual states than it is to negotiate with a strong and
closely united transatlantic community. 

That’s why — that’s why standing up for the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of Ukraine remains a vital concern for Europe and the United
States.  That’s why addressing recklessness — Russian recklessness and
hacking into computer networks, in the United States and across Europe
and the world, has become critical to protecting our collective
security.  The challenges with Russia may be different than the ones
with China, but they’re just as real. 

And it’s not about pitting East against West.  It’s not about we want a
conflict.  We want a future where all nations are able to freely
determine their own path without a threat of violence or coercion.  We
cannot and must not return to the <s>reflective</s> \[reflexive\]
opposition and rigid blocs of the Cold War.  Competition must not lock
out cooperation on issues that affect us all.  For example, we must
cooperate if we’re going to defeat COVID-19 everywhere. 

My first presidential national security memorandum focused on surging
health and humanitarian responses to defeat COVID-19 and to better
prevent and prepare for the next pandemic. 

Today, I’m announcing that the United States is making a $2 billion
pledge to COVAX, with the promise of an additional $2 billion to urge
others to step up as well.  

Yet, even as we fight to get out of the teeth of this pandemic, the
resurgence of Ebola in Africa is a stark reminder that we must
simultaneously work to finally finance health security; strengthen
global health systems; and create early warning systems to prevent,
detect, and respond to future biological threats, because they will keep
coming.  We have to work together to strengthen and reform the World
Health Organization.  We need a U.N. system focused on biological
threats that can move quickly to trigger action.

Similarly, we can no longer delay or do the bare minimum to address
climate change.  This is a global, existential crisis, and we’ll all
suffer — we’ll all suffer the consequences if we fail. 

We have to rapidly accelerate our commitments to aggressively curb our
emissions and to hold one another accountable for meeting our goals and
increasing our ambitions.  

That’s why, as President, I immediately rejoined the Paris Agreement,
and as of today, the United States is officially once again a party to
the Paris Agreement, which we helped put together.

On Earth Day, I will host a leaders summit to help drive more ambitious
actions among top emitters, including domestic climate action here in
the United States. 

I am grateful — I’m grateful for Europe’s continued leadership on
climate issues over the last four years.  Together, we need to invest in
the technological innovations that are going to power our clean energy
futures and enable us to build clean energy solutions to global
markets. 

The threat of nuclear proliferation also continues to require careful
diplomacy and cooperation among us.  We need transparency and
communication to minimize the risk of strategic misunderstanding or
mistakes.  That’s why the United States and Russia, notwithstanding
other competition, extended the New START Treaty for an additional
<s>four</s> \[five\] years once I came — I was sworn in. 

That’s why we have said we’re prepared to reengage in negotiations with
the P5+1 on Iran’s nuclear program.  We must also address Iran’s
destabilizing activities across the Middle East, and we’re going to work
in close cooperation with our European and other partners as we
proceed. 

We’ll also work together to lock down fissile and radiological material
to prevent terrorist groups from acquiring or using them. 

Look, the range of challenges Europe and the United States must take on
together is broad and complex.  And I’m eager to hear — I’m eager to
hear — I’m eager to hear next from my good friends and outstanding
leaders, Chancellor Merkel, about her thoughts on the way forward
together. 

So let me conclude with this: We cannot allow self-doubt to hinder our
ability to engage each other or the larger world.  The last four years
have been hard.  But Europe and the United States have to lead with
confidence once more, with faith in our capacities, a commitment to our
own renewal, with trust in one another and the ability of Europe and the
United States to meet any challenge to secure our futures together.

I know we can do this.  We’ve done it before. Just yesterday — after a
seven-month, 300-million mile journey — NASA successfully landed the
Perseverance Rover on Mars. It’s on a mission of exploration, with
elements contributed by our European partners to seek evidence of the
possibility of life beyond our planet and the mysteries of the universe.

Over the next few years — “Percy” is (inaudible) call — but Perseverance
will range and collect samples from the Red Planet and pile them up so
another mission and rover, envisioned as a joint effort between NASA and
the European Space Agency, will retrieve this trove of scientific
wonders and bring it home to all of us.

That’s what we can do together.  If our unbound capacity to carry us to
Mars and back don’t tell us anything else, they tell us we can meet any
challenge we can face on Earth.  We have everything we need.  And I want
you to know the United States will do — we’ll do our part.  We’ll stand
with you.  We’ll fight for our shared values.  We’ll meet the challenges
of this new moment in history. 

America is back.  So let’s get together and demonstrate to our great,
great grandchildren, when they read about us, that democracy — democracy
— democracy functions and works, and together, there is nothing we can’t
do.  So let’s get working.

Thank you all very much.  Thank you, folks.

Q    Mr. President, (inaudible) the Texas governor’s request for a major
disaster declaration?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I had a chance to speak with the governor again
last night, and I asked him whether he was about to ask for another
effort to — because the circumstances Texas finds itself in — whether he
was going to seek additional assistance.  And we talked — I talked with
the Federal Emergency Management Agency, FEMA — the administrator.  This
afternoon, I’m going to ask him to accelerate our response and request
for, quote — it’s a different declaration — a “Major Disaster
Declaration” so that we can get everything done that we need that’s
possible to get done with federal government help. 

FEMA is already there and providing support — generators, diesel fuel,
water, blankets, and other supplies.  But I’ve directed Health and Human
Services — HHS — Housing and Urban Development, U.S. Department of
Agriculture, the Department of Defense to identify other resources —
other resources that can provide and address the growing needs of the
folks in — in Texas. 

And as a little bit along the lines I was just talking about, when any
state — as I said when I ran, I’m going to be a President for all of
America — all — red, blue; there’s no red or blue.  It’s all about
commitment to — the American people make to one another.  And so we’re
going to sign that declaration once it’s in front of me.  And God
willing, it will bring a lot of relief to a lot of Texans.

And so thank you all so very much.

Q    Do you have any plans to visit Texas, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Say again.

Q    Do you have any plans to visit Texas?

THE PRESIDENT:  It depends.  The answer is yes.  The question is, I had
planned on being in Texas the middle of next week, but what I don’t want
to be is a burden.  When the President lands in any city in America, it
creates — there’s a — it has a long tail.  And they’re working like the
devil to take care of their folks.  If, in fact, it’s concluded that I
can do it without creating a burden for the folks on the ground while
they’re dealing with this crisis, I plan on going.  But I’ll — we’ll
know that — we’ll make that decision probably the beginning of next
week. 

Okay?  Thank you.

11:38 A.M. EST
