---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-23'
modified_time: 2021-02-23 17:56:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/23/remarks-by-president-biden-in-roundtable-with-black-essential-workers-moderated-by-domestic-policy-advisor-susan-rice/
published_time: 2021-02-23 17:56:27-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Roundtable with Black Essential Workers Moderated\
  \ by Domestic Policy Advisor Susan\_Rice"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

1:33 P.M. EST

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Good afternoon, and welcome.  I’m Susan Rice,
President Biden’s Domestic Policy Advisor.  It’s great to be with you
all and with President Biden. 

I help President Biden formulate and implement his domestic policy, and
there’s no greater priority than tackling the COVID-19 pandemic and
rescuing our economy. 

We’re here today to hear directly from you, frontline workers and first
responders who are doing the very vital work and have borne the weight
of the COVID-19 pandemic.  You are heroes, and your service we honor.

A disproportionate number of black Americans serve as frontline workers
and as first responders, putting yourselves at greater risk of
contracting COVID-19.  And one in four deaths from COVID-19 have been
those of black Americans.  And so during this Black History Month, we
wanted to say thank you, to lift up your voices and your service and
your needs. 

The President’s American Rescue Plan, if passed by Congress, will bring
an end to this pandemic, and it will invest in you and your fellow
frontline workers and all Americans so we can keep ourselves safe and
rebuild our economy so that it works for everyone. 

Mr. President, joining us here today are Demetris Alfred –he goes by
“Al” — who is a —

THE PRESIDENT:  To me, he’s “Mr. President.”

AMBASSADOR RICE:  (Laughs.)  Al is a firefighter and EMT in St. Louis,
Missouri.  And we have Melanie Owens, a pharmacist in Chicago; Carmen
Palmer, a childcare worker in Columbus, Ohio; and Jeff Carter, a grocery
store manager in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. 

Thank you all so much for being here today and for sharing your stories
with us. 

Mr. President, over to you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thanks for joining us, everyone.  I — you know, I
know I’ve met Al before.  And, Al, thank you for all the help in the
past, and we’re going to try to help, now, you and the firefighters and
the EMTs.

And — and, Melanie, I understand you’re the — what? — second- or
third-generation pharmacist in your family?  Is that right? 

MS. OWENS:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s pretty impressive.  That’s pretty
impressive.

And, Carmen, you — you do God’s work.  You’re dealing with all those
little kids and trying to figure out how you do it now and how you can
safely open and how you can make it work.

MS. PALMER:  (Inaudible.)  It’s a pleasure dealing with children.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I tell you what: We need you badly.

And, Jeff, you have too damn many Hy-Vees around the state. 
(Laughter.)  I mean, I tell you what — you know, I — it was always a
debate whether I stop at a Hy-Vee or whether I find a frozen custard
stand.  But, you know, that’s what we did in Iowa. 

But all kidding aside, you all are — you — you’re basically holding the
country together.  I’m not being facetious; I’m being deadly earnest. 
You can see the looks on people’s faces when they walk into your
drugstore and they stand at the counter and they ask for a prescription,
can’t you?  You can see the fear in their eyes, especially if they’ve
gotten a — an unwelcome analysis, like two of your family members have,
Al. 

And so what I want to do today is I want you to know — there’s that old
bad joke, “I’m from the federal government; I’m here to help.”  But we
are from the federal government, and we want to help.  We want to help a
lot.  There hasn’t been — most states — you’re from four different
states, and you’re — we got St. Louis, Chicago, Columbus, and Cedar
Rapids.

And so — and every state, as you know, has a slightly different approach
to how to deal with COVID right now.  And we’re trying to make sure they
get all that they need, each of those states.  And we’re focusing, as
the — as the former Ambassador said, that we’re focusing on the — on the
needs, particularly of the most left-behind community: the African
American community.  I mean, it really is across the board, but on this
area specifically, as, I might add, are the Latino communities being
left behind — not as much, but similarly — and Pacific Islanders.

So there’s a lot of work to do, and that’s why we want to talk to you to
see whether we’re headed in the right direction.  So I’m eager to hear
what’s on their mind, Susan, and see what you’re thinking — what you
think we should be doing. 

And now I know the guy from Iowa, Jeff, he’ll ask any questions, because
Iowans are so spoiled; they can ask every presidential candidate.  “Come
on.  Can you come over here and sit down with me for a few minutes?  I
want to talk to you.”  Right, Jeff? 

MR. CARTER:  Right.

THE PRESIDENT:  So, you know — I mean, so — but all kidding aside, I’m
anxious to hear what’s on your mind, what you think we should be doing,
and then maybe, in the process, ask a few questions and tell you the
kinds of things we’re doing to try to deal with what are, we think — I
hope — are the problems of the people who are keeping us floating. 

You’re the ones that keep us going.  Not a joke.  You are the ones that
keep us going and kept the country going.  You’re carrying it on your
back.  And so thank you for what you’ve done so far.  And we got a lot
more to do. 

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  I’d like to begin by
introducing our first speaker, Demetris “Al” Alfred.

We’d actually like to hear from each of you about your experiences
during COVID.  But, Al, first I’d like to tell you — ask you to tell us
about yourself.  You’re a 30-year firefighter and EMT in St. Louis. 
You’re the president of your local union and president also of the
Missouri State Council of Firefighters.  You and your fellow workers
have been through a great deal, and we’d love to hear your experiences
over the last couple of years.

THE PRESIDENT:  Before you start, you heard — you heard that old
expression: “God made man, and then he made a few firefighters.” 
(Laughter.)

MR. ALFRED:  Yes, sir.  Yes.

Well, thank you.  Thank you.  And good afternoon, Ambassador Rice and
Mr.  President.  It’s a pleasure to be here and an honor to be able to
speak to you.  And good to see you again, Mr. President. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Good to see you.

MR. ALFRED:  We have met before, and I enjoy your company every time.

Let me start out by saying: In St. Louis, the firefighters have had a
tough time with COVID, going on calls.  We’ve had to change up our
direction on protocol a little bit, with masking up and six-feet social
distancing.  We’ve even changed the protocol that when we go on medical
runs and calls, people trapped in a house, and even fires — we approach
them a little bit different.  We have to wear face masks. 

If we just talk about medical calls, we have to wear face masks and show
up.  And then we don’t send the entire crew in anymore; we’ll try to
send in one guy to check out the situation, and if we can possibly get
the patient to come outside, and then do the assessment and things like
that. 

So we’ve really had to make some changes.  We had to really look towards
the government — local and state and federal — to try to keep — get our
PPE so we wouldn’t — so we could, you know, go on these calls and
protect ourselves and protect the citizens. 

And if you talk about the vaccine, we’ve been trying to get in line
there — here in Missouri — and get as many guys vaccinated as possible
so we can keep serving the community.

But make no bones about it: St. Louis firefighters are here.  We answer
every call.  You know, we are resourceful and we adapt very well, and
we’re ready to go. 

We just would like the support from federal government, local, and state
to keep us afloat so we can have the equipment and things to keep us
going to do our job.  And we’ll appreciate everything you guys can do
for us.

THE PRESIDENT:  Al, let me ask you: If you had to identify the one thing
— you could wave a wand — the one thing that could help your women and
men and the fire- — firefighters and EMTs, what do you need the most?

MR. ALFRED:  We would like to make certain that we could get the funding
down to the local level and to the fire departments in particular, so,
like I said, we can still purchase the PPE to sustain us, to get our
equipment, and things like that.  And most importantly, we’d like to get
support so we wouldn’t have budget cuts or have to endure any pay cuts
or layoffs.  That’s a big worry because, like I said, we respond to
everything; we show up ready to go, very resourceful; and we adapt very
well. 

But then, after things are over, once — once the crisis has passed, it
appears that sometimes the local government or management — however you
want to look at it — find that the department may be easy to cut because
the crisis is over.  And that’s our — that’s one of our biggest
concerns. 

So if you ask me if I had a major wand — a magic wand, I would say that
I’d wave that wand to make sure that we get the proper funding to
sustain our jobs so we can respond and help the citizens of our
community. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s what we do in this legislation we put
together.  And I hope to God it’s going to pass.  We provide for
resources — $350 billion for emergency funding for state, local, and
territorial governments.  Now, we got 340 million people in America.  We
got a big country. 

And — and so what’s happened is a lot of states have decided that they —
because they have to balance their budgets — they can’t — they can’t
continue to spend the same amount of revenue they were spending before. 
And what’s happening is a lot of — everything from firefighters to
school teachers to a whole range of people are being laid off.  We’re
short 6,000 teachers, firefighters. 

And the only thing I know — working with your outfit, Al, for so long —
is that the only thing keeps firefighters safe is more firefighters. 
Literally.

MR. ALFRED:  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Literally.  And — and so, you’re being cut.  We also
find — provide for $160 billion for supplies.  And that would be
everything from, you know, making sure we can scale vaccine distribution
and testing, make sure everybody can get in there and have an
opportunity to get the test to EMTs and firefighters.  When we get that
done, we’re going to have one less crisis you have to deal with. 

MR. ALFRED:  Yes, sir. 

THE PRESIDENT:  But, look, the funds we’re talking about are designed to
keep teachers and school workers on the job, including — including
childcare; invest in personal protective equipment.  I understand, from
the story I was told, that you have the personal protective equipment in
St. Louis but they don’t have it in Kansas City — of the firefighters.

MR. ALFRED:  Yes, sir. 

THE PRESIDENT:  And also to reduce, you know, any — just increase
capacity across the board.  So, you know, we owe you a lot. 

My family owes you a particularly lot.  You literally — as you know,
when we talked, you saved my life.  The EMTs in my state saved my life. 
Got me down to a hospital in time to save my life.  And — and my boys;
you saved their lives too, with the Jaws of Life much earlier.  So we
owe you big.

But what I want to do is make sure you — I get more specific with you
and find out that — you know, whether or not you have access to get in
line. 

Last thing: States set the priorities for who gets the vaccine.  We have
now gone from having a shortage of vaccines to, by the end of July,
we’ll have over 600 million doses of vaccine, enough to take care of
everybody in the country. 

And we’re moving as the — as Ms. Owens knows, we’re moving to make sure
that drugstores, pharmacies are going to be able to be a place — just
like for flu shots — you can go.  We’ve just gone from — because we find
that that’s more accessible to an awful lot of folks who are — don’t
have the means to travel very far, don’t have the access to get to where
they need to go.  And they’re used to their pharmacy and they know their
pharmacist, and they can get a shot. 

And we’ve gone from this week — last week, 1 million doses to pharmacies
to 2 million this week.  So, with the grace of God and the goodwill of
neighbors, we’re going to be able to significantly increase that.

And, Carmen, I’m pushing really hard for — I mean this sincerely — for
daycares to be able to open, and you need financial help to open.  You
can’t just open just straight up.  And — but we’ll talk about that a
little bit as we go on.  I don’t want to take too much time at the
frontend here. 

So, look, Al, just — you know, don’t be shy about letting us know what
you need.  And what you need in Missouri is not fundamentally different
than what people need in Kansas and people need in Iowa and people need
in Illinois, et cetera.  So we ought to talk some more.  Okay? 

MR. ALFRED:  Absolutely, Mr. President.  And you know our famous
statement: We have your back.

THE PRESIDENT:  You have, man.  As one of your guys said, “You have my
back so much, you’re breaking my shoulders,” pushing me. 

MR. ALFRED:  (Laughs.)  That’s all right.

THE PRESIDENT:  Anyway, thank you, Al.  

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Well, Mr. President, next I’d like to introduce
Melanie Owens.  Melanie, as you know, is a pharmacist on the South Side
of Chicago.  Melanie actually contracted COVID herself last March and
has now been vaccinated.  And she’s been administering vaccines to
people in her community. 

Melanie, please give us a sense of your story.

MS. OWENS:  Hi, Mr. President.  And thank you very much, Ambassador
Rice.   It is an honor and a privilege to be here with you.  And thank
you for allowing me to share a small part of my story.  As she said, I
am a pharmacist in the Bronzeville neighborhood on the South Side of
Chicago — a pharmacy manager.  And I began my career with Walgreens
nearly 20 years ago, and it was the opportunity to help care for others
in our communities that helped me become a pharmacist.  And it didn’t
hurt that both of my parents are pharmacists as well.  I also have a
sister who is a nurse, and my brother-in-law is an engineer for the fire
department.  So we’re all frontline workers. 

I did contract COVID in March of 2020, when the tests weren’t readily
available, so I was not able to get tested.  But thankfully, with
Walgreens I was able to quarantine for 14 days with no interruption of,
you know, work or pay.  But my symptoms and subsequent antibodies test
did prove that I had COVID at that time, so I can really relate to what
others are going through.  And it has helped me to become more motivated
than ever to do all I can to help the community during this pandemic. 

It’s been a really tough year for us, but recently it’s been very
rewarding to start being able to go to the long-term care facilities and
vaccinate the residents there.  And also, now it’s available in the
stores.

My pharmacy personally is in a low-middle class, predominantly black
neighborhood, and lots of the people find it — are surprised it is very
convenient and the ease of the vaccination process once they pass the
scheduling portal. 

So, you know, I just encourage everyone to be aware that the vaccine is
here to help; make sure that they’re making their neighbors and friends
and family aware of their experience as they get the shots taken care
of; and let them know that we’re here to help them. 

You know, everyone had that assumption that they would have to go out
far and wide to find the vaccine, but I think it’s an awesome thing that
we’re starting to roll it out in these communities — you know, in all
communities.  And hopefully it continues to become available.

We also — Walgreens has started a health initiatives — Health Equity
program in my store, where we’re making it more convenient also to — for
customers to get their prescriptions delivered to them or a reminder —
personal reminding calls to let them know that their prescriptions are
ready so that they aren’t forgetting about the basics.  And — but they
don’t have to worry about the social distancing and, you know, coming
into contact with other people if they don’t want to leave their homes
or are uncomfortable.

So — but I got my second vaccine February 5th, and I just make sure I
tell everybody that it was a wonderful experience.  I feel very grateful
to be able to have gotten it along with the long-term facility workers. 
And I just want everyone to keep doing what they’re doing and make sure
that we’re all doing what we need to do to get back to some kind of
normalcy. 

So, President Biden, please keep rolling out the vaccine because it is
helping to keep people alive and safe.  So with that, I just want to say
thank you again for this opportunity.  I never thought I’d be able to
speak directly with the President of the United States, and especially
on Zoom.  (Laughter.)  So, thank you.  Thank you so much for that. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you, Melanie.  Look, let me — let me ask you
a couple questions.

MS. OWENS:  Mm-hmm.

THE PRESIDENT:  You’re in the South Side of Chicago; that’s where my
kids’ grandparents are from.

MS. OWENS:  Awesome.

THE PRESIDENT:  And they’re — and, you know, people are — you know, they
don’t have a whole lot of money.  And a lot of people don’t — and it’s
an older population these days. 

MS. OWENS:  Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  And one of the things that I’ve observed is that there
is a reluctance to — if they don’t know how to get online with you — a
lot of people don’t know how to use that — they may not have a cell
phone; they may not have the ability to know how to pick the phone up
and get online.  They just — and — and so, they’re reluctant. 

And what I found is — from the days when my dad was raising me — that
sometimes people, when they don’t know what to do, they’re embarrassed
to acknowledge they don’t know how to do it.  They don’t know how to get
it done. 

So, how — how important do you think it is — what — and one more piece
of this.  We also know, because of the way American medicine has taken
advantage of African Americans for experimentation over the last 100
years, that there’s a real — a real reluctance that still exists in the
African American community to get the vaccination, even if it’s
available.  And my — I’ve been pleading with people, “Get it.”  If you
have a chance, get it.  It will save not only your life potentially, but
it’ll save your family a little bit. 

So tell me about what you’ve sensed.  I can tell you have a feel for
this.  Tell me — no, I really mean it.  Tell me what you sense from your
patients who come in to get the shot.  Is it — I don’t think they’re
afraid of a needle.  It’s not like, “Oh, a needle.”  But are they
reluctant to say — to deal with it?  Or is it because you’re an African
American woman they respect, does that make it easier for them to be
able to take the —

MS. OWENS:  So, I will say that my customer base, for the most part, is
very excited.  We haven’t had many people come discussing whether or not
we would get it ourselves or, you know, should they get it.  It’s more a
“when” can they get it.  I was more reluctant than most people —
(laughs) — most of my customers to get it, actually.  But then, you
know, it just kind of felt like a — like an obligation when I started to
go to long-term care facilities.  You know, I’m here to protect them, so
I needed it. 

And, you know, just listening to my parents, who are in their 70s, who
were so eager to get it, and I was happy to be able to help them get
it.  You know, it just — it helped to change my mind.

And I also had some administrative staff at the first long-term-care
facility that I went to change their mind based on me changing mine, at
that moment, to get it. 

So, I mean, I think it’s just — you can be fearful.  You know, you can
have questions.  But, you know, do your due diligence and figure out
what is best for you.  And, you know, like I said earlier, this is going
— if this is a part of or a major key of what’s going to help us move
past this and then go back to being able to live normally, I feel like
we should do it.  You know, it’s no harm in it. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ve been able to increase the supply to the
states, in just in the month we’ve been here, by 57 percent.  So they’re
getting 57 percent more vaccine than they did before.  And we’re going
to — God willing, we’re going to be in a position where we can
significantly increase that as well. 

So that — and the other thing is, we have set up — and we made another
federal decision, saying that we were going to use community health
facilities, which usually take care of the folks who are the most in
need, and because they know where — I’m not being facetious when I say
this — they know where the people sleeping under the bridge are.  They
know where people who are really in real dire straits, who they —
they’re going out to get them, to get them vaccinated.  And so we’re
hoping that this helps. 

In addition, you know, one of the things we’re going to be able to do
is: Part of this investment is $20 billion in the National Vaccination
Program.  As you know, the funding helps deploy community vaccinators
and vaccination centers.  You’re one of them.  You’re in the community. 
That’s why — but some of the governors were not sure that’s the way to
go, that we — and I’m not picking on any governor.  I really mean it. 

They didn’t understand why we made the independent decision to send
vaccine directly to 600-and-some — or 600 — 67 different drug chains or
drugstores out there — why we send it directly to them.  And they
weren’t sure why we were sending directly to childcare facilities. 
That’s what we’re going to try to do now.  And so — because they thought
they could better decide where to use it.

But I am determined to make sure we service the communities that are the
ones that are the most victimized by — “victimized” is the wrong word —
most affected by — most affected by the COVID virus when they get it and
the consequences of it.

But I thank you for — for all you do, and I really mean it, and for
going to those — into those — those long-term care facilities and
helping there as well.  So thank you very much. 

MS. OWENS:  Thank you. 

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thank you, Melanie.

Mr. President, our third participant, as you know, is Carmen Palmer. 
Carmen is a childcare worker in Columbus, Ohio.  But — I say “childcare
worker,” but that really doesn’t do it justice.  She does almost
everything there is to do. 

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s what I read.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  (Laughs.)  She runs a food program at the childcare
center.  She’s a substitute teacher.  She’s a bus driver when needed. 
And she’s also the mother of two of her own young children. 

So, Carmen, we’d love to hear your story. 

THE PRESIDENT:  You obviously have a lot of spare time, Carmen. 
(Laughter.)

MS. PALMER:  Of course.  I just, you know, wanted to tell you, you know,
thank you, President Biden and Ambassador Rice, for, you know, speaking
with me and giving me this opportunity.  I do appreciate that. 

Again, I’m Carmen Palmer.  You know, I’m born and raised in Detroit,
Michigan.  I grew up in foster care.  And after graduating high school,
that’s when I decided, you know, for a better environment, and I moved
to Ohio.  And that’s where I found my home here at Kiddie Academy.  I’ve
been working here five years, and as Ambassador Rice mentioned, my two
children both attend the childcare facility. 

I started working there as a toddler teacher, and I was offered to share
my skills in the kitchen as — you know, the kids will call me the
“school chef” because, you know, I think it’s cool to cook sometimes. 
(Laughter.)  And I — you know, I thought that was rewarding just to
combine, you know, my love for cooking and, you know, children. 

And my role is to ensure not only zero to five children eat, but our
school ages as well.  I love providing, you know, for nutritious meals
because I, you know, know what it’s like not to, you know, eat or know
where my next meal is coming from, especially growing up in foster
care. 

I’m a single mother, and COVID has exposed not only the flaws in the
childcare system, but how frail my personal situation is.  I’ve worked
every single day, you know, during the pandemic — I have not missed one
day — to try to take care of our families and our children who, you
know, need care.  And me personally, if I was to get COVID or my kids
was to get COVID, I’d have no other options. 

I am one of the only states that has not prioritized childcare for the
vaccine.  And that’s concerning to me because, once again, I work every
single day in the pandemic.  And I’m –you know, I’m an essential worker
and I’m taking care of essential workers’ kids.  So — and, as a parent,
I want to make sure I have childcare and childcare that is safe. 

My — the Haynes have installed ionizers, you know, to improve our
ventilation system.  And I can only assume that is working.  We provide
masks for, you know, our staff.  We are washing our hands.  We social
distance.  We do temperature checks.  But, you know, it’s hard for the
kids because they’re used to, like, “I want to go play with my
friends.”  We’re like, “No, you have to social distance.  You know, we
have to keep our distance.”  It’s hard keeping the zero — you know, the
younger kids to keep their masks up, you know, to protect themselves. 

Our enrollment is down, and we are seeing less of our families because
of the pandemic.  They’re not working, and, you know, they’re losing
their jobs.  And I’m just really grateful that I’m able to still work,
you know, during the pandemic, and that’s important to me to keep an
employment. 

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thank you, Carmen.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Carmen, look, you know, we — this legislation,
which we think is going to pass, is going to help childcare providers by
allowing you to pay the rent; pay your utilities; your payroll, if there
is one beyond you — as a loan; as well as increased costs associated
with the pandemic.  And those costs include PPE; you mentioned
ventilation — paying for ventilation improvement; small group sizes;
modifications to make the physical environment inside safer by providing
more dividers.

We’re also temporarily going to increase the Child Care Tax Credit. 
Right now, if you make over a certain amount of money, you will get a
tax credit of 2,000 bucks now.  We’re going to raise that to $3,000 per
child, and $3,600 for a child under the age of six, and make it
refundable, which is the big deal.  Because if you’re not making a lot
of money and not paying taxes — you may have two or three kids — you
don’t get any help at all. 

But now what will happen is, if this passes, they will get a refundable
credit for each child, if they’re under six — a $3,600 check from the
federal government.  And — and the same thing for the $2,000, and so on.

So they say we’ll cut — if we get this done, it will cut child poverty
in half.  But in addition to that, it will provide those parents with
access to not only your daycare center, but others across the country to
be able to afford it. 

And we’re also making sure that we provide money for folks who are about
to be thrown out of their homes, or, you know, there’s millions of
people out there who can’t — can’t pay the rent.  And so we’ve deferred
any cost to have to pay the rent while this pandemic is going on,
because otherwise you just have — we’d be vastly increasing the homeless
population, which makes no sense. 

And so, you know, we know how — how important early childhood education
and child development is.  And to get through this crisis, I think we
need to be sure childcare providers have the funding they need to stay
afloat. 

And you mentioned something, Carmen, that is really important.  You
know, the — most of these kids you’ve been taking care of, if they were
going to kindergarten or preschool, they’d be getting a free lunch
program.  Well, you know — well, we got to increase the amount of money
available for what used to be called the “food stamp program,” but it’s
not now.  And — but we got to make more — make it available.  Because
did you ever think you’d see in your — (inaudible) in your hometown
where you’d see miles of cars lined up in multiple lanes, waiting for
one box of food? 

MS. PALMER:  No.

THE PRESIDENT:  This is United States of America, for God’s sake.  And
the idea there is that much food insecurity is — is just not right.

So what — I believe if we get this bill passed — which we’re not going
to pass by a lot, but we’re — we’re optimistic we’re going to make some
real changes.  And the childcare centers are at risk of closing all
around the country.

And what impact would it have — and last question I’ll ask — if you had
to shut down?  What do you think it would do to the children and the
parents that you — that now are your clients?

MS. PALMER:  I mean, it will be — it would have a tremendous impact on
our families.  Our families are, you know, telling us now that they
can’t work, and it’s definitely hard to find childcare if you don’t have
any employment.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. PALMER:  And even me, as myself, I honestly wouldn’t know what I
could do if I didn’t have childcare so I could go to work.  Because I
have no family here; all my family is back home in Michigan. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Okay, kiddo, keep doing what you’re doing. 
You’re —

MS. PALMER:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  You’re really — as my mom would say, you’re doing God’s
work, kid. 

MS. PALMER:  (Laughs.)  Thank you, Mr. President.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Mr. President, Carmen is also the only one with young
kids in school.  And I thought it might be worth just asking her to say
a few words about how her kids have fared in the pandemic with the
virtual schooling and then, now, hybrid schooling. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Are you able to take them to the daycare for the hybrid
school?

MS. PALMER:  Yes.  Yes, I am.  I actually made the joke with Ambassador
Rice yesterday on saying, like, “I really fear for my youngest son. 
He’s seven.  He’s a thumb sucker, and I for sure knew he was going to
get COVID.”  Because I’m like, “You just keep — put your hands in your
mouth.”  But — so I — they — I put them in — enrolled them in virtual,
and then my oldest daughter, she — her grades — you know, she started to
struggle.  So I was like, “Okay, you needed the help.”  So I, you know,
switched her over to hybrid.  So on Mondays and Tuesdays, they attend
school to get, like, the help they need — that one-on-one.  And then,
Wednesdays and Thursdays and Fridays, they attend the daycare.

And our, you know, teachers there are willing to, you know, help assist
them, you know, with their hybrid learning.  But, you know, sometimes —
you know, not even just my kids, but all the kids as well are dealing
with their social and emotional needs of social distancing and really
can’t go anywhere but just school and home.  So we have to, you know,
deal with those aspects of the kids as well.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, an awful lot of children, as well as adults, are
going through some real — they need some help in terms of depression and
mental problem.  I mean, you know, they’re just — we’re worried about
their — they’re just so off.  They don’t know exactly what’s going on,
and it has real impacts.  And that’s why we got to get them back into
school; that’s why we have to open up these schools. 

And, by the way, the other — a lot of you out there are struggling just
to make ends meet even if you have a job, and — but we’re going to make
sure you get that extra $1,400 check during the pandemic that both
parties had said they support it.  Even the past President said he
strongly supported it.  We just got to get it done now.  But it’ll make
a difference and give you some — just, literally, some breathing room
just to be able to — just — just a little breathing room.  That’s what
we need to give people right now.  Because everybody in this shot, in
this pro- — in this circumstance that is being hurt, it’s through no
fault of their own.  It’s not their fault that the pandemic started.

Well, thank you.

MS. PALMER:  You’re welcome, Mr. President.  Thank you.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Mr. President, last but by no means least, I wanted to
introduce Jeff Carter.  Jeff is the district store manager of two Hy-Vee
grocery stores in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.  Jeff, we’d love to hear your
story too.

MR. CARTER:  Thank you very much, Mr. President and Ambassador Rice.  I
really appreciate the opportunity that I’ve been given to speak with you
and, kind of, tell my story a little bit.

As I said, my name is Jeff Carter.  I am married to my wife, Kim
Carter.  We’ve been married for about 25 years.  I do have an older son;
his name is Mason.  He works as a finance officer in one of the major
car dealerships here in Cedar Rapids.

I work for Hy-Vee, and Hy-Vee is a grocery store chain in — we have
stores in Iowa.  And, as you mentioned, Mr. President, we have too many
stores in Iowa, but we also have stores in Nebraska, Illinois, South
Dakota, Missouri, Kansas, Wisconsin, and Minnesota.  So we are —

THE PRESIDENT:  I know.  I was teasing you.  (Laughs.)

MR. CARTER:  (Laughs.)  I know.  But it’s — we’re a great company, and I
really have — appreciate the opportunity that I have to work for them. 

We employ over 88,000 employees.  And during this past year, the
pandemic has really challenged us to not only focus on service to our
customers and our employees, but also serv- — safety.  You know, we
really had to shift our focus rapidly on how we take care of our
customers, how we make sure that they are safe when they come into
stores. 

We were one of the first stores to install Plexiglas shields to protect
our employees and our customers.  We also put directional arrows in — on
our floors to create social distancing so that, you know, people didn’t
crowd and possibly spread the virus. 

We also — you know, I — in my store and all of our stores we had
employees that, from the day — moment we open until when we closed, all
they did was walk around the store and sanitize and clean — and clean
contact areas that customers and employees touched just to make sure
that the virus, you know, was limited in the possibility that it might
spread. 

We also — you know, we installed a system called a “Sterile Cart” that,
you know, we could push our grocery carts through, in order to sanitize
them and make sure that, you know, our customers were safe.

We mandated masks for our — all of our employees.  We passed out, you
know, millions of masks — I don’t know about millions, but thousands of
masks to our customers to — you know, to have in case they didn’t have
their own when they came in our stores.  We have a “Mask It Up”
campaign, asking and requiring everybody to wear a mask when they come
in our stores.

Through all this, I’m very, very proud of all of the employees that, you
know, I worked with, and employees of all of our stores, because, you
know, I don’t think we really consider ourselves frontline workers as we
— or essential workers, you know, when we’re doing our jobs.  But, you
know, as a lot of us talk from day to day, you know, we felt as many
people that we were in contact with — for many of us, it wasn’t a matter
of, you know, “if” we were going to catch the virus; it was a matter of
“when” we were going to catch the virus.

But, you know, through all this, many of our employees — you know, they
put yourselves on the frontlines, and they did not shy away from doing
their job and taking care of our customers and making sure the needs
were met.

And I think, because of a lot of the systems that we put in place, we
had — you know, we had cases of where, you know, employees caught — did
catch the virus, but I think our numbers were surprisingly low because
of some of the safety measures that we put in place.

And through all that, you know, many of our employees — you know, some
were a little bit, you know, concerned about going to work because they
had, you know, maybe family members at home that had underlying health
conditions that might put them at risk of catching the virus and
possibly falling very sick or, worse, possibly death.  But they still
came to work to help serve our customers and do their job.

On top of that, in Cedar Rapids, on August 10th, we had a major weather
event called “derecho” that rolled through our city.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s amazing.

MR. CARTER:  It was an amazing event that I had never, ever witnessed —
that I’d never even heard the word “derecho” prior to that.  We had
winds of up to 120 miles an hour go through and destroy property and
trees.  Many trees were lost, and we’re — in fact, they actually have a
campaign right now where we are — as Hy-Vee, we are getting thousands of
trees into the city and surrounding areas — that we can replace those
trees that were lost.

Many homes were damaged.  Many of our employees’ homes were damaged. 
But still, I think they put a lot of their concerns — personal concerns
on the back burner to still come in and help serve our customers.

And during this derecho, we also, you know, went out into our
communities and helped, you know, pass out, you know, free goods —
groceries and things like that — to people in need.  Many people were
without power for, you know, weeks — approximately a week that the city
was without power. 

So, you know, we were doing whatever we could to help the community.  So
not only did we have the derecho or the COVID to deal with, we also had
a derecho that rolled through that — which was another, you know,
amazing challenge.  But, you know, still, you know, we still
persevered.  And very proud and happy for the job that, you know, Hy-Vee
and our employees were able to do — and customers alike.  We all rallied
together, you know, to get through this.

So now, as I mentioned before — and part of that, with the derecho, I
have to mention that — Ambassador Rice mentioned that I am in charge of
two stores.  I actually had three stores, but one of our stores was
badly damaged in the derecho, and we had to close it and tear it down
because the damage was too far to repair the store.  But we were able
to, you know, relocate a lot — all the employees that worked at the
store, and now they are employed elsewhere at other stores.

But now, you know, I’d like to move forward, kind of, with what I call —
I think we’re in the recovery phase, I guess, of hopefully, you know,
this virus.  You know, we’ve dealt with trying to hold it at bay, keep
people from catching it.  Now I think we’re in the phase of, you know,
hopefully vaccinating people, that we can move through this so,
hopefully, one day, you know, we’ll be able to take down those Plexiglas
shields and, you know, get rid of these masks that we no longer have to
wear; maybe give a customer a handshake or a hug, thanking them for
coming in. 

And Hy-Vee is ready.  We’re ready to help you.  As Demetris said, we’ve
got your back.  We just — I have two — like I said, I have two stores,
and like Melanie, we are vaccinating as well. 

So we have — just recently, I sent our pharmacy team from one of my
stores to a long-term care facility, and we vaccinated 120 senior
citizens in that facility that had not been probably out of that
facility for probably a year.  And the stories that I got back from my
pharmacy manager, telling me that people literally had tears in her eyes
from the relief and the hope that they will somewhere — someday soon be
able to see their loved ones again face to face, instead of behind a
window or a computer screen. 

But, Mr. President, we have pharmacists, we have pharmacy techs.  We
have about nine mobile units ready to go out into the communities to
reach people that possibly cannot get the vaccine.  We can go to them. 
And we recently had an event at Drake University that, you know, we
vaccinated over 1,000 people.

So I think things are, like — things like this, we are capable, we are
ready to do to help you, because we have your back as well.  And I think
what we really need is — we have, like I said, stores in multiple states
— we just need to get the vaccine delivered so that we can go out and do
our thing.  We are ready to help. 

And once again, I’m very — I very much appreciate this opportunity. 
It’s like a dream come true, something I’ll cherish for the rest of my
life.  And I’ll probably watch this video over and over again. 
(Laughter.)  So, thank you very much.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Jeff, it’s an honor for the Ambassador and I to be
— I mean, to be able to talk you. 

Look, one of the things that the Ambassador and I made the decision
early on, to quote Franklin Roosevelt, I’m going to give it to you
“straight from the shoulder.”  I’m not going to play games.  I’ll tell
you when we do it right, and I’ll tell you when we screwed up, and tell
you we’ll take responsibility.  That’s what I think all of you are
doing.  You’re giving this straight to the people you’re working with
and to the people you’re trying to help. 

And we spent much too much time ignoring this.  One of the things you’ve
all mentioned is the PPE — the protective gear — and social distancing. 
And I know that that Melanie knows this, as a pharmacist, and all of you
know it from your experience, that the way — we can save — we could have
saved literally an awful lot of lives if people had listened.  We turned
wearing masks into a political statement — if you were for this thing,
you’d wear it; if you’re for somebody else, you didn’t wear it — when,
in fact, it’s just plain, basic science — science.  Social distancing,
so you’re not coughing on one another — the particles.  The ventilation
you talked about, Carmen, makes a difference in community centers and
the like. 

And so there’s so many things that we can do that are just within our
own power.  We’re probably going to be sending out an awful lot of masks
around the country, very shortly — millions of them.  But the point is
that you — you all, interesting, without my asking you, talked about the
need to social distance.  It’s kind of hard to social distance in a
firetruck.  It’s kind of hard to social distance in a — with an EMT in
the back of a wagon.  But you all know it’s important.  And — and so I
hope you’ll cont- —

I had said, when I got elected, that in my first 100 days, I’d guarantee
people we’d get at least 100 million shots in people’s arms — 100
million shots in people’s arms.  And 30 days in, we’re about 40 percent
of the way there.  And what are we at?  Forty-seven —

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Almost 50 million — not quite.

THE PRESIDENT:  Almost 50 million right now.  And we said we’re going to
do a million shots a day. 

One of the things that you and Melanie know is that we had to get
vaccinators.  It’s one thing to get a vaccine delivered; it’s another
thing to get it out of that vial, into a needle, and into somebody’s
arm.  And so we worked very hard.  We’ve probably gotten another — close
to 4,000 people who give vaccinations, from National Guard, to the
Defense Department, to others, and to — and to units within commercial
operations that can have people who can do the vaccination.  I’ve signed
an executive order allowing former retired doctors and nurses to be able
to come back and give vaccinations. 

And so we’re going to beat this thing because of folks like you.  And to
the extent you can continue to have your constituencies — and they’re
all different — is to make sure that they understand that social
distancing matters, washing your hands matters, and the whole idea.  And
I don’t have to tell you that, Al.  You know, you had two kids affected,
right?

MR. ALFRED:  Yes, sir.  Yes, sir.  They’re doing pretty good.  We’re
blessed.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank God. 

So, but one of the things that — you know, again, I’m going to go back
to the whole question of equity.  What we’re trying to do — my team and
I — is get people who in fact have been most hurt by this pandemic to
places where they are comfortable, where they have comfort in going. 
They don’t feel like they are — they’re not intimidated by the
circumstance. 

And they’re usually — they’re used to going to the grocery store. 
They’re used to going to their — to their drugstore or pharmacy. 
They’re used to doing those things.  But we also are trying to get out
mobile units into communities — not only inner city, but rural
communities that don’t have as much access. 

You know, I guess, they tell me the statistic is that the vast majority
of the American people live within five miles of a pharmacy.  Well, the
point is that that may be case, but if you’re an older person living by
yourself, you don’t have a vehicle, and there’s no public
transportation, it’s a little hard to get to that pharmacy.  So we’re
working out ways now to provide mobile transportation — literally vans
going into communities — and people, you know, getting shots that are
being administered by people who people tend to trust. 

So, I’m glad — I can’t tell you how much difference you’re making. 
We’ve met with people all over the country via this means.  And I think
there’s a growing awareness that, you know, injecting bleach into your
system doesn’t do it for you.  (Laughter.)  And I’m being seri- — I
mean, think about it: all the ridiculous things.  And there is online
still — there are those who are the — you know, the vaccine —

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Deniers.  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  — deniers, and telling all these stories about what —
that aren’t true. 

So, I really appreciate you and your colleagues across the country who
are continuing to push and say, “No.  If you can get a vaccine get it. 
And if you can get it, get it as quickly as you can.  Socially
distance.”

We’re now doing a study.  The — the COVID team, they’re studying whether
or not once you’ve had the vaccine and you’ve had it for the better part
of several weeks — the last shot what can you do and not do, in terms of
being sure that you are safe?  Do you still wear a mask?  Do you still
socially distance, et cetera? 

And so it’s all — we’re an administration that thinks science matters. 
Science matters, and it has to be available to the poorest among us and
those who are most hurt by this COVID crisis across the board.  And
that’s what we’re doing.

Do you have any questions for me?  Seriously, you can ask me anything
you’d like.  I can tell Carmen has a good question.  I don’t know. 
She’s not sure.  “Should I really ask him that?”  (Laughter.)  I don’t
know.  You can ask me anything you want.  I’m just Joe, okay?  So, fire
away.  Do you have a question?

MS. PALMER:  When are you coming to see us in Columbus?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m going to be back in Columbus.  I was in
Columbus — actually, now it’s about literally 35 days or so ago.  I came
through in a whistle stop, in a train, when I was trying to get the
nomination, when I was trying to win the election.  But I like
Columbus. 

And I’m a Democrat, but I think your — I think your governor is doing a
pretty decent job of trying to get things going.  I’m — I — you know, I
don’t think there’s anything political about this.  Some folks are just
stepping up, and he’s stepped up in my — my impression.  We disagree on
things.  We used to serve together.  I like him.  But it’s not a — I
just think this is about — it’s about the science.

But when I come back, you know, if you see me, you better not say, “Joe,
who?”  Okay?  (Laughter.)  “Who is that guy?  Joe, who?  What was that
guy’s name?”

MS. PALMER:  (Inaudible) stop by the Academy.

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Well, I’ll you what, I’d like — I hope I can
be — get to the point where that’s happened. 

Now, the one thing I get most asked is when it’s going to go back to
normal.  The honest to God truth is, I can’t tell you that.  But most
experts tell you that things are going to be — continue to change and
change somewhat rapidly.  I think you’re going to see that, next fall,
it’s going to be different than last fall.  I think you’re going to see
that we’re going to be going into the Christmas season better than we
were.  Whether it’s back to complete normal, I don’t know.  But we’re
going to beat this.  I promise you we are going to, together, beat this.

And — and I think that, I — you know, but the idea that over 500- — I
think it’s — I have a card.  I carry a card with me every day with the
total number of folks who have been affected by the — as of yesterday,
there are 500,071 people who have died from this — 500.  That’s more
people that died in World War One, World War Two, and Vietnam combined,
in a year — in a year.

But, look, when the American people set their minds to something,
there’s nothing — nothing we’ve been unable to do if we do it together. 
So with your help — and there’s so darn many — you know, we — look —
look at all the stuff that’s, I don’t know, bad or disappointing out
there, but there’s so darn many good, decent, honorable people in this
country, and they want to get it done right. 

And so, in the meantime, make me one promise: You all take care of
yourselves.  We need you, for real.  We need you, for real, okay?

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Thank you all.  Thank you
for your time and your sharing your thoughts. It’s wonderful to be with
you.  Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  And you have the number.  You can call us anytime.  I
really mean it.  Not a joke.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  They know how to find me now, so.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I know.  (Laughter.)

MR. CARTER:  We have your email, I think. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Believe me.  She knows how to find me. 

AMBASSADOR RICE:  (Laughs.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  “Joe, where are you?  Come here.”

AMBASSADOR RICE:  “Mr. President,” not “Joe.”

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we used to be “Joe.”

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Oh, okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  Still — “Joe” is still good.  All right, thank you.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Thanks, everybody.  Take care.

PARTICIPANTS:  Thank you.

AMBASSADOR RICE:  Stay well.

THE PRESIDENT:  Appreciate it.

2:26 P.M. EST
