---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-22'
modified_time: 2021-02-22 14:14:06-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/22/remarks-by-president-biden-on-helping-small-businesses/
published_time: 2021-02-22 14:14:05-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Helping Small\_Businesses"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

Eisenhower Executive Office Building

12:29 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I just had an opportunity to catch
up with two small-business owners I met on the road in the last couple
weeks.  And the first was a very entrepreneurial woman named Pilar
Guzman Zavala, and she’s in Florida, Miami.  And Tim Eichinger, who is
in Wisconsin.  They have different businesses and live in different
places, but both shared the same message with me when I spoke to them on
the road, and that was American small businesses are hurting and hurting
badly, and they need help now.  And it’s in all of our interests to make
sure they get the help now.

Small businesses are the engines of our economic progress; they’re the
glue and the heart and soul of our communities.  But they’re getting
crushed.  Since the beginning of this pandemic, 400,000 small businesses
have closed — 400,000 — and millions more are hanging by a thread.

It’s hurting black, Latino, and Asian American communities the hardest. 
Walk down any Main Street and you see it: empty storefronts, goodbye
signs hanging in the windows.  Maybe it’s the pizza place you used to
take your family to dinner, or the hardware store that always had the
tool you needed.  It’s mom-and-pop shop that’s sponsored by — that is
supported by the community, and then, in turn, they support the
community.  They sponsor a Little League team; the barber shop with the
first dollar bill that he or she earned is still taped to the wall,
along with a picture of the kids who are now in college. 

These small businesses — not the ones with 500 employees, but these
small businesses that, with a handful of folks, they are 90 percent of
the businesses in America.  But when the Paycheck Protection Program was
passed, a lot of these mom-and-pop business just got muscled out of the
way by bigger companies who jumped in front of the line.

And I want to be clear: The Paycheck Protection Program is a bipartisan
effort; Democrats and Republicans helped pass it.  But Democrats and
Republicans have also voiced concerns about improving it.  With their
input, that’s what we’re doing in our administration: improving it.

In the last month, we’ve increased the share of funding for small
businesses with fewer than 10 employees by nearly 60 percent.  For
businesses in rural communities, the share of funding is up nearly 30
percent since we came to office.  And the share of funding distributed
through banks that traditionally help minority-owned businesses is up
more than 40 percent. 

And today, I’m announcing additional changes to the PPP program that
will make sure we look out for the mom-and-pop business even more than
we already have.  As I explained to Pilar and Tim — the two
small-business people I spoke to on Wednesday — the Small Business
Administration is going to establish a 14-day exclusive PPP loan
application period for businesses and nonprofits with fewer than 20
employees.  People can — can go out and find how to get a hold of these
— these loans.  People can find out more at the SBA.gov. 

The Small Business Administration will also remove barriers that have
stopped many businesses from being able to apply for these loans.  For
example, we’re making it so that a student loan default or a
non-fraud-related criminal record does not prohibit someone from
applying for the program.

We’re also making it easy for those one-person businesses — like the
home repair contractors; beauticians; small, independent retailers — to
secure forgivable PPP loans. 

At the same time, we’re increasing access by increasing oversight.  I
invite any inspector general in this program, with jurisdiction over
this program, to closely look at these loans and report — publicly
report on any issues they uncover inconsistent with what I’m saying
today.  We will ensure every dollar is spent well.  These changes will
bring much-needed, long-overdue to — help to small businesses who really
need help staying open, maintaining jobs and making ends meet.  And this
is a starting point, not the ending point. 

We need Congress to pass my American Rescue Plan.  It deals with the
immediate crisis facing our small businesses. 

Now, critics say the plan is too big.  Let me ask them a rhetorical
question: What would you have me cut?  What would you leave out?  The
American Rescue Plan targets $50 billion to support the hardest-hit
small businesses after this program expires at the end of March.  Would
you not help invest in them?  Would you let them continue to go under? 
Would you leave them out again, like the previous administration did? 

One of the things I’ve heard again and again from small-business owners
like Pilar and Tim is that knowing about support is one thing; being —
gaining access to getting it is another.

That’s why we proposed $175 million to bring community organizations in
to serve as “navigators” who’ll help them through this process of
application.

We would also establish a hotline, with help available in multiple
languages, so folks can pick up a phone and get the help they need to
stay open and serve their community.

Again, the critics: “It’s too big.”  Should we not — should we stop
spending money on them?  Do we not want a return on investment that we
make in these businesses to be able to stay open and thrive and pay
back?

Why would we not want to make sure a small business, who lack teams of
lawyers, bankers, and accountants, have an advocate — someone they can
rely on — to direct them to help that’s there for them now — will be
there for them?

The American Rescue Plan is a rescue plan for America’s small businesses
and America’s mainstream businesses.  And we need Congress to pass it
right away.  I’m grateful to the Senate and the House for moving so
quickly.

And I want to make it clear: I’m prepared to hear ideas about how to
make the American Rescue Plan better and cheaper.  But we have to make
clear who we’re helping and who it would hurt.

I always try to help people like Tim and Pilar and all the country’s
small businesses, and families, the workers, the communities that depend
on them to survive, recover, and grow.

And it’s my hope — my hope that as Democrats and Republicans, who have
backed the PPP program — that Democrats and Republicans will back the
American Rescue Plan.  The vast majority of the American people — more
than 70 percent of the American people, including a majority of
Republicans — want us to act based on all the polling data, and act big
and act quickly. 

Major economists — left, right, and center — here and abroad say we
should focus on smart investments that can make jobs available and focus
on the jobs and in the people to prevent lo- — prevent long-term
economic damage to our nation and to strengthen the economic
competitiveness going forward. 

In fact, an analysis by Wall Street’s firm, Moody’s, estimates that if
we pass my American Rescue Plan, the economy will create 7 million jobs
this year.  This year.

We’ve also been in constant contact with the mayors and governors,
county officials, members of Congress of both parties in every state. 
That includes a letter, I might add, from more than 400 mayors from big
and small cities, Democrat and Republican.  They agree we have to act
and act now.  They understand we’re not going to get our economy back in
shape and the millions of people back to work until we beat this virus. 

Getting our economy back means bringing our small businesses back.  And
that’s what we’re going to do.  That’s what I’m doing today.  We’re
going to focus.  The program ends at the end of March, but for the next
two weeks, the only folks who can apply for that PPP money are
businesses with fewer than 20 employees. 

Thank you very much.

12:38 P.M. EST
