---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-17'
modified_time: 2021-02-17 02:15:15-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/17/remarks-by-president-biden-in-a-cnn-town-hall-with-anderson-cooper/
published_time: 2021-02-17 07:00:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in a CNN Town Hall with Anderson\_Cooper"
---
 
Pabst Theater  
Milwaukee, Wisconsin

(February 16, 2021)

7:59 P.M. CST

MR. COOPER:  And welcome.  We are live in the Pabst Theater in
Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  This is a CNN Presidential Town Hall — the first
with President Joe Biden.  I’m Anderson Cooper.  President Biden is just
four weeks into his presidency and facing multiple crises: nearly
500,000 of our fellow citizens — Americans — have died from COVID-19,
millions out of work right now, and a nation dangerously divided.

Tonight, we’re going to be answering questions from the American
people.  The President will be answering questions from the American
people on his first official trip since taking office.  Some of the
questioners here voted for him.  Some did not. 

The President and I will not be wearing masks on this stage.  He, of
course, has been vaccinated.  Over the past several weeks, I have
repeatedly tested negative for coronavirus — as recently as yesterday
and this morning as well.  We will however be keeping our distance from
one another, and the audience is very limited, socially distanced, and
all wearing masks when they’re seated.

With that, I want to welcome the 46th President of the United States,
President Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Anderson.

MR. COOPER:  How are you, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Good to see you, man.  Hey, folks.  How are you? 
(Applause.)  Good to be back, man.

MR. COOPER:  Yeah, it’s nice to see you, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  And you know you enjoy being home with the baby more.  I
don’t want to hear this.

MR. COOPER:  (Laughs.)  I do.  Yes.  He’s nine and a half months, so I’m
very happy.

THE PRESIDENT:  I get it.  No, no, everybody knows I like kids better
than people.

MR. COOPER:  I saw a picture of you with your grandson recently.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MR. COOPER:  Yeah.  So we got a lot of questions in the audience.  We
have about 50 or so people here.  They’re all socially distanced.  We
have some folks who voted for you, some folks who did not.  And we’re
going to get as many questions in as possible.

Before we get to that, I just want to start with a couple of just
big-picture questions about the pandemic and where we are right now.

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.

MR. COOPER:  New cases of COVID-19 hospitalizations have fallen by half
in the last month, so have new cases.  That’s the good news.  There’s
this potential threat — potential surge from the variants coming down
the pike potentially.  When is every American who wants it going to be
able to get a vaccine?

THE PRESIDENT:  By the end of July of this year.  We have — we came into
office, there was only 50 million doses that were available.  We have
now — by the end of July, we’ll have over 600 million doses — enough to
vaccinate every single American.

MR. COOPER:  When you say — (applause) — when you say “by the end of
July,” do you mean that they will be available or that people will have
been able to actually get them?  Because Dr. Fauci —

THE PRESIDENT:  They’ll be available.

MR. COOPER:  They’ll be available.

THE PRESIDENT:  They’ll be available.

MR. COOPER:  Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  Here, look, we — what we did — we got into office and
found out the supply — there was no backlog.  I mean, there was nothing
in the refrigerator, figuratively and literally speaking, and there were
10 million doses a day that were available.

We’ve upped that, in the first three weeks that we were in office, to
significantly more than that.  We’ve moved out — went to the Pfizer and
Moderna, and said, “Can you produce more vaccine and more rapidly?” 
They not only agreed to go from 200 to 400 — and they’ve agreed to go to
600 million doses.  And that’s — and they’re — and we got them to move
up the time because we used the National Defense Act to be able to help
the manufacturing piece of it to get more equipment and so on.

MR. COOPER:  So if, end of April — excuse me, end of July, they’re
available to actually get them in the arms of people who want them, that
will take — what? — a couple more months?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, no, a lot will be being vaccinated in the
meantime.

MR. COOPER:  Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  In other words, it’s not all of a sudden 600 million
doses are going to appear.  And what’s going to happen is: It’s going to
continue to increase as we move along, and we’ll have — we’ll have
reached 400 million by the end of May and 600 million by the middle of —
by the end of July.

And the biggest thing, though, as you remember when you and I — no, I
shouldn’t say it that way, “as you remember” — but when you and I talked
last, we talked about — it’s one thing to have the vaccine, which we
didn’t have when we came into office, but a vaccinator — how do you get
the vaccine into someone’s arm?  So you need the paraphernalia.  You
need the needle, and you need mechanisms to be able to get it in.  You
have to have people who can inject it into people’s arms.

MR. COOPER:  That’s been one of the problems is just getting enough
people.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, now we have — we have made significant strides
increasing the number of vaccinators.  I’ve — I issued an executive
order allowing former retired docs and nurses to do it.  We have over
1,000 military personnel.  The CDC is — I mean, excuse me, the — we have
gotten the National Guard engaged.

So we have significant number of vaccinators — people who would actually
be there.  Plus, we’ve opened up a considerable number of locations
where you can get the vaccination.

MR. COOPER:  I want to introduce you to Kevin Michel.  He’s an
independent from Wauwatosa.  He’s a mechanical engineer for a vehicle
company.

Kevin, welcome.  What’s your question?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Hi, welcome to Milwaukee.

THE PRESIDENT:  How you doing?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Good.  My question is regarding education.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  And considering that hybrid and virtual school
instruction have been in place for nearly a year now, what is the plan
and recommendation to get students back into the brick-and-mortar
buildings?  As a parent of four children, I find it imperative that they
get back to school as safely as possible.

THE PRESIDENT:  My mother would say, “God bless you, son.”  No purgatory
for you — four kids home.  I really mean it.  And, by the way, the loss
of being able to be in school is having significant impact on the
children and parents as well. 

And so, what we found out is, there are certain things that make it
rational and easy to go back to the brick-and-mortar building.  One,
first of all, making sure everybody is wearing protective gear — it’s
available to students, as well as to teachers, the janitors, the people
who work in the cafeteria, the bus drivers.

Secondly, organizing in smaller pods, which means that’s why we need
more teachers.  Instead of a classroom of 30 kids in it, you have three
classes and that same — of 10 kids each in those.  And I’m — I’m not
making the number up; it might be less.  It doesn’t have to be literally
10. 

In addition to that, we also have indicated that it is much better, it’s
much easier to send kids K-through-8 back because they are less likely
to communicate the disease to somebody else.  But because kids in —
sophomores, juniors, and seniors in high school — they socialize a lot
more, and they’re older, and they transmit more than young kids do, it’s
harder to get those schools open without having everything from the
ventilation systems and — and having —

For example, school bus drivers — you know, we — we got to make sure
that you don’t have 60 kids, or however many there — depending on the
size of school bus — sitting two abreast in every single seat.

And so there’s a lot of things we can do, short of — and I think that we
should be vaccinating teachers.  We should move them up in the hierarchy
as well.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  Well, let me ask you, you — your administration had set a
goal to open the majority of schools in your first 100 days.  You’re now
saying that means those schools may only be open for at least one day a
week.

THE PRESIDENT:  No, that’s not true.  That’s what was reported; that’s
not true.  There was a mistake in the communication.  But what I — what
I’m talking about is I said opening the majority of schools in
K-through-eighth grade because they’re the easiest to open, the most
needed to be opened, in terms of the impact on children and families
having to stay home.

MR. COOPER:  So when do you think that would be — K-through-8, at least
five days a week if possible?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think we’ll be close to that at the end of the first
100 days.  We’ve had a significant percentage of them being able to be
opened.  My — my guess is they’re going to probably be pushing to open
all for — all summer — to continue like it’s a different semester
(inaudible).

MR. COOPER:  Do you think that would be five days a week or just a
couple?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think — I think many of them are five days a week. 
The goal will be five days a week.  Now, it’s going to be harder to open
up the high schools for the reasons I said — just like, if you notice,
the contagion factor in colleges is much higher than it is in high
schools or grade schools.

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet — this is Justin Belot.  He’s a high
school teacher from Milwaukee who’s a Democrat.  Justin, thanks for
being with us.  What’s your question?

THE PRESIDENT:  What do you teach?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I teach English.  High school English. 

THE PRESIDENT:  My wife teaches.  God love you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Wonderful.  Thank you, Mr. President.  So along the
same lines of schools, so this great debate on when to transition to
in-person learning: While there are numerous warnings not to be in large
groups or to have dinner parties or small parties, why is it okay to put
students and teachers in close proximity to each other for an entire
day, day after day?  With large class sizes and outdated ventilation
systems, how and when do you propose this to occur?  And finally, do you
believe all staff should be vaccinated before doing so?

THE PRESIDENT:  Number one, nobody is suggesting, including the CDC in
this recent out report, that you have large classes, congested classes. 
It’s smaller classes; more ventilation; making sure that everybody has
masks and is socially distanced, meaning you have less — fewer students
in one room; making sure that everyone from the sanitation workers who
work in the — in the lavatories, in the bathrooms, and do the — and do
the — all the maintenance, that they are in fact able to be protected as
well.  Making sure you’re in a situation where you don’t have the
congregation of a lot of people — as I said, including the school bus,
including getting on a school bus.

So it’s about needing to be able to socially distance, smaller classes,
more protection.  And I think the teachers and the folks who work in the
school — the cafeteria workers and others — should be on the list of
preferred to get a vaccination.

MR. COOPER:  I want to introduce you to Kerri Engebrecht, an independent
from Oak Creek.

Kerri, welcome.  Go ahead.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Kerri, how are you?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Very good, thank you.  Our 19-year-old son was
diagnosed with pediatric COPD at the age of 14.  We’re told he has the
lungs of a 60-year-old.  He does all he can to protect himself.  Last
month, he even removed himself from the campus of UW-Madison, as he
feels it’s safer and he has less exposure here at home.

We’ve tried all we can to get him a vaccine.  I hear of others who are
less vulnerable getting it based on far less.  Do you have a plan to
vaccinate those who are most vulnerable sooner, to give them a priority?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the answer is: Yes, there are. 

But here’s how it works: The states make the decision on who is — or in
what order.  I can make recommendations, and for federal programs, I can
do that as President of the United States.  But I can’t tell the state,
“You must move such and such a group of people up.”

But here’s what I’d like to do: If you’re willing, I’ll stay around
after this is over, and maybe we can talk a few minutes and see if I can
get you some help.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  Let — let me just ask you, though: Johnson & Johnson could
be authorized — a new vaccine from them could be authorized in a couple
of weeks.  That would be a big deal —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, it would.

MR. COOPER:  — bringing a lot more vaccines on, millions of more doses
to the supply.  Once that happens, given the urgency of these variants,
and the potential threat from them, should states stop giving priority
to certain groups and just open vaccine access for everyone?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it depends on how much they have available.  I
think there still should be priority groups in case there are not enough
for everyone, every- — available to everybody. 

And, look, we don’t know for certain.  Let me tell you what my national
COVID team has said: that the variants, the — by “variants,” you mean
the Brazilian strain, the South African strain, the British strain —

MR. COOPER:  London.  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  — and London, et cetera.  There’s thus far — thus far,
there is no evidence that the existing vaccinations available for
Moderna and Pfizer do not either make sure that they apply — they work
as well against the strain in the United States.  And there is no
evidence that they’re not helpful. 

So if you can get a vaccination, get it whenever you can get it,
regardless of the other strains that are out there. There are studies
going on to determine it is not only more communicable, but are there
vaccine — do the vaccines not provide helpful protection by getting the
vaccine.  There are some speculation.  I shouldn’t — I got to be very
careful — right? — because millions of people are watching this.  It may
be that a certain vaccination for a certain strain may reduce from 95
percent to a lower percentage of certainty that it will keep you from
getting —

MR. COOPER:  It may not be as effective as —

THE PRESIDENT:  It may not be as effective.

MR. COOPER:  — against a variant, but it still would be effective.

THE PRESIDENT:  It’d still be effective.  So the clear notion is: If
you’re eligible, if it’s available, get the vaccine.  Get the vaccine.

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet — this is Dessie Levy, a Democrat from
Milwaukee.  She’s a registered nurse, former academic dean.  She’s also
currently director of a faith-based nonprofit. 

Dessie, welcome.

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way — you’ve heard me say this before, Becky
\[sic\] — if there’s any angels in heaven, they’re all nurses, male and
female.  Doctors let you live, nurses make you want to live.  I can tell
you as a consumer of healthcare — my family.  You’re wonderful.  Thank
you for what you do.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  God bless you.  Mr. President, hello.  My name is Dr.
Dessie Levy.  And my question to you is: Considering COVID-19 and its
significant impact on black Americans, especially here in Milwaukee, and
thus the exacerbation of our racial disparities in healthcare, we have
seen less than 3 percent of blacks and less than 5 percent of Hispanics,
given the total number of vaccines that have been administered to this
point.  Is this a priority for the Biden administration?  And how will
the disparities be addressed?  And that’s both locally and nationally.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, it is a priority, number one. 

Number two, there’s two reasons for it being the way it is.  Number one,
there is some history of blacks being used as guinea pigs and other
experiments — I need not tell you, Doctor — over the last 50 to 75 to
100 years in America.  So there’s a — there is a concern about getting
the vaccine, whether it’s available or not. 

But the biggest part of it is access — physical access.  That’s why,
last week, I opened up — I met with the Black Caucus in the United
States Congress and agreed that I would — all — all of the fed- — all of
the community health centers now, which take care of the toughest of the
toughest neighborhoods in terms of illness, they are going to get a
million doses, you know, a week, in how we’re going to move forward,
because they’re in the neighborhood.

Secondly, we have opened up — and I’m making sure that there’s doses of
vaccine for over 6,700 pharmacies, because almost everyone lives within
not always walking distance, but within the distance of being able to go
to the pharmacy, like when you got your flu shot.  That is also now
being opened.

Thirdly, I also am providing for mobile — mobile vans, mobile units to
go into neighborhoods that are hard to get to because people are on —
for example, even though everyone is within, you know, basically five
miles of a Walgreens, let’s say, the fact is, if you’re 70 years old,
you don’t have a vehicle, and you live in a tough neighborhood — meaning
you’re — it’s a high concentration of COVID — you’re not likely to be
able to walk five miles to go get a vaccine. 

The other thing we found is — and I’m sorry to go on, but this is really
important to me.  The other part — portion is, a lot of people don’t
know how to register.  Not everybody in the community — in the Hispanic
and the African American community, particularly in rural areas that are
distant and/or inner-city districts — know how to use — know how to get
online to determine how to get in line for that COVID vaccination at the
Walgreens or at the particular store.

So we’re also — I’ve committed to spend a billion dollars on public
education to help people figure out how they can get in there.  That’s
why we’re also trying to set up mass vaccination centers, like places in
stadiums and the like.

MR. COOPER:  Are you concerned about the rollout of this online? 
Because it has been incredibly confusing for a lot of people, not just —

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.

MR. COOPER:  — you know, older people.  It’s younger people just trying
to find a place to get a vaccine.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  And I have.  Because look — look what we
inherited: We inherited a circumstance here, where — and now for the
first — we did a lot in the first two weeks — a circumstance where,
number one, there weren’t many vaccinators.  You didn’t know where you
could go get a vaccine administered to you because there was no one to
put it in your arm — number one. 

Number two, there was very little federal guidance; it’s to say, what to
look for, how to find out where, in fact, you could go.  You can go
online, and every single state now has a slightly different mechanism by
which they say who’s qualified, where you can get the vaccines, and so
on. 

So it’s all about trying to more rationalize in detail so ordinary
people, like me, can understand.  I mean that sincerely.  I mean, I’m
not — my — you know, my grandchildren can use that online — you know,
make me look like I’m in, you know, the seventh century. 

But all kidding aside, so this is a process, and it’s going to take
time.  It took us a — think of what we didn’t do.  And you and I talked
about this during the campaign.  We didn’t do from the time it hit the —
it hit the United States.  “You’re going to inject something in your
arm, it’s going to go away.” “You’re going to be in a — it’ll all be
done by Easter.”

We wasted so much time.  So much time.

MR. COOPER:  Another question about vaccines.  This is Jessica Salas. 
She’s an independent from the Milwaukee, a graphic designer. 

Jessica, welcome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Hi, thank you.  As we’ve been talking about, the
coronavirus is very real and very scary.  And it’s especially scary for
children who may or may not understand.  My children, Layla — eight,
here — and my son Matteo — seven, at home — often ask if they will catch
COVID, and if they do, will they die.  They are watching as others get
the vaccine, and they would like to know when will kids be able to get
the vaccine.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well first of all, honey — what’s your first name?

LAYLA SALAS:  Layla.

THE PRESIDENT:  Layla.  Beautiful name.  First of all, kids don’t get
the vacci- — get COVID very often.  It’s unusual for that to happen. 
They don’t — they — and there — the evidence so far is, children aren’t
the people most likely to get COVID — number one. 

Number two, we haven’t even done tests yet on children as to whether or
not the certain vaccines would work or not work, or what is needed.  So
that’s — so you — you’re the safest group of people in the whole world —
number one. 

Number two, you’re not likely to be able to be exposed to something and
spread it to mommy or daddy.  And it’s not likely mommy and daddy are
able to spread it to you either.  So I wouldn’t worry about it, baby.  I
promise you.  But I know it’s, kind of, worrisome.  Are you in first
grade, second grade?

LAYLA SALAS:  Second.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, you’re getting old.  (Laughter.) Second grade. 
Well, has your school — have you been in school, honey?

LAYLA SALAS:  No.

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  See, that’s — that’s, kind of, a scary thing too:
You don’t get to go to school; you don’t get to see your friends. 

And so what a lot of kids — and I mean — and big people too, older
people — they just — their whole lives have, sort of, changed, like when
it used to be.  It used to be, let’s go outside and play with your
friends and get in the school bus and go to school, and everything was
normal.  And now, when things change, people get really worried and
scared.  But don’t be scared, honey.  Don’t be scared.  You’re going to
be fine.  And we’re going to make sure mommy is fine too.

MR. COOPER:  You know, let me ask you — (applause) — let me ask you,
just for folks who are watching out there — there are a lot of people
who are scared, and there’s a lot of people —

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.

MR. COOPER:  — who are hurting.  When do you think this pandemic is — I
mean, when are we — when is it going to be done?  When are we going to
get back to normal?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you know, all the experts, all the committee that
I put together of the leading researchers in the world and in the United
States who are on this committee of mine, headed by Dr. Fauci and
others, they tell me: Be careful not to predict things that you don’t
know for certain what’s going to happen because then you’ll be held
accountable.  I get that. 

But let me tell you what I think based on all that I’ve learned and all
that I’ve studied and all that I think that I know.  It’s fairly — it’s
a high probability that the vaccinations that are available today — and
the new one, Johnson & Johnson, God willing — will prove to be useful;
that with those vaccinations, the ability to continue to spread the
disease is going to diminish considerably because of what they call
“herd immunity.”  And now they’re saying somewhere around 70 percent of
the people have to constitute; some people said 50, 60.  But a
significant number have to be in a position where they are — they have
been vaccinated and/or they’ve been through it and —

MR. COOPER:  Have antibodies.

THE PRESIDENT:  And have antibodies.

And so, if that works that way — as my mother would say, with the grace
of God and the goodwill of the neighbors — that by next Christmas, I
think we’ll be in a very different circumstance, God willing, than we
are today.  I think a year from now, when it’s 22 below zero here —
(laughter) — no, a year from now, I think that there’ll be significantly
fewer people having to be socially distanced, have to wear masks, et
cetera.  But we don’t know. 

So I don’t want to over-promise anything here.  I told you when I ran
and when I got elected: I will always level with you.  To use Franklin
Roosevelt’s example, I’ll shoot to give it “straight from the shoulder”
— straight from the shoulder what I know and what I don’t know.

We don’t know for certain, but it is highly unlikely that by the
beginning of next year’s school — traditional school year in September,
we are not significantly better off than we are today, but it matters. 
It matters whether you continue to wear that mask.  It matters whether
you continue to socially distance.  It matters whether you wash your
hands with hot water.  It — those things matter.  They matter.  And that
can save a lot of lives while we’re getting to this point, we get to
herd immunity. 

MR. COOPER:  You’ve made — (applause) — you’ve made passing a COVID
relief bill the focus of your first 100 days.  Those on the right say
the proposal is too big; some on the left say it’s not big enough.  Are
you committed to passing a $1.9 trillion bill, or is that final number
still up for negotiation? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m committed to pass- — look, here’s — some of you are
probably economists or college professors or you’re teaching in school. 
This is the first time in my career — and as you can tell, I’m over 30 —
the first time in my career that there is a consensus among economists
left, right, and center that is over- — and including the IMF and in
Europe — that the overwhelming consensus is: In order to grow the
economy a year or two, three, and four down the line, we can’t spend too
much.  Now is the time we should be spending.  Now is the time to go
big. 

You may recall I managed the last experiment we had with stimulus, and
it was 800 — (applause) — no, I don’t mean it that way, but it was $800
billion.  We thought we needed more than that.  And we think we did.  We
got — we were — it ended up working, but it slowed things up by about —
and it, depending who you talked to — between six months and a year and
a half.

We can come back — we can come roaring back.  It’s estimated that if we
— by most economists, including Wall Street firms, as well as — as — as,
you know, think tanks — political think tanks — left, right, and center
— it is estimated that if we pass this bill alone, we’ll create 7
million jobs this year.  Seven million jobs this year.  (Applause.)

And so the thing we haven’t talked about — and I’m not going to go on
because I want to hear your question, and I apologize — we haven’t
talked about — I remember you and I talking during the campaign, and you
had the former guy saying that, “Well, you know, we’re just going to
open things up, and that’s all we need to do.”  We said, “No, you got to
deal with the disease before you deal with the — with getting the
economy going.” 

Well, the fact is that the economy now has to be dealt with.  And what
is — look at all the people.  You have over 10 million people
unemployed.  We need unemployment insurance.  We need to make sure that,
you know, you have — 40 percent of the children in America are — talk
about food shortage — 60 percent of — did you ever think you’d see a
day, Milwaukee — you’d see in the last six months, people lining up in
their automobiles for an hour, for as far as you can see, to get a bag
of food?  What — I mean, this is the United States of America, for God’s
sake.  We can’t deal with that? 

We promised — look at all the people who are on the verge of being
kicked out of their apartments because they cannot afford — they cannot
afford the rent.  What happens when that happens?  Everything
(inaudible).  Look at all the mom-and-pop landlords that are in real
trouble if we don’t subsidize this in the meantime.  Look at all the
people who are on the verge of missing — and how many people have missed
their last two mortgage payments and are able to be foreclosed on. 
That’s why I took executive action to say they cannot be foreclosed on
in the meantime.  Because look at what the impact on the economy would
be.  You think it’s bad now, let all that happen. 

Look at all the people who’ve lost their insurance.  How many — I’m not
asking for a show of hands.  How many of you had jobs with corporations
or companies that provided healthcare?  The COBRA healthcare.  Well,
guess what?  The company goes under, and guess what?  You lose your
health insurance.  Well, we should be making sure you’re able to pay for
that so that we keep people moving. 

So there’s a lot — so I think bigger.  And the vast majority of serious
people say bigger is better now, not spending less.

MR. COOPER:  This is — this is Randy Lange, an independent who supported
Donald Trump in 2020.  Randy is the co-owner of a woodworking company
here in Milwaukee. 

Randy, welcome. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Good evening.  You’re proposing a $15 minimum wage. 
Given the lower cost of living, specifically in the Midwest, many
business owners are concerned that this will put them out of business,
forcing them to downsize or cut benefits.  How can you instill
confidence in small businesses that this will benefit the Midwest
business growth? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, the South is not much different than
the Midwest in that regard as well.  But here’s the thing: If you look
back over the last 40 years, as minimum wages increased, people haven’t
— the end — the end result of net employment hasn’t changed.  The vast
majority of economists — and there are studies that show that by
increasing the minimum wage to $15 an hour, it could have an impact on —
on a number of businesses, but it would be de minimis, et cetera. 

Here’s the deal: It’s about doing it gradually.  We’re at $7.25 an
hour.  No one should work 40 hours a week and live in poverty.  No one
should work 40 hours a week and live in poverty.  (Applause.)  But it’s
totally legitimate for small-business owners to be concerned about how
that changes.  For example, if it went — if we gradually increased it —
when we indexed it at $7.20, if we kept it indexed by — to inflation,
people would be making 20 bucks an hour right now.  That’s what it would
be.

MR. COOPER:  The Congressional Budget Office says that a $15 minimum
wage would lift 900,000 people out of poverty but would also cause 1.4
million people their jobs.  Is that —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, but there’s also — if you read that whole thing
about Pinocchios and all the rest — there are also an equal number of
studies that say that’s not — that wouldn’t have that effect, and
particularly as you do it in terms of how gradually you do it.  So let’s
say — you said you’re going to increase the minimum wage from $7.25 an
hour, between now and the year 2025, to $12 an hour, to $13 — you double
someone’s pay — and the impact on business would be absolutely
diminished, and it would grow the GDP, and it would grow and it would
generate economic growth. 

But it’s not illegitimate as a small-business person to worry about
whether or not increasing it at one fell swoop would have that impact. 
I do support a $15 minimum wage.  I think there is equally as much, if
not more, evidence to dictate that it would grow the economy and, long
run and medium run, benefit small businesses as well as large
businesses, and it would not have such a dilatory effect.  But that’s a
debatable issue.

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet another small-business owner.  This is
Tim Eichinger, a Democrat from Milwaukee, co- owner of Black Husky
Brewing.

Tim, welcome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you.  My partner and I own a small brewery in
the Riverwest neighborhood of Milwaukee, and we have nine amazing
employees.  We rely primarily on selling our beer out of our tap room. 
And with the pandemic, our business has gone down about 50 percent. 
Now, we’ve relied primarily on loans, grants, as well as our own
reserves to survive.  However, the new assistance has been too slow, and
recently it’s gotten more restrictive on how we can apply it.  What will
you do so that small mom-and-pop businesses like ours will survive over
large corporate entities?

     THE PRESIDENT:  Change it drastically, first of all, by making sure
we have inspectors general.  You may remember when the first bill
passed, you may remember there was a guy running, saying, “What’s going
to happen is the banks aren’t going to lend you the money.  They’re
going to ask you a question, ‘Do you have your credit with us?  How many
loans do you have with us?  What is your — what credit cards do you have
with us?  How…”  Because even though they were being underwritten, and
we bailed their rear ends out — last time out, they weren’t — it was too
much trouble to lend to you. 

What did the President do?  And I don’t want to pick on the Pres- — I
shouldn’t — I don’t — I’m tired of talking about Donald Trump.  I don’t
want to talk about him anymore.  But the last administration spent time
— a lot of time talking about how there was no need for inspector
generals.  We find out that 40 percent of the money — the PPE loans to
go to — PP — PPP loans that go to small businesses went to — went to
corporations that were multimillion-dollar corporations.  And you’re
going to see an investigation showing that a lot of this was fraudulent
where it went. 

So what I’m doing is I’m providing $60 billion for you to be able to
make capital investments in order to be able to open safely and make
sure you’re in a position that you can do the things that are
recommended.  If you’ve noticed, there’s been very little federal
direction for you all as to how to safely open your businesses.  Yet,
you know, if you’re able to test your employees, if you’re able to be in
a situation if you — if you serve people, you have Plexiglas dividers;
if you — a whole range.  If you’re able to have everybody with a — with
a mask and the like, you can do so much to safely open, but you don’t
get that direction. 

So, the money, I guarantee you, is going to go to small businesses with
people.  And I’m shooting — and, by the way, the original definition of
a small businesses is 500 or fewer employees.  Well, that’s not what I
mean by small businesses.  What we meant by small business is the
mom-and-pop businesses that hold communities together and keep people
together, and particularly in neighborhoods where if you don’t have a
beauty shop, a barber shop, a hardware store, a grocery store, et
cetera, the center of the community begins to disintegrate some.

So what I’d like to do is, if you are willing to give me an address, lay
out for you precisely — without taking more time, I’m going to get in
trouble; I’m supposed only took two minutes in an answer — is to let you
know exactly how that $60 billion in part of the recovery package will
go to small businesses.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  Right.  We’re going to take a quick break.  When we get
back, we’ll have more questions for the President of the United States,
Joe Biden.  We’ll be right back.

(Commercial break begins.)

(Commercial break concludes.)

MR. COOPER:  And welcome back.  We’re live at a CNN Town Hall Event at
the Pabst Theater in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, with President Joe Biden.  We
are back. 

Thanks so much for — for being here.  We — before we get back into — to
the audience, I want to ask just a question about what we just
witnessed. 

Before the Senate voted to acquit the former President in the
impeachment trial, you said you were anxious to see if Republican
senators would stand up.  Only seven did.  House Speaker Nancy Pelosi
called the rest “cowards.”  Do you agree with her?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not going to call names out.  I — look, I — for four
years, all that’s been in the news is Trump.  The next four years, I
want to make sure all in the news is the American people.  I’m tired of
talking about Trump.  (Applause.)  It’s done.

MR. COOPER:  Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell said that the former
President is, quote, “still liable for everything he did while he was in
office.”  If your Department of Justice wanted to investigate him, would
you allow them to proceed?

THE PRESIDENT:  I made it clear: One of the things about — one of the
most serious pieces of damage done by the last administration was the
politic- — the politicizing of the Justice Department.  Any of you who
are lawyers know — whether you’re a Democrat, Republican, conservative,
or liberal — it has been more politicized than any Justice Department in
American history.  I made a commitment: I will not ever tell my Justice
Department — and it’s not mine; it’s the people’s Justice Department —
who they should and should not prosecute.  Their prosecutorial decisions
will be left to the Justice Department, not me.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet Joel Berkowitz from Shorewood.  He is a
Democrat, a professor of Foreign Languages and Literature at the
University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee.

Joel, thanks for being here.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you, Anderson.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not bad at the literature part, but after five years
of French, I still can’t speak a word.  So I apologize.  (Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I’ll teach you some Yiddish sometime.  How’s that?

THE PRESIDENT:  I — hey, by the way, I understand a little bit of
Yiddish.  (Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I’m sure you do. 

MR. COOPER:  It would be a *shonda* if you didn’t.  But — (Laughter.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  More seriously, Mr. President, like millions of my
fellow citizens, I was shaken by the attack on the Capitol on January
6th, and on our democracy more broadly, by your predecessor and his
followers.  While I appreciate efforts being made to bring them to
justice, I worry about ongoing threats to our country from Americans who
embrace white supremacy and conspiracies that align with it.  What can
your administration do to address this complex and wide-ranging problem?

THE PRESIDENT:  It is complex, it’s wide ranging, and it’s real.  You
may — I got involved in politics to begin with because of civil rights
and opposition to white supremacists, the Ku Klux Klan.  And the most
dangerous people in America continue to exist.  That is the greatest
threat to terror in America: domestic terror. 

And so I would make sure that my Justice Department and the Civil Rights
Division is focused heavily on those very folks.  And I would make sure
that we, in fact, focus on how to deal with the rise of white
supremacy.  And you see what’s happening — and the studies that are
beginning to be done, maybe at your university as well — about the
impact of former military, former police officers, on the growth of
white supremacy in some of these groups. 

You may remember in one of my debates with the former President, I asked
him to condemn the Proud Boys.  He wouldn’t do it.  He said, “Stand by. 
Stand ready.”  Or whatever the phrasing exactly was.  It is a bane on
our existence.  It has always been.  As Lincoln said, “We have to appeal
to our better angels.”  And these guys are not — and women — are, in
fact, demented.  They are dangerous people.

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet James Lewis, an independent from
Milwaukee.  He’s a labor attorney. 

James, welcome.

THE PRESIDENT:  James, if I say anything you don’t like, let me know
right away, will you? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  All right.  You’re all right.

THE PRESIDENT:  About as big as a mountain.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Good evening, President Biden.  I was a public
defender in Kenosha County when the police shot Jacob Blake.  I
witnessed the city I worked in burned and devastated.  And recently,
District Attorney Michael Graveley denied to prosecute the police
officers responsible. 

So my question to you is: What will your administration do to correct
these wrongs that we witnessed not just in Kenosha, but across this
country?  And what will we do to bridge the gap between communities and
their police? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Three things.  First of all, I was a public defender as
well, and I think it’s high time that we had public defenders being paid
the same as prosecutors.  My son, by the way, was a great prosecutor; he
was the attorney general of the state of Delaware, and he was a federal
prosecutor before that.    And so I’m not condemning all prosecutors,
but I am saying that it matters that you have adequate defense and you
are able to attract people who, in fact, can live on being able to be
that public defender — number one. 

Number two — we are pushing very hard, and I think we’ll get it done —
is the legislation relating to what is appropriate police behavior and
studying police behavior, and coming down with recommendations that are
consistent with the legislation that was put in place as a consequence
of all the world seeing one man shoved up against the curb and murdered
after 8 minutes and 46 seconds. 

And so there’s a number of things relating to everything from no-knock
warrants and — and a whole range of things you know.  But there’s
legislation that’s being introduced separately.  I hope it will pass.

But thirdly, I think we have to deal with systemic racism that exists
throughout society.  And one of the things I’m going to recommend there
is that we look at an entire panoply of things that affect whether or
not people of color, primarily, are — are treated differently.  And that
goes through everything from prosecutorial discretion — you know, as a
public defender what, by that, I mean.  What happens is — it’ll take too
long to go through the whole explanation, but let me do it — try to go
quickly. 

What happens now is, if you in fact are going to — you arrest someone
because they had — and you want to charge them, you can charge them with
robbery or armed robbery.  If you charge them with armed robbery, you
get a lot more time than if you don’t charge with robbery.  But if you
want to make sure that someone who doesn’t know much about their
representation is able to (inaudible), you engage in prosecutorial
misconduct by offering them to plead to, essentially — it’s not the same
— burglary, which gets them two years in probation and — so you don’t
even get a trial.  You plead because you don’t have adequate
representation.  You feel like everything is against you, and you’re in
trouble.  When I did the sentencing act, that was designed to keep —
make sure we had the same time for the same crime.

As chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I looked at all 10 federal
districts — and we took six months to do it — and found out if you’re
black, and you — or your first-time offense of being accused of burglary
— and maybe you committed it and you were white and you did the same
exact crime — in all 10 districts throughout the United States of
America, a person — and don’t hold me to the exact numbers, but the
percentages are right — if you’re a first-time white guy, you’d get two
years; you’d get seven years if you were black.

So in order to make sure that you could not send people to jail for the
same crime, I came up with this pr- — this Sentencing Commission, which
said that you — everybody who commits the crime has to receive between —
instead of zero to 20 years, you drastically cut down the number of
years you could go to jail.  But say you have to — if you — if it’s a
one — first-time offense, you have to get sentenced between one and a
half and three years.  Okay?

Well, what happens is prosecutors use that as a mechanism to send people
to jail.  It makes it look like they’re — we’re dealing with mandatory
sentencing, which it wasn’t designed to do at all.  It was designed to
make sure that people were treated fairly. 

There’s much — I’m sorry to go on.  There’s much more to talk about, but
—

MR. COOPER:  Yeah.  We actually have a related question over here.  This
is Dannie Evans, a pastor in Janesville, who works as a supervisor for
the juvenile justice diversion program in Rock County.  He’s an
independent, voted for Donald Trump in 2020.  He’s also a member the
state’s 32-member Racial Disparity Task Force, created in the wake of
the Jacob Blake shooting last summer. 

Dannie, welcome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Good afternoon, Mr. President.  “Defund the Police” is
discussed as an option for reforming policing; however, there are
communities where people live in fear not of the police, but in fear of
the violent gangs who commit crimes —

THE PRESIDENT:  Exactly.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  — in those neighborhoods.  How can we be sure that we
don’t over-legislate police officers so that they can’t do their job to
protect the law-abiding citizens who live in these high-crime
neighborhoods, and yet train officers to police with compassion?

THE PRESIDENT:  By, number one, not defunding the police.  We have to
put more money in police work so we have legitimate community policing
and we’re in a situation where we change the legislation.  No one should
go to jail for a drug offense.  No one should go to jail for the use of
a drug.  They should go to drug rehabilitation.  (Applause.)  Drug
rehabilitation.  Number one. 

We should be in a position where we change the system — of sentencing
system — to one that relates to a notion of — they start telling you to
— as related to making sure that what you do is you focus on making sure
that there’s rehabilitation.

The idea that we don’t have people in prison systems learning how to be
— spending the money — learning how to be mechanics, learning how to be
cooks, learning how to have a profession when you get out; the idea that
we deny someone, who served their time, access to Pell Grants, access to
housing, access to — right now, as you well know, most places you get
out of prison, you get 25 bucks and a bus ticket.  You end up back under
the bridge exactly where you were before. 

And the fact is that — the concern in many minority communities is
black-on-black, Hispanic-on-Hispanic, not just —

But here’s the deal: There has to be much more serious –how can I say
it? — much more serious determination as to what the background and the
attitudes of the recruit is, where — what their views are.  There should
be much more psychological testing, like you would if you’re going to
the intelligence community.  What is it?  What are the things that make
you respond the way you do?  Because there is — there is inherent
prejudice built into the system as well. 

And we also need to provide for — and it’s happening — more African
American and more Hispanic police officers.  And, by the way, they don’t
get it all right either, by a long shot.  But every cop, when they get
up in the morning and put on that shield, has a right to expect to be
able to go home to their family that night.  Conversely, every kid
walking across the street wearing a hoodie is not a member of a gang and
is about to knock somebody off.  (Applause.)

So it’s about education.  I’d love to talk to you more about it because
it’s — it is the answer, in my view — that and education — actually,
access to education. 

And one of the things that I talk a lot about — and I’m sorry to go on
about this, but it’s important: I don’t think we can look at opportunity
in the Af- — let’s stick with African American community for a minute —
in terms of the criminal justice system.  That is only one small piece
of why people are the way they are.  You realize — I don’t know what
home you live in, but if you go ahead and you want to get insurance, and
you’re in a black neighborhood, you’re going to pay more for the same
insurance that I’m going to pay for the exact same home.  Your car — you
never had an accident in your car.  If you live in a black neighborhood,
you’re going to pay a higher premium on your car.  You’re going to —

So, there’s so many things that are built in institutionally that
disadvantage African Americans and Latinos that we — in fact, I think —
and one of the great advantages — I’m sorry, but one of the great
advantages — as bad as things are — I keep reading from presidential
historians how I’ve inherited the worst situation since Lincoln, worse
than Roosevelt, because — economic crisis, political crisis, racial
crisis, et cetera.

But the fact is that everyone has gotten a close-up look now and seen
what’s happened.  That kid — that kid holding that camera for 8 minutes
and 46 seconds awakened the whole world.  When I met with his little
daughter, after he was dead, she said, “My Daddy has changed the
world.”  Guess what?  Not only here in the United States.  Around the
world, people said, “Whoa, I didn’t know that happened.” 

Dr. King — when my generation — when I got involved in the Civil Rights
Movement as a high school student in the early ’60s — and you had Bull
Connor and his dogs in the late ’50s sicking on those ladies going to —
in their black dresses going to church — and little kids and fire hoses
ripping their skin off.  He said, “What happened there was — it was a
second emancipation.”  Because people in places where there weren’t
black communities said, “That really happens?  I didn’t believe it.” 
They saw it happen.  And so it generated the — the Voting Rights Act. 
It generated the Civil Rights Act.  And he called it the “Second
Emancipation.”  We have a chance now — a chance now to make significant
change in racial disparities. 

And I’m going to say something that’s going to get me in trouble, which
— I couldn’t go through the whole show without doing that.  And that is
that — think about it: If you want to know where the American public is,
look at the money being spent in advertising.  Did you ever, five years
ago, think every second or third ad out of five or six you’d turn on
would be biracial couples?  (Applause.)

No, no, I’m not — I’m not being fac- — the reason I’m so hopeful is this
new generation — they’re not like us.  They’re thinking differently. 
They’re more open.  And we got to take advantage of it.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  I want you to — (applause) —

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry.

MR. COOPER:  I want you to meet LuVerda Martin, a Democrat from Mequon
or Mequan \[sic\].  

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Mequon. 

MR. COOPER:  Mequon, sorry.  LuVerda is a certified nurse, midwife. 

Welcome.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Good evening, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Our nation’s experiences with and through COVID-19 and
other recent tragedies have strengthened the foundation of division
among Americans.  What are your immediate and tangible plans to address
how deeply divided we are as a nation?

THE PRESIDENT:  I take issue with what everybody says about the
division.  For example, my plan on COVID: 69 percent of the American
people support it — 69.  In this state — recent poll — 60 percent. 
Sixty percent.  Forty-five percent of Trump voters and fifty-five
percent of Republican voters.  The nation is not divided.  You go out
there and take a look and talk to people.  You have fringes on both
ends, but it’s not nearly as divided as we make it out to be.  And we
have to bring it together. 

You may remember how — trouble I get in.  I said there were three
reasons I was running: One, to restore the soul of the country —
decency, honor, integrity; talk about the things that matter to people,
treat people with dignity.  Secondly, I said, to rebuild the backbone of
the country, the middle class, and this time bring everybody along and
have a chance.  And the third reason was unite the country.  On my own
primary, I got la- — “Unite the country?  What are you talking about?” 

You cannot function in our system without consensus, other than abusing
power at the executive level. 

So I really think there’s so many things that we agree on that we don’t
focus enough on.  And that’s, in large part, I think, because we don’t
just condemn the things that are so obviously wrong — obviously wrong —
that everybody agrees on.  The way they were raised.  The way we were
raised.  As my mother would say, if half the things that occurred in the
last campaign came out of my mouth, as she’d say as a kid, we’d wash my
mouth out with soap.  (Laughter.)

I mean, we have to be more decent and treat people with respect, and
just decency.

MR. COOPER:  But let me —

THE PRESIDENT:  And — 

MR. COOPER:  Let me ask about — a question which does often divide many
people in this country: immigration. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  Your administration, along with congressional Democrats,
expected to unveil an immigration reform bill just this week.  You want
a pathway to citizenship for the roughly 11 million undocumented
immigrants.  Would you sign any immigration bill if it did not include
that: a pathway for the roughly 11 million undocumented —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, there’s a whole range of things that relate to
immigration, including the whole idea how you deal with — you know, what
confuses people, is you talk about refugees, you talk about
undocumented, you talk about people who are seeking asylum, and you talk
about people who are coming from the — that are coming from camps or
being held around the world. 

And there are four different criteria for being able to come to the
United States.  The vast majority of the people, those 11 million
undocumented, they’re not Hispanics; they’re people who came on a visa —
who was able to buy a ticket to get in a plane, and didn’t go home. 
They didn’t come across the Rio Grande swimming — excuse me. 
(Laughter.)  And — and — sorry, that’s the Irish in me.  (Laughter.)  

But all kidding aside.  So there are a lot of things that relate — but I
think that we can no long- — look, you’ve he- — I’m — even if you’re not
involved in politics at all, you’ve probably heard me say this a
thousand times, and matter of — that everyone is entitled to be treated
with decency, with dignity.  Everyone is entitled to that. 

And we don’t do that enough.  For the first time in American history, if
you’re seeking asylum — meaning you’re being persecuted, you’re seeking
asylum — you can’t do it from the United States.  You used to come, have
an asylum officer determine whether or not you met the criteria, and
send you back if you in fact — but you can’t even do that.  You’ve got
to seek asylum from abroad.

MR. COOPER:  But just to be clear, though — and I know you’re going to
be announcing stuff later this week, or that’s what I’ve heard — you do
want a pathway to citizenship —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes. 

MR. COOPER:  — for ele- — roughly 11 million undocumented immigrants.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  And that would be essential in any bill for you? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, yes.  (Applause.)  But, by the way, if you came
along and said to me, “In the meantime, we can work out a system whereby
we’re going to…”  For example, we used to allow refugees — 125,000
refugees in the United States in a yearly basis.  It was as high as
250,000.  Trump cut it to 5,000. 

Come with me into Sierra Leone.  Come with me into parts of Lebanon. 
Come with me around the world and see people piled up in camps, kids
dying, no way out, refugees fleeing from persecution.  We, the United
States, used to do our part.  We were part of that.  We were — and, you
know, that’s — you know, “send me your huddled masses.”  Come on.

And so I would, if you had a refugee bill by itself — I’m not suggesting
that — but I would — there’s things that I would deal by itself, but not
at the expense of saying, “I’m never going to do the other.”  There is a
reasonable path to citizenship. 

And it shows up — one of the reasons why we have been able to compete
with the rest of the world so well is most of our major competitors are
xenophobic.  You remember quite — I remember you questioned me when I
came back from China.  And I said, “I predict, within less than a year,
they’re going to end their One China policy.”  And I got clobbered by —
saying — because they said Biden didn’t talk about the fact that — how
immoral it was.  And it was when we were running against a Republican
ticket, led by Mitt Romney — a fine guy.

MR. COOPER:  You just talked to China’s President, I believe.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, for two hours.

MR. COOPER:  What about the Uyghurs?  What about the human rights abuses
in China?

THE PRESIDENT:  We must speak up for human rights.  It’s who we are.  We
can’t — my comment to him was — and I know him well, and he knows me
well.  We’re — a two-hour conversation.

MR. COOPER:  You talked about this to him?

THE PRESIDENT:  I talked about this, too.  And that’s not so much
refugee, but I talked about — I said — look, you know, Chinese leaders —
if you know anything about Chinese history, it has always been — the
time when China has been victimized by the outer world is when they
haven’t been unified at home.  So the central — to vastly overstate it —
the central principle of Xi Jinping is that there must be a united,
tightly controlled China.  And he uses his rationale for the things he
does based on that.

I point out to him: No American President can be sustained as a
President if he doesn’t reflect the values of the United States.  And so
the idea I’m not going to speak out against what he’s doing in Hong
Kong, what he’s doing with the Uyghurs in western mountains of China and
Taiwan, trying to end the One China policy by making it forceful — I
said — and by the — he said he — he gets it.  Culturally, there are
different norms that each country and they — their leaders — are
expected to follow. 

But my point was that when I came back from meeting with him and
traveling 17,000 miles with him when I was vice president and he was the
vice president — that’s how I got to know him so well, at the request of
President Hu — not a joke — his predecessor, President Hu — and
President Obama wanted us to get to know one another because he was
going to be the president.

And I came back and said they’re going to end their One China — their
one child policy, because they’re so xenophobic, they won’t let anybody
else in, and more people are retired than working.  How can they sustain
economic growth when more people are retired?

MR. COOPER:  When you talk to him, though, about human rights abuses, is
that just — is that as far as it goes in terms of the U.S.?  Or is there
any actual repercussions for China?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there will be repercussions for China, and he
knows that.  What I’m doing is making clear that we, in fact, are going
to continue to reassert our role as spokespersons for human rights at
the U.N. and other — other agencies that have an impact on their
attitude.

China is trying very hard to become the world leader and to get that
moniker.  And to be able to do that, they have to gain the confidence of
other countries.  And as long as they’re engaged in activity that is
contrary to basic human rights, it’s going to be hard for them to do
that.

But it’s much more complicated than that.  I’m — I shouldn’t have tried
to talk China policy in 10 minutes on television here.

MR. COOPER:  Well, let me — let me bring it back to the United States. 
I want you to meet Joycelyn Fish, a Democrat from Racine.  Joycelyn is
the director of marketing for a community theater. 

Joycelyn, welcome.  Your question?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Hello.  Good evening, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Good evening.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Student loans are crushing my family, friends, and
fellow Americans.

THE PRESIDENT:  Me too.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Laughs.)  The American Dream —

THE PRESIDENT:  You think I’m kidding.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  — is to succeed.  But how can we fulfill that dream
when debt is many people’s only option for a degree?  We need student
loan forgiveness beyond the potential $10,000 your administration has
proposed.  We need at least a $50,000 minimum.  What will you do to make
that happen?

THE PRESIDENT:  I will not make that happen.  It depends on whether or
not you go to a private university or public university.  It depends on
the idea that I say to a community, “I’m going to forgive the debt…” —
the billions of dollars in debt for people who have gone to Harvard and
Yale and Penn and schools my children — I went to a great school.  I
went to a state school.  But is that going to be forgiven, rather than
use that money to provide for early education for young children who are
— come from disadvantaged circumstances?

But here’s what I think: I think everyone — and I’ve been proposing this
for four years — everyone should be able to go to community college for
free.  For free.  (Applause.)  That’s — that costs $9 billion, and we
should pay for it.  And the tax policies we have now — we should be able
to pay for you.  We spend almost that money as a break for people who
own race horses.

And I think any family making under $125,000 whose kids go to a state
university they get into, that should be free as well. 

And the thing I do in terms of student debt that’s accumulated is
provide for changing the existing system now for debt forgiveness if you
engage in volunteer activity.  For example, if you were — if you’re
teaching school, after five years, you — you would have $50,000 of your
debt forgiven.  If you worked in a battered women’s shelter, if you
worked — and so on.  So you’ll be able to forgive debt.

Thirdly, I’m going to change the position that we have now to allow for
debt forgiveness — because it’s so hard to calculate — whereby you can
now, depending on how much you make and what program you sought, you can
work off that debt by the activity you have, and you cannot be charged
more than X percent of your take-home pay so that it doesn’t affect your
ability to buy a car, own a home, et cetera.

Each of my children graduated from school.  I mortgaged the house.  I
was listed as the poorest man in Congress for — not a joke — for over 30
years.  And — but I was able to bo- — I bought a home I spent a lot of
time working on, and I was able to sell it for some profit.

But my — my oldest son graduated, after undergraduate and graduate
school, with $136,000 in debt after working 40 — I mean, excuse me, 30
hours a week during school.  My other son, who went to Georgetown and
Yale Law School, graduated $142,000 in debt, and he worked for a parking
service in — down in Washington.  My daughter went to Tulane University
and then got a masters at Penn.  She graduated $103,000 in debt.

So I don’t think anybody should have to pay for that, but I do think you
should be able to work it off.  My daughter is a social worker.  My
other son became a — ran the World Food Program USA, and so on.  They —
they didn’t qualify.

But my point is: I understand the impact of the debt, and it can be
debilitating.  And I think there is a whole question about what
universities are doing.  They don’t need more skyboxes.  What they need
is more money invested in — in making — so that’s why I provide, for
example, $80 billion — $70 billion over 10 years for HBCUs and other
minority-serving universities, because they don’t have the laboratories
to be able to bring in those government contracts that can train people
in cybersecurity or other future endeavors that pay well.

But I do think that, in this moment of economic pain and strain, that we
should be eliminating interest on the debts that are accumulated, number
one.  And number two, I’m prepared to write off a $10,000 debt, but not
50.

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President, let me ask you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Because I don’t think I have the authority to do it by
signing the pen.

MR. COOPER:  You have, over the years — over your career, you’ve
obviously spent a great deal of time at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, except
now you’re living there and you’re President.  It’s been four weeks. 
What’s it like?  How’s it different?

THE PRESIDENT:  I get up in the morning, look at Jill, and say, “Where
the hell are we?”  (Laughter.)

No, it’s — look, it’s — you know, I’ve only been President four weeks. 
And sometimes — because things are moving so fast, not because of burden
— it feels like four years.  It’s not because of the burden; it’s
because there’s so much happening that you focus on.  You’re constantly
focusing on one problem or opportunity, one right — ad seriatum.

But what happens is that it’s — what I didn’t realize: I had been in the
Oval Office a hundred times, as Vice President — or more than that,
every morning, for the initial meetings — but I had never been up in the
Residence.  And one of the things that — I don’t know about you all, but
I was raised in the way that you didn’t look for anybody to wait on
you.  And it’s — we’re — I find myself extremely self-conscious.  There
are wonderful people who work at the White House.  But someone, you
know, standing there and, you know, making sure — hands me my suitcoat
or —

MR. COOPER:  You’d never been in the Residence of the White House?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’d only been upstairs in the — in the Yellow Room.  You
know, the — the Oval upstairs.

MR. COOPER:  I don’t know, I’ve never been there either.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  And — but it’s — but, look, the people down there
are wonderful.  And I find that, you know — like, my dad — you’ve heard
me say this before — my dad used to say, “Everybody…” — “Everybody is
entitled to be treated with respect.”  And it’s interesting how decent
and incredible these folks are.

MR. COOPER:  Is it different than you expected it to be, in some ways?

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, I don’t know what I ever expected it to be.  I
— it is different in that — I’ll get in trouble in here.  I said when I
was running, I wanted to be President not to live in the White House but
to be able to make the decisions about the future of the country.  And
so living in the White House, as you’ve heard other presidents who have
been extremely flattered to live there, has — it’s a little like a
gilded cage in terms of being able to walk outside and do things.

The Vice President’s residence was totally different.  You’re on 80
acres, overlooking the rest of the city.  And you can walk out, and
there’s a swimming pool.  You can walk off a porch in the summer and
jump in a pool, and — and, you know, go into work.  You can ride a
bicycle around and never leave the property and work out.  And you can —
but the White House is very different. 

And I feel a sense of — I must tell you, a sense of history about it. 
Jon Meacham, who you know, and several other presidential historians,
helped me with my — I asked my brother, who’s good at this, to set up
the Oval Office for me, because it all happens within two hours, you
know?  Literally.  They move everything out and move something. 

And it was interesting to hear these historians talk about what — what
other presidents have gone through in the moments, and who were the
people who stepped up to the ball, and who’s the people who didn’t.  And
what you realize is the most consequential thing for me is — although
I’ve known this watching seven presidents who I got to know fairly well
— is I always, in the past, looked at the presidency in the terms of
Abraham Lincoln and Franklin Roosevelt and George Washington and how can
— (inaudible).  They’re super human. 

But I had to remind myself, they’re really fine men that I knew well —
the last seven presidents — and at least there are people who I knew
well enough to know that I play on the same team with. 

So it took away the sense of, “This is — my God, you know, I’m not
Abraham Lincoln.  I’m not Franklin Roosevelt.  How do I deal with these
problems?” 

MR. COOPER:  Have you picked up the phone and called any former
president yet? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I have. 

MR. COOPER:  Do you want to say who?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I don’t.  They’re private conversations. 
(Laughter.)  But — and, by the way, all of them have, with one
exception, picked up the phone and called me as well.  (Laughter.)

MR. COOPER:  I know you don’t want to talk about him, but — (laughter).

THE PRESIDENT:  No, but, look, it’s a — it’s the greatest honor I think
an American can be given, from my perspective.  And I literally pray
that I have the capacity to do for the country what you all deserve need
be done. 

But one thing I learned after eight years with Barack is, no matter how
consequential the decision — I got to be the last person in the room
with him, literally, on every decision — I can make a recommendation,
but I walked out of the room, and it was all him, man.  Nobody else. 
The buck stops there. 

And that’s where you pray for making sure that you’re looking at the
impact on the country and a little bit of good luck at the judgment
you’re making. 

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President, thank you so much for joining us —

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MR. COOPER:  — in this town hall.  (Applause.) 

                         END                 9:13 P.M. CST
