---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-10'
modified_time: 2021-02-11 10:06:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/10/remarks-by-president-biden-to-department-of-defense-personnel/
published_time: 2021-02-10 17:07:37-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden to Department of Defense\_Personnel"
---
 
The Pentagon  
Arlington, Virginia

3:20 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Mr. Secretary, thank you.  And good afternoon to
everyone.  I want to thank Secretary Austin for welcoming the Vice
President and me to the Pentagon today.  It’s good to be back.  
  
Before I begin, I have some welcome news that the Saudi government has
released a prominent human rights activist, Loujain al-Hathlou — -loul —
excuse me, l-o-u-l — from prison.  She’s a powerful advocate women’s
rights, and releasing her was the right thing to do.  
  
It’s been a busy day.  Earlier, I announced steps we’ve taken to impose
costs on those responsible for the military coup in Burma.  And I’ve
just concluded a briefing with the civilian and military leadership
where I laid out my national security priorities.  And I want to share
the message directly with the Department of Defense staff all around the
world.  Because each of you — each of you — whether you’re newly
enlisted, a career officer, a non-commissioned officer, or a civilian
policy expert, you’re essential to how we project our strength around
the world, defend America’s interests, and advance American leadership
in the world.  
  
So often, our Armed Forces and the Department of Defense staff are how
the rest of the world encounters America.  And you all know as well as
anyone that our country is safer and stronger when we lead not just with
the example of our power, but with the power of our example.  
  
As your Commander-in-Chief, I will never hesitate to use force to defend
the vital interests of the American people and our allies around the
world when necessary.  The central, indispensable mission of the
Department of Defense is to deter aggression from our enemies and, if
required, to fight and win wars to keep America safe.  
  
But I believe force should be a tool of last resort, not first.  I
understand the full weight of what it means to ask young, proud
Americans to stand in the breach.  As was referenced by the Secretary,
my son Beau served in Iraq for a year.  I’m the first President in 40
years, I’m told, who had a son or daughter who served in a warzone.  
  
So I know what it’s like.  Being Commander-in-Chief is an enormous
responsibility and one that I will never take lightly or easily.  
  
I will work with Secretary Austin and leaders around the world to bring
a responsible end — a responsible end to wars that have dragged on for
far too long, while continuing to ensure that terrorist threats cannot
endanger the security of the American people.  
  
I also know that you are essential to the work of our diplomacy — not
only as the ultimate guarantor of our security, but as diplomats
yourselves.   
  
I got to know Secretary Austin when he was serving as commander of U.S.
Forces in Iraq.  It wasn’t just his excellent military leadership the
many times I met him there, and his strategy; he was a consummate
diplomat as well.  He worked closely with our ambassador to build
relationships with both civilian and military leaders of our coalition
partners.  Because we are better able to project our power when we’re
amplifying our strength through our alliances, it was so important.  
  
There is no aspect of our agenda of the 21st century leadership where
the women and men of the Defense Department do not have a role — whether
it’s helping curb the pandemic here at home and around the world; or
addressing the real threats of climate change that already is costing us
billions in impacts on our bases, on our national security; or being
part of an ongoing fight for racial justice.  
  
You are essential to how we must rethink and reprioritize our security
to meet the challenges of this century, not the last.  
  
We need to take on the dangers and opportunities of emerging
technologies, enhance our capabilities in cyberspace, ensure that we are
positioned to lead in a new era of competition, from deep sea to outer
space.  And we need to meet  
the growing challenges posed by China to keep the peace and defend our
interests in the Indo-Pacific and globally.  
  
Today, I was briefed on a new DOD-wide China task force that Secretary
Austin is standing up to look at our strategy and operational concepts,
technology, and force posture, and so much more.  
  
The task force will work quickly, drawing on civilian and  
military experts across the Department, to provide, within the next few
months, recommendations to <s>Senator </s>\[Secretary\] Austin on key
priorities and decision points so that we can chart a strong path
forward on China-related matters.  It will require a whole-of-government
effort, bipartisan cooperation in Congress, and strong alliances and
partnerships.  
  
That’s how we’ll meet the China challenge and ensure the American people
win the competition of the future.  
  
You know, to the incredible individuals who serve in our Armed Forces:
You are unquestionably part of the finest fighting force in the history
of the world.  You’re warriors.  The work you do each and every day is
vital to ensuring the American people — your families, friends, and
loved ones — are able to live in peace and security and growing
prosperity.  
  
And for those of you who raise your hands and sign up to wear the
uniform of the United States: We owe you an incredible debt.   
  
I’ve said for many years, less than one percent of Americans do what you
do: put yourself on the line for the rest of the 99 percent of the
Americans you represent.  The 99 percent of us owe you.  We owe it to
you to keep the faith with our sacred obligation to properly prepare and
equip you when we send you into harm’s way, and to care for you and your
families, both while you are deployed and after you return home.  
  
You’re incredible heroes and incredible patriots.  I will never, ever
dishonest you — dishonor you.  I will never disrespect you.  I will
never politicize the work you do.  That goes for our civilian
professionals as well as the career military.  
  
As I’ve said, this is personal for me.  The Biden family is a military
family.  We learned firsthand some of what your loved ones experienced
when Beau was deployed to Iraq for a year with his unit in the Delaware
National Guard.  We dealt with the stress of his absence and the daily
joys — from the daily joys of life.  And we worried constantly about his
safe return.  We felt overwhelming pride in his courage and his
patriotism.    
  
You are all the best our country has to offer.  You live by a creed of
selfless sacrifice.  And for many of you, the journey to service has not
been easy.  
  
February is Black History Month, as the Vice President pointed out. 
Before we leave today, Vice President Harris and I are going to visit
the hall honoring the long history of black Americans fighting for this
country, even when their contributions were not always recognized or
honored appropriately.  
  
But those contributions have nevertheless helped push our country toward
greater equality.  From the bravery of the free and enslaved descendants
of Africans who fought with the colonial forces in our revolution; to
the black regiments that joined to fight for the Union and for their own
freedom in the Civil War; to the Buffalo soldiers, including Henry O.
Flipper, the first African American graduate of West Point; and Cathay
Williams, the first African American woman — Cathay — who enlisted in
the United States Army.   
  
Imagine the incredible love it must have taken for the proud Tuskegee
Airmen to fly more than 15,000 sorties in battle, when their own freedom
was not fully realized in their own country.  
  
Imagine the determination of Roscoe Robinson, who started at West Point
one year before Harry Truman issued the order to officially desegregate
the Armed Forces, and who rose to become the first African American
four-star general.  
  
Imagine the bravery of the 22 African Americans awarded the Medal of
Honor for their service in the Vietnam War while struggling for civil
rights at home was continuing.   
  
It’s all part of a long history of barrier-breaking service.  
  
Right now, more than 40 percent of our active-duty forces are people of
color.  And it’s long past time that the full diversity and full
strength of our force is reflected at every level of this Department,
including our Secretary of Defense.   
  
This organization thrives and succeeds because of our people.  So the
final point I’d like to make today is to give you my personal commitment
that this administration — from myself and the Vice President Harris to
Secretary Austin on down — is dedicated to ensuring that every single
person is treated with dignity and respect.  
  
That’s why we moved so quickly to overturn the discriminary —
discriminatory ban on transgender service, and why General Austin’s
first memo was a directive to take sexual assault in the military
seriously.  
  
Every single person, no matter their gender identity, sexual
orientation, race, or religious background, deserves to feel safe in the
ranks and to have their contributions valued.  
  
It’s on all of us to stand up, to speak out when you see someone being
abused.  This is an organization that’s defined American — excuse me,
defeated American enemies on land, sea, and air, and been defined by the
way we treat others.  
  
So I know this is not beyond us, not if each of us makes this a priority
as well.  
  
So, thank you for welcoming us, Secretary Austin.  It’s good to be back
in the Pentagon.  I wish I could meet more of you in person today, but I
look forward to spending more time with you in all the places you serve
around the world.  
  
I know this is the honor of my lifetime.  The honor of my lifetime is to
serve as your Commander-in-Chief.  
  
Thank you for what you do for this country.  May God bless you and
protect you, and may God protect our troops deployed around the world,
every single one of you.  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
                                  END                3:31 P.M. EST
