---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-04'
modified_time: 2021-02-05 13:32:03-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-americas-place-in-the-world/
published_time: 2021-02-04 19:08:31-05:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden on America\u2019s Place in the World"
---
 
U.S. Department of State Headquarters  
Harry S. Truman Building  
Washington, D.C.

2:45 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. Secretary, it’s great to be here with you.  And I’ve
been looking forward a long time to be able to call you “Mr. Secretary.”
 

Good afternoon, everyone.  It’s an honor to be back at the State
Department under the eyes of the first American chief diplomat, Benjamin
Franklin.  

And, by the way, I want you all to know in the press I was the Benjamin
Franklin Professor of Presidential Politics at Penn.  And I thought they
did that because I was as old as he was, but I guess not.  

Anyway, all kidding aside, it’s great to be here and stand alongside our
most recent and senior diplomat, Secretary Tony Blinken.  Mr. Secretary,
thank you for welcoming us today.  We’ve worked together for over 20
years. Your diplomatic skills are respected equally by your friends and
our competitors around the world.

And they know when you speak, you speak for me.  And so — so is the
message I want the world to hear today: America is back.  America is
back.  Diplomacy is back at the center of our foreign policy.

As I said in my inaugural address, we will repair our alliances and
engage with the world once again, not to meet yesterday’s challenges,
but today’s and tomorrow’s.  American leadership must meet this new
moment of advancing authoritarianism, including the growing ambitions of
China to rival the United States and the determination of Russia to
damage and disrupt our democracy.  

We must meet the new moment accelerating glo- — accelerating global
challenges — from the pandemic to the climate crisis to nuclear
proliferation — challenging the will only to be solved by nations
working together and in common.  We can’t do it alone.  

That must be this — we must start with diplomacy rooted in America’s
most cherished democratic values: defending freedom, championing
opportunity, upholding universal rights, respecting the rule of law, and
treating every person with dignity.

That’s the grounding wire of our global policy — our global power.
 That’s our inexhaustible source of strength.  That’s America’s abiding
advantage.

Though many of these values have come under intense pressure in recent
years, even pushed to the brink in the last few weeks, the American
people are going to emerge from this moment stronger, more determined,
and better equipped to unite the world in fighting to defend democracy,
because we have fought for it ourselves.

Over the past few days, we’ve been in close cooperation with our allies
and partners to bring together the international community to address
the military coup in Burma.

I’ve also been in touch with Leader McConnell to discuss our shared
concerns about the situation in Burma, and we are united in our resolve.
 

There can be no doubt: In a democracy, force should never seek to
overrule the will of the people or attempt to erase the outcome of a
credible election.  

The Burmese military should relinquish power they have seized, release
the advocates and activists and officials they have detained, lift the
restrictions on telecommunications, and refrain from violence.

As I said earlier this week, we will work with our partners to support
restoration of democracy and the rule of law, and impose consequences on
those responsible.

Over the past two weeks, I’ve spoken with the leaders of many of our
closest friends — Canada, Mexico, the UK, Germany, France, NATO, Japan,
South Korea, Australia — to being \[begin\] reforming the habits of
cooperation and rebuilding the muscle of democratic alliances that have
atrophied over the past few years of neglect and, I would argue, abuse.

America’s alliances are our greatest asset, and leading with diplomacy
means standing shoulder-to-shoulder with our allies and key partners
once again.

By leading with diplomacy, we must also mean engaging our adversaries
and our competitors diplomatically, where it’s in our interest, and
advance the security of the American people.

That’s why, yesterday, the United States and Russia agreed to extend the
New START Treaty for five years to preserve the only remaining treaty
between our countries safeguarding nuclear stability.

At the same time, I made it clear to President Putin, in a manner very
different from my predecessor, that the days of the United States
rolling over in the face of Russia’s aggressive actions — interfering
with our elections, cyberattacks, poisoning its citizens — are over.  We
will not hesitate to raise the cost on Russia and defend our vital
interests and our people.  And we will be more effective in dealing with
Russia when we work in coalition and coordination with other like-minded
partners.

The politically motivated jailing of Alexei Navalny and the Russian
efforts to suppress freedom of expression and peaceful assembly are a
matter of deep concern to us and the international community.  

Mr. Navalny, like all Russian citizens, is entitled to his rights under
the Russian constitution.  He’s been targeted — targeted for exposing
corruption.  He should be released immediately and without condition.

And we’ll also take on directly the challenges posed by our prosperity,
security, and democratic values by our most serious competitor, China.  

We’ll confront China’s economic abuses; counter its aggressive, coercive
action; to push back on China’s attack on human rights, intellectual
property, and global governance.

But we are ready to work with Beijing when it’s in America’s interest to
do so.  We will compete from a position of strength by building back
better at home, working with our allies and partners, renewing our role
in international institutions, and reclaiming our credibility and moral
authority, much of which has been lost.

That’s why we’ve moved quickly to begin restoring American engagement
internationally and earn back our leadership position, to catalyze
global action on shared challenges.

On day one, I signed the paperwork to rejoin the Paris Climate
Agreement.  We’re taking steps led by the example of integrating climate
objectives across all of our diplomacy and raise the ambition of our
climate targets.  That way, we can challenge other nations, other major
emitters, up to — to up the ante on their own commitments.  I’ll be
hosting climate leaders — a climate leaders’ summit to address the
climate crisis on Earth Day of this year.  

America must lead in the face of this existential threat.  And just as
with the pandemic, it requires global cooperation.  

We’ve also reengaged with the World Health Organization.  That way, we
can build better global preparedness to counter COVID-19, as well as
detect and prevent future pandemics, because there will be more.  

We’ve elevated the status of cyber issues within our government,
including appointing the first national — Deputy National Security
Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology.  We’re launching an urgent
initiative to improve our capability, readiness, and resilience in
cyberspace.  

Today, I’m announcing additional steps to course-correct our foreign
policy and better unite our democratic values with our diplomatic
leadership.  

To begin, Defense Secretary Austin will be leading a Global Posture
Review of our forces so that our military footprint is appropriately
aligned with our foreign policy and national security priorities.  It
will be coordinated across all elements of our national security, with
Secretary Austin and Secretary Blinken working in close cooperation.  

And while this review is taking place, we’ll be stopping any planned
troop withdrawals from Germany.  We’re also stepping up our diplomacy to
end the war in Yemen — a war which has created a humanitarian and
strategic catastrophe.  I’ve asked my Middle East team to ensure our
support for the United Nations-led initiative to impose a ceasefire,
open humanitarian channels, and restore long-dormant peace talks. 

This morning, Secretary Blinken appointed Tim Lenderking, a career
foreign policy officer, as our special envoy to the Yemen conflict.  And
I appreciate his doing this.  Tim is a life — has lifelong experience in
the region, and he’ll work with the U.N. envoy and all parties of the
conflict to push for a diplomatic resolution.  

And Tim’s diplomacy will be bolstered by USI- — USAID, working to ensure
that humanitarian aid is reaching the Yemeni people who are suffering
un- — an undurable \[sic\] — unendurable devastation.  This war has to
end.  

And to underscore our commitment, we are ending all American support for
offensive operations in the war in Yemen, including relevant arms sales.
 

At the same time, Saudi Arabia faces missile attacks, UAV strikes, and
other threats from Iranian-supplied forces in multiple countries.  We’re
going to continue to support and help Saudi Arabia defend its
sovereignty and its territorial integrity and its people.  

We also face a crisis of more than 80 million displaced people suffering
all around the world.  The United States’ moral leadership on refugee
issues was a point of bipartisan consensus for so many decades when I
first got here.  We shined the light of lamp on — of liberty on
oppressed people.  We offered safe havens for those fleeing violence or
persecution.  And our example pushed other nations to open wide their
doors as well.  

So today, I’m approving an executive order to begin the hard work of
restoring our refugee admissions program to help meet the unprecedented
global need.  It’s going to take time to rebuild what has been so badly
damaged, but that’s precisely what we’re going to do. 

This executive order will position us to be able to raise the refugee
admissions back up to 125,000 persons for the first full fiscal year of
the Biden-Harris administration.  And I’m directing the State Department
to consult with Congress about making a down payment on that commitment
as soon as possible.  

And to further repair our moral leadership, I’m also issuing a
presidential memo to agencies to reinvigorate our leadership on the
LGBTQI issues and do it internationally.  You know, we’ll ensure
diplomacy and foreign assistance are working to promote the rights of
those individuals, included by combatting criminalization and protecting
LGBTQ refugees and asylum-seekers. 

And finally, to successfully reassert our diplomacy and keep Americans
safe, prosperous, and free, we must restore the health and morale of our
foreign policy institutions.  

I want the people who work in this building and our embassies and
consulates around the world to know: I value your expertise and I
respect you, and I will have your back.  This administration is going to
empower you to do your jobs, not target or politicize you.  We want a
rigorous debate that brings all perspectives and makes room for dissent.
 That’s how we’ll get the best possible policy outcomes. 

So, with your help, the United States will again lead not just by the
example of our power but the power of our example.  

That’s why my administration has already taken the important step to
live our domestic values at home — our democratic values at home.  

Within hours of taking office, I signed an executive order overturning
the hateful, discriminatory Muslim ban; reversed the ban on transgender
individuals serving in our military.  

And as part of our commitment to truth, transparency, and
accountability, we stated on day one — we started on day one with daily
briefings of the press from the White House.  We’ve reinstate- — we’ve
reinstituted regular briefings here at State and at the Pentagon.  We
believe a free press isn’t an adversary; rather, it’s essential.  A free
press is essential to the health of a democracy.

We’ve restored our commitment to science and to create policies grounded
in facts and evidence.  I suspect Ben Franklin would approve. 

We’ve taken steps to acknowledge and address systemic racism and the
scourge of white supremacy in our own country.  Racial equity will not
just be an issue for one department in our administration, it has to be
the business of the whole of government in all our federal policies and
institutions. 

All this matters to foreign policy, because when we host the Summit of
Democracy early in my administration to rally the nations of the world
to defend democracy globally, to push back the authoritarianism’s
advance, we’ll be a much more credible partner because of these efforts
to shore up our own foundations. 

There’s no longer a bright line between foreign and domestic policy.
 Every action we take in our conduct abroad, we must take with American
working families in mind.  Advancing a foreign policy for the middle
class demands urgent focus on our domestic econog- — economic renewal.

And that’s why I immediately put forth the American Rescue Plan to pull
us out of this economic crisis.  That’s why I signed an executive order
strengthening our Buy American policies last week.  And it’s also why
I’ll work with Congress to make far-reaching investments in research and
development of transformable — in transformable technologies.

These investments are going to create jobs, maintain America’s
competitive edge globally, and ensure all Americans share in the
dividends. 

If we invest in ourselves and our people, if we fight to ensure that
American businesses are positioned to compete and win on the global
stage, if the rules of international trade aren’t stacked against us, if
our workers and intellectual property are protected, then there’s no
country on Earth — not China or any other country on Earth — that can
match us.

Investing in our diplomacy isn’t something we do just because it’s the
right thing to do for the world.  We do it in order to live in peace,
security, and prosperity.  We do it because it’s in our own naked
self-interest.  When we strengthen our alliances, we amplify our power
as well as our ability to disrupt threats before they can reach our
shores.  

When we invest in economic development of countries, we create new
markets for our products and reduce the likelihood of instability,
violence, and mass migrations.  

When we strengthen health systems in far regions of the world, we reduce
the risk of future pandemics that can threaten our people and our
economy.  

When we defend equal rights of people the world over — of women and
girls, LGBTQ individuals, indigenous communities, and people with
disabilities, the people of every ethnic background and religion — we
also ensure that those rights are protected for our own children here in
America. 

America cannot afford to be absent any longer on the world stage.  I
come today to the State Department, an agency as old and as storied as
the nation itself, because diplomacy has always been essential to how
American — America writes its own destiny.

For the diplomacy of Ben Franklin helped assure the success of our
revolution.  The vision of the Marshall Plan helped prevent the world
from foundering on the wreckage of war.  And the passions of Eleanor
Roosevelt declared the audacious idea of universal rights that belong to
all.

The leadership of diplomats of every stripe, doing the daily work of
engagement, created the very idea of a free and interconnected world.
 We are a country that does big things.  American diplomacy makes it
happen.  And our administration is ready to take up the mantle and lead
once again.  

Thank you all.  And may God bless you and protect our troops, our
diplomats, and our development experts, and all Americans serving in
harm’s way.  

Going this way.  Thank you all.  

3:04 P.M. EST
