---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-25'
modified_time: 2021-02-25 19:08:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/25/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-national-governors-associations-winter-meeting/
published_time: 2021-02-25 19:08:22-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the National Governors Association\u2019s Winter\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
4:35 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Thank you, Andrew.  I appreciate
it a lot.  I appreciate your friendship.  
  
Let me start by saying: Guaranteed, if we’re able to, we’ll not only
have you next — next year, at this time, for the governors’ conference,
but we’ll have whatever food you want.  We can go around to each one of
you.  We just order individually.  
  
But all kidding aside, I’m anxious to see — I wish you could all be here
because it’s much better if we’re all — we all do better when we’re able
to look at each other in the eye and know what we’re talking about.  But
thank you.  
  
Some of you have been here in the meantime, but I hope to have the
governors’ conference here next year, God willing.  
  
You know, I’ve been talking to several of you quite a lot — a bit
lately.  And as you know, we have approved disaster declarations in
Texas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana.  In Texas, FEMA was already on the
ground providing support for COVID-19 vaccination efforts.  So they were
able to move quickly to supply generators, food, blankets, and, most
importantly, water.       
  
And, Governor Abbott, I don’t want to ruin your reputation, but I look
forward to coming down tomorrow, to Houston, to be with you.  And I want
you and the residents to know that we’re here to provide the federal
assistance you need to support your state, your local, and tribal
response efforts.  
  
And it’s clear that even when the immediate crisis passes, there’s going
to be more work to be done to help constituents recover.  And my
administration will be there every step of the way with you because when
people in this country need help, they’re not Democrats or Republicans;
they’re all Americans.  And people who need work, they’re the people
getting sick from COVID, and people facing eviction, people going
hungry, people struggling with the opioid crisis, and people who need
broadband.  They’re not Democrats or Republicans; they’re our fellow
Americans.   
  
And I think the whole spirit of this governors’ conference and our
administration is changing the attitude a little bit about how we deal
with one another — at least I hope so.  
  
As governors, you know this: You know that you have one job, and that’s
to deliver.  You’re on the frontlines — to overuse that phrase, but it’s
hard to overuse it.  And as the saying goes, “You’re the laboratories of
democracy.”  Your challenges can provide — prove to be lessons for
everybody.  Your successes can prove to be a model for everybody.   
  
The storms that hit the south were a painful reminder   that so many of
our challenges don’t stop at our border of our states.  They don’t make
distinctions based on how the state is made up.   
  
Today, I want to focus on two of those challenges that cross borders:
COVID and the economy.  You know better than I do: As you know, the
ability to deal with one will determine our ability to address the
other.  
  
On Monday, our nation passed a grim, grim milestone:  COVID-19 has now
taken over 500,000 of our fellow Americans.  That’s more than died in
World War I, World War II, and the Vietnam War combined.  And most
governors, that’s more than the population of your largest cities in
your state or your territories — gone.  Gone.  
  
And as a country, we have to remember those we lost but particularly
those we left behind.  But as we remember, we also have to act to end
the politics of misinformation that has divided families, communities,
and the country, and that has cost too many lives already.  We have to
fight this together, as one, to state the obvious.   
  
I know you all know this.  As a friend of mine, you say you not only
understand me, but you over-stand me.  We’re the United States of
America, and this cruel winter is not over.  And if we come together, we
can usher a more hopeful spring.  We can usher it in.  And that’s what
we’re working to do together.  
  
As you know, I came into office, and I set a goal which was mocked for —
by some; none of you, but by some.  I set a goal of saying we’re going
to do 100 million shots — get 100 million shots in people’s arms in my
first 100 days as President.  I directed Jeff Zients, my COVID Response
Coordinator, to lead my administration and work with vaccine
manufacturers to buy more vaccines and speed up delivery.   
  
We used, as some of you have suggested, the Defense Production Act to
speed up supply chains for key equipment like fill pumps and filters,
which have helped increase vaccine production.   
  
We’ve increased vaccine allocations as — as Andrew said — as the
Governor said — to your states by almost 70 percent since coming into
office, whatever number days ago it’s been — 37 or something like that. 
We secured enough vaccine to supply 300 million Americans — 300 million
— to take care of all their needs, in terms of vaccination, by the end
of July.  
  
And we’re all — and we’ve all seen in the news that Johnson & Johnson
vaccine is — if the FDA approved the use of this new vaccine, we would
plan to roll out as quickly as Johnson & Johnson can make the vaccine.  
  
Of course, it’s not just getting the vaccines; it’s getting the vaccines
in arms.  And this is another place where your work and our partnership
is making a big difference.  I’ve signed an order to allow retired
doctors and nurses to give shots.  We’ve deployed — as you referenced
indirectly, at least, Andrew — we’ve deployed over 1,500 federal
personnel as vaccinators, and we’re funding 1,200 of your Guardsmen and
women to serve as vaccinators as well.  And we’re paying for your Guard
for that purpose.   
  
We’ll work with you to create more places where Americans can get
vaccinated, supporting communities in high-volume vaccine centers and
across your states.   
  
The result is that we have doubled the daily vaccination rate from where
it was when we took office, and we’ve completed 50 million shots in 37
days.  And we’re now — we’ve now given more shots than any nation in the
entire world.  Nearly 60 percent of people over the age of 75 have now
received at least one shot.  It was 14 percent six weeks ago.  Close to
50 percent — because of your help — of the people over 65 have received
one shot.  It was 8 percent six weeks ago.  
  
And this is so important because people over 65, as you know better than
anyone, account for 80 percent — 80 percent of all the COVID deaths.   
  
Additionally, about 75 percent of the people who live in long-term care
facilities have gotten their first dose.  And those cases are at their
lowest level since reporting began in May.   
  
At the same time, we’re also delivering more than 25 million masks —
ordered this last week — 25 million masks to over 60,000 food
pantries, soup kitchens, community health centers all across America,
helping protect some of our nation’s most vulnerable people.  
  
And all — and these are all necessary steps to helping the economy
rebuild.  Necessary steps, not only — but not only steps; it’s enough to
build back to where we were before.  We need to build back better.  And
we — I think we — all of us know how to do that.   
  
We remember what happened in the states back in 2008: Hundreds of
thousands of jobs disappeared every month in that Great Recession.  And
we passed the Recovery Act.  We provided state and local fiscal aid.  We
sent funding to your school districts to help save over 300,000
education jobs.  We provided middle-class tax relief.  We invested in
the future, rebuilding roads and bridges; making the biggest clean
energy investment in history and the single biggest investment in
infrastructure since Eisenhower’s interstate highway program.  And we
created, in the process — you all created in the process over thousands
— hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs.  
  
Now, economists tell us that saved us from a depression.  Well, that’s
the approach I think we need to take today.  But there’s one big
difference: We need to be more ambitious right now.  The greatest
risk from all the major economists, from Wall Street to overseas to — to
the major think tanks, is that we don’t do enough of what is needed;
it’s when we do too little.  
  
You know, in every one of your states and territories, red and blue,
millions of Americans are hurting badly.  We see it in ways that we’ve
never expected in America.  Four hundred thousand small businesses gone
in an instant.  Gone.  People who thought they had secure jobs out of
work, due to no fault of their own.  The difference here is people are
hurting through no fault of their own.  Lines miles long in your
states.  People who never ever, ever, ever thought they’d ever have to
worry about going hungry, waiting for someone to put a box of groceries
in their trunk.   
  
Women’s participation in the workforce — you all know this — is driven
to its lowest level in more than three decades.  So many women are
facing the devastating choice between a paycheck, and care and education
of their child.  Our cities and towns have shed 1.3 million jobs since
just last March: educators, nurses, cops, firefighters, other essential
workers.   
  
The economic toll of this pandemic continues to tear through our
country as brutally as the virus itself.  And so we need to
<s>comfort</s> \[confront\] the economic — you know, we just have to
step up.  The economic toll we have to address with the same
aggressiveness and seriousness of purpose as we do the virus.  And
that’s what the American Rescue Plan does.  
  
Instead of chasing COVID-19, it allows us to get ahead of it with more
testing, supplies, vaccinations.  It gets our kids back to school safely
— many of you are already doing that — so students can catch up on
learning they’ve lost, and parents can finally catch a break.  
  
The American Rescue Plan finishes the job of getting a total of two
hundred thou- — or $20,000 to — direct payments to people.  Getting
direct relief to people is a lifeline for them and it bumps our economy
into higher gear.   
  
And there’s more to the American Rescue Plan, and much more it will do:
provide flexible aid to your cities and states to help essential workers
stay in the job and essential services keep going.  It provides rent
relief, food, and nutrition, and assistance to millions of children and
families facing hunger.  
  
And the American Rescue Plan also expands access to affordable childcare
that’s going to enable parents, particularly mothers, to get back to
work.  It provides assistance to mom-and-pop small businesses that are
the engines of our economic growth and the glue of our communities.  And
it covers the cost of paid leave for businesses whose workers are
sickened by COVID-19.  And it fills an important gap in our nation’s
safety net that helps reduce the spread of the virus.  
  
I could go on.  I’m probably already going on too long.  But, you know,
you know a lot of it already because the plan was created to include
many of the things you have individually and collectively asked me for
in recent conversations.   
  
The bottom line is: The American Rescue Plan meets the moment.  An
analysis by — an analysis by Moody’s estimates that it will help the
economy create 7 million more jobs this year alone.  And it would be on
the way to another 18 million jobs, Moody’s estimates, would be created
over the next four years with our Build Back Better recovery plan.   
  
Look, what we do now will determine whether we build from a position of
strength or whether we lose years of sluggish and unequal recovery.  
  
And the only way to contain this pandemic and help the American people
as quickly as possible is passing the plan as quickly as possible.   
  
The vast majority the American people from both parties support it,
according to the data.  I’m grateful to many of you, Democrats and
Republicans, who have expressed support as well.   
  
We are not the type of nation that can or will stand by and watch our
people suffer needlessly through no fault of their own.  It goes against
our conscience.  It goes against sound economics.  It’s not who we are. 
We’re people who know that there’s nothing we’ve ever failed to do when
we’ve set our mind to doing it.  
  
So let’s get this done.  
  
I’ve gotten over 400 mayors contacted me to get this plan passed.  A lot
of you have moved to do that.  Send millions of Americans — wherever
they live, whoever they voted for — a strong message that help and hope
are on the way.  We can do this.   
  
And I hope that Jill and I, as I said, can welcome you all to the White
House next year’s — for next year’s meeting.  
  
And may God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  We got a lot
to do, guys, but we can do it.   
  
4:52 P.M. EST
