---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-02-24'
modified_time: 2021-02-24 18:50:35-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/02/24/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-on-supply-chains/
published_time: 2021-02-24 18:50:34-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Signing of an Executive Order on Supply\_Chains"
---
 
State Dining Room

4:40 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  The Vice President and I had a very
productive meeting with a bipartisan group of senators and House members
to address an issue of both concern to our economic security, as well as
our national security: the resilience and reliability of our critical
supply chains.

This is a critical area where Republicans and Democrats agreed it was
one of the best meetings — it’s the best meeting I think we’ve had so
far, although we’ve only been here about five weeks.  But it was like
the old days — people actually are on the same page. 

There were — good, bipartisan work has already been done.  The leaders
of this operation in the House and Senate already did — have done great
work, and I want to thank them for their leadership.

We’re here to build on that.  And the bottom line is simple: The
American people should never face shortages in the goods and services
they rely on, whether that’s their car or their prescription medicines
or the food at the local grocery store.

And remember, the shortages in PPE during this pandemic –that meant we
didn’t have the masks; we didn’t have gowns or gloves to protect our
frontline health workers.

We heard horror stories of doctors and nurses wearing trash bags over
their gown — over their dress in order to — so they wouldn’t be in
trouble, because they had no gowns.  And they were rewashing and reusing
their masks over and over again in the OR.

That should never have never happened.  And this will never happen again
in the United States, period.  We shouldn’t have to rely on a foreign
country — especially one that doesn’t share our interests or our values
— in order to protect and provide our people during a national
emergency. 

That’s why one of the first executive orders I signed, as some may
remember, was to ensure that we’re manufacturing more protective
equipment for healthcare workers here at home.

And today, I’m shortly going to be signing another executive order
that’ll help address the vulnerabilities in our supply chains across
additional critical sectors of our economy so that the American people
are prepared to withstand any crisis and rely on ourselves.

This is about making sure the United States can meet every challenge we
face in this new era — pandemics, but also in defense, cybersecurity,
climate change, and so much more.  And the best way to do that is by
protecting and sharpening America’s competitive edge by investing here
at home.  As I’ve said from the beginning, while I was running: We’re
going to invest in America.  We’re going to invest in American workers. 
And then we can be in a much better position to even compete beyond what
we’re doing now.

Resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains are going to help
revitalize our domestic manufacturing capacity and create good-paying
jobs, not $15 an hour — which is what we need to do someday.  And sooner
is better, in my view.  But jobs that are at the prevailing wage. 

We’re going to spare new — spur new opportunities for small businesses,
communities of color, and economically distressed areas.  And I will
drive new investment in research and innovation and our workforce,
investing in training and university partnerships that are going to lead
to new technologies and new solutions. 

And all this won’t just strengthen our domestic capacity, it will help
unleash new markets around the world and grow opportunities for American
businesses to export their goods that we’re going to be making. 

These are the kinds of commonsense solutions that all Americans can get
behind — workers and corporate leaders, Republicans and Democrats.  It’s
about resilience, identifying possible points of vulnerabilities in our
supply chains, and making sure we have the backup alternatives or
workarounds in place. 

Remember that old proverb: “For want of a nail, the shoe was lost.  For
want of a shoe, the horse was lost.”  And it goes on and on until the
kingdom was lost, all for the want of a horseshoe nail.  Even small
failures at one point in the supply chain can cause outside impacts
further up the chain. 

Recently, we’ve seen how a shortage of computer chips — computer chips
like the one I have here — you can hardly see it I imagine; it’s called
a “semiconductor” — has caused delays in production of automobiles that
has resulted in reduced hours for American workers.  A 21st century
horseshoe nail. 

This semiconductor is smaller than a postage stamp, but it has more than
8 billion transistors — 8 billion transistors, 10,000 times thinner than
a single human hair in this one chip.  These chips are a wonder of
innovation and design that powers so much of our country, enables so
much of our modern lives to go on — not just our cars, but our
smartphones, televisions, radios, medical diagnostic equipment, and so
much more.

We need to make sure these supply chains are secure and reliable.  I’m
directing senior officials in my administration to work with industrial
leaders to identify solutions to this semiconductor shortfall and work
very hard with the House and Senate.  They’ve authorized the bill, but
they need (inaudible) $37 billion, short term, to make sure we have this
capacity.  We’ll push for that as well.  But we all recognize that the
particular problem won’t be solved immediately. 

In the meantime, we’re reaching out to our allies, semiconductor
companies, and others in the supply chain to ramp up production to help
us resolve the bottlenecks we face now.  We need help to stop — we need
to stop playing catch up after the supply-chain crisis hit.  We need to
prevent the supply chain crisis from hitting in the first place. 

And in some cases, building resilience will mean increasing our
production of certain types of elements here at home.  In others, it’ll
mean working more closely with our trusted friends and partners, nations
that share our values, so that our supply chains can’t be used against
us as leverage. 

It will mean identifying and building surge capacity that can quickly be
turned into and ramped up production in times of emergency.  And it will
mean investing in research and development, like we did in the ’60s, to
ensure long-term competi- — competitiveness in our manufacturing base in
the decades ahead.

The order I’m about to sign does two things.  First, it orders a 100-day
review of four vital products: semiconductors — one; key minerals and
materials, like rare earths, that are used to make everything from
harder steel to airplanes; three, pharmaceuticals and their ingredients;
four, advanced batteries, like the ones used in electric vehicles.

There’s strong bipartisan support for fast reviews of these four areas
because they’re essential to protecting and strengthening American
competitiveness.

Second, this order initiates a long-term review of the industry basis of
six sectors of our overall economy over the next year.  These reviews
will identify policy recommendations to <s>40 of</s> \[fortify\] our
supply chains, to — it should be to fortify our supply chains at every
step, and critically, to start implementing those recommendations right
away.  We’re not going to wait for a review to be completed before we
start closing the existing gaps. 

And as we implement this work, my administration will draw on a full
range of American talent — including labor and industry leaders, policy
experts, scientists, farmers, engineers — to get their input. 

I’m grateful for the members of Congress who came to see me — Republican
leaders, as well as Democrats.  They’re leading the way.  We’re going to
stay in close contact with members of both sides of the aisle and keep
advancing our shared goals. 

Everyone has a role to play to strengthen our supply chains in our — and
our country.  This is the United States of America.  We are better
prepared to meet the challenges of the 21st century than any country in
the world.  There’s nothing, nothing, nothing we’ve ever failed to
achieve if we work together.  And that’s what we decided to do today,
and that’s what we’re going to do: work together. 

So I thank you all.  I’m very optimistic about the meeting we had today
with our congressional colleagues.  And now I’m going to walk over and
sign that executive order.

(The executive order is signed.)

Thank you all very much.

Q    Mr. President, are you disappointed that more of your Cabinet
nominees have not yet been confirmed by the Senate?

THE PRESIDENT:  I am, but I don’t so much blame it on the Senate; I
blame it on the failure to have a transition that was rational. 

As you know, previous administrations had a significant number of their
— their Cabinet confirmed before they even were sworn in.  That’s the
tradition.  But we’re doing fine.  I think we’re going to be in good
shape.

Q  What about Neera Tanden?

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Q    Are you going to talk to the King of Saudi Arabia?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to be talking to him.  I have not spoken to
him yet.

Q    Are you going to speak to him today?

Q    Sir, sorry, are you willing to say if you’ve read the Khashoggi
report yet?

THE PRESIDENT:  Am I going to take what?  I’m sorry.

Q    Have you read the Jamal Khashoggi report yet from the ODNI?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Yes, I have.

Q    Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

4:50 P.M. EST
