---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-08'
modified_time: 2021-10-08 17:24:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-september-jobs-report/
published_time: 2021-10-08 17:24:01-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the September Jobs\_Report"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

12:53 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Today, for the
first time since March of 2020, the American unemployment rate is below
5 percent.  In just eight months since I became President, in the midst
of a grave public health and economic crisis, the unemployment rate is
now down below 5 percent — at 4.8 percent.  Let me just repeat that:
Today’s report has the unemployment rate down to 4.8 percent, a
significant improvement from when I took office and a sign that our
recovery is moving forward even in the face of a COVID pandemic. 

That improvement was widespread: Unemployment for Hispanic workers was
down, and the unemployment rate for African Americans fell almost a full
percent — and it’s now below 8 percent for the first time in 17 months. 
A drop of 496,000 in long-term unemployment is the second-largest
single-month drop since we started keeping records.  The largest was in
July. 

So, in the past three months, we’ve seen a drop of 1.3 million long-term
unemployed.  That’s the largest three-month fall in long-term
unemployment since we started keeping records in 1948.  More to do, but
great progress. 

And working Americans are seeing their paychecks go up as well.  In
September, we saw one of the largest increases in average wages paid to
workers on — of working Americans on record. 

Today’s report comes one day after the Labor Department found, in the
third quarter of this year, the number of layoffs and job reductions was
the lowest in this country since 1997. 

Overall, the unemployment report shows that almost 200,000 jobs were
created last month — over 300,000 in the private sector and 26,000 in
manufacturing — offset by some seasonal adjustments in education
hiring. 

The monthly totals bounce around, but if you take a look at the trend,
it’s solid.  On average, 600,000 new jobs created every month since I
took office.  And in three months before I got there, that was one tenth
of what was being created.  It’s 60- — the 60,000, as opposed to 600,000
jobs a month.   

In total, the job creation in the first eight months of my
administration is nearly 5 million jobs.  Jobs up, wages up,
unemployment down — that’s progress. 

And it’s a tribute to the hard work and resilience of the American
people who are battling through this pandemic, working to keep their
businesses afloat. 

Remember, today’s report is based on a survey that was taken during the
week of September the 13th — not today, September the 13th — when COVID
cases were averaging more than 150,000 per day.  Since then, we’ve seen
the daily cases fall by more than one third, and they’re continuing to
trend down.  We’re continuing to make progress.

Right now, things in Washington, as you all know, are awfully noisy. 
Turn on the news and every conversation is a confrontation, every
disagreement is a crisis. 

But when you take a step back and look at what’s happening, we’re
actually making real progress.  Maybe it doesn’t seem fast enough.  I’d
like to see it faster, and we’re going to make it faster.  But, maybe it
doesn’t appear dramatic enough.  But I too would like to, as I said,
move it faster.  We’re making consistent, steady progress, though. 

And thanks to bipartisan agreements, we’re making progress on funding
the government and raising the debt limit so people continue to get
their Social Security checks, the military continues to get paid, and so
much more. 

We’re making real progress on COVID-19 as well.  More than 186 million
Americans are now fully vaccinated.  More than 75 percent of eligible
Americans have gotten at least one shot.  And COVID cases are down 40
percent in the past month.  Hospitalizations are down over 25 percent.

In July, when I announced the first vaccination requirement, about 95
million eligible Americans still had not been vaccinated.  Today, we’ve
reduced that from 95- to 67 million eligible Americans that haven’t been
vaccinated.  That’s still much too much.  There’s more work to do,
including getting more people vaccinated, but we continue to make
progress.  Progress. 

And the American Rescue Plan, which we passed shortly after I was
elected — we’ve made progress providing rent and mortgage relief to help
keep roofs over people’s heads.  We’ve provided checks in pockets and
other benefits so families can put food on the table for their
families.  Hundreds of thousands of loans to help small businesses stay
open and keep employments — employees on the job getting paid. 

Today, towns and cities and states that were at risk of losing hundreds
of thousands of jobs before because they didn’t have the budget to pay —
we helped make their payroll for them, so they could keep teachers,
police officers, firefighters, essential workers on the job.

Helping schools stay open with the equipment and resources needed to
keep students and educators safe. 

And we finally gave a tax break — I’ve been looking at this for a long
time — to families with children, which, as I speak, is providing
monthly checks for more than — more families with — for 60 million
children — $300 per month for every child under the age of 7, $250 a
month for every child under the age of 17 — keeping the tax cut — it’s a
tax cut for these people — and cutting child poverty nearly in half —
over 40 percent. 

We’re making progress protecting our air and water as well and our
natural lands.  There’s much more to do.  And I have more — I’ll have
more to say about that later today.

The jobs numbers also remind us that we have important work ahead of us
and important investments we need to make.  America is still the largest
economy in the world.  We still have the most productive workers and the
most innovative minds in the world, but we risk losing our edge as a
nation if we don’t move. 

Our infrastructure used to be the best in the world.  Today, according
to the World Economic Forum, the United States of America ranks 13th in
the world — 13th — on infrastructure — roads, bridges, ports, et
cetera. 

We were among the first in the world to guarantee access to universal
education back at the turn of the 20th century.  Now, the Organization
for Economic Co-operation and Development — catch this — ranks America
35 out of 37 major economies when it comes to investing in early
childhood education as a percent of GDP.  Thirty-five out of
thirty-seven.  On all these investments that fuel a strong economy,
we’ve taken — we’ve taken our foot off the gas.  And the world has taken
notice, including our adversaries.  And now they’re closing the gap.

Look, so it’s essential that we have to regain the momentum we’ve lost. 
As my wife says all the time — a professor, she is — any country that
out-educates us is going to outcompete us.  The work of our time is to
prepare ourselves for it to be competitive to win the fast-changing 21st
century global economy. 

That’s why I proposed two critical pieces of legislation being debated
here in Washington right now.  One focuses on the investments we need to
make in the physical infrastructure of America — roads, bridges, ports,
et cetera.   The second focus: on the investments we need to make in the
American people to make us more competitive. 

I know this is my legislation, and I feel strongly about it, but the
people who have the most at stake are the American people.  So, we need
to stay focused on what these bills will mean to the people who are just
looking for a little bit of breathing room, a fair chance to build a
decent, middle-class life to succeed and thrive instead of just hanging
on by their fingernails.  We need to keep an eye — an eye on what’s
fundamentally at stake for our country: the ability to compete and win
the race of the 21st century, as we did the 20th century — a race that
other countries are doing everything they can to win. 

In recent years, China has spent around three times as much on
infrastructure — three times as much — as a share of its economy than
the United States has.  Our infrastructure bill makes investments we
need to rebuild the arteries of our economy: the roads, the highways,
the bridges, the ports, the airports, the rail.  And we’re — going to
allow us to replace lead water pipes, which are poisoning our children
and families — it’s ridiculous; build a modern energy grid that can
withstand storms and carry new renewable energy across America; make
high-speed Internet affordable and available to everywhere in America
and create good union jobs in the process of putting that together. 

We’re going to make the largest investment of public transit in American
history.  And we’re going to make the most important investments on our
rail since the creation of Amtrak 50 years ago. 

But it isn’t enough just to invest in our physical infrastructure. 
We’re going to lead the world like we used to.  If we’re going to do
that, we also have to invest in our people.  That’s what my second bill
does — the Build Back Better plan.  That’s what it does. 

Today, only about half of the three- and four-year-olds in America are
enrolled in early child education — early childhood education.   In
Germany, France, the UK, Latvia, that number is more than 90 percent. 
We’re falling behind. 

It’s not just early education.  According to one study, America ranks —
catch this — America ranks 33rd out of the 44 advanced economies when it
comes to the percentage of our young people who have attained a
post-high-school degree.  The United States — 33rd out of 44? 

My Build Back plan — Build Back Better plan gets us back on track to
making four additional years of public education available for every
person in America: two years of high-quality preschool on the front end,
which indicates that over 56 percent of the children will be able to go
through all 12 years and beyond without any — any interruption; and
investments in community college so our students can gain the skills
they need and carve out a piece — a place for themselves in the 21st
century economy.

We’re going to help build families, and we’re going to help them afford
to care for their new baby, a child, an elderly relative.  It’s going to
extend the tax credit for families with children.

It’s going to help us meet the moment on climate change and become a
global leader in the fast-growing clean energy industries, like solar
and wind power.

The whole world knows that the future of the auto industry is electric —
electric — and battery technology.

We need to make sure America builds that future instead of falling
behind.  We should build those vehicles and the batteries that go into
them and the charging stations they’re going to need — the 500,000 we’re
going to build across America.  Here, in the United States, we should be
doing this.

And look, if we get this done, we’re going to breathe new life into our
economy and our workforce, and we’re going to breathe cleaner air at the
same time.

These are the kinds of investments that will get America back in the
game and give our workers a chance — a fighting chance.

Economists left, right, and center agree.  Earlier this year, Moody’s
and Wall Street projected that the investments in these bills will bring
us a higher GDP, an additional 2 million jobs per year, and lower
unemployment.

These bills are not about left versus right, or modern \[moderate\]
versus progressive, or anything else that pits Americans against one
another.

These bills are about competitiveness versus complacency —
competitiveness versus complacency; opportunity versus decay.  They’re
about leading the world or whether we’re going to let the world pass us
by.

The American people understand what’s at stake here.  They understand
that when workers and families have a better shot, America has a better
shot.

Given half a chance, the American people have never, never, ever, ever
let their country down.

Today, we received more evidence of the progress we’re making.  And I
know we can make a lot more in the days ahead.

I want to thank you.  And God bless you all.  And may God protect our
troops.  Thank you very much.

1:06 P.M. EDT
