---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-08'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-restoring-protections-for-national-monuments/
published_time: 2021-10-08 17:30:35-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on Restoring Protections for National Monuments
---
 
North Lawn

2:06 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Please, all be seated.  Please. 

Madam Secretary — Deb, you’ve done an incredible job in a short amount
of time.  And I told you, when I asked you to be the Secretary of
Interior, that I understood — I was politically raised by Danny Inouye —
Indian Nations.  Indian Nations. 

And I want to thank all the leaders that are here today for — for your
support, for your help getting this done.  And it’s really, really
important. 

And I want to thank Brenda, the Council on Economic Quality —
Environmental Quality; and Gina McCah-thy.  (Laughter.)  If you need any
translation, talk to me after.  Gina, you’re the best.  You’re the best.

And I want you to know, although he — he didn’t speak today, I want to
thank my buddy, Tom Vilsack, the Secretary of Agriculture, for being
here today because he’s about preservation.  (Applause.)

And, Maria — Senator Cantwell, thank you for your really hard,
consistent, unrelenting work on these issues. 

And I also want to thank Michael Bennet the same way.  He’s been in this
and never — from the moment he got elected, has been pushing — pushing
hard.

And — and, Ruben — I want to thank you, Congressman Gallego, for the
work you’ve done and continue to do.  I really mean it. 

This may be the easiest thing I’ve ever done — (laughter) — so far as
President.  No, I mean it.  I mean it.

I got to tell you a quick story.  When I was running for office — and
I’m going to — I’m embarrassed I can’t remember exactly which state I
was in — but a gentleman and I think it was his wife and a little girl
said, “Could I…” — the little girl said, “Could I talk to you?”  And she
had this — I couldn’t tell — understand what she had in her hand; it
looked it a teddy bear or something.  And she said, “Can I talk to you,
Mister?”  She wasn’t sure what to call me because I wasn’t elected yet —
“Mr. President” or “Mr. Vice President.” 

I said, “Sure.  What’s the matter, honey?”  She said, “I want to give
you something.  I want to give you some bears ears.”  And I looked at
her.  And she gave me this little set of bears ears.  She said, “You’ve
got to pwromise \[sic\] me.  You’ve got to promise me you’ll protect the
Bears Ears.”  And I’m thinking, “What the heck is…”  (Laughter.)  I
mean, at the time — I knew Bears Ears, but I just didn’t quite get it. 

She said — and her dad said, “You know, the national park.”  I said,
“Oh, yeah.”  She said — and she — one look, she said, “You pwromise?” 
(Laughter.)  “You pwromise?”  And I pwromised.  And it’s easiest promise
that I’ve made in a long time. 

And I’m grateful to the Tribal Nation Leaders, and both those who are
here with us today and those who are unable to join us.

Today, I am proud to announce the protection and expansion of three of
the most treasured national monuments — our most treasured — based on
powers granted to the President under the Antiquities Act first used
more than a century ago by Teddy Roosevelt.

First, Bears Ears National Monument in Utah.  This is the first national
monument in the country to be established at the request of federally
recognized Tribes, and a place of healing — as was spoken by the
Secretary; a place of reverence; a sacred homeland to hundreds of
generations of Native Peoples.

The last administration reduced the size by 85 percent, leaving
vulnerable more than 1 million acres of cherished landscape.

Today, I’m — we’ll shortly by signing a proclamation to fully restore
the boundaries of Bears Ears.

And second, I am restoring Utah’s Grand Staircase-Escalante National
Monument — a place of unique and extraordinary geology, as well as
biodiversity, established as a national monument 25 years ago
<s>this</s> \[last\] month.

Over the last quarter century, this land has produced a significant
scientific discoveries per acre than — more than any other national
monument, everything from fossils to ancient indigenous artifacts.

And once again, the last administration cut the size of the monument
nearly in half, stripping away more than 800,000 protected acres.

Today, I’m signing a proclamation to restore it to its full glory.

Third, off the coast of New England, I am restoring protection to the
Northeast Canyons and — and Seamounts Marine National Monument — waters
teeming with life, with underwater canyons as deep as parts of the Grand
Canyon, and underwater mountains as tall as the Appalachians.  There’s
nothing like it in the whole world.  Because its unique biodiversity,
marine sciencists \[sic\] — scientists believe that this is key to
understanding life under the sea.

President Obama established it as — as a national monument five years
ago, recognizing its irreplaceable value.

Again, my predecessor chipped away at its protections.

The proclamation I’ll be signing today is going to restore the
protections established by President Obama when this monument was first
created.  (Clears throat.)  Excuse me.

The protection of public lands must become — must not become, I should
say, a pendulum that swings back and forth depending on who’s in public
office.

It’s not a partisan issue.  And I want to thank the members of Congress
who have come together to support this important conservation work.

And by the way, I might add, as a matter of courtesy, I spoke with both
the senators from Utah.  They were — they didn’t agree with what I was
doing, but they were gracious and polite about it.  And I appreciate
that as well.

The truth is, national monuments and parks are part of the identity as —
our identity as a people.  They are more than natural wonders; they’re
the birthright we pass from generation to generation — a birthright of
every American.

And preserving them is the fulfillment of a promise to our children and
all those who will come to leave this world a little better than we
found it.

But today, our children are three times more likely to see climate
disasters uproot and unsettle their lives than their grandparents’
generation.

We have to come together and understand why this work is so critical. 

When we protect and care for a forest, we’re not just preserving the
majesty of nature.  We’re safeguarding water sources and lessening the
impact of fires — excuse me —  (coughs) — the impact of fires. 

We’re protecting wetlands.  We’re not only saving birds and fish and the
livelihoods of people who depend on them, we’re also shoring up the
natural defenses to absorb the fury of hurricanes and superstorms.

Nearly one in three Americans live in a community that has been struck
by weather disasters just in the last few months — hurricanes,
wildfires, droughts, heatwaves.

Both the Build Back Better plan and my Bipartisan Infrastructure
Agreement are going to make critical investments, significantly
increasing the resilience to these devastating effects on the climate —
on the climate crisis.

It includes creation of a Civilian Climate Corps, similar to President
Franklin Roosevelt’s Civilian Conservation Corps, which is going to put
diverse groups of Americans to work, doing everything from restoring
wetlands, to protecting clean water, to making forests more resilient
against wildfires.

My plan also puts Americans on a course to achieve 50 to 52 percent
reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to reach net-zero
emissions no later than 2050. 

You know, achieving these ambitious goals is going to require that
nature itself play a role.

Scientists estimate that the protection and restoration of national
lands and waters can provide nearly 40 percent of the solutions to
climate change.  That’s why I’m signing these proclamations today as an
additional reason.

It’s also why I’m restoring protections for the son- — the Tongass
National Forest in Alaska, which I — (applause) — which I’ve had the
great honor to visit.

As a matter of fact, when I was meeting with — back in the days when the
senator from Alaska — I was with him after the oil spill on the North
Slope.  And we stopped in the Tongass forest, and he sat me at a table
in this magnificent restaurant in the middle of the Tongass forest,
which has tree trunks as big as those trees holding up the whole
building.  It’s magnificent. 

And he sat me with what I — kidding — call “Hoss Cartwright and his
family” — four big guys — really big, big guys.  And they were — they
were — they were — had a lumber company that they were foresting in the
area.  And they wanted me to support paying for roads into the — into
the national forest so they could forest. 

And we started the conversation.  And to make a long story short, when I
made it clear I wasn’t going to do that, a father turned to his son who
looked like — like that program — a Hoss Cart- — big fella.  And he
said, “I’ll bet…”  I won’t use the exact language.  He turned to me —
I’m across the table, and he’s just got — he and three of his sons.  And
he said, “I’ll bet this so and so…” — referring to me — and a expletive
deleted.  (Laughter.)  “He doesn’t realize he’s closer to Lexington,
Kentucky, today than he was when he just flew off the North Slope.”

And it made the point to me: Alaska is pretty big.  There’s an awful lot
we need to protect.  (Laughs.)  But that’s why I’m working to protect
Bristol Bay from mining operations — (applause) — that would threaten
one of the world’s largest salmon runs.  (Applause.)  That’s why I’m
refusing to sell out the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve to oil and gas
drilling.  (Applause.)

These protections provide a bridge to our past, but they also build a
bridge to a safer, more sustainable future — one where we strengthen our
economy and pass on a healthy planet to our children and our
grandchildren.

Let me close with this: Edward Abbey, a writer who once worked as a
ranger at the Arches National Park in Utah, wrote, and I quote:

     “*This is the most beautiful place on Earth.  There are many such
places.  Every man, every woman, carries in — in heart and mind the
image of the ideal place, the right place, the one true home, known or
unknown, actual or visionary*.”

End of quote. 

Folks, that’s the United States of America — that’s America — a country
we all share together, a country that we must protect together.  And
this is just one more step in doing what other Presidents have done,
starting with Teddy Roosevelt. 

And I’m now going to sign these proclamations.  And thank you, all. 
Thank you all for your support.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

(The proclamations are signed.)

2:21 P.M. EDT
