---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-29'
modified_time: 2021-10-29 14:41:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/29/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-macron-of-the-french-republic-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
published_time: 2021-10-29 14:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Macron of the French Republic Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Villa Bonaparte  
Rome, Italy

5:48 P.M. CEST

PRESIDENT MACRON:  (As interpreted.)  Hello, everyone.  I’m very pleased
to have the chance to host President Biden at Villa Bonaparte.  And
thank you very much for coming. 

I believe that for the two discussions in September and in October, this
is an important meeting because for the (inaudible) AUKUS issue, we very
much launched a joint — some joint work and a strengthened cooperation
and politic (inaudible).

The work undertaken over the past few weeks and what we will be talking
about today, first and foremost, enables to clarify — and that was much
needed — what is European sovereignty and European defense in itself —
what it brings to global security.  And together, we very much want to
strengthen this cooperation, the strategic partnership between NATO and
the European Union.  We’re both members of NATO, of course. 

As to the importance of our discussion, we also want to underscore the
importance of the cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region and our
willingness to cooperate in this region.

Thirdly, and in this respect, I very much would like to thank President
Biden for the decisions he already took.  It is about our coordination
in the fight against terrorism and, in particular, the presence of
France in the Sahel, together with many of our European and
international partners.

And, over the past few weeks, President Biden took some fundamental
decisions, which benefitted to our armies.  And these are very much the
— this is the embodiment of the support he expressed.

Then, we acknowledged some bilateral partnerships on armament
exportations, the nuclear sector, the space industry, and, of course,
the most advanced technology.  And we want to have some extended
cooperation on regulations, as well.

And then, we will continue to work together on the main international
issues — climate change, the digital sector, health — which will be on
the agenda of this G20.  And we will also upgrade our discussions on
arms control, which remains a key issue.

In a few words, this is what was at the heart of our work over the past
few weeks — what we will be discussing today.  These are very concrete
decisions that are being taken to support some initiatives, some joint
initiatives, joint actions on all of these matters.

And, for me, this is very much the beginning of a process of trust, of
confidence, which we’re building together.

Thank you very much, President, for the work undertaken over the past
few weeks and for your presence here today.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, let me state the obvious: We have no older or no
more loyal, no more decent ally than France.  It’s been — you’ve been
with us from the beginning.  You’re the reason, in part, why we became
an independent country.

As a matter of fact — we’re trying to run this down, but my father
always told me, and I have a little medallion — I’ve not followed up —
that my name is “Robinette” — my middle name.  The — some of our French
relatives came, I’m told, with — over — with Lafayette and didn’t go
home.

And so, all kidding aside, there’s a strong affection, a sense of
loyalty and commitment to France.  And there is no place in the world
where we can’t work together and cooperate. 

France is value added no matter where it is, and that’s how we view it. 
And so — you know, whether it’s the Sahel, where we’re working together
and you’re carrying the burden on dealing with terrorism in that part of
the world, or our attitude toward what happens in other areas, from our
partnership when we were in Afghanistan together to today.

And so, I want to get something clear in front of all the press: We view
you as incredibly valuable, serious partners.  Article 5 means
everything to us.  You were there for us; we’ll be there for you. 
There’s a lot more work we can do together, guaranteed.

PRESIDENT MACRON:  Thank you, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  No, no — don’t thank me.  Thank you.  Thank you.

Q    Is the relationship repaired?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  You’re asking me? 

Q    Yeah.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, the answer is: I think what happened was — to
use an English phrase, what we did was “clumsy.”  It was not done with a
lot of grace.  I was under the impression certain things had happened
that hadn’t happened. 

And — but I want to make it clear: France is an extremely, extremely
valued partner — extremely — and a power in and of itself.

And so, I don’t know any reason that — we have the same values. 

Q    What did you think had happened that had not happened?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I was under the impression that France had been
informed long before that the deal was not going through.  I, honest to
God, did not know you had not been.

But having said that, look, there’s too much we have done together,
suffered together, celebrated together, and valued together for anything
to really break this up. 

And the world — look, we’re at one of those inflection points in world
history; things are changing, the pieces on the board are moving.  And
it happens every some 50 to 75 years.  It’s happening.  And I want to be
on the same board that France is on.

Q    President Macron, what is your response to what President Biden
just said?

Q    President Macron, are you satisfied that the relationship is
repaired?

PRESIDENT MACRON:  I think we clarified a lot of things.  I think we
clarified what we —

Q    Say that again, sir?

PRESIDENT MACRON:  We clarified together what we had to clarify.  The
U.S. was not the only party at stake, as the President just said.

And now what’s important is precisely to be sure that such a situation
will not be possible for our future.  Stronger coordination, stronger
cooperation. 

But, for me, what’s important is that we built, during the past weeks,
some very concrete actions in order to strengthen the partnership in the
Sahel.  This clarification between what European defense means and how
this is completely compatible with NATO, what European sovereignty means
and how it is important for global security.  And this is, for me, an
important clarification.  Plus, we launched a series of cooperations, as
I mentioned.

So, for me, what — what really matters now is what we will do together
in the coming weeks, the coming months, the coming years.

5:56 P.M. CEST
