---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-25'
modified_time: 2021-10-25 16:34:34-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/25/remarks-by-president-biden-on-build-back-better-and-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal/
published_time: 2021-10-25 16:34:33-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on Build Back Better and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
  Deal
---
 
NJ Transit Meadowlands Maintenance Complex  
Kearny, New Jersey

1:56 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Hello, New Jersey!  (Applause.)  Thank you,
Lieutenant Commander Mikie Sherrill.

Well, Governor Murphy, so many of the national challenges we’re
confronting are areas where you’re already leading — and that’s not
hyperbole — whether it’s making healthcare or preschool or college more
affordable; providing paid family leave; replacing lead in pipes; and
protecting public health.  So, thanks for showing the way, pal.  Thanks
for showing the way.  (Applause.) 

It’s also good to meet my old friends — a lot of my friends in
Congress.   
  
But, Bill, you and I have been doing this a long time, pal.  Thanks for
the passport back into Jersey and your district.   
  
And Josh Gottheimer has been the best go-between I’ve had trying to get
all of this done, whether it’s the Build Back Better portion or the
infrastructure portion.  
  
And Tom Malinowski has done a hell of a job — and Don Payne and Frank
Pallone.   
  
I keep telling Frank, I remind him — we’ve been doing things together a
long time: I know Delaware is small, I know how important New Jersey is,
but Delaware owns the Delaware River up to the highwater mark in New
Jersey.  (Laughter.)  So, you know what I mean?  (Laughs.)  
  
And one of my favorite members of Congress, who I campaigned for and she
won in spite of it: Mikie Sherrill — Lieutenant Commander of the United
States Navy, a naval graduate of Georgetown Law.  Incredible person.

And I want to acknowledge both Senators Booker and Menendez, who
represent you so well in Washington.  They’re down there trying to get
this all moving.

I’m here today to talk about what’s fundamentally at stake for families
of New Jersey, the whole region here, and for our country.

For most of the 20th century, we led the world by a significant margin —
not just led the world by a significant margin — because we invested in
ourselves, we invested in our people.  Not only in our roads and our
highways and our bridges, but in our people, in our families.

We were among the first to provide access to free education — 12 years
of free education for all — anyone who is an American — beginning back
in the late 1800s and the early 1900s.  And that decision to invest in
our children and our families was a major part — a major part of why we
were able to lead the world for so much of the 20th century.

But somewhere along the way, we took our eyes off the ball.

Our infrastructure used to be the best in the world.  Not hyperbole —
the best in the world.  Today, according to the World Economic Forum, we
rank 13th in the world.  Twelve other nations have superior
infrastructure to us, and China has trains that go 230 miles an hour for
long distances.  And we got money to do that back in the administration
of Barack Obama and Joe Biden, and you had a Republican governor who
didn’t want it — didn’t want any parts of it.  
  
And we used to lead the world in educational achievement.  Now, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development ranks America 35
out of 37 major countries when it comes to investing in early childhood
education and care.  Thirty-five out of thirty-seven.  
  
We cannot be competitive in the 21st century global economy if we
continue to slide.  
  
My wife, who’s a community college professor, says, “Any nation that
out-educates us will outcompete us.”  I’ll say it again: “Any nation
that out-educates us will outcompete us.”  And that’s a fact.   
  
That’s why I resolved that we have to, once again, build America from
the bottom up and the middle out.  
  
I’ve never seen a time in American history when the middle class did
well and the wealthy didn’t do very well.  But I’m tired of
trickle-down.  Trickle-down doesn’t — hasn’t worked so much for the last
15 years for working-class and middle-class folks.  
  
That’s why I proposed two critical pieces of legislation being debated
back in Washington right now.   
  
These bills are not about left versus right, or moderate versus
progressive, or anything else that pits an Amer- — one American against
one another.  
  
These bills are about competitiveness versus complacency —
competitiveness versus complacency.  They’re about expanding
opportunity, not opportunity denied.  They’re about leading the world or
continuing to let the world pass us by.  
  
First, the infrastructure bill.  It’s about rebuilding the arteries of
America.  And the Portal Bridge project is showing why investments like
this are so important.  
  
When the Portal Bridge was built, it was state of the art — and it
really was, but 110 years ago.  Today, it’s been called something
different: a “chokepoint,” a “bottleneck,” an “Achilles heel” of the
Northeast Corridor.  
  
Since the Portal Bridge was built, it has become the busiest rail span
in the entire Western Hemisphere.  Let me say that again: It’s the
busiest — busiest rail span in the entire Western Hemisphere.  At peak
usage, 450 trains pass over it every day; 200,000 Amtrak and New Jersey
Transit passengers.  
  
But ships and barges also need to get under it, and many can’t
fit.  That means the bridges need to swing open and closed again — a
process that stops rail traffic and causes other problems.  
  
The bridge opens over 100 times a year.  And 15 percent of the time,
something goes wrong.  Fifteen percent of the time.  
  
For example, if the rails don’t lock back in place exactly right, the
bridge closes.  And sometimes, you know what fixes it in the 21st
century?  A sledgehammer.  Come out with a sledgehammer and align the
tracks.  Literally a sledgehammer to knock it back into place in the
year 2021.  
  
One report a couple years ago found that the Portal Bridge was
particularly responsible for 2,000 hours of delays between 2014 and
2018.  You know that old expression: “Time is money.”  As one commuter
said, “If you’re on the train and they say ‘Portal Bridge,’ you know you
better make other plans.”   
  
Aging infrastructure like this is more than an inconvenience or a
nuisance; it’s an impediment — impediment to America’s global
competitiveness.  We’re in a worldwide race.  Things have changed.  Take
a look.  That’s why what’s happening right now is so important.    
  
Today, we’re moving forward on a new bridge that will be higher over the
water so it won’t need to open and close.  It’ll allow us to increase
speed, safety, and efficiency, and capacity.  It’s going to make life a
lot better for New Jersey’s commuters.  It’s also going to create nearly
8,000 construction jobs in this area alone — this area’s workers — 8,000
union jobs.  (Applause.)  Union.  
  
It was pointed out to me not long ago that I said I’m a “union
President,” that I apparently use — someone calculated I use the word
“union” more than the last seven Presidents combined.  (Applause.) 
Because guess what?  It’s a decent wage.  It’s about to make rail
transportation — which is a cleaner, greener way to travel — the better
choice for a lot of New Jersey residents, but not just New Jersey resi-
— everybody up and down the East Coast.   
  
If I can pause for a second — I apologize because some have heard this:
I commuted every single day, 263 miles a day, on Amtrak from the time I
got elected United States senator.  As matter of fact, when I was Vice
President, I used to like to take the train home because my mom was very
sick and dying, and I’d come home every weekend to make sure I’d take
the train home.  And Secret Service — and I’m not criticizing them —
legitimately would rather me fly because it’s safer, because too many
people can get on and off, et cetera.  
  
And I’m getting on one Friday, and then one of the senior guys on
Amtrak, Angelo Negri — I got to know all the conductors really well;
they became my friends.  I mean, really, my genuine friends.  I have
them in my home at Christmas and during the summer.  And Ang walks up to
me and goes, “Joey, baby!”  Grabs my cheek.  And I thought the Secret
Service was going to blow his head off.  (Laughter.)  I swear to God. 
True story.   
  
I said, “No, no, he’s a friend.”  I said, “What’s up, Ang?”  He said,
“Joey, I read in the paper — I read in the paper you traveled 1,000 —
1,200,000 miles on Air Force planes” — because they keep meticulous tabs
of it.  I said, “Yeah.”  He said, “Big…” — I won’t say the whole thing —
“Big deal.”  (Laughter.)  He said, “You know how many miles you traveled
on Amtrak, Joey?”  And I said, “No.”  He said, “The boys and I figured
it out at the retirement dinner.”  He says, “You travel 2 million…” — I
think it was 180, but — “2,200,000 miles.”  
  
I said, “How did you get that answer?”  He said, “Well, 267 miles a
day.  We figured you traveled 119 days a year for 36 years, and then you
traveled was Vice President.”  And then he goes, “So, Joey, I don’t hear
this about the Air Force anymore.”  (Laughter.)   
  
I’m a train guy, because it also is the single-most significant way we
can deal with air pollution, the single-most significant way we can deal
with global warming.  It’s going to help the region’s vital maritime
industry as well, by making — making the movement of ships and bridges
safer and more efficient.  
  
Look, with my infrastructure bill, we’re going to make sure projects
like this are just the beginning.  Across the country, there are 45,000
bridges in disrepair, some of them dangerously so; 173,000 miles of
roads are in poor condition.  We’re going to create them totally new. 
We’re going to fix them.  This is going to be good union jobs, a
prevailing wage you can raise a family on, jobs that can’t be
outsourced.   
  
We’re going to make the largest investment in public transportation in
the history of America, replacing transit vehicles that are past their
useful life and make the most significant investment in rail since the
creation of Amtrak 50 years ago.   
  
During peak periods when railroads are congested and rail carriers are
more — have more passengers, rail is up to 10 times more energy
efficient than a person driving.  Ten times.   
  
We have a huge opportunity here to provide fast, safe, reliable, and
clean transportation in this country.  All — every study shows — I won’t
bore you with them all because I’ve been working them my whole life —
every study shows if you can get from point A to point B faster on rail
and you can drive your automobile, you take the rail.  
  
The Northeast Corridor — we’re talking about a $30 billion investments
in major projects like the Hudson River Gateway tunnels and the Portal
Bridge, which it feeds into.  
  
Look, we’re going to create jobs replacing lead water pipes so families
can drink clean water — something New Jersey and Governor Murphy have
been leading on.   
  
We’re going to make sure high-speed Internet is affordable and available
everywhere in America, including the nearly one in three New Jersey
families that don’t have the Internet subscription.  How many times did
you see people pulling up to McDonald’s, sitting outside during the
pandemic so they could do their homework because they couldn’t get — get
it off of their — their line?  
  
We’re going to create jobs laying thousands of miles of transmission
lines to build modern, resilient — an energy grid.  And we’re going to
invest in strengthening our infrastructure against the impacts of
climate change.  
  
The Governor and I were talking a little bit earlier.  You know, just
this year, we’ve — global warming has caused over $1 trillion — excuse
me, $100 billion — $100 billion in damage.  I visited New Jersey, as the
Gov mentioned, after the Hurricane Ida came through.  The Governor and
several of you were with me.   
  
In Manville, we met people who had been put out of their homes by
flooding.  It was devastating.  Water marks over people’s heads.  They’d
show me where the water had gotten to.  I told them that help was on the
way.   
  
Since then, FEMA processed assistance applications for nearly 30,000 New
Jerseyans and approved $150 million in repairs, replacement, and rental
assistance and other needs.   
  
Between 2010 and 2020, this state has had 24 extreme weather events —
24.  Nationally, extreme weather, as I said, cost the taxpayers $100
billion <s>a year</s> \[last year\].  
  
Our plan is going to build our roads higher, our levees stronger, our
power grids more durable, all to withstand the ever-increasing ferocity
and intensity of extreme weather.  And with my Build Back Better plans,
we’re going to address the root cause of ever-increasing extreme weather
and destruction.  The climate crisis — we have a climate crisis.  
  
I’ve flown all over this nation this year, in helicopters, going from
Lake Mead — you know, more land, Gov, has been burned to the ground in
the West — to the ground — forest homes — than the entire state of New
Jersey, from all the way down to Cape May, all the way up to the
Hudson.  That’s how much has burned to the ground.  
  
My infrastructure bill will also put Americans to work for long-overdue
national environmental cleanups, like cleaning up the Passaic River —
the nation’s most expensive superfund site.  
  
We’re going to invest $42 billion in modernizing and electrifying our
ports and airports — like the Port of New York and New Jersey, Newark
Liberty International Airport — reducing congestion and emissions and
creating thousands more good-paying union jobs.   
  
This is going to help us meet the moment of the climate crisis in a way
that creates good jobs, makes us more economically competitive, and we
can breathe.   
  
Look, we haven’t passed the transformation — the transformative
infrastructure bill for a decade.  Think about this: How many times,
under the former guy, did we have — we had “Infrastructure Week”?  Not a
single thing happened.  We need to get this done.   
  
And it isn’t enough just to invest in our physical infrastructure.  We
also have to invest in our people.  That’s what my second bill — the
Build Back Better plan — does.  
  
I just had the opportunity to visit a preschool in East End Elementary
in North Plainfield.  North Plain\[field\] provides access to preschool
for all kids four years and above.   
  
My plan is going to make it possible for the district to expand that
program to three-year-olds all across America.  The earlier our children
begin to learn, the better for themselves, their families, and for the
nation.  
  
Studies show that children who have attended high-quality preschool are
50 percent more likely to finish high school and get a two- or four-year
degree after high school.  But right now, we’re lagging behind.  
  
Today, only about half of three- and four-year-olds in America are
enrolled in early education.  In Germany, France, the UK, and even
Latvia, that number is over 90 percent.  Over 90 percent of three- and
four-year-olds are in school.  
  
My Build Back Better plan gets us back on track.  And we’ll make two
years of high-quality preschool available to every child in America.  
  
An average two-parent household in this state spends $15,000 to care for
just one young child every year.   
  
Everybody says, “How do you know?”  I — I know about this.  When I got
elected to the United States Senate, my wife and daughter were killed. 
I had two little boys.  I was making a lot of money as a U.S. senator —
$42,000 a year — and I could not afford.  That’s why I started commuting
every single day.  Couldn’t afford to have two houses and to have
daycare.  Thank God I have a sister, who’s my best friend; a brother; my
mother; and my father who helped out.   
  
My Build Back Better plan is going to cut childcare costs more than in
half for low- and middle-income New Jersey residents.  Under my plan, no
middle-class family will spend more than 7 percent of their income on
childcare.  
  
We’ll also extend historic middle-class tax cuts for parents by
expanding the Child Care Tax Credit.  Everybody talks about children. 
And Josh has heard me say it: I view it as a tax cut for middle-class
families — a tax cut.  We never have an argument when we talk about the
wealthy.  This is a tax cut.  It changes the lives of the American
people.  (Applause.)  Because many people here in New Jersey understand
it means you get $300 a month for every child under the age six and $250
for a child between 6 and 17.   
That money is already a life-changer for so many working families.  It’s
projected to cut child poverty in New Jersey by 36 percent.  
  
These bills are going to change the lives of millions of people in the
area and hundreds of millions of people across the country for better
and for years to come.  
  
So, to everyone here today, especially Governor Murphy and other
dedicated officials here today, thank you for showing us what’s
possible.  Because when we make these investments, there’s going to be
no stopping America.  We will own the future.  
  
This initiative is about betting on America, about believing in America,
about believing in the American people.  
  
If you look at the history of the journey of this nation, what becomes
clear is this: Given half a chance, the American people have never,
ever, ever let their country down.  
  
So let’s get this done.  Let’s move.  Folks, we have the most — we have
the most talented workforce in the world.  What are we doing?  What in
God’s name are we doing?   
  
And, by the way, you hear these numbers — $3.5 trillion or $1.75
trillion.  We pay for it all.  It doesn’t increase the deficit one
single cent.  (Applause.)  
  
So, let’s get to work.  Let’s put people to work.  And let’s once again
reestablish America as the most advanced country in the world. 
(Applause.)    
  
God bless our — America.  And God bless our troops.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  
  
2:15 P.M. EDT
