---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-05'
modified_time: 2021-10-05 19:52:45-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/05/remarks-by-president-biden-before-air-force-one-departure-7/
published_time: 2021-10-05 20:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Air Force One\_Departure"
---
 
Capital Region International Airport  
Lansing, Michigan

4:50 P.M. EDT

Q    President Biden, when are you going to speak to Mitch McConnell on
the debt limit?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll be speaking to Mitch, yes.

Q    A lot of signs coming in — profane signs.  When you read those
signs, what do you — what do you think?  What comes across your mind?

THE PRESIDENT:  I smile.  I give them a little thumbs up. 

Q    How are you going to trim a trillion or more dollars from — from
this package?  What’s going to have to go?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s what we’re negotiating now.  And it’ll be —
it’ll be done. 

Look, my objective is to get everything that I campaigned on passed
eventually.  It won’t all happen at once.  And so, we’ll get a
compromise between the folks who are supporting strongly the
infrastructure and the human infrastructure.  We’ll get a compromise. 
But it doesn’t mean that’s the end of what’s in the rest of the package.

Q    Is means testing part of that, Mr. President?

THE PRESIDENT:  Pardon me?

Q    Is means testing part of that, Mr. President? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  Some of it will be means tested, I’m sure.  Some
of will be means tested.

Q    What about the Hyde Amendment, Mr. President?  Joe Manchin has been
pretty strong about where he stands on that.  You guys have different
views.

THE PRESIDENT:  I think — I think that’s — that’s something that’s going
to have to be decided based on the whole package.

Q    Mr. President, your meeting with moderates earlier — how was your
meeting with moderates? 

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible) what?

Q    Do you think that they’re on the same page as Senator Manchin when
it comes to the overall price tag?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think they’re on the same page as I am.  And I’m not
being facetious when I say that.

The — you mean the group I met with this morning?

Q    Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  No, I think they’re on the same — they all said
they’re on the same page.

The question is — look, every major fundamental shift that has taken
place in the American economy has seldom ever come with one single piece
of legislation at the — at the beginning. 

For example — you’ve heard me say this before, but it’s relevant — when
Roosevelt passed Social Security, it didn’t bear any resemblance to what
it is now.  And so, the idea that we’re going to — everything that is —
gets passed is going to be the totality of what it’s going to end up
being remains to be seen.

And my message this morning was: Look, it’s very important to establish
the principle — the principle that is contained in the amendment, such
as childcare, the Child Tax Credit.  Well, it may be that the Child Tax
Credit gets altered in terms of amount.  But once it’s put in place,
even though it’s only for several years, it gets harder and harder to
take it out.  And that’s my point to people.  We don’t have to get
everything all at once.

Q    Mr. President, if Senate Minority Leader McConnell refuses to
cooperate, should Senate Democrats do this by reconciliation?  What
happens next?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, quite frankly, there’s not many options.  If
they’re going to be that irresponsible, there’s not many options. 
There’s not much time left to do it by reconciliation. 

They can keep it on two tranches.  They can keep us on the floor for
hundreds of amendments.  They can just delay this.

I don’t think they’re going to end up being that irresponsible.  I can’t
believe it. 

But thank you.

Q    Mr. President, do you still have confidence in the Fed chair?

THE PRESIDENT:  Sorry?  
  
Q    Do you still have confidence in the Fed chair?  There’s been a lot
of trading activities going on.  And do you think that the Fed is still
— has maintained its integrity?  Fed chair Powell? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well —

Q    Do you still have confidence in him?  And do you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Thus far, yes.  But I — I’m just catching up on some of
these assertions you make. 

Thank you.

Q    Are you going to re-nominate him?

Q    Mr. President, how did you persuade Senator Manchin to come up a
little?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ve had many, many talks.  And what I’ve asked
Senator Manchin, as well as Senator Sinema, to do is decide what it is
they like in the Build Back Better and then move from there.  And if
they like it, the particular provisions, like, for example — I’m not
going to give away what either one of them said, but one of them said
they very much like the Child Tax Credit, but they’d like to see it
phase out sooner than later. 

I said, “Well, come up with a number.  Come up with what you’re for.” 
And when they added up — each of them added up all that they think they
like, it got them a higher number.  But whether they settle on that
remains to be seen.

Thank you all very much.

Q    Mr. President, why did you go to Slotkin’s district?  Are you
worried about her seat?

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, no, no.  I came back out because I wanted to be with
the engineers.  For real.  But I like her a lot.  She’s really a star.

Thank you.

4:55 P.M. EDT
