---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-21'
modified_time: 2021-10-21 18:00:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-10th-anniversary-celebration-of-the-dedication-of-the-dr-martin-luther-king-jr-memorial/
published_time: 2021-10-21 18:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 10th Anniversary Celebration of the Dedication\
  \ of the Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,\_Memorial"
---
 
Martin Luther King, Jr., Memorial  
Washington, D.C.

12:53 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Kamala. Thank you all so very much. Mr.
President — (laughter) — Harry, thank you for your stewardship.  
  
You know, here in the heart of the capital of the United States of
America, the tensions and the <s>heat</s> \[heart\] of the nation are
vividly on display.  
  
Dr. King stands determined and brave, looking out over the promised
land.  
  
Across the Tidal Basin stands another giant of our history: Thomas
Jefferson, whose words declared the very idea of America that we are all
“created equal… endowed by \[our\] Creator with certain unalienable
Rights” and we all deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.  
  
To state the obvious — and no audience knows it better than this one —
we’ve never fully lived up to that idea. But we’ve never walked away
from it fully. We’ve never walked away.  
  
In his sermon to the March on Washington, Dr. King called on all of
America to live up to the full meaning and promise of our Declaration of
Independence.  
  
And so, they stand here in perpetuity, in timely and timeless
conversation that inspires us and challenges us. It reminds us of how
far we’ve come, where we need to go, and how far and how much longer the
journey is. And it is a conversation that shapes our days and that we
must carry forward.  
  
Madam Vice President, Madam Speaker, Chair of the Black Caucus Beatty,
Congressional Black Caucus members, the memorial foundation, leaders of
faith and community, distinguished guests: From here, we see the ongoing
push and pull between progress and struggle over the self-evident truths
of our democracy.  
  
And in our nation, we now face an inflection point in the battle,
literally, for the soul of America. And it’s up to us, together, to
choose who we want to be and what we want to be. (Applause.)  
  
I know — I know the progress does not come fast enough. It never has.
And the process of governing is frustrating and sometimes dispiriting.
But I also know what’s possible if we keep the pressure up, if we never
give up, if we keep the faith.  
  
We’re at an inflection point — as I know I’ve maybe overused that
phrase, but it is an inflection point in American history — in
delivering on economic justice.  
  
For it was the dignity of work that Dr. King was in Memphis on that
fateful day in April, helping sanitation workers — not only for better
pay and safer conditions, but to be granted more dignity as human
beings.  
  
In our time, it’s about recognizing that for much too long we’ve allowed
a narrowed and cramped view of the promise of America — a view that
America is a zero-sum game, particularly of the recent past. “If you
succeed, I fail.” “If you get ahead, I fall behind.” And maybe worst of
all, “If I can hold you down, I lift myself up.”  
  
Instead of what it should be — and it’s just self-evident — “If you do
well, we all do well.” That’s keeping the promise of America.
(Applause.)  
  
I’ve never seen a time when working folks did well that the wealthy
didn’t do very well.  
  
Look, it’s the core of our administration’s economic vision, and it’s a
fundamental paradigm shift for this nation. For the first time in a
couple generations, we’re going to be investing in working families —
putting them first and helping them get ahead, rather than the wealthy
and the biggest and most powerful people out there. (Applause.)  
  
We’re investing in Black families with Rescue checks and tax cuts that
will reduce Black poverty by 34 percent, Black child poverty by more
than 50 percent this year. (Applause.)  
  
And we’re aggressively — with the leadership with of the people I’m
looking at right now — combatting housing discrimination to create a
generation of wealth. How did every other person make it to the middle
class from a working-class circumstance?  
  
Just like my dad did, build equity in a house — granted, it was small;
granted, it wasn’t much, but it was enough to build a little equity.  
  
We’ll use the federal government’s purchasing power to unlock billions
of dollars in new opportunities of minority-owned small businesses and
access to government contracts.  
  
Is there any doubt that providing more people with just a little more
breathing room to take care of their families, generate a little bit of
wealth that they can pass on to their children, and create jobs in their
communities would uplift the entire country — all the country?
Everyone.  
  
And as the economy recovers, we are determined and focused on rebuilding
it over the long run. No one should have to hold their breath as they
cross a rundown bridge to determine whether it’s safe enough or a
dangerous intersection in their hometown.  
  
A nation — every American, every child should be able to turn on a
faucet and drink water that’s not contaminated by lead or anything else.
(Applause.)  
  
As a nation, everyone should have access to affordable high-speed
Internet. Gone the days when you have to pull up to a McDonald’s and sit
in a parking lot with your child to do their homework when there’s
virtual learning going on.  
  
Dr. King said, “Of all the forms of inequity, injustice in healthcare is
the most shocking and \[most\] inhumane.” This is a once-in-a-century
pandemic that’s hit this country hard, and especially the African
American community.  
  
It’s likely you’ve all lost someone to the virus or know someone who has
lost a loved one. One in six hundred Black Americans have died from
COVID-19. It’s been reported that Black children are more than twice as
likely as white children to have lost a parent or a caregiver to
COVID-19, to have to experience the trauma and loss.  
  
Many of my colleagues in the Congress are working on what we have to now
work on even more — more fervently, and that is mental healthcare,
helping people through the difficult periods we have. (Applause.) It’s
been devastating, but we can find purpose in pain. We can find purpose
in this pain.  
  
Equity is the center of my administration’s COVID-19 response. The
vaccination rates among Black adults is now essentially on par with
white adults.  
  
In the midst of this pandemic, we’re building on the Affordable Care Act
to extend coverage to lower healthcare costs for millions of Black
families.  
  
We’re also working on lowering prescription drug costs by giving
Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices. And how do you know the
plan will work? Because the drug companies are spending millions of
bucks to try to stop it. That’s how you know. (Applause.)    
  
Together, we’re making healthcare a right, not a privilege, in this
nation.  
  
And for the millions — the millions of you who feel financially squeezed
in raising a child while caring for an aging parent — the so-called
“sandwich generation” — we want to make eldercare affordable and
accessible so your aging loved ones can live with greater independence
and dignity.  
  
We also want to make sure childcare costs for most families are cut at
least in half. No working family — if we pr- — if we get what you all
are helping me get done, no working family in America will pay more than
7 percent of their income on childcare for any child under five.
(Applause.)  
  
We want to give raises to millions of care workers and home workers so
they can increase their capacity, increase their knowledge, increase
their opportunities. Health workers and childcare workers are
disproportionately women — women of color and immigrants — workers, like
the ones Dr. King stood for when he marched and gave his life.  
  
Look, folks, just imagine, instead of consigning millions of our
children to under-resourced schools, we gave every single child in
America access to an education at age three and age four — quality
preschool. (Applause.) We can afford to do this. We can’t afford not to
do it.  
  
And we do know, no matter what the background or circumstance a child
comes from, when given that opportunity, they have a better than 58
percent chance of making it all the way through 12 years without getting
themselves in trouble and maybe going beyond that.  
  
This will change lives forever. So will historic investments in higher
education — significantly increasing Pell Grants to help millions of
Black students in lower-income families attend community colleges and
four-year schools. (Applause.)  
  
I tell you, let me be clear: In the shadow of the Morehouse men — I hear
a lot about that, guys — (laughter) — and with a Howard alumni — I keep
making the case — “if you’d excuse the point of personal privilege,” as
we used to say in the Senate — the best HBCU in the country is Delaware
State. (Laughter.) That’s where I got started. Come on.  
  
But here’s what we’ve done — in addition to putting the president of
Delaware State, who used to work for me — Doctor — he — in charge of all
of this — we’re committed to nearly $5 billion this year in historic
investments, with more, in historically Black colleges and universities
to make every single student — give them a shot with good-paying jobs.  
  
And you all know what I mean, but for anybody watching this: One of the
problems is Black students in colleges just have every single capability
any other student does, but guess what? Because they don’t have great
endowments, they can’t compete for those government contracts that are
out there that the big schools are able to go out and get.  
  
Cybersecurity, for example, starting salary is 100-, 125,000 bucks. But
you don’t get to get that contract unless you have laboratories, unless
you have the facilities you can, in fact, train on.  
  
We also know this about the promise of America. Economic injustice also
means delivering on environmental justice to communities on — fenceline
communities, dividing homes in toxic areas.  
  
My state has one of the highest cancer rates in the history of Am- — in
America. Because I lived in a fenceline community called Claymont,
Delaware. We used to get up in the morning — not a joke — and I’d get
driven to the little school I went, up the street; turn on the
windshield wiper in the fall — in the fall, the first frost, and
literally there’d be an oil slick on the window. Not a joke. An oil
slick on the window. It’s why an awful lot of us, including me, have
bronchial asthma.  
  
It means reducing pollution so our children can develop and avoid these
consequences.  
  
Every one of you have an alley in your state; we call it “Cancer Alley”
in our state, going down Route 13.  
  
Look, it means building up our resilience to the climate crisis or the
next extreme weather events. And these have been of biblical proportions
— biblical proportions. A hundred seventy-eight-mile top winds in a
hurricane down in Louisiana. More people dying in Queens, in their
basements, because 20 inches of rain — they flooded and couldn’t get out
of their basements; they drowned. Superstorms, droughts, wildfire,
hurricanes.  
  
This is the promise for America — urban and rural and all across
America, not just for any one area. And as we fight for economic justice
to fulfill the promise of America for all Americans, the work continues
on delivering equal justice under the law.  
  
Look, I know the frustration we all feel that more than one year after
George Floyd’s murder and the conviction of his murderer about six
months ago, meaningful police reform in George’s name has not passed
Congress.  
  
I remember many times meeting with his little daughter. And she’d say to
me, “My Daddy is changing history. He’s going to change history.” But we
haven’t fulfilled that yet.  
  
I understand. We got to keep fighting. But let me be clear, though:
We’re going to continue to fight for real police reform legislation, and
the fight is not anywhere near over.  
  
Despite Republican obstruction, my administration is acting. We’ve
already announced changes to the federal law enforcement policies: a ban
on choke-holds, restriction on no-knock warrants, requirements that
federal agents wear and activate body cameras — (applause) — ending the
Department of Justice’s use of private prisons, rescinding the previous
administration’s guidance to U.S. attorneys to require the harshest of
penalties.  
  
The Justice Department has opened a pattern-or-practice investigation of
systematic police misconduct in police departments in Phoenix,
Louisville, and Minneapolis.  
  
Just because we can’t get it done in the states, we are not standing
back. And we have much more to do.  
  
In addition to these important steps, my administration also wants to
advance some meaningful police reform that includes additional executive
actions to live up to America’s promise of equal justice under the
law.  
  
Our work continues to create safer and stronger communities in critical
ways. With my American Rescue Plan — and thank you in the Congress for
supporting it — everybody kind of forgets that was 1.9 billion dollars —
trillion dollars. We got a hell of — heck of a lot done with that. That
— it did so well, people don’t even know where it came from. (Laughter.)
No, I’m serious. Think about it.  
  
Like, “What did you do for me lately?” Well, we had $1.9 <s>billion</s>
\[trillion\] we took care of.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Trillion!  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Well, we made historic investments in community policing
and violence intervention programs and were shown to reduce — some of
these programs reduce violence by 60 percent.  
  
We’re expanding summer programs and job opportunities and service and
support to keep young people safe and out of trouble.  
  
We’re helping formerly incarcerated people successfully reenter their
communities. In the past, you’d get 25 bucks and a bu- — and a bus
ticket. And you’d go back right under the bridge you just were there
before.  
  
You should have access to Pell grants. You should have access to the po-
— housing. You should have access to all the things. You paid your
price. (Applause.) And we shouldn’t put back in the spot where you have
no options.  
  
We’re also working to stem the flow of firearms from rogue gun dealers
to curb the ecidem- — the epidemic of gun violence.  
  
I know I get criticized for being the guy who passed the assault weapons
ban. I’m proud of having passed the assault weapons ban. (Applause.)  
  
But here’s the deal: We heard Dr. King paraphrase Micah. He said, “Give
us the ballot and we will place judges on the benches of the South who
will do justly and love mercy.”  
  
Well, in just nine months, we have appointed more Black women to the
federal circuit courts and more former public defenders to the bench
than any administration in all of American history because of you. We’re
going to change it. (Applause.)  
  
And we did it in record time, and we’re just getting started because of
all of you in the audience here. You’ve been the engine behind all of
this.  
  
But we also know this: To make real the full promise of America, we have
to protect that fundamental right: the right to vote — the sacred right
to vote. You know, it’s democracy’s threshold of liberty. With it,
anything is possible. Without it, nothing is.  
  
Today, the right to vote and the rule of law are under unrelenting
assault from Republican governors, attorneys general, secretaries of
state, state legislators. And they’re following my predecessor — the
last President — into a deep, deep black hole and abyss.  
  
No, I really mean it. Think about it. That’s what got me involved in
civil rights as a kid, when I was 26 years old. It gave me — I had never
pla- — I love reading about how “Biden knew he was going to run
President.” Hell, I didn’t know I was even going to be able to run for
the county council; I didn’t even want to. (Laughter.)  
  
But, look, this struggle is no longer just over who gets to vote or
making it easier for eligible people to vote. It’s about who gets to
count the votes — whether they should count at all.  
  
Jim Crow in the 21st century is now a sinister combination of voter
suppression and elective subv- — election subversion.  
  
My fellow Americans, I thought, at one point, that I had been able to do
something good as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee. I was able to get
every member of the committee, including some of the most conservative
members that ever served — clearly who had racist backgrounds — to vote
to extend the Voting Rights Act for 25 years. I thought, “Whoa.” One of
the proudest things I ever did as a senator.  
  
But guess what? This means that some state legislatures want to make it
harder for you to vote. And if you do vote, they want to be able to tell
you whether or not your vote counts. That’s not happened before.  
  
They want the ability to reject the final vote and ignore the will of
the people if their preferred candidate — Black or white or Asian or
Latino, doesn’t matter — if that — if their candidate doesn’t win.  
  
And they’re targeting not just voters of color, as I said, but every
voter who doesn’t vote the way they want.  
  
I have to admit to you, having been as senator in my whole of 36-year
career involved in — I worked with a lot of folks out here on civil
rights issues — I thought, “Man, you can’t turn this back.” I bet you
could defeat hate. What if we could actually defeat hate?  
  
But the most un-American thing that any of us can imagine — the most
undemocratic and the most unpatriotic — and yet, sadly, not
unprecedented. Time and again, we’ve witnessed threats to the right to
vote in free and fair elections come to fruition. Each time, we fought
back. And we’ve got to continue to fight back today.  
  
I want to thank Martin Luther King III for leading marches on voting
rights during the anniversary of the March on Washington on August
28th.  
  
The Vice President and I, and our colleagues here, have spent our
careers doing this work. It’s central to our administration.  
  
On the anniversary of Bloody Sunday, I directed each and every federal
agency to promote access to voting from each agency heeding that call.  
  
For example, the Department of Veterans Affairs — I asked them to make
it easier for veterans and their families to register and to vote at VA
facilities — so it’d be open.  
  
In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has doubled the voting
rights enforcement staff.  
  
We got a long way to go though. It’s using authorities to challenge the
onslaught of state laws undermining voting rights, whether in old or new
ways.  
  
It’s something like 20 percent of the Re- — or half the Republicans —
the registered Republicans: I am not your President; Donald Trump is
still your President. As we Catholics say, “Oh, my God.” (Laughter.)  
  
But look, the focus is going to remain on discrimination and racial
discriminatory laws — Georgia’s <s>various</s> \[vicious\]\* new
anti-voting laws.  
  
And let’s be clear about Georgia — Dr. King’s home state and the home
state of someone who has literally stood in his shoes as — (jets fly
overhead).  
  
I think some of you guys knew this was — the next line was coming;
that’s why you had the jets come out — (laughter).  
  
— stood in his shoes as a Morehouse man. (Laughter.) That’s what I keep
getting from Cedric. Oh, anyway. (Laughter.) And as a preacher in the
pulpit of Ebenezer — United States Senator Raphael Warnock, the first
Black senator in Georgia’s history. (Applause.)  
  
Senator Warnock won his election in the battle of ideas. He earned the
trust and confidence of a broad coalition of voters in Georgia.  
  
And the response of Republicans in Georgia — what was it? It’s not to
try winning on the merits and ideas, it’s by changing the rules to make
it harder for people to vote, deny the franchise.  
  
The Vice President has been leading our administration’s efforts. And
we’ve supported Democrats pressing to enact critical voting rights bills
since day one of this administration, making sure we have unanimous
support.  
  
But each and every time, the Senate Republicans block it by refusing
even to talk about it. They’re afraid to even just debate the bills in
the U.S. Senate, as they did again yesterday, even on a bill that
includes provisions that they’ve traditionally supported. It’s unfair.
It’s unconscionable. And it’s un-American.  
  
And this battle is far from over. The door has not been closed. The John
Lewis Voting Rights Act will soon come up for a vote — named after our
dear friend we still miss dearly, but whose voice we hear every day in
our hearts and in our conscience.  
  
It’s a law that helped lead the reauthorization — as I said, for 25
years that I served of the — in the Senate Judiciary Committee —
expanding the Voting Rights Act.  
  
It’s traditionally received bipartisan support. We have to keep up the
fight and get it done.  
  
And I know the moment we’re in; you know the moment we are in. I know
the stakes; you know the stakes. This is far from over.  
  
And finally, we’re confronting the stains of what remains — the deep
stain on the soul of the nation: hate and white supremacy.  
  
You know, there’s a through line of subjugation and enslaved people from
our earliest days to the reigns of radicalized terror of the KKK to Dr.
King being assassinated. And through that — <s>though</s> \[through\]
that line continues to be the torches emerging from dark shadows in
Charlottesville, carrying out Nazi banners and chanting anti-Semitic
bile, and Ku Klux Klan flags; and the violent, deadly insurrection on
the Capitol nine months ago — it was about white supremacy, in my
view.  
  
The rise of hate crimes against Asian Americans during the pandemic and
the rise of anti-Semitism here in America and around the world.  
  
The through line is that hate never goes away. It never –I thought — in
all of the years I’ve been involved, I thought once we got through it,
it would go away. But it doesn’t; it only hides. It only hides until
some seeming-legitimate person breathes some oxygen under the rocks
where they’re hiding and gives it some breath. (Applause.)  
  
I’ve said it before — and all my colleagues here know it: According to
the United States intelligence community, domestic terrorism from white
supremacists is the most lethal terrorist threat in the homeland.  
  
To that end, our administration is carrying out the first-ever
comprehensive effort to tackle the threat — (applause) — passed by
domestic — posed by domestic terrorism, including white supremacy.  
  
We are doing so by taking action to reduce online radicalism and
recruitment to violence.  
  
We’re also disrupting networks that inspire violence and domestic
terrorists by providing resources to communities to build resilience.  
  
We cannot and must not give hate any safe harbor — any safe harbor.  
  
My fellow Americans, standing here I’m reminded of the goal of the
Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which Dr. King led. And I
quote — he said his goal was to, quote, “redeem the soul of America.”
That’s what’s at stake here: the soul of America.  
  
And we know that it’s not the work of a single day or a single
administration or even a single generation. But here we stand with Dr.
King to show: Out of struggle there is progress, out of despair there is
hope.  
  
From the promise of equality and opportunity, of jobs, justice, and
freedom, we see Black excellence, American excellence, Black history as
American history and a defining source of the might of this nation.  
  
That’s why we’re here to today: to renew our own courage in the shadow,
in the light, and on the shoulders of Dr. King, Coretta Scott King, and
all those known and unknown who gave their whole souls to this work.  
  
The courage to confront wrong and to try do right. The courage to heal
the broken places in the nation. The courage to see America whole, to
acknowledge where we fall short, to devote ourselves to the perfection
of the union that we love and we must protect.  
  
For if we can summon the courage to do these things, we’ll have done our
duty, honored our commitments, and brought the dream of Dr. King just a
little bit closer to reality.  
  
It’s the highest of callings. It’s the most sacred of charges. And it’s
what, with the help of God, we can do now.  
  
So, let’s go forth from this sacred place –- of tumult and turmoil —
with the hope and promise of a nation always seeking, always thriving,
always keeping the faith. Because, folks —  
  
You know, I know my colleagues in the Senate used to always kid me for
quoting Irish poets on the floor. They thought I did it because I was
Irish. It’s not the reason; they’re the just the best poets in the
world. (Laughter.) There’s a line from the — and I believe this to be
true. There’s a line from a poem, “The Cure at Troy” — it says that:  
  
*“… once in a lifetime*  
*\[That\] tidal wave*  
*Of justice \[rises\] up,*  
*And hope and history rhyme.”*  
  
That’s not the whole quote. I won’t bore you with it all. But “hope and
history rhyme.”  
  
I believe the American people — the vast majority — are with us. I think
they see much more clearly what you’ve all been fighting for your whole
lives now. It’s in stark relief.  
  
The bad news: We had a President who appealed to the prejudice. The good
news is that he took the — he ripped the Band-Aid off, made it
absolutely clear what’s at stake. And I think the American people will
follow us.  
  
But guess what? Whether they will or not, we have no choice. We have to
continue to fight. (Applause.)   
  
God bless you all. May God protect our troops. (Applause.)  
  
1:21 P.M. EDT
