---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-22'
modified_time: 2021-10-22 00:05:25-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/22/remarks-by-president-biden-in-a-cnn-town-hall-with-anderson-cooper-2/
published_time: 2021-10-22 00:05:24-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden in a CNN Town Hall with Anderson Cooper
---
 
Baltimore Center Stage  
Baltimore, Maryland

(October 21, 2021)

8:00 P.M. EDT

MR. COOPER:  With that, I want to welcome the 46th President of the
United States, President Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

So, there’s a lot to get to tonight, and we got a lot of great questions
from our audience.  We want to get into the details of what you’re
calling the Build Back Better plan.

Before we get into that though, I just want to know — there’s been a lot
of negotiating going on behind the scenes, as I’m sure you are very
involved with.  Are you close to a done deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  No problems.  It’s all done.  (Laughter.)

No, look, Anderson, we’ve been — I’ve probably spent, well, well over
100 hours.  This is a — this is a big deal.  We’re both have — we have
two plans: one is the infrastructure plan — roads, highways, bridges,
buses, trains, et cetera — and the other one is what I call the “care
economy”.  It has a lot of money in there for environmental remediation
as well as care economy.  For example, you know, we want to get the
economy moving, but millions of women can’t go to work because they
don’t have any childcare.  That kind of thing.

So, there’s a lot of pieces in there.  There’s a lot that people don’t
understand.  And, by the way, all of it’s paid for — every single
penny.  It’s not going to raise one single cent (inaudible). 

MR. COOPER:  We’re going to get into a lot — a lot of those details. 
Just, though, are you close to a deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think so.  You know, look, I’ve been — I was a senator
for 370 years.  (Laughter.)  And I was never — I was relatively good at
putting together deals.

MR. COOPER:  Is this the toughest deal you’ve worked on? 

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  No.  I think banning assault weapons was the
toughest deal I worked on — and succeeded.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  You’re flying — you’re flying to Europe, I think, in eight
days.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  Do you think you’ll have a deal by the time you get on Air
Force One in eight days?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, you know, it’s like my asking you, “Are you
sure your next show is going to be a success?”  Right?  You know.

MR. COOPER:  Yes.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, you’re more confident than I am.  Look — hey,
look, it’s all about compromise.  You know, “compromise” has become a
dirty word, but it’s — bipartisanship and compromise still has to be
possible. 

When I ran for the presidency, I said I’m running for three reasons:
one, to restore the soul and decency in the country; two, to build the
middle class and the working class so they were — we build from the
middle out; and three, to actually unite the country.  And everybody has
been saying, “Well, that’s crazy.  You can’t do it.”  If we can’t
eventually unite this country, we’re in deep trouble.

MR. COOPER:  Bottom line: Do you think you will get a deal?

THE PRESIDENT:  I do think I’ll get a deal.

MR. COOPER:  All right, let’s get some — let’s go to the audience.  This
is Nicholas Vaught.  He’s the coordinator at the Applied Liberal Studies
Program at Morgan State University.  He’s a Democrat. 

Nicholas, your question.

THE PRESIDENT:  Morgan State.

Q    Morgan State.

THE PRESIDENT:  All right, man.  (Applause.)  I’ve spoken there.

Q    So, my wife and I have two young boys, Arthur and Teddy.  However,
the cost of childcare is nearly double our mortgage.  We want to have
more children, but even though we earn a good salary now, childcare is
so expensive.  So how will this new infrastructure plan help
middle-class families pay for childcare?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me ask you: Do you have — how old are your
kids?

Q    Three and a half and six months old. 

THE PRESIDENT:  God love you.  (Laughter.)

Well, look, there’s two pieces.  There’s the childcare — having someone
take care of your child while you are working, while you and your wife
are working.  Under this proposal I have, no one will have to pay —
unless you’re making more than — individually, you’re each making —
making over 300 grand –$150,000 apiece.

Q    We’re educators. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, God.  (Laughter.)  And, by the way, I’m married to
one: Dr. Biden — right here.  (Applause.) 

So — so you will not have to pay more than 7 percent of your income for
childcare — 7 percent.  And the way we do that is we provide for the
ability to have childcare centers funded.  The money won’t even go — you
don’t — the — figure your income; you get 7 percent with the total cost.

But there’s another piece here: You now are qualified to be able to have
a Child Tax Credit.  It used to be that when you — you know, when you —
if you were — had enough money to pay significant taxes, you could write
off 2,000 bucks for every child you had and reduce it from your taxes. 
But if you were making 60,000 bucks a year and you didn’t have that much
to write off, you didn’t get anything.

Well, I call this a tax break for middle-class people.  If you’re making
in the $150,000 range right now, you’re in a situation where you can
get, if you have a child under 7, $350; if you have a child over 7,
between 7 and 17, you can get $300.  And you get a direct payment.  You
— the IRS sends you money.

MR. COOPER:  Joe Manchin wants a work requirement with your enhanced tax
credit for kids.  Is that something you would support?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  Here’s the deal: All these people are working
anyway.  (Applause.) 

And, by the way, you know, why should somebody who is not working and
has — you know, makes — has a million-dollar trust fund, why should they
get the benefit, and someone making 60 grand and not working, but
staying home, why should they not get anything?  I don’t get that.

MR. COOPER:  You’re also proposing, for the first time ever, federal
paid parental leave.  And — (applause) —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  That’s a different issue.  Yeah.

MR. COOPER:  Right.  A different issue.  Right.  But this is — but this
is in your proposal.  How much time off would parents actually get under
your proposal?  Because at one point, you talked about 12 weeks.  Now
there’s reports it’s down to maybe four weeks.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, it is down to four weeks.  And the reason it’s
down to 4 weeks is I can’t get 12 weeks.  (Laughter.) 

And — but, look, here’s the deal, guys: How many people do you know —
not a joke — or maybe yourself — have had a circumstance where you are
working like the devil, you’re making 7 bucks an hour, 15 bucks an hour,
or 20 bucks an hour, and you have a child that’s sick at home — or you
have a mother or a father, husband and wife, son or daughter, and you
need to stay home to help them? 

We’re one of the few industrial countries in the world that doesn’t have
paid leave — so that when you stay home to help that person, to take
care of that person, you’re still getting your pay.  And it does not
hurt the business at all.  The business isn’t paying for it; the federal
government is paying for it.  It’s a little bit like, as I said, a tax
cut for people who are not able to otherwise take care of their
families.

And, look, I’m looking out here, and a lot of you are part of that
sandwich generation: You have young kids, and you have aging parents. 
And one of the things all the polling data shows, Anderson, is people
are more concerned about taking care of the elderly, because they don’t
know what to do, than they are even their children.

MR. COOPER:  I want to talk about this.  I want you to meet Vanessa
Antrum from Bowie, Maryland.  She’s retired.  She’s a caregiver for her
elderly parents.

THE PRESIDENT:  God love you.

MR. COOPER:  She’s a Democrat. 

Vanessa, your question.

Q    Yes.  Mr. President, my parents have been married for 73 years and
both are dealing — (applause) — yes.  Both of them are dealing with
dementia.  My father, who was a veteran, is completely bedridden, and my
mom is experiencing issues with walking.

I have found the process for me to provide care for them in my home very
hard.  They have worked all their life only for me to experience a lot
of red tape to provide support —

THE PRESIDENT:  Bingo.

Q    — in a loving home environment.  What is being done to support the
elderly, especially for a middle-class family like mine?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all — (applause) — if my mom were here,
she’d say you’re a good daughter, number one.

Q    Yes.  Thank you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Number two, I was in a situation like you, where I was
making more money — I was making $42,000 a year as a senator at the
time, although I was listed the poorest man in the Senate for 36 years,
but — (laughter) — I still made more money than most people because
Senate salaries kept going up. 

What happened was my — my dad got sick, and he was in hospice, so Jill
and I took my dad home and we took care of him in our house.  But we
were lucky because we had the ability to have — I have a sister who is
an angel and a brother who’s a wonderful guy, and we all took turns in
our house taking care of them. 

But here’s the deal: Right now, under Medicaid, there are 860,000 — I
think it’s 860- — don’t hold me to the exact number, but it’s over
800,000 — who qualify for home healthcare aid for their parents, but
there’s no money there.  There’s no money there.

So what we do is we provide the funding for Medicaid to allow you to be
able to keep — if your parents had their home — keeping them in their
home if you wanted, or get help in your home with homecare from
professionals providing — helping you take care of them — helping you
take care of them.

And in many cases where you’re not taking care of them in your own home
and they’re staying — and they’re staying in their home, you’re going to
be able to have the ability to have someone come in and make their meals
for them.  They don’t have to be there 24/7. 

So, there’s a lot of things we’re doing.  In addition to the process,
we’re going to be able to train up those homecare workers who are
usually minority women, women of color, as well as immigrants.  And they
have the capacity to learn more as they go along, to move to the point
where they can become practical nurses and things like that. 

So, it makes a lot of sense, and it’s cheaper — cheaper than it is to
not do it. 

MR. COOPER:  One of the other things that Democrats are looking to do is
to expand Medicare to include dental, vision, and hearing as well. 
Given all the negotiations that are going on, will all three of those
still be covered?

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s a reach.  And the reason why it’s a reach — it’s
not — I think it’s a good idea, and it’s not that costly in relative
terms, especially if we allow Medicare to negotiate drug prices. 

But here’s the thing: Mr. Manchin is — is opposed to that, as is — I
think Senator Sinema is as well.

MR. COOPER:  Opposed to all of them?

THE PRESIDENT:  Opposed to all three.  Because they don’t want — he says
he doesn’t want to further burden Medicare so that — because it will run
out of its ability to maintain itself in X number of years.  There’s
ways to fix that, but he’s not interested in that part either. 
(Laughter.)

But, look, Joe — Joe is not a bad guy.  He’s a friend.  And he’s always,
at the end of the day, come around and voted for it.

But — but here’s the point: We’re in a situation now where if you are in
a circumstance that you’re not able to provide — let me cut to the
chase; I’m taking too long.  (Laughter.)

One of the things we were able to do in the meantime is — the most
expensive of these things would be dental.  Okay?  Now, we’re talking
about — and I don’t have a deal on it yet — maybe getting an $800
voucher from Medicare for dental work that you may need.

And the hearing is a very important thing because — as Kyrsten Sinema,
who supports this, points out — hearing is directly related to
dementia.  When you can’t hear, you have a problem, and it impacts on
dementia.

So, we’re able to, I — and it’s cheaper to be able to take care of
hearing.  But I think I’ve been able to take care of that without
changing Medicare, because what’s happening is now you have these
hearing aid companies; you no longer are going to have to go to the
doctor and spend five grand and get an app- — you can go buy at
Walgreens, and buy over-the-counter hearing aids.  (Applause.) 

So — the harder one, though, is we — we haven’t gotten a consensus yet
on how to deal with seeing, glasses.  And — but that’s — so “it’s not
done yet” is the answer. 

MR. COOPER:  All right.  I want to get another question in.  This is Ben
Frederick.  Ben is a realtor, a lifelong resident of Baltimore.  He’s an
independent.  Serves on the Maryland Multi-Housing Association.

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, Ben, the Bidens all hail from Baltimore,
beginning in 1850.  (Laughter.)  I don’t know how the hell they kicked
me out, but I’m — (laughter).

MR COOPER:  Ben, what’s your question?

Q    IRS data shows that the top 5 percent of income earners pays 60
percent of the income taxes in this country.  I hear you repeatedly say
that the wealthy are not paying their fair share of income taxes.  What
is the percentage of income that you believe is fair?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think what’s fair is that — this present tax
code, the highest tax rate is 35 percent, number one.  Okay?

Number two, you’re in a circumstance where corporate America is not
paying their fair share.  And I come from the corporate state of the
world: Delaware.  More corporations in Delaware than every other state
in the union combined.  Okay?

Now, here’s the deal though: You have 55 corporations, for example, in
the United States of America making over $40 billion, who don’t pay a
cent.  Not a single little red cent. 

Now, I don’t care — I’m a capitalist.  I hope you can be a millionaire
or a billionaire.  I — not a problem.  But at least pay your fair
share.  Chip in a little bit.

And so —

MR. COOPER:  Well, let me — let me follow up, because Kyrsten Sinema,
who you mentioned — Senator Sinema is opposed to any tax rate hikes for
corporations and for high earners.  Speaker Pelosi suggested today she
could accept that.

The question is: A, would you accept that — no rate hikes — tax rate
hikes for corporations or high earners?  And if so, how would you pay
for this plan otherwise?

THE PRESIDENT:  Because you don’t have — look, here’s the deal: The tax
rate — the corporate tax rate was 35 points-some — 37 percent.  Barack
and I thought it should come down.  We thought it should come down to 28
percent. 

In the process, it came down to 21 percent under Trump, which even the
corporate leaders — and you know if you’re in real estate — major real
estate.  Ask them.  They know they should be paying a little more than
21 percent.  Because the idea that if you’re a schoolteacher and a
firefighter, you’re paying at a higher tax rate than they are, as a
percentage of your taxes.

But here’s the deal: I believe that we can do the — we can pay for this
whole thing — I have it written on a card here, but I won’t bore you
with the detail.  But, for example, if you in fact made sure that you
paid a minimum 15 percent — minimum 15 percent — if you’re paying
nothing — minimum 15 — that’s almost — that’s over almost $400 billion
over 10 years.

MR. COOPER:  So you would be willing to go along with what Senator
Sinema and, it seems like, Speaker Pelosi is willing to consider: no tax
hike for corporations or for high-earning individuals?

THE PRESIDENT:  Here’s what I’m willing to do: I’m willing to make sure
that we pay for everything without anyone making less than $400,000
paying a single cent more in taxes.  That’s my objective.

And so, there’s ways to do that.  For example — you covered it on your
show — the minimum international tax at 15 percent.

MR. COOPER:  But no rate — actual rate hikes?

THE PRESIDENT:  No.  No.  I don’t think we’re going to be able to get to
vote.  Look — (laughs) — when you’re in the United States Senate and
you’re President of the United States and you have 50 Democrats, every
one is a President.  (Laughter.)  Every single one.  So, you got to work
things out. 

But where I am is, I’m hearing now — I’ll turn on the news and I’ll hear
that “Biden’s caved on such and…” 

Look, Biden has a simple proposition.  Biden is going to get — all the
elements of these two bills have profound impact on economic growth;
reduce, not increase, inflation; don’t add a penny to the debt; as well
as grow the economy.  According — I had 17 Nobel laureates in economics
sent me a letter recently saying that my proposals would actually reduce
inflation, diminish (inaudible).

But here’s the point.  The point of it all is that I’m prepared — I
can’t think of anything that was consequential and changing the
circumstance for the middle class and working class in America that came
as a consequence of a single piece of legislation. 

I got a portrait of Roosevelt in my office.  Okay?  Social Security is
not anything like it is today when he passed it.  It evolved.  It
moved.  It grew. 

So I’m prepared to do the things that can get done now that can begin to
change the lives of ordinary Americans to give them a fighting chance
and come back and try to get others later.

MR. COOPER:  Let’s talk about another one of those things.  This is
Sondra Guttman, an English professor at — (applause) — at Loyola
University — also a Democrat. 

Sondra, what’s your question?

THE PRESIDENT:  And, by the way, you got another English professor who
teaches writing here.  (Laughter.)

Q    Thank you for taking my question, Mr. President.  We’ve heard in
the news that the proposal for two years of free community college may
be cut from your economic package.  An educated citizenry is absolutely
crucial to solving complex problems like climate change — (applause) —
and the systematic inequities in this country.  We hope that this is not
cut from the package, but if it is, what can you do to ensure that all
Americans can get the education that they need to face these issues?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, Professor, you made a very profound
point, and I’m not — I’m not being sarcastic — and that is — and Jill
uses a slightly different phrase: “Any country that out-educates us will
out-compete us.”  Any country that out educates will out- — out-educates
will out-compete us. 

You have the vast majority — of the 37 major cor- — countries in the
world — economies — we rank 35 in our investment in education.  We’re in
a situation where if you — if you think about it, when we — what caused
us to move ahead and dominate the 20th century: In the late 1900s — in
the early 1900s, late 1890s, we came up — we said, 12 years of free
education.  That was revolutionary at the time.  I mean, seriously. 

Now, if we were sitting down today and saying, “Oh, we got to put
together an education system,” raise your hand if anybody thinks 12
years is enough to compete in the 21st century? 

So, that’s why what I propose is: free child — free school — free school
for every three- and four-year-old in America, no matter what their
background.

All the data shows that no matter what home they come from, they
increase exponentially their prospects of succeeding all the way through
12 years of school.  You know — you know all the statistics. 

The statistics go that if you come from a home where there’s no books in
the home and a single mom or a single dad, they don’t — they’re not well
educated, they don’t talk a lot, the kid from the middle class — average
middle-class home versus that home will go to school having heard 1
million more words spoken than the child who didn’t.  A gigantic
disadvantage. 

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President, the question was on the — the — on community
colleges —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I know.  I — 

MR. COOPER:  — which — which was a big campaign promise that you made. 
You talked about that a lot on —

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I —

MR. COOPER:  — the campaign trail.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, and I’m going to get it done.  (Applause.)  And if
I don’t, I’ll be sleeping alone for a long time.  (Laughter.) 

But here’s the deal: So far, Mr. Manchin and one other person has
indicated they will not support free community college.  So, what I’ve —
what I think we can get done is we can significantly increase the amount
of money by 500 bucks a payment for Pell Grants.  And Pell Grants are
available, and they can apply for up to 30 percent of the cost of
community college and/or — and/or college help tuition. 

So, it’s not going to get us there.  It’s not going to get us the whole
thing, but it is a start. 

I’m convinced — absolutely, positively convinced that we’re going to be
able to — and, by the way, we have in the law — in the legislation,
money for community colleges that deal with — dealing with
apprenticeships, dealing with teaching people particular skills that are
not getting — will not get you a two-year degree but will teach you the
skill. 

So, I think we can get all of that done this time out. 

But I promise you — I guarantee you, we’re going to get free community
college in the next several years and across the board.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  What was that conversation when you realized you weren’t
able — going to be able to get it in this bill at this time, and you had
dinner with Dr. Biden that night, what was that conversation like? 
(Laughter.)  How did you break that news?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, the White House has a lot of bedrooms. 
(Laughter.)  And she went like this.  (Points.)  (Laughter.)  “Down the
hall.”

MR. COOPER:  All right.

THE PRESIDENT:  No, look, it really makes a gigantic difference.  And
think of this: You have more countries in the world with — having —
providing college — I mean, providing professional education beyond 12
years.  We rank like, I think it’s — don’t hold me to the number — I
think it’s 16 or 17 in the world — the United States of America, for
God’s sake.

MR. COOPER:  I want —

THE PRESIDENT:  This is about putting us in the game. 

MR. COOPER:  This is John Meche.  He’s a doctoral candidate at Morgan
State University and an independent.  John, welcome.  What’s your
question?  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Where — where are you?

MR. COOPER:  Morgan State. 

Q    Morgan State. 

THE PRESIDENT:  I know all these Morgan men, man.  (Applause.) 

I’ve spoken there a couple times.  And, by the way, the guy who runs my
operation is a — anyway — (laughter) — I — I keep talking about Delaware
State, but they keep saying about Morgan State, you know?

Q    Morgan State. 

President Biden, I had so much faith in your election win, but based on
history, the bipartisan efforts of the Democratic Party are held hostage
by rogue moderates and Republicans.  Why not do like the Republicans and
usher through the Democratic agenda?  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, two reasons.  If you notice, the Republicans
haven’t passed a single, solitary thing.  Zero.  So, ushering through
their agenda — their agenda right now is just “stop Biden.”  Although, I
shouldn’t make it so personal.  “Stop my administration” — that’s what
the agenda is.  It’s much easier to stop something than to start
something. 

And look, what we did is, when I wrote — I’m going to back up just a
second.  I apologize.  I wrote — I personally — during the campaign,
before I got elected, I wrote the infrastructure bill relating to what
we do to highways and all that kind of thing.  Hard — hard data.  And I
wrote the — what they call — what’s now called the “care economy” piece
and has a gigantic piece of environmental pieces in it too. 

And I went before the joint session of Congress, and I laid out exactly
what I was for.  And so, I made it clear what I was for.  Initially what
happened was, I got no support for anything from our Republican
friends.  And then they said, “Maybe we can work out a bipartisan deal
on infrastructure.”  And we did.  We worked on it.  It didn’t give me
everything I wanted.  It didn’t have as much money in there for the
environment, although it has tens of billions of dollars in there, but
didn’t have what I wanted in it.  But we made a bipartisan deal. 

Now, what’s coming along is this reconciliation — they call it a fancy
word — for the other pieces that have the childcare pieces, have the
economy that relates to allowing people to — women to go back to work. 
It has about $450 billion for environmental remediation, and so on. 

And that’s the one that is the issue. 

MR. COOPER:  Well, let me — let me ask you — just getting to — to his
question: You — we’ve talked a lot about Senator Manchin and Senator
Sinema.  You seem relatively confident you can kind of get Senator
Manchin on board. 

There’s a lot of Democrats in the House and Senate who are confused
about where Senator Sinema actually stands on things.  (Applause.)  And
I know she’s been negotiating directly with you and the White House. 
What is your read on her? 

And I — obviously, you need her to remain positive in your direction, so
I don’t know what you’re going to say.  (Laughter.)  But what is your
read on —

THE PRESIDENT:  No —

MR. COOPER:  Do you know where she stands?

THE PRESIDENT:  First of all, she’s smart as the devil, number one. 
Number two, she’s very supportive of the environmental agenda in my
legislation — very supportive.

She’s supportive of all — almost all the things I mentioned, relating to
everything from family care to all — to all those issues.

Where she’s not supportive is she says she will not raise a single penny
in taxes on the corporate side and/or on wealthy people.  Period.

And so, that’s where it sort of breaks down, and there’s a few other
issues it breaks down on.  But what we’re trying to do is reach a point
here where I’m able to present to the Senate — they’re able to vote on —
and the House — a serious, serious piece of legislation that changes the
dynamic for working-class folks in America and middle-class folks, and
begins to have the very wealthy and corporations just begin to pay their
fair share — not a lot.

How we get there — we’re down to four or five issues, which I’m not
going to negotiate on national television, as you might guess.

MR. COOPER:  We’d be interested —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, no.

MR. COOPER:  — in hearing them, if you want.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, no.  I know.  But, all kidding aside, I think we
can get there.

MR. COOPER:  You talked about the environmental piece.  You said Senator
Sinema is on board with that.  Certainly, Senator Manchin is not.  It
gets to our next question. 

This is from Kobi Khong.  He’s originally from Anaheim, California. 
He’s a Sophomore Class President at Johns Hopkins University, a
Democrat.  (Applause.) 

Kobi, what’s your question?

THE PRESIDENT:  Mr. President.

Q    One of the largest issues that people have trouble comprehending
the severity of is climate change.  Many legislators and politicians
today are lenient, as they won’t have to live with the future effects. 
Without the legislative support for the climate aspects of your budget
proposal and the earth rapidly approaching the Paris Agreement’s 1.5
degrees limit, what other backup plans do you have to ensure a future
for the next generations?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s — (applause).  Mr. President, you got it
right.  The existential threat to humanity is climate change.  And when
President Trump pulled out of the Paris Accord — which, when I was with
the Obama administration, we helped negotiate — the agreement was that
we could not — if we reached beyond 1.5 degrees Celsius increase in
temperature, we’re gone.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.

And so, we decided that — he pulled out.  First thing I committed to do
is rejoin that accord, number one.  (Applause.) 

But number two — number two: What you have to do is you look at —
there’s multiple ways in which we can deal with climate.  I’m going off
to COP26 in Scotland, and — in, I don’t know, I guess it’s two weeks or
a week.  I — I’m losing track of time.

And — and I’m presenting a commitment to the world that we will, in
fact, get to net-zero emissions on electric power by 2035 and net-zero
emissions across the board by 2050 or before.  But we have to do so much
between now and 2030 to demonstrate what we’re going to — that we’re
going to do.

So, let me give you a couple examples.

MR. COOPER:  Let me just follow up, though, very quickly on that,
because the — the key climate provision that was in the Build Back
Better plan, as you call it — the Clean Electricity Performance Program
— that’s been dropped now from this spending bill.  Reported —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, it hasn’t.

MR. COOPER:  It has not?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, it ha- — look —

MR. COOPER:  But Senator Manchin is opposed to that.

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s opposed to it.  But here’s the deal: That is only
one of well over — well over a trillion dollars’ worth of expenditures
for climate change.  It’s $150 billion.  It’s important. 

And what it says is that if, in fact, the utility doesn’t pull back and
continue to reduce the amount of carbon that they admit, that what will
happen is they will end up paying a penalty.  And so, there’s a penalty
incurred.

Joe Manchin’s argument is: Look, we still have coal in my state.  You’re
going to eliminate it eventually.  We know it’s going away.  We know
it’s going to be gone.  But don’t rush it so fast that my people don’t
have anything to do.

I think that’s not what we should be doing, but the fact of the matter
is we can take that $150 billion, add it to the $320 billion that’s in
the — in the law now that he’s prepared to support for tax incentives —
tax incentives to have people act in a way that they’re going to be able
to do the things that need to be do from —

For example, if you’re — if you — if you got windows that are the, you
know, the wind is blowing through, you get an incentive to put new
windows in your home.  You get — you — help get it paid.

We’re going to significantly reduce the amount — the cost of solar
panels on your roof.  We’re going to continually — and, for example,
there’s new battery technologies that are being — I went out in Silicon
Valley; there’s a battery that’s about that wide and about that thick. 
If you have solar power, you put that in your basement and the sun
doesn’t shine for seven days, you still have all the power you need.

MR. COOPER:  But the concession has been agreed to for Senator Manchin
—  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, no, no.

MR. COOPER: — about coal in his state —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no —

MR. COOPER:  Is that true?

THE PRESIDENT:  Nothing has been formally agreed to.  The concession has
been — the negotiation is: I’ve been saying to Joe, “Look, I’ll take —
if we don’t do it in terms of the — the electric grid piece, what we’ll
do is — give me that $150 billion.  I’m going to add it to be able to do
other things that allow me to do things that don’t directly affect the
electric grid in the way that there’s a penalty, but allow me to spend
the money to set new technologies in place.”

For example, we can save significant amounts of money and, as a
consequence of that, significant amounts of energy, if, in fact, we are
able to put the high-tension wires underground.  It costs a hell of a
lot more to do it.  It creates real good jobs; it creates a hell of a
lot more to do it.  But, in fact, it would do a lot to keep things from
happening that are dangerous.  Half the forest fires out West are those
towers coming down, setting fires, et cetera.

So, there’s a lot of things Joe is open to my convincing him that I can
use it to increase environmental progress without it being that
particular deal.

MR. COOPER:  We’re going to take a quick break.  When we get back, we
got a lot more questions for President Biden.  (Applause.)

(Commercial break.)

MR. COOPER:  And welcome back.  We are live at a CNN Town Hall event in
Baltimore, Maryland, with President Joe Biden.

So, before we get to our next question, I want to just bring up the
current labor market shortages.  Millions of jobs are unfilled,
businesses are struggling to meet demand.  Is there anything you can do
to either encourage people to go back to work or make jobs more
attractive that they want to go back to work?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, so, first —

MR. COOPER:  Is there a role for the federal government?

THE PRESIDENT:  First of all, we’ve created more jobs in the first eight
months of my administration than any President in American history —
total number of jobs created. 

But the problem for the people not going back to work is twofold. 
Number one, they’re reluctant to go back to work because they’re afraid
of COVID — many of them.  So they don’t want to go back and they don’t
want to be exposed to either the customers because they’re not required
to wear masks or not required to have shots, or they don’t want to go
back because they’re not sure of the people waiting on them and they —
at the table, or the people coming up in the food market.  So, a lot of
it has to do with COVID.  Number one. 

Number two — and that’s why, you know, we were able to go from — when I
first got elected — when I first was elected, there were only 2 million
people who had COVID shots in the United States of America — had the
vaccine.  Now we got 190 million, because I went out and bought
everything I could do — and buy in sight, and it worked.  (Applause.)

But here’s the deal: The second thing — the second thing that has
happened, Anderson, is that people are now using this as an opportunity
to say, “Wait a minute, do I want to go back to that $7-an-hour job?” 

I won’t name the particular restaurant chain, but they found out when
they — they couldn’t hire anybody.  When they found out, they started to
pay 20 bucks an hour, everybody wanted to go back to work.  Not a joke. 

So what you see is wages are actually up for those who are working,
because for the first time in a long time, employees are able to
bargain.  “You’re the boss?  You want me to work for you?  What are you
going to pay me?  How are you going to do it?”  I’m not being
facetious. 

The third thing that’s out there is there’s a circumstance that exists
where people are really worried about what they’re going to do — I mean,
how — how can I say this? 

How many people do you know — and maybe some in this audience — who,
because of what you’ve been through — a loss of a husband, wife,
brother, mother, father, son, whatever — or you’ve had something that’s
really impacted you with COVID that you really find yourself just down? 
I mean just down.  And so, there’s a lot of people who are just down. 
They’re not sure how to get back in the game.  They’re not sure whether
they want to get back in the game.

Think of this: If you’re graduating from Morgan State, okay? 
(Applause.)  Right?  Well, guess what?  You didn’t have those great
dances the last four years that you’d had before you went out at
Morgan.  No, I’m not joking.  Graduated from high school, you don’t have
your prom, you don’t have your graduation, you don’t have the thing —
all the things that matter to people that go into things they look
forward to.  So, a lot of it has to do with us getting back on our feet
and getting back on our feet in terms of our attitudes about what the
future looks like for us.

MR. COOPER:  What do you say to someone who’s down?  Because —

THE PRESIDENT:  What I say —

MR. COOPER:  — there’s a lot of people watching tonight who are. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there are.  And I tell you what: There’s plenty of
help.  Look, being down, having some problem in terms of needing some —
some advice — if you have a broken spirit, it’s no different than a
broken arm.  You shouldn’t be ashamed of it.  You should seek the help. 
There’s a lot of people who can help.  (Applause.)

And — but I really mean it. 

MR. COOPER:  Yeah. 

THE PRESIDENT:  I — I don’t — I’m not saying that’s the whole problem,
but I’m saying it is an element in terms of attitude about people — what
they want. 

Look, how often I get asked the question, “What’s Christmas going to be
like?  How about Thanksgiving?  Is it going to be okay?  I mean, what’s
going to happen?  I mean, how will I be able to buy gifts for my kids?” 
How — there’s a lot of anxiety people have. 

MR. COOPER:  Yeah.  I want to ask a question along the lines of concern
about Christmas and holidays and the supply chain. 

Anna Hirsch is here, a student at Loyola University, who is originally
from Connecticut.  She’s a Democrat.  Anna, what’s your question? 
(Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, Anna.

Q    President Biden, growing up in a small town, I’ve been surrounded
by small-business owners, including my mom who owns her own interior
design business.  With the current supply chain crisis, small businesses
are in jeopardy of not being able to get products that they need —

THE PRESIDENT:  They are.

Q    — because priority is given to large businesses.  Does your
administration have any policies or plans in place to aid the current
supply chain problem and/or to help small businesses that are affected
by this?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes on both.  (Applause.)  Here — but you — but you have
it exactly right. 

We have a significant supply chain problem.  In the Obama-Biden
administration, all of American business — and it made sense — it was
just on time.  You wanted to make sure that you didn’t waste any money
and/or time between producing whatever you’re producing and having it
done.  You didn’t — so that’s how you saved money.  You didn’t buy the
material six months ahead of time and then keep it in your inventory and
then move it.  It was on time. 

Now, that’s a big problem.  You can’t — people can’t do it.  They want
to get out ahead.  What I’ve recently done — and people said — doubted
we could get it done.  I was able to go to the private por- — 40 percent
of all products coming into the United States of America on the West
Coast go through Los Angeles and — and — oh, what am I doing here?

MR. COOPER:  Is it Long Beach or —

THE PRESIDENT:  Long Beach.  Thank you. 

And I know both the mayors.  So I went to them and I said, “What can we
do?”  So I met with — and they’re privately owned, these ports — these
two.  So I met with the business people.  I met with all their major
customers — the Walmarts of the world and all the rest.  There are like
70 ships waiting out there unable to get unloaded. 

So, I — and because — not always — the longshoremen don’t always get
along with the business folks in there.  I got — I have a relationship
with them.  And I brought them together, and I said, “You got to be open
24/7.”  No port there was open tw- — open five days a week, 40 hours a
week.  24/7 — they’ve all agreed to it.  They’ve agreed to it.

MR. COOPER:  Would you consider the National Guard to help with the
supply chain issue?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, absolutely, positively, I would do that.  But in
addition to that, what you got to do is you got to get these ships in
and unloaded. 

And one of the things in my — my infrastructure plan: There’s $16
billion for port expansion.  We have to be able to move things along. 
Because what’s happening is, when we — a product your mother may need
for interior design, in terms of drapery or colors or something, that is
imported from somewhere else.  Well, guess what?  A lot of these places,
particularly in South Asia, are closing down because of COVID.  The
businesses are just flat closing.  They’re —

MR. COOPER:  So, would you consider the National Guard for trucking? 
For — because there’s a lot of problems —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  — with not enough truck drivers right now.

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  But here’s — and that’s why what we’re doing now —

MR. COOPER:  Do you have a timetable for that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I had a timetable to — first of all, I want to get
the ports up and running, and get the railroads and the rail heads and
the trucks in port ready to move.  Because I’ve gotten Walmart and
others that say, “We’re going to move stuff off of the port, into our
warehouses.”  Which (inaudible).

MR. COOPER:  So, are you — but you’re actually talking about having
National Guardsmen and women —

THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is —

MR. COOPER:  — driving trucks?

THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is: Yes, if we can’t move the — increase the
number of truckers, which we’re in the process of doing.

MR. COOPER:  Okay.

THE PRESIDENT:  If we did at this moment, we’re not — but the whole
point is: We’ve got to get the small business as well, because the big
guys are in trouble.  And a lot of the product that your mother makes,
the product she — the things she does in her interior design building,
the material she buys from the larger outfits.  I assume; I don’t know
that. 

I — I — but my whole point is: Small businesses need the help badly. 
Small businesses make up 60 percent of all the revenue coming from
business out there.

MR. COOPER:  I want to bring in Linda Harris.  She’s from Elkridge,
Maryland.  She’s a software project manager, Democrat.  Linda, what’s
your question?

Q    Hey, President Biden.

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey.

Q    My middle-class family of four lives on a pretty tight budget.  My
husband and I both work full-time at well-paying jobs, but we still
struggle some months to make the ends meet.  With rising gas prices and
utility prices and grocery prices, we’re feeling our discretionary
income get squeezed and reduced.  What plans does the administration
have to help ease this kind of current crunch we’re feeling?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, there’s a number of things that have already been
done.  And it’s hard — and people don’t think about — the American
Rescue Plan has provided for an awful lot — the $1.9 billion we passed
right at — right after I got elected. 

So, what you got is you got that — that $1,400 check in the mail, and
you got a lot of things that help ameliorate some of the concerns and
costs, because we knew what we were coming into.  We knew we had
inherited the wind, and things were going to get worse before they got
better. 

But in terms of being able to have what my dad used to say, “a little
breathing room,” just a lit- — my — my dad busted his neck.  He didn’t
have a good-paying job.  My dad was a well-read high-school-educated guy
who thought his greatest sin in the world was he didn’t get to go to
college. 

And — but my dad was one of those guys that worked like hell, would come
home for dinner, and then he’d go back and finish up work and close the
shop.  He — and — and the whole point of it was that all we want to give
— all he’d talk about is “Joey, all I need is just a little breathing
room, a little space — a little space.”

MR. COOPER:  Let me — let me ask you about that, just in terms of
inflation, because you had told us at a town hall, I think it was in
July, that the — it was just near-term inflation.  The Wall Street
Journal recently talked to like 67 financial experts who said that they
saw high inflation going all the way — or deep into 2022.  Do you think
it’s going to last for a while?

THE PRESIDENT:  I — I don’t think so.  I don’t think it will last if —
depending what we do.  If we stay exactly where we are, yes.  If we
don’t make these investments, yes. 

MR. COOPER:  What about gas prices?  Because some states —

THE PRESIDENT:  Gas pri- —

MR. COOPER:  — are seeing —

THE PRESIDENT:  Gas prices relate to a foreign policy initiative that is
about something that goes beyond the cost of gas.  And we’re about $3.30
a gallon most places now, when it’s up from — when it was down in the
single digits.  I mean — single di- — a dollar-plus.  And — and that’s
because of the supply being withheld by OPEC. 

And so, there’s a lot of negotiation that is — there — there’s a lot of
Middle Eastern folks who want to talk to me. 

MR. COOPER:  Mm-hmm.

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not sure I’m going to talk to them.  But the point
is, it’s about gas production.  There is things we can do, in the
meantime, though.

MR. COOPER:  Do you think there’s a — I mean, do you see a — do you have
a timeline for gas prices of when you think they may start coming down?

THE PRESIDNET:  My guess is you’ll start to see gas prices come down as
we get by — going into the winter — I mean, excuse me, into next year,
in 2022.  I don’t see anything that’s going to happen in the meantime
that’s going to significantly reduce gas prices. 

But, for example, for natural gas to heat your homes as winter is
coming, there’s a lot — what people don’t realize: We put in billions of
dollars in what they call “LIHEAP.”  LIHEAP is the provision whereby
you’re able to get funding from the federal government based upon your
need to heat your home, and it is subsidized in a significant way.  And
there’s billions of dollars we have passed in the legislation I got
passed in — in March of this year, because we anticipated that would be
a problem, as well. 

But the answer ultimately is — “ultimately” meaning the next three or
four years — is investing in renewable energy.  What I was able to do —
(applause) — no, I — and, by the way, I really — I’m not — I’m not being
— I mean, I’m being literal when I say this: What I was able to do when
I ran — and you remember, Anderson, because I was on your show a couple
times, and the issue was whether or not I could ever get the labor
unions to support my environmental programs. 

And I went out and I went to the IBEW and, as well, to the autoworkers,
and I laid out my plan.  They fully embraced it.  Why?  Because — and I
spent time at General Motors and other companies, and I got General Mo-
— I didn’t get them — General Motors decided, after a long time spent
talking to me — they were suing California because they had a higher
standard — mileage standard.  They dropped the suit and agreed that they
would be 50 percent electric vehicles by 2030 — by 2030.  (Applause.) 
And now you have all three — all three major manufacturers saying the
same thing. 

So, what will ha- — what will happen is: You’re going to see a dramatic
drop — a dramatic drop in what’s going to happen in terms of gas prices
as we go into the next two or three years.  Even if we’re not able to
break the monopoly price — they’re keeping it up because — anyway.

So there’s — there — but I don’t — I must tell you, I don’t have a
near-term answer.  There’s two things I could do: I could go in the
petroleum reserve and take out and probably reluce \[sic\] — reduce the
price of gas maybe 18 cents or so a gallon.  It’s still going to be
above three bucks. 

And one of the things that I refuse to have happen, because I didn’t
want anybody — I made a commitment: If you pass the stuff I’m talking
about, not — not one single penny in tax would go against anybody making
less than 400 grand. 

And so, if you notice, this is — these highway bills are not paid for by
gas tax.  They’re paid for by direct expenditures in other areas.  So,
the average person doesn’t have to pay more.

But it’s going to be hard.  It’s going to be hard.  There’s a
possibility to be able to bring it down.  Depends on — little bit on
Saudi Arabia and a few other things that are in the offing.

MR. COOPER:  Let me take a quick break.  We’ll have more from President
Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

(Commercial break.)

MR. COOPER:  And welcome back to our CNN Town Hall with President Joe
Biden.  (Applause.)  Got a lot more questions to get to. 

I want to introduce Neijma Donner, a professor and social worker at the
University of Maryland, Baltimore.  She’s an independent and mother of
two young boys.  We’re going to be talking about COVID. 

Neijma, what’s your question? 

Q    Thank you for taking my question, President.  When will the
vaccines for young children be ready?  And how accessible will they be
once released? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I believe — and I want to make it clear: Unlike past
administrations, science will dictate this.  I’m not telling anyone at —
(applause) — no, I really mean it.  (Applause.)

But I do ask my COVID team what the expectations are.  The expectations
are it’ll be ready in the near term — meaning weeks, not — not months
and months.  Okay?  That’s number one. 

Number two, there are over 800,000 sites right now that exist in America
where you can go get a vaccine.  And you’re going to be able to do that
with your children, particularly — we’re going to try to work it out to
deal with childcare centers — make it available there — as well as your
pediatricians and the — you know, and the docs — and finding places
where you can do it.  Some places are talking about doing at — you know,
in churches on the weekend and that kind of thing. 

So there’ll be plenty of places to — to be able to get the vaccine when
— if and when it is approved. 

And it’s likely to be approved.  I spent a lot of time with the team on
these things.  And it’s likely to be approved and what — whether it’s
Moderna or whether it’s Pfizer or whether it’s J&J, it’s going to be
approved.  And it will be a much smaller dose — basically the same dose,
but a smaller dose.  And they’re doing a lot of tests on it right now. 

And — and those of you who have children or brothers or sisters who are
between — you know, who are in that age category above 12, get — get the
vaccine for them.  Get the vaccine.  (Applause.)  Get it now. 

MR. COOPER:  Let me ask you — Mr. President — Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, there’s two famous guys in this audience
here.  I just noticed.  (Laughter.)  Ben Cardin — (applause) — and Chris
Van Hollen.  (Applause.)  And the mayor!  Holy mackerel. 

MR. COOPER:  Mr. —

THE PRESIDENT:  This is a busman’s holiday for you guys, having to come
here.  (Laughter.)  But thank you. 

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President, let me ask you a follow-up about that.  As
many as one in three emergency responders in some cities like Chicago,
Los Angeles, right here in Baltimore, are refusing to comply with city
vaccine mandates. 

I’m wondering where you stand on that.  Should police officers,
emergency responders be mandated to get vaccines?  And if not, should
they be — stay at home or let go?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes and yes.  (Applause.)

And, by the way — by the way, I waited until July to talk about
mandating, because I tried everything else possible.  The mandates are
working.  All the stuff about people leaving and people getting — you
have — you have everyone from United Airlines to Spirit — all these
airlines.  They’re — we’re not going to get all — 96, 97 percent of the
people have gotten the vaccine. 

All the talk about all these folks who are going to leave the military
if they were mandated — not true.  You got about a 90-something percent
vaccination rate. 

I mean, so there’s a — the idea is that — look, the two things that
concern me — one, are those who just tried to make this a political
issue.  “Freedom.  I have the freedom to kill you with my COVID.” 
(Laughter.)  No, I mean, come on.  “Freedom.”  (Laughter.)  Number one.

Number two — the second one is that, you know, the gross misinformation
that’s out there.  Like what they’re saying about my buddy Colin Powell
— (applause) — and he was my friend — who passed away.  “Colin Powell
was vaccinated, and he still died.”  Well, he knew he had serious
underlying conditions.  And it would be difficult — he clearly would
have been gone earlier had he not gotten the vaccine, had he not gotten
the — the shots.

But my generic point is: There’s so much misinformation. 

And you know what I find fascinating?  I turn on Fox to find out how
popular I am.  (Laughter.)  Well, I —

MR. COOPER:  How are you doing there? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m doing very well.  (Laughter.)  I think I’m at 3
percent favorable.  But — (laughter) —

But all kidding aside, one of the things I find: Do you realize they
mandate vaccinations?

MR. COOPER:  At Fox headquarters. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  (Applause.)  I find that mildly fascinating. 

MR. COOPER:  You find that mildly fascinating? 

THE PRESIDENT:  Mildly fascinating.

MR. COOPER:  I want to bring in — (laughter) — Thaddeus Price from —
(applause).  This is Thaddeus Price from Randallstown, Maryland.  He’s a
program coordinator at Morgan State University and a Democrat. 
(Applause.)

Thaddeus, welcome. 

Q    Good evening, Mr. President.  You received overwhelming support
from the Black community, and rightfully so.  (Applause.)  Rightfully
so.  But now many of us are disheartened —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

Q    — as we watch a Congress fail to support police reform.  We watch
our voting rights vanish before our very eyes.  (Applause.) 

Mr. President, my question is: What will you do over the next three
years to rectify these atrocities, secure our democracy, and ensure that
freedoms and liberties that all Americans should be entitled to? 
(Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  First of all, you’ve stated the proposition accurately,
in my view.  I did get overwhelming support from the African American
community.  Only folks in Maryland understand Delaware is the
eighth-largest Black population in America, as a percent of population. 
It’s been the source of my support.  The only folks that helped me more
than Black men are Black women.  (Applause.)

And — and I tell you what my greatest regret is: My greatest regret is I
have these — had these three major pieces of legislation that are going
to change the circumstances for working-class folks and African
Americans, as well, that I’ve been busting my neck trying to pass.  But
what it’s done is prevented me from getting deeply up to my ears — which
I’m going to do once this is done — in dealing with police brutality,
dealing with the whole notion of: What are we going to do about voting
rights?  It’s the greatest assault on voting rights in the history of
the United States — for real — since the Civil War. 

Q    Yes.  Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  And, you know, for example: When I was in the Chair- —
when I was Chairman of the Judiciary Committee, I thought I had done
something really important.  And I was able to get passed and extended
the Voting Rights Act for 25 years and get everyone on that committee,
including the southern — the senator from South Carolina and others, to
vote for it.  I thought we had moved. 

The point I’m making is this: We’re at a terrible place right now.  And
so, when this gets done — and in the meantime, here’s what I’ve done: I
have the authority to deal with federal law enforcement. 

So federal law enforcement, I’ve — we’ve issued mandates: no chokeholds,
number one; make sure that we’re going to be able to do — have no
no-knock warrants; in a position where we’re going to be able to see to
it that we are able to go look at — and we’re doing it in four cities
right now — patterns of abuse and patterns of misconduct of police
departments; making sure that we have access to police records, in terms
of what’s happening in —

So there’s a lot I’ve been able to do by executive order, in essence.

MR. COOPER:  Let me ask you, on voting rights: If it is as important to
you as you say, I think there’s a lot of Democrats who look at the
filibuster and would like to see it changed, even if it was just on this
one case.  (Applause.)  Why do you oppose that?

THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, I think they make a very good point. 

Here’s the deal: If, in fact, I get myself into, at this moment, the
debate on the filibuster, I lose three — at least three votes right now
to get what I have to get done on the economic side of the equation —
the foreign policy side of the equation. 

So, what I have said — you’re shaking your head no, but let me tell you
something, Jack: It’s the truth.  (Laughter.)  Number one.

Number two.  Number two, what I have proposed in the meantime is — it
used to be the filibuster.  The way it worked — and we have 10 times as
many — more than that — times the filibuster has been used since 1978. 
It used to be you had to stand on the floor and exhaust everything you
had, and you — when — and when you gave up the floor and someone else
sought the floor, they had to talk until they finished.  You’re only
allowed to do it a second time.  After that, it’s over; you vote —
somebody moves for the vote.  I propose we bring that back now,
immediately.  (Applause.)

But I also think we’re going to have to move to the point where we
fundamentally alter the filibuster.  The idea that, for example, my
Republican friends say that we’re going to default on the national debt
because they’re going to filibuster that and we need 10 Republicans to
support us is the most bizarre thing I ever heard. 

I think you’re going to see an aw- — if they — gets pulled again, I
think you’ll see an awful lot of Democrats being ready to say, “Not me. 
I’m not doing that again.  We’re going to end the filibuster.” 

But it still is difficult to end the filibuster, beyond that.  That’s
another issue.  But —

MR. COOPER:  But — but are you saying once you get this current agenda
passed on spending and social programs that you would be open to
fundamentally altering the filibuster or —

THE PRESIDENT:  I am open to —

MR. COOPER:  — doing away with it?

THE PRESIDENT:  — fundamentally altering —

MR. COOPER:  Or doing away with it?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that remains to be seen, exactly what that means,
in terms of “fundamentally altering” it, whether or not we just end the
filibuster straight up. 

There are certain things that are just sacred rights.  One’s a sacred
obligation that we never are going to renege on a debt.  We’re the only
nation in the world — we have never, ever reneged on a single debt.

MR. COOPER:  But when it comes to voting rights, do you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Voting rights is equally as consequential.

MR. COOPER:  When it comes to voting rights — just so I’m clear, though
— you would entertain the notion of doing away with the filibuster on
that one issue?  Is that correct?

THE PRESIDENT:  And maybe more.

MR. COOPER:  And maybe other issues?  (Applause.)

Okay, let’s — just a short time ago, the full House voted to hold — to
hold former Trump ally, Steve Bannon — current Trump ally as well —
(laughter) — in criminal contempt of Congress.  

A week ago, you said the Department of Justice should prosecute those
who defied subpoenas from the January 6th Committee.  Was that
appropriate for you to weigh in on?

THE PRESIDENT:  No, the way I said it was not appropriate.  I said —
they asked me would I — do I think that he — they should be prosecuted
for denying the — for not showing up at the committee.  And I said,
“Yes.” 

Now that — when I’ve made a commitment — the plu- — the — one of the
things I was committed to do when I ran was re-establish the reputation
and integrity of the Justice Department.  It has become the most — it
was corrupted under the last administration. 

I should have chosen my words more wisely.  I did not, have not, and
will not pick up the phone and call the Attorney General and tell him
what he should or should not do in terms of who he should prosecute. 
(Applause.) 

But, I answered the question honestly.  And I think that a — anyone who
does not respond to that kind of en- — question from the — from the — a
legitimate committee in the House of Representatives or the United
States Senate should be held accountable. 

So that’s as much as I can say without coming and looking like I’m
telling the — I have yet to talk to the Attorney General about anything
(inaudible) —

MR. COOPER:  The Attorney General put out a statement saying that they
would make the decision on their own.

THE PRESIDENT:  And they will.

MR. COOPER:  Yeah.

THE PRESIDENT:  I guarantee that.

MR. COOPER:  You’ve decided not to exert executive privilege to shield
the former President in the House’s investigation into January 6th. 
Why?  What were you —

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, again, I’m leaving that to them to tell me what —
and I didn’t — it’s not a blanket “I will not release the information.” 
It’s, I’m asking them to take a look at what is legitimate — what would
legitimately fall in the position that future Presidents’ authority
would be compromised by that, and what is.  I don’t think there’s much
legitimacy in the claim. 

So that’s being looked at right now.

MR. COOPER:  We’re going to take another quick break.  We’ll have more
with President Joe Biden.  (Applause.)

(Commercial break.)

MR. COOPER:  And welcome back to our CNN Town Hall with President Joe
Biden.  We’re taking questions from the audience on a range of topics. 

I want to bring in Megan Crawford from Towson, Maryland.  She’s a law
student at the University of Baltimore and a Republican. 

Megan, welcome.  (Applause.)

Q    Throughout your campaign, you’ve criticized former President Trump
for his treatment of illegal immigrants and the southern border.  Given
that it’s nearly been a year into your campaign, why haven’t you been to
the southern border of our country?  And why did your stance on allowing
immigrants suddenly revert to Trump-era policies?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well — (applause) — they’re legitimate questions. 
Number one, the Remain in Mexico policy, which I oppose, the Court said
I had to maintain it.  So, we’re repealing it.  That’s one of the
reasons why we haven’t changed it. 

We have made a gigantic change — there were over 5,000 children —
children — in the — in the custody of the Border Patrol.  There are now
504.  We are making more progress than you think. 

And we have a circumstance where one of the things that is going to bear
fruit, I believe, is: I put together a program when I was a senator, and
the Vice President is helping — helping initiate it now, where we
provide for funding to change the circumstances on the ground in the
countries in Central America. 

For example, you’re in a circumstance where, you know, people don’t just
sit around their — their hand-hewn table and say, “I got a great idea:
Let’s sell everything we have, give it to coyote, let them take us
across the border, drop us in a desert — a place they don’t want us. 
Won’t that be fun?”

People do it because they’re desperate.  They’re desperate.  And what
I’ve been trying to do — and I’m trying to do in this legislation, as
well — is get funding so we have funding for immigration officers to be
able to hear cases immediately of whether or not they justify having
asylum granted to them. 

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President —

THE PRESIDENT:  We don’t have that.

MR. COOPER:  You have kept in place, under a Public Health Authority
known as Title 42 —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  — which is a Trump-era policy, which allows immediate or
very quick return to people who crossed over the border based on COVID
protocols. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  And that is — we’ve maintained that because of the
extent of the — of the — continued extent of COVID in those countries
from which people are coming.  It’s very, very high.  And so, we’ve
maintained the policy. 

We are — we are not sending back children.  We send back adults, and we
send back fa- — large families.  But we don’t send back children in that
circumstance. 

And so that’s why I have a proposal to provide for over a billion doses
of COVID vaccine to the rest of the world, including a significant
portion to Latin and Central America.

MR. COOPER:  Do you have plans to visit the southern border?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve been there before, and I haven’t — I mean, I know
it well.  I guess I should go down.  But the — but the whole point of it
is: I haven’t had a whole hell of lot of time to get down.  I’ve been
spending time going around looking at the $900 billion worth of damage
done by — by hurricanes and floods and — and weather, and traveling
around the world. 

But I plan on — now, my wife, Jill, has been down.  She’s been on both
sides of the river.  She’s seen the circumstances there.  She’s looked
into those places.  You notice you’re not seeing a lot of pictures of
kids lying on top of one another with — you know, with — with bla- —
with, you know, looks like tarps on top of them. 

We’ve been able to deal that — we’ve been able to significantly increase
funding through the HHS — Health and Human Services — to provide shelter
for these kids and people.  But there’s much more to be done. 

And — and I realize — I — I think it is — it’s the thing that concerns
me the most about being able to get control of it.  Because I got to,
number one, get enough funding to provide for immediate determination of
whether or not someone that is, in fact, legitimately claiming a right
to stay in the country because of legitimate fears.  And it’s purely for
economic reasons to get in line but not get in the country. 

So, what we’re doing is bringing a lot of folks who are coming in and
they’re doing ankle bracelets instead of people being sent back,
depending on whether or not their claim appears to be legitimate.

MR. COOPER:  Let me ask you about two other issues in the news.  In less
than two weeks, Minneapolis voters are going to decide whether or not to
replace the police department in Minneapolis with what they would call a
“Public Safety Department.”  What do you think of that?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, it depends what they mean by that.  Look, I — I —
I grew up in a neighborhood —

MR. COOPER:  They said the Public Safety Department would be — have a
more comprehensive public health approach to the delivery of functions
of public safety and could include licensed peace officers — police
officers.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, could.  I think you need police officers.  I think
we need police officers to protect us.  I think they have to be under
certain changed circumstances.  But I think we have to provide for them
more opportu- — I call for more money for police to go to community
policing, as well as dealing with additional help for psych- —
psychologists and others working with police departments.

MR. COOPER:  You’ve never been a fan of defunding police. 

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I haven’t.  I’ve never supported.  But I’ve been a
fan — (applause) — of controlling police and making sure they’re held
accountable.  That’s a — they’re two different issues. 

And one of the things — look, when we had community policing, initially
in the late ‘90s, violent crime dropped significantly — significantly. 
And the reason it did is because we had significant number of police. 
What I did: I eliminated the LEAA funding — Law Enforcement Assistance
Act — (applause) — and I put in place the proposal that required
community policing. 

What that meant was: If you were all — it’s going to take a second, but
it’s important.  (Laughter.)  If your — what — what that meant, if your
city had authorized a police force of 100 people, you could not take the
money for community policing and fire 50 people and rehire 50 so now I
just had the federal government paying for half and you didn’t increase
the number of police.

You had to increase the number of police beyond your wh- — whatever. 
So, I remember my son Beau was the chief law enforcement officer of the
state of Delaware as attorney general of the state of Delaware.  And he
used to do what I did.

He’d go down the east side where you can find the best basketball in the
coun- — in — in the city.  You know, every — every town has those —
those places.  And he’d sit there on the bench with my son — my
grandson, Hunter, who’s now 16, who was then 5, sitting the bench and
he’d get to know these guys.

And he’d walk over and he’d knock on the window of the police car that
was sitting there — the cop not getting out of the car — and say, “Get
the hell out of the car and meet these folks.”  “No.”

I’ll give you one example: What we required initially was every police —
every community policeman — there were two assigned — they were assigned
in groups of two — they had to know the neighborhood.

I remember getting a call, as you — you’ve been to Delaware; you go down
that road as you’re heading down to the (inaudible) station — Martin
Luther King Boulevard.  There was a woman who lived in one of those
apartments in the second floor that sort of had an outcroppings — a
Victorian kind of — it was a two-story place. 

And what — but the cops made sure they had — she had their phone
number.  So, when a drug deal was going down, she’d pick up the phone on
call and say to that police officer with a cellphone that the drug deal
is going down, knowing that she would never be fingered, knowing that
she would never be the one told it happened.  And so, crime began to
drop. 

They had to know who owned the local liquor store.  They had to know and
walk in and shake hands with the local minister.  They had to know —
that’s community policing.

MR. COOPER:  Let me try to get in a couple other questions —

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry.

MR. COOPER: — from our audience.

THE PRESIDENT:  Ask easy ones.

MR. COOPER:  But before we do, just another quick news question: New
York City is removing a statue of Thomas Jefferson from its legislative
chamber because of Jefferson’s history as a slave — slave holder.  Do
you support that decision?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think that’s up to the locality to decide what
they want to do on that.  Look, there’s — there’s a lot of — there’s a
lot of people who have no social redeeming value, historically.  And
there’s others who have made serious mistakes in they — in — in terms of
what — what exists now in terms of what we should be talking about, but
have done an awful lot. 

And so, the very thing — for example, I just spoke at the Martin Luther
King dedication.  And I pointed out that we’re right across from the
Lincoln Memorial.  Well, you know, and — and you talked about — and —
and then the Jefferson Memorial.  And what — what are we doing?  I
talked about how they said, “We’re unique in all the world, as a
nation.  We’re the only nation founded on an idea.  We hold these truths
to be self-evident that all men and women are created equal, endowed
by…”

No nation has ever been founded on an idea.  Have we ever lived up to
it?  No. 

MR. COOPER:  Let me br- —

THE PRESIDENT:  But it’s a pretty big idea that somebody wrote that down
and got the rest of the country to agree to it.  So it depends.  It
depends.  And it’s —

MR. COOPER:  Let me bring — let me bring in Glenn Niblo, a student at
Loyola University, originally from Connecticut.  He’s a Republican. 
Glenn, welcome.  (Applause.)

Q    Hi.

THE PRESIDENT:  Where in Connecticut are you from?

Q    Greenwich.

THE PRESIDENT:  That’s great.

Q    China just tested a hypersonic missile.  What will you do to keep
up with them militarily?  And can you vow to protect Taiwan?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes and yes.  We are — militarily, China, Russia, and
the rest of the world knows we have the most powerful military in the
history of the world.  Don’t worry about whether we’re going to —
they’re going to be more powerful.  What you do have to worry about is
whether or not they’re going to engage in activities that will put them
in a position where there — they may make a serious mistake. 

And so, I have had — I have spoken and spent more time with Xi Jinping
than any other world leader has.  That’s why you have — you know, you
hear people saying, “Biden wants to start a new Cold War with China.”  I
don’t want a Cold War with China.  I just want to make China understand
that we are not going to step back.  We are not going to change any of
our views.

MR. COOPER:  So, are you saying that the United States would come to
Taiwan’s defense if —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MR. COOPER:  — China attacked?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, we have a commitment to do that.

MR. COOPER:  All right.  We’re going to — we’re going to — we’re going
to take another quick break.  We got more questions from the audience. 
We’ll be right back.  (Applause.)

(Commercial break.)

MR. COOPER:  And welcome back.  We are live with President Joe Biden,
here in the city of Baltimore. 

Just in the few minutes we have left: The country lost — and I know you
lost somebody who you considered close friend, General Colin Powell. 
What’s something about him that people didn’t know?

THE PRESIDENT:  He had enormous integrity; they knew that.  But he’s one
of the few serious, serious players I’ve dealt with over these years
who, when he made a mistake, he acknowledges it.  He said, “I ackno- — I
was wrong about it.”

MR. COOPER:  That’s rare these days.  (Applause.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  No, it’s rare.  It’s been rare — it’s rare in human
nature for someone in a powerful position to say they are wrong.  They
are wrong.  “I made a mistake.”  That’s a hard thing to do.  And I’ve
had to do it about a half a dozen times lately.  (Laughter.)  But — but
all kidding aside —

And the second thing about him was he had a lot of serious — he had real
compassion.  You know, his — well, I’ll tell you afterwards, but —
because we only have a few minutes.

He and I went out to the Secret Service racetrack.  He had a brand-new
Corvette his — his family bought — his kids bought him.  And I have a
’67 327/350, and we raced.  We raced.  (Laughter and applause.)

And, you know — you know, the only reason — no, I’m serious.  It was on
“Jay Leno.”  Check it out.  “Jay Leno Live.”  He’s — he’s a hell of a
guy.

MR. COOPER:  Who won?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I won only because he was worried I was going to
crash into him.  (Laughter.)  Because I don’t have positraction, so I
was burning rubber the whole way out there, and I could see him going,
“Whoa.”  (Laughter.)

MR. COOPER:  All right.  So just — my final question is: You famously —
at the signing ceremony, I think it was, for Obamacare, you famously
leaned in to the then-President, and — I’m not going to say a direct
quote, but — (laughter) — off-mic, you said, “This is a big \[effing\]
deal.”  (Laughter.)

And I’m wondering: The Build Back Better plan — is it a bigger effing
deal than that?  (Laughter and applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Sixty seconds.  We got in the car to go over to the —
the Department of Education after we did that. 

MR. COOPER:  Oh, I thought you were talking about drag racing still. 

THE PRESIDENT:  No, no.  He got in the car, and he was laughing like
hell.  I said, “What’s so damn funny?”  And he told me.

I whispered in his ear — this way.  I looked to see where it was.  I
said, “I’m going to — and this is a big deal.”  And I didn’t realize the
guy behind me was really lipreading.  You can see it.  (Laughter.)  No,
I’m serious. 

The answer is: Yes, this is bigger.  No, it is bigger because — not —
not because what he did wasn’t enormous.  He broke the ice.  Enormous. 

But part of what I have in here is we also increased access to the
Affordable Care Act, and we reduced the price an average of 60 bucks a
month for anyone who’s in the Affordable Care Act.  Plus, on top of
that, we have another 300 billion dollars’ worth of healthcare ever — in
it. 

So, it’s — I would say this is a bigger darn deal.  (Applause.)

MR. COOPER:  Mr. President, thank you very much.  Appreciate your time. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.

9:29 P.M. EDT
