---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-02'
modified_time: 2021-10-02 12:55:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/02/remarks-by-president-biden-before-marine-one-departure-8/
published_time: 2021-10-02 13:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Before Marine One\_Departure"
---
 
South Lawn

9:03 A.M. EDT  

Q    Mr. President, what is your message to moderates who are frustrated
with the delay in the vote?

THE PRESIDENT:  Everybody is frustrated.  It’s part of being in
government — being frustrated.

Hey, look, one of the things I love about you guys — I watched the other
day: “Biden vowed he’s going to do this.  Biden commits…” 

Biden is going to work like hell to make sure we get both of these
passed, and I think we will get them passed. 

Q    Will there be —

THE PRESIDENT:  And I’ll be on the phone with them a lot and may be
meeting with some. 

Q    Do you think that Democrats need to go it alone and do
reconciliation in order to pass — raise the debt limit?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I hope that Republicans won’t be so irresponsible
as to refuse to raise the debt limit and to — and to filibuster the debt
limit.  That would be totally unconscionable.  Never been done before. 
And so, I hope that won’t happen.  Number one.

Number two, with regard to dealing with childcare, dealing with the tax
credits for people putting in everything from solar panels on their
homes to winterizing their homes — I mean, they’re making their homes so
they — the windows and doors are — are solid.  All those things are in
that second piece of legislation.  And I’m going to be going around the
country, this week, making the case why that’s so important.

Look, it’s understandable.  There’s an awful lot that’s in both of these
bills that everybody thinks they know, but they don’t know what’s in
them.  I — when you — when you go out and you test each of the
individual elements in the bill, everyone is for them — not everyone;
over 70 percent of the American people are for them. 

For example, my objective here is to make sure we put in place the
things that are going to make life more livable for ordinary people.  I
mean that sincerely.  It’s not — that’s not a political statement; it’s
reality.  You have people — a woman trying to get back to work that has
two kids, and she can’t get back unless she has adequate daycare and can
afford it. 

You can’t be in a situation where if you have a child — why would
someone making, say, 20,000 bucks a year not get a rebate, not — not get
money back from the government, just like you guys and I get when we
file our taxes?  We get $2,000 for every kid we have and just take it
right off our taxes.  But if they don’t have any taxes to pay because
they don’t make any money, then they should get their direct payment
back.  Why should they be cheated out of that?  It’s about just being
fair. 

There’s nothing in any of these pieces of legislation that’s radical,
that is unreasonable, that is — when you look at it individually. 

The problem is — you know, one of the reasons why — people said, “Well,
I heard on television…” — and it wasn’t totally legit — “Why wasn’t
Biden going around the country selling this before?”  Well, folks, two
little things like — we had hurricanes and floods, and we had little
things like we ha- — anyway, a lot was going on.  A lot was going on. 

So, I’m going to try to sell what I think the people — American people
would buy.  And I’m convinced. 

Q    Are you confident that Senator Sinema is going —

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not — look, I’m not — you’re asking if I’m confident
— okay?  — am I — am I unyielding, do I commit that I’m going to do
this.  Come on. 

I believe I can get this done.  I believe, when the American people are
aware what’s in it, we can get it done.

Q    Do you think by Thanksgiving, sir?  Do you think this could be all
done by Thanksgiving?

THE PRESIDENT:  I think it can be done by 2:27 a.m. on Decem- — come
on.  I think it will get done.  Plenty of time for it to be part of
changing the tax code for people next year and for giving people the
breaks they need.

Q    You said everyone is frustrated.  How frustrated are you, Mr.
President, about the delay?

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m not.

Q    President Biden, do you think the infrastructure plan can pass
without a reconciliation framework agreed to? 

THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry?

Q    Do you think the infrastructure bill can pass the House without a
reconciliation framework agreement?

THE PRESIDENT:  Look, I am — I’m a realist.  I’ve been — I was a senator
a long time.  I know how legislation gets done.  There is no reason why
both these bills couldn’t pass independently except that there are not
the votes to do it that way.  It’s a simple proposition.

And so, I think it makes sense I support both of them, and I think we
can get them both done.

Q    Can you talk about how Democrats are united in their priorities? 
Have you been surprised by how difficult it has been to bring the
moderates and progressives together on agreement with this?

THE PRESIDENT:  We can bring the moderates and progressives together
very easy if we had two more votes.  Two.  Two people.

Thank you. 

9:08 A.M. EDT
