---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-20'
modified_time: 2021-10-20 21:42:16-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-bill-and-build-back-better-agenda-2/
published_time: 2021-10-20 22:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and Build\
  \ Back Better\_Agenda"
---
 
Electric City Trolley Museum  
Scranton, Pennsylvania

5:32 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, hello, hello. It’s good to be home. (Applause.)
Thank you all. Please, please be seated.  
  
I just want you to know we have a tradition in the Biden-Finnegan
family: When you see a relative, you go see them first. These are my
relatives in the front row here, I want you to know. (Applause.)  
  
And I spent an awful lot of time across from St. Paul’s Church at my
Uncle Jack Finnegan’s house. His daughters are here. And he was — he
taught up at “The U.”  
  
And I — I just want you to know that Amtrak is here. They can tell you
that you could — you should name half the line after me. (Laughter.) I
am most railroad guy you ever going to meet: 2,100,000 miles on Amtrak.
Hear me now? Not a joke. (Applause.)  
  
What happened was when you are a President or Vice President, they keep
meticulous mileage of when you fly an Air Force aircraft. And so, about
— I guess it was seven years into — to my tenure as Vice President. And
I used to always like to take Amtrak home on Friday. My — I’d try to go
home and see my mom, who was living with us at the time after my dad
passed, and I’d try to get home.  
  
And the Secret Service are wonderful. They’re the best in the world.
They never liked me taking Amtrak because it stops too often and too
many people get on and you don’t know —  
  
And — but, I — there was a — but I — it turned out I was about number
three in seniority on the road at the time, if you — well, in terms of
the actual time on the road.  
  
And a lot of the folks in Amtrak became my family. Not a joke. I’d ride
every day. I commuted every single day for 36 years as pres- — Vice
President of the United States. After my wife and daughter were killed,
I went home to see my family and never stopped going — doing that.  
  
And so, Angelo Negri was from — you remember Ang? Ang came up to me one
day when I was — when they just had announced that I had flown 1 million
some — X-number of miles on Air Force aircraft. And Ang comes up, and
I’m getting into the car, and he goes, “Joey, baby. What do you…” And I
thought the Secret Service was going to shoot him. (Laughter.) I said,
“No, no, no, no. He’s good. He’s good.” It’s a true story.  
  
And he said, “I just read — big deal. Big deal…” — whatever is was —
“…1,200,000 miles Air Force. You know how many miles you did Amtrak?”
And I said, “No, Ang. I don’t have any idea, pal.”  
  
He said, “Let me tell you. We were at the retirement dinner.” And he
said, “We added it up. You averaged a hundred- — I think it says —
-twenty-one days a year. One hundred and twenty-one days. Your 36 years,
plus as Vice President. Boom, boom. You have traveled over 2 million
miles, Joe. I don’t want to hear any more about the Air Force.”
(Laughter.)  
  
But in the Build Back Better plan, I got more money for passenger rail
than the entire Amtrak system cost to begin with. We’re going to change
the nation in a big way. (Applause.)  
  
Shane, I want to thank you for the introduction. I really do.  
  
And Madam Mayor, Paige, you’ve done a great job — a great, great jo- —
no, I really mean it. I’m a big fan. And I — (applause) — she — I — when
I got elected — this is the God’s truth — after I checked on what the
margin was in the state of Delaware, I called up here. (Laughs.) She had
won that year, too. And I found out that I won every precinct in
Scranton. And I looked up and said, “Mom, I did it.” (Laughter.) “I did
it.” (Applause.)  
  
Look, and it’s great to be here. It’s great to be here in Pennsylvania
with a very close friend — become a close friend — and a great governor,
Governor Wolf. It’s good to see you, Gov. (Applause.)  
  
And, Matt, thank you for the passport to let me back into the district.
(Laughter.) And, you know — you know, we — it’s interesting. I grew up
not very far from Bobby where — where — excuse me, the Senator — where
he grew up is about a total of — if you add it up, I think it’s about
five blocks, six blocks.  
  
And his dad and I were about 18 years apart, and we’re 17 years apart,
so it’s like a continuum going on here. But I just want you to know: We
went to the same schools, same parish — just a few years apart — give a
few, take a few years.  
  
And Scranton is where I played shortstop with the Green Ridge Little
League in the first year that it was put up. My dad helped build the
field down there. And spent a lot of time at Simmey’s, buying penny
candy, and Hanks Hoagies on Woodlawn Street, watching movies at the
“Roosie” on the weekend. And trying to reenact all they did and — when
you watched those movies.  
  
I think — and I was told — I don’t know that it’s true — I was the only
kid in my — in my year that I was able to walk across the “Lacky” on
that pipe that was just above the thing. If you fell in the Lacky, you
were a lacky. (Laughter.) You were in trouble. But — at any rate —
(laughs) —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT: That’s right.  
  
Look, no matter how long you live here in Scranton, it’s a place that
climbs into your heart and it never really leaves you. And that’s the
God’s truth. You know, it’s like that old saying goes, “You can take the
boy out of Scranton, but you can’t take Scranton out of the boy.”
There’s something special about it. And I believe that home is where
your character is etched, and I really mean that.  
  
Some of you have heard me say this before. It’s where your — your view
of the world begins, and where you begin, and where it takes shape. And
that happened to me in 2446 North Washington Avenue.  
  
We used to come back after 10:30 mass at St. Paul’s — St. Clare’s wasn’t
built until I had moved — at St Paul’s, and my grandfather would hold
court. And back in those days, all the men had breakfast in the kitchen.
My mother was one of five children and four brothers. One was lost in
World War Two. And a guy who was the chief political reporter at the
newspaper, Tommy Phillips, who was — lived on the street behind us — he
was a good friend of my grandfather’s.  
  
And all the women would go into the dining room and, on the lace
tablecloth, have tea. And the men would — would, in fact, have — have a
big breakfast.  
  
And if you were a kid, if you’re a young boy, you could sort of wander
around the table. You can never sit at the table. And so I used to,
every once in a while, walk in and just sort of wander around. I’d stand
by my grandpop and — and I put my hand on his shoulder, and I — they
talked. And they talked about everything from sports and politics and —
and that’s where — I learned an awful lot at that kitchen table.  
  
I learned from my grandpop that money doesn’t determine your worth. I
learned — he told me, and it’s not a joke — those of you who know, we
know it to be true, and you guys know it — is that, “No one in the world
is more worthy than you, Joey, but everyone is your equal; everybody is
your equal.”  
  
My mom would remind me, she said, “Joey, this is the God’s truth.
Remember you’re defined by your courage and you’re redeemed by your
loyalty.” You’re defined by your courage and redeemed by your loyalty.  
  
And my dad — when things got tough in Scranton after the war, when there
wasn’t any work, my dad did not work in a coalmines — my great
grandfather was a mining engineer, but my dad was in sales, and he
worked for the Amoco trucking company. And things got slow in Scranton,
so we moved.  
  
I remember the day he came — I think the longest walk a parent can make
is up a short flight of stairs to tell their kid, “You can’t live here
anymore. You can’t because we — Dad has — Dad doesn’t have a job” — or
“Mom don’t have a job.”  
  
And my dad had moved from Wilmington, Delaware, to Scranton when he was
a senior in high — a junior in high school. He went — then, it was
called St. Thomas — not the prep, but it was called St. Thomas in those
days.  
  
And I remember him walking up into the bedroom and saying, “Honey, I’m
going to — Dad’s going to have to move. I’m going to — but it’s going to
probably take about a year. I’ll come home every single weekend. It’s
only 155 miles.” I thought that was like 600 miles away. “I’ll come home
every weekend.”  
  
But — “And when, I get enough — we get enough money, I’m going to bring
you and Mom and everyone down to Wilmington. You’re going to like it.”  
  
And I thought that was like — and, you know, an awful lot of parents who
left Scranton back in those days, who moved away — had to move away.  
  
And, you know, I — I gained so much respect from my father as I got
older because I thought about how much it — how much it must have hurt
him and the pride it took for him to walk into my grandfather’s pantry
and say, “Ambrose, is it — can I leave Jean and the kids with you? I
promise I’ll make it up to you. But I’ll be back every weekend. But I
promise I’ll make it up.”  
  
That’s a hard thing for a proud man or woman to do. But so many had to
do it.    
  
And I remember when we moved down to Delaware and my dad would say,
“Joey…” — and all my friends know this — I mean, literally, this phrase
— you’ve heard him say it I don’t know how many times — “Joey, a job is
about a lot more than a paycheck. It’s about your dignity. It’s about
respect. It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say,
‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.'” And think about it. Think about what it
is — it means a lot more than just whether you get a paycheck. It
defines who you are, in his mind.  
  
And I learned that at the kitchen table in Scranton — the place where
you take care of one another.  
  
And as I said, my mother — I used to stutter badly when I was a kid. If
Tommy Bell and Charlie Roth and all of my old friends were here at St.
Paul’s, you know, I — my nickname was “Blackbird.” It was,
“Bi-bi-bi-blackbird.” It wasn’t meant as a compliment.  
  
And I wasn’t very big, but — you could beat me, but I’d hurt you.
(Laughter.) You think I’m kidding; I’m not.  
  
And — but, you know, it’s one of those things that — I was fortunate
because the people I was surrounded by — our neighbors in Scranton, as
well — that people — people stuck up for you — stuck up for one
another.  
  
And my mother used to say — and I never quite understood it: “Remember,
Joey, look at me — look at me, Joey. You’re a Biden.” I’m — like I’m a
DuPont or something. You know what I mean? (Laughter.) I swear to God.
“You’re a Biden. Nobody is better than you, and everybody is equal to
you. Nobody.”  
  
The point I’m making is: The truth is, Scranton isn’t — isn’t my home
because of the memories it gave me; it’s my home because of the values
it gave me.  
  
So, when I ran for President, I came back to Scranton. I came back to
Scranton. And I started here in Scranton. And I resolved to bring
Scranton values to bear, to make a fundamental shift in how our economy
works for working people, to build the economy from the ground up and
the middle out, and not from the top down. I’ve never known a time when
the middle class has done well and the wealthy haven’t done very, very
well. I’ve never known such a time.  
  
So, I’m here today to talk about what’s fundamentally at stake right now
for the families and for our country.  
  
For most of the 20th century, we led the world by a significant margin
because we invested in our people. We invested in ourselves — not only
in our roads and our highways and our bridges, but in our people, in our
families.  
  
We didn’t just build the Interstate Highway System, we built a highway
to the sky, to outer space. We were also — we invested to win the Space
Race and we won.  
  
We were also among the first to provide access to free education,
beginning back in the late 1800s, early 1900s. We invested in our
children.  
  
Does anybody think today, if we were making that decision for the first
time, we’d say, “Twelve years is enough in the 21st century”? “Twelve
years is enough”? It’s not. But back then, they did, and it’s the reason
why we leapt ahead of the rest of the world. Not a joke. We became among
the best-educated countries in the world.  
  
But somewhere along the way, we stopped investing in ourselves. America
is still the largest economy in the world. We still have the most
productive workers in the world, the most innovative minds. But we risk
losing our edge as a nation.  
  
You know, our infrastructure used to be the best in the world — not a
joke — the best in the world. Today, according to the World Economic
Forum, we rank 13th in the world in terms of infrastructure: our road,
bridges, highways, Internet, the whole works. Thirteenth in the world.  
  
We used to lead the world in educational achievement. Today, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Europe ranks
America 35 out of 37 major <s>companies</s> \[countries\] when it comes
to investing in early childhood education.  
  
And talk about an equalizer — the greatest equalizer in the world. One
of the great universities has done studies in the last 15 years: You
give a kid, no matter what the kid’s background — from a broken home,
from a home where mom or dad didn’t go to school or whatever — and you
put them in school — third grade, you increase by 50 perc- — school, not
daycare — you increase by 56 percent the chance that they’ll complete 12
years of school and build confidence.  
  
What’s education all about? It’s about building confidence in a child.
It’s about giving the tools to do something.  
  
We can’t be competitive in the 21st century economy if we continue to
slide the way we have. That’s why I resolved that we have to, once
again, build America from the bottom up and the middle out. Again, not
the top down.  
  
And, by the way, I’m a capitalist. I think if you can be a millionaire
or a billionaire, fine. Just do your fair share. Just do your fair
share.   
  
You know, trickle-down economics has always failed. It hadn’t built this
country. You know who built this country — like the young man who just
introduced me: union people. People who, in fact, can make a decent,
hard wage and build the country.   
  
I’m not — it’s not hyperbole. I mean it from the bottom of my heart.
That’s why I proposed two critical pieces of legislation that are being
debated back in Washington.  
  
Now, there’s some really smart national press with me today, and they
have understandably believed that there’s no possibility of my getting
this done. This had been declared “dead on arrival” from the moment I
introduced it. But I think we’re going to surprise them because I think
people are beginning to figure out what’s at stake.  
  
You know, when I use the phrase “build back better,” it’s being used
internationally now. I got the G7 — the largest countries in the world —
to agree that we’re going to have a Build Back Better World. And we’re
going to invest and we’re going to build around the world, give
democracies an ability so the rest of the countries don’t fall prey to
those like the Belt and Road Initiative out of China and other
initiatives where there’s, “I’ll do something for you if you give me” —
“if you give me.”  
  
Folks, look, these bills are not about left versus right or about
moderate versus progressive or anything that pits one American against
one another. These bills are about competitiveness versus complacency.
They’re about expanding opportunity, not having opportunity denied.
They’re about leading the world and continuing to let the world — or let
it pass us by.  
  
And, by the way, they will not increase one single penny of the deficit.
They are fully paid for. And all of Wall Street points out they will
grow employment by tens of thousands of people — tens of thousands of
people.  
  
Seventeen Nobel laureates spontaneously — Nobel laureates in economy —
in the economy — sent me a letter three weeks ago saying it will also
reduce, not increase inflation.  
  
Here’s what these initiatives are all about. First, the infrastructure
bill. When I say “infrastructure” back home, people look like,
“Infrastructure? What the hell you talking about, Joe?” They know
infrastructure generically. But it’s about rebuilding the arteries of
our economy. That’s what it’s about.  
  
Across this country right now, there are 45,000 bridges, according to
the society of engineers — 45,000 — a significant portion that are ready
to fall. Fall. Fall into the water or into the gap that they cover.
There are 173 \[thousand\] miles of roads in poor conditions that have
to be built up, including more than 3,300 bridges and over 7,500 miles
of highways here in the state of Pennsylvania that need to be repaired
and built. Increase timing in commerce.  
  
We’re going to put hardworking Americans on the job to bring our
infrastructure up to speed — good union jobs. Not $7 an hour or $15 an
hour, but prevailing wage — a wage you can raise your family on, you can
look at your family with pride; jobs that can’t be outsourced; jobs
replacing lead water pipes, like you have here in the Scranton area.  
  
Kids are getting brain damage because of the ingestion of lead. Clean
water all across America. We’re going to replace every single lead pipe
in the nation — again, creating jobs but doing more than that:
increasing the health and wellbeing of our children.  
  
Forty-four thousand schools are in a position where they have lead
pipes. You send your kid to the water fountain, you got to wonder about
it.  
  
Jobs laying thousands of miles of transmission lines and building a
modern energy grid.  
  
Folks, we’re in a situation now where you see what’s happening. I’ve
flown all over this country since coming in. You realize more of our
land has been burned to the ground — burned to the ground in the West
and in the Northwest than the entire state of New Jersey? Every single
square mile in New Jersey — more has been burned down this year — this
year — in the West because of climate change and because of electric
utilities failing, wires falling.  
  
We know if we can put these wires underground, we increase exponentially
the service, but it costs a lot of money. We have to do it. We know that
if we, in fact, allow people to be able to store — we have this
incredible energy.  
  
We have — I’ve visited one of the largest — the largest solar fields in
America. It’s in the Southwest. Guess what? You can transmit all that
energy, enough to really light up half the — half of the state of
Nevada. But guess what? How do you transmit it? What lines do you put it
over? Do we have the capacity to do that? We have the engineering
capacity, but do we have the will to do it? And imagine what that
does.  
  
You realize we had $90 billion in loss this calendar year because of
natural disasters? Ninety billion dollars.  
  
Jobs. Making sure there’s high-speed Internet, affordable and available
anywhere, everywhere in America, including for nearly one in six
families who go without Internet. They’re — you saw what’s happened when
we’ve had this COVID.  
  
Try teaching from home. How many people did you see out in McDonald’s
parking lots with their kids in their cars — because they get access to
the Internet — to be able to help the kid in school? What are we doing?
This is the United States of America, dammit. What are we doing?  
  
And both these bills are going to help us meet the moment on the climate
crisis in a way that creates good jobs, makes us more economically
competitive.  
  
Sixty-six billion dollars in passenger rail and freight rail. Why do I
always talk about passenger rail, and particularly high-speed rail? You
realize the Chinese are now building another high-speed rail line that
will go up to 300 miles per hour? You say, “What difference does that
make, Biden?” Well, guess what? If you can get in a train and go from
here to Washington much faster than you can go in an automobile, you
take a train. You take the train. We will take literally millions of
automobiles off the road — off the road — saving tens of millions of
barrels of oil, dealing with cleaning up the air.  
  
This is not hyperbole; this is a fact. These are facts. Right now, when
I went out to Silicon Valley, they showed we’re in a situation where if
you put solar panels on your roof — guess what? — when the sun is not
shining, you’re in trouble, except they have now battery technology. You
can have batteries in your basement, about the size of the width of this
podium and about that thick, that keep you going for seven days.  
  
So, what do we have in this legislation? We have $39 billion to
modernize American transit.  
  
I remember riding the trolley. I lived at the end of the line, as they
say, in Green Ridge. Three blocks — the end of the line. And beyond the
end of the line were the dumped. And Maloney field was on the right. And
the Little League Baseball field I played in was down in the bottom of
the hill.  
  
But the point is: It made to work. Most people live in cities. You know,
the vast majority of people now — working people who live in cities —
their jobs are out of town, no longer in town. No longer in town. But 65
percent do not own an automobile. They live in a Black or Hispanic
neighborhood or a poor neighborhood. And all the time they waste trying
to get to work.  
  
Look, more than $7 billion to build out the national network of electric
vehicle charging stations.  
  
The way my Grandpop got up here — my Grandpop Biden, who died at Mercy
Hospital of an aneurysm when he was 46 years old, two months before I
was born in Mercy Hospital — he was with the American Oil Company. He
was up here opening up gas stations in 19- — that’s how he got here.
This was 1942 — late ‘42.  
  
Well, guess what? The same thing happens. When we build these charging
stations — what happens? — communities build up around them. You get
everything from the Mc- — the figurative McDonald’s or the Dunkin’
Donuts to the drugstore.  
  
And $21 billion for environmental cleanup and remediation. Look, it
means putting people to work in a good job, prevailing wages, capping
hundreds of thousands of abandoned wells in southeastern Pennsylvania
and in Ohio. Get the same salary that you paid the mine worker to dig
the well. They’ve got to be capped. We have thousands of them that need
to be capped.  
  
In addition to that, we have methane leaks that are all over. And you
all understand in Pennsylvania about that. But guess what? It increases
the health of the community and provides good-paying jobs.  
  
My plan also makes a historic investment in clean energy, including a
tax credit for people to do things like winterize their homes, install
solar panels, develop clean energy products, help businesses produce
more clean energy. It’s real — I promise you.  
  
I won’t be around to see it, but I promise you: Your kids are going to
see a time when they’re not, in fact, generating any energy from the
homes here in Scranton other than renewable energy. Not a joke.  
  
And, by the way, one of the things the President put me in charge of my
— I want to be clear here: President Obama put me in charge of when I
was Vice President — I was able to invest in that legislation that we
put together — I put together. We brought down the price of the — of
solar and wind cheaper than coal and cheaper than oil on a BTU basis.
It’s cheaper.  
  
Coal built this town and this part of the country, but we got to provide
other avenues for people to make the same of kind of living they used to
be able to make.  
  
Look, all told — I just said this project is going to save, literally,
hundreds of millions of barrels of oil annually. But folks here in
Pennsylvania know the cost of inaction when it comes to climate change.
Extreme weather has cost this state $10 billion over the last decade.
And nationally, as I said, extreme weather conditions cost $99 billion
last year.  
  
And I flew over all this territory in helicopter — in Marine One — not a
joke — to see it. See reservoirs that are down 60, 80 feet. Concern
about the Colorado River, whether or not we’re going to be able to keep
things moving. Not a joke. It’s real. This is serious stuff.  
  
And so, you know, it’s not going to ease up on its own. We have to
invest in our resilience, building roads higher.  
  
We came — when I say, “build back better,” we’re the only country in the
world, historically, that’s gone through a crisis and has come out at
the other end better than before the crisis hit. That’s who we are as
Americans. Not a joke. Think about it.  
  
For those if you who teach history, think about it: We come out better
than it was before because we don’t give up. We invest. We trust our
instincts.  
  
And so that’s what I’m talking about.  
  
You know, we need more — stronger levees; stronger power grids, more
durable, able to withstand the ever-increasing ferocity and intensity of
extreme weather.  
  
Any road — it used to be, if you have a catastrophe and the road gets
washed out, you build it back to what it was before. You can’t build it
back to the same standard. You’ve got to build the road back literally
higher — not a joke — because the weather has already changed. And if we
don’t do something before we reach 1.5 degrees Celsius, we’re in
trouble.  
  
Look, I haven’t passed — we haven’t passed a major infrastructure bill
for decades in this country. The last four years, you’d hear — every
month it was, you know, “Infrastructure Month.” Didn’t do a single damn
thing. Nothing. I mean nothing for four years.  
  
We can’t afford to sit while other countries pass us by. We’re going to
breathe new life into the economy and our workforce.  
  
And here’s the deal: These jobs will create — that we’re going to create
for people who are too often left out and left behind. The vast majority
of the jobs in my infrastructure bill don’t require a four-year degree;
98 percent don’t require a four-year degree.  
  
Guess what, though? This is the ultimate blue-collar — blue-collar,
middle-class renewal. Real serious work and it needs to get done.  
  
Folks, it isn’t enough just to invest in our physical infrastructure. We
also have to invest in our people, which we always did. We invested in
our people.  
  
That’s why the second bill is the so-called Build Back Better plan. And
here’s what it does: It takes education — as I said, when America made
12 years of public education standard a century ago, it gave us the
best-educated, best-prepared workforce in the world, and you saw what
happened. Think of what would have happened after World War One and how
America moved, because we were the best-educated — overall — country in
the world. And we led in the 20th century.  
  
But as I said earlier, we know those 12 years is not enough any longer
to compete in the 21st century. Study after study shows that the earlier
our children begin to learn, the better for themselves, their families,
and for the nation.  
  
You know, you all know the statistics — and some of your teachers and
your husband used to talk to me about this — and it was really basic:
that if you come from a home where the mom or dad have books on the
shelves and on the coffee table and read, and you come from a home where
mom or dad can’t read or has a sixth-grade education or has a little
difficulty, the child coming from that middle-class home is going to
have heard a million more words spoken — not different words, spoken —
spoken — than the child coming from a middle-class home.  
  
And that’s because — look, what do you all do? You all know with your
children or your grandchildren. You start talking to them when they’re
in the cradle. You engage them. They’re the people who sit at the dinner
table and still talk; they’re engaged.  
  
So many homes, mothers or fathers, don’t have the capacity or
inclination to do that. But right now, what are we doing? We’re lagging
behind.  
  
Today, only about half of the three- and four-year-olds in America are
enrolled in early education at all. Germany, France, the UK, Latvia —
their number is over 90 percent of the children.  
  
It’s not just early education. According to one study, we rank 12th
among advanced economies when it comes to percentage of our young people
who have attained any sort of post-high school degree. Rank 12th in the
world.  
  
The Build Back Better plan gets us back on track. We’ll make two years
of high-quality preschool available to every child in America. Every
child. And we’re going to make — (applause) — make investments education
beyond high school. That includes increasing Pell Grants, which nearly
200,000 students in Pennsylvania from low-income families rely on to
attend college. We’re going to increase it by $500. It’s up to — so it
becomes $1,900.  
  
The bill invests in our workforce, providing much-needed breathing room
for families.  
  
My dad used to — I remember, when we moved to Wilmington, we finally
were able to — after four years, Dad could buy a house. And we lived in
a, quote, “a development.” It was a lovely area and a suburban area. But
it was a three-bedroom, split-level home. And we had four kids and my
grandpop who lived with us, or another relative all — for all those
years we lived there.  
  
And my bed was up — my headboard — well, not — didn’t have a headboard.
But my bed was up against the wall that was on — my dad and mom’s bed
was up against the wall. And I look back, and I — it was great for us
having grandpops and relatives there. I don’t know how my parents quite
did it.  
  
But I remember one night — I’m serious — it was in high school. And Dad
— I could see — I could feel my dad was restless. He was moving. And I
could hear it in bed. And I asked the next morning — I asked my mom —
it’s a true story. I said, “What’s the matter with dad, Mom?” She said,
“He got bad news, honey. His company just said they’re no longer going
to pay for health insurance.” Well, guess what? My dad used to say,
“Everybody is entitled. All we’re looking for is just a little breathing
room.” Just a little bit of extra room — a little breathing room.  
  
How can we compete in the world if millions of American parents,
especially moms, who can’t join the workforce because they can’t afford
the cost of childcare or eldercare, or they have to stay home?  
  
I heard my colleagues speaking before I did. Here in Pennsylvania, the
average annual cost of childcare for your toddler is $11,400. It’s
higher in other places. So, an average two-parent family with two young
kids spends 22 percent of their income for childcare every year.  
  
I was a single dad for five years. I got elected to the Senate; I got a
phone call before I got sworn in, when I was hiring staff, saying my
wife and daughter had just been killed and my two boys were seriously
injured. They were hospitalized for a long time.  
  
So, I — that’s why I eventually started commuting. But I continued to
commute because I could no more afford — and I was making a lot of money
then. Now, granted, I was listed for 36 years as the poorest man in
Congress, but — (laughter) — I was making $42,000 a year. And I didn’t
think my job was to make money when I was in Congress.  
  
But this is not a joke. I could no more afford childcare than fly. But,
fortunately, I had a hell of a family — those values I talked about. My
sister and her husband, after a little bit, they gave up their home. I
came home one night, and they were moved into my home — helped me raise
my kids.  
  
Five years later — no man deserves one great love, let alone two. Five
years later, when I met and married Jill, I came home after the wedding
and they had moved out.  
  
My brother Jimmy, my best friend, my mother — they all helped me take
care of my kids. But I couldn’t have done it. So, I understand. How in
God’s name do people make it?  
  
If you look at the world of advanced economics and — those advanced
econ- — those with advanced economies, their countries invest an average
of — each of those countries invest an average of $14,000 per year in
child — state-sponsored child/toddler care. America invests $500, 28
times less than our competitors.  
  
Here’s what it does to our economy — you all know it: Thirty years ago,
we ranked seven in — seventh in the world among advanced economies in
the share of women in the workforce. Today, in America, we rank 23rd.  
  
And women are becoming — not a joke — better educated than men. If you
look at — and I do about five college commencements a year. Four of
those five, the valedictorian out of those classes for the last 10 years
has been a woman. And if you read the data now, we’re worried about the
number of men attending college.  
  
Once again, our competitors are investing. We’re standing still. My
Build Back Better plan is designed to get us moving again.  
  
Look, it’s going to cut the cost of childcare for most Pennsylvania
families in half. No middle-income family will pay more than 7 percent
of their income on childcare under my proposal. Seven percent.
(Applause.)  
  
It’s going to help more people get back to work in a workforce and make
ends meet.  
  
It’s also going to extend the historic middle-class tax cut for parents.
Everybody talks about — and, by the way, I have a — I — I’m going to say
something self-serving — but I got on pretty well in the Senate for all
those years: a lot of Republican friends, as well as Democratic friends.
For real. Kind of like Bobby. I mean, I — they’re friends. We used to
travel together a lot.  
  
And here’s the deal though: You know, what I was able to do when we
passed the American Rescue Plan in the first month of my administration,
which has allowed us to have all the funding for COVID. And when I
started off, there were 2 million people in America that had gotten a
vaccine. Well, guess what? We’re up to 190 million. That’s how we got it
paid for. (Applause.)  
  
But here’s the deal: What it meant was — what it meant was that, you
know, right now, there’s a whole new attitude that’s out there. How do
we not invest?  
  
And so, in that act that we passed, we provided for a Child Tax Credit,
and you heard my introducer speak to it. Because we were in such dire
straits, we were able to put into position a tax cut for middle-class
people. That’s what it is. No one has a tax cut — we want to cut the
capital gains tax for the wealthy or anybody — no one has a problem when
we deal with that.  
  
We have over 55 corporations in America — the Fortune 500 — that don’t
pay a single, solitary penny in taxes. Not one cent. Not one cent. They
make $40 billion a year. But when you talk about a tax cut for
middle-class people — and that’s exactly what it is.  
  
By what we did, increasing — making a refundable tax cut — you know, the
way it works now: If you’ve made enough money to have — owe more than
$4,000 in taxes and you had two kids, you got to deduct it.  
  
And here’s the deal: The fact of the matter is that if you didn’t make
that kind of money, you didn’t get the benefit at all. It wasn’t
refundable; you didn’t get the benefit at all of the tax cut. Because if
you didn’t have more than $4,000 in taxes, you didn’t — you know, you
still paid. And you — it wasn’t refundable; you didn’t get it back.  
  
Well, here’s the way we work it: We said, “All right, temporarily what
we’re going to do is make sure there’s a Child Care Tax Credit. And if
you have one kid under seven, you get 3,600 bucks a year. And if you
have one over 7 to 17, you get $3,000 a year.” We upped it from $2,000.
Well, guess what? It’s cut child poverty in Pennsylvania by 55 percent;
in the nation by 50 percent. (Applause.)  
  
It’s a flat-out tax cut for ordinary people. That’s what it does. I make
no apologies for it.  
  
But look, folks, there are so many things that we can do to change the
way in which we work all of this. And I’m realizing I’m going on here,
but the fact is there’s so much at stake — so much at stake.  
  
Look, the fact is that, most of all, what it does is — you know, we have
a sandwich generation that exists, and many of you are part of that
generation. You have a mom or dad who need some help when they get
older, and you have a child that needs some help if you’re going to be
able to be in the workforce. And it’s hard as hell — hard as hell to
make it work. You got to give these folks a little bit of breathing
room. The single-greatest champion for eldercare in the United States of
America is this guy right here, Bobby Casey. (Applause.) Not a joke. Not
a joke.  
  
The way it works right now: If you qualify for Medicaid — you have to
have a lower income to qualify for Medi- — “Medicaid” not “Medicare.”
Medicaid. There are 820,000 seniors, people with — or people with
disabilities, who are on Medicaid, on a waiting list to get home care,
which they’re entitled to.  
  
How many families are living this story? Your parents get older, they
need some help getting around the house, making the meals for
themselves; don’t want to put them in nursing homes, only — not only
because of the cost, but because of a matter of dignity.  
  
They do better, they live longer if they can stay in their own home. But
you also don’t have the time or the money to take care of them at home,
to do it. So you’re just looking for an answer so your parents can keep
living independently.  
  
And if they hold here a second, one of the things that is important —
think about this: In order to get into that nursing home, you got to
sell everything you have. You can’t have any private property. You have
to empty your bank account. You have to do it all to move into a nursing
home.  
  
I’m not saying nursing homes aren’t valuable; they are. They’re
extremely valuable. But that’s not where — I remember my uncle was —
moved in with his wife into an assisted living center. And he wanted —
and the folks who — who had built the facility — it was a lovely
facility in Delaware — asked if I’d come and speak on the — on the
opening of it. And we’re walking out, and I said, “Mom, isn’t this
beautiful?” She looked at me and said — and she was then 76 years old —
she said, “This is for old people, Joey. Not for me.”  
  
I’m — but think about it: For millions of families, this is the most
important issue they’re facing. It’s personal. It’s personal. And Bob
Casey gets it. When Bobby fights for something, he never gives up, in
case you haven’t noticed.  
  
So, here’s what we’re going to do: We’re going to expand services for
seniors so families can get help with well-trained, well-paid
professionals to help them take care of their parents at home, to cook a
meal for them, to get them their groceries when they need to get
groceries, to help them get around, to just put in railings on their
home.  
  
When my mom lived with me — she moved in with me — we finally talked her
into doing it. And guess what? My sister takes her up — you remember
this? Jean remembers this — talking about this too. She take — takes her
up to get her prescriptions, drives her back, gets out of the house. And
she was — it was this little home off of our home. It was — she wouldn’t
move into — physically move into the house, even though we’d done the
whole thing over for her. And she’s just standing there and moves and
breaks her hip. She didn’t trip or anything. Broke her hip.  
  
Well, guess what? Just having a railing, just having a place where she
could walk from one room to the other and to help them in their own home
with the dignity they deserve. Quite frankly, what we found is that this
is more popular than anything else I’m proposing.  
  
When you do this individual polling data, this is extremely popular
because we all feel that obligation to our parents. And we want them to
live with dignity, because the American people understand the need. It’s
a matter of dignity. It’s a matter of pride.  
  
Look, that’s what both these initiatives are all about. And, frankly,
they’re about more than giving working families a break; they’re about
positioning our country to compete in the long haul. Economists left,
right, and center agree.  
  
Earlier this year, the Wall Street outfit, Moody’s, projected that the
investments I’m talking about will create for the next 20 years, on
average, 2 million additional jobs per year — good-paying jobs. It’s
transformative. (Applause.) And we can make these transformation
investments and be fiscally responsible.  
  
Take the infrastructure bill. All those investments in roads, bridges,
high-speed rail, Internet — the whole deal — they represent less than
one half of 1 percent of our economic growth each year — less than one
half of 1 percent.  
  
And the cost of the Build Back Better bill, in terms of adding to the
deficit, is zero — is zero — zero because we’re going to pay for it all.
In addition to that, half of it is a tax cut. It’s not spending money;
it’s a tax cut for working-class people.  
  
And it’s about time, as I said — and I come from the corporate state of
the world. Not a joke. More corporations are — are in — registered in my
state than every other state in the United States combined. And I
represented the state of DuPont, as they used to call it, for 36 years.
I’m not anti-business, but I’m about, “Just begin to pay your fair
share.”  
  
Look, folks, under this proposal — and under this proposal — these
proposals that I’m talking about — I guarantee you that no one making
under $400,000 a year will see one single penny in tax go up. Not one.
In fact, the plan cuts taxes for working people.  
  
And, by the way, if you notice the — you know, the way you usually pay
for infrastructure bill — infrastructure is by gasoline taxes? I
wouldn’t allow that because that would tax people making under
$400,000.  
  
I’m a man of my word. Not one single penny, when you pay — if you make
more than — less than $400,000. (Applause.)  
  
So — but there’s no reason — there’s no reason why someone making 400
<s>million</s> \[thousand\] a year —  
  
And, by the way, you know, during this — all the crisis we’ve had with
COVID, there’s an absolute finite number of billionaires they can count
up in the tax code. You know how much money the billionaires made last
year, collectively? And they’re not bad guys; I’m not saying that. They
made $1 trillion — increase their collective income — $1 trillion. Just
pay your fair share.  
  
You know, if you are a multi-millionaire or a billionaire, you have a
lower tax rate than a family who has a teacher and a firefighter as a
percent of taxes you pay — lower. As I said, 55 of our largest
corporations pay zero in income tax — 40 billion bucks. This needs to
change.  
  
Working folks understand that. That’s why that despite the attacks and
misinformation about my plans, they’re still overwhelming supported by
the American people. And they understand that when families have a
little breathing room, America is in a better spot. And they know this
is about dignity and respect, about building an economy from the bottom
up and the middle, and not from the top down.  
  
As I said, name me a time in American history when the middle class has
done well but the wealthy haven’t done very well. Name me a time.  
  
So, let me close with this: For too long, the working people of this
nation, the middle class in this country — the backbone of the country —
have been dealt out. It’s time to deal them back in.  
  
I ran for President — (applause) — I ran for President saying it was
time to rebuild the backbone of the nation. And by that, I was very
precise: The middle class has been the backbone of this nation.  
  
I couldn’t have been any clearer. That’s why I wrote both these bills in
the first place and took them to the people. I campaigned on them, and
the American people spoke.  
  
I ran — they have no doubt about what I ran on. Both these bills were
all what I talked about. But guess what? Eighty-one million people voted
for me. More people voted than at any time in American history.
(Applause.)  
  
And their voices deserve to be heard, not to be denied, or worse, be
ignored.  
  
Because here’s what I know: If we make the investments, there’s going to
be no stopping America in the remainder of the 21st century.  
  
I’ve long said — and I mean this to every world leader I’ve known — and
I’ve now spoken to over 60 of them, and I’ve known them — many of them
before that — I tell them it’s never, ever, ever been a good bet to bet
against America. Never. Never, never. Which means it’s always a good —
good bet to bet on America.  
  
And that’s what these initiatives do: they bet on America. It’s about
believing in the American people. It’s about believing — about
believing.  
  
Just look at the history of the journey of this nation. What becomes
clear is this: Given half a chance — half a chance — the American people
have never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever let the country down. Just a
fighting chance; no guarantees. Just a chance. And that’s what this is
all about.  
  
And it does not increase the debt. When you talk about the number — we
shouldn’t even talk about the numbers, because it’s all paid for,
written in the same piece of legislation.  
  
So, when you pass the spending, you’re also passing the tax cuts, and
you’re passing the taxes that are going to be increased.  
  
Scranton, thanks for always treating me so nicely. I really mean it.
(Applause.)  
  
God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.  
  
6:21 P.M. EDT
