---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-25'
modified_time: 2021-10-25 16:39:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-during-a-meeting-on-climate-change/
published_time: 2021-10-25 16:39:21-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris During a Meeting on Climate\_Change"
---
 
Secretary of War Suite  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building 

2:46 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Good to see all the friends.  I’m
glad you’re here.  
  
Well, I wanted to stop by.  I knew the extraordinary national and
international leaders were here visiting today.  Emmy told me — Brian
and Gina — we’ve been talking a lot about what we collectively must do,
what we want to do, building on the great work that has already happened
by the leaders at this table.  And there’s a lot more to get done.  But
I wanted to come by just, first of all, to just say thank you.   
  
Many of us have known each other for many, many years.  You all have
been in this fight for a long time.  I think, as I’m looking around at
you, the generations of progress in this movement that have been made
within our lifetimes, in large part due to the work of each of you.   
  
I think of you in the context of the most recent — now, I guess, it’s
been a couple of months — report from the United Nations about the
significance of this very moment.  As you did, I read that, and I — one
of the things that really was very obvious about how they articulated
the issue and the seriousness of it — the imminence of it and the danger
of it — was that they were unambiguous.    
  
This was, I think, the first time I’ve seen a U.N. report where it
wasn’t, “Oh,we kind of think…there’s some general consensus…”  No, I
mean, they spoke with exclamation points, with numbers, with dates —
2030.   
  
So, this is a moment of crisis and — as I think we all think of crises —
also a moment of opportunity.  And we cannot afford — at least in our
fight, we cannot afford to be incremental.  We cannot afford to be
patient.   
  
Nonetheless, we also have a system where there must be consensus when
we’re talking about the Build Back Better Agenda.  And we will work
together to accomplish what we all know we must do as the individuals
and as the people in this room and in this town and in our country who
are — right now have been — who’ve been charged with carrying the baton
at this very moment and knowing that the way that we carry the baton at
this moment will have a profound impact on the people we hand the baton
to.   
  
So, I wanted to come by to thank you.  I want you to know that, of
course, our Build Back Better Agenda, the way I think of it — people
say, “What exactly does it mean?”  Well, I’ll tell you what it means for
the President, for me, for all of us.  It really is about four main
parts, one of which is climate, the other which is jobs.    
  
As you know, the President, whenever he talks about or thinks about
climate, he will say he thinks about jobs — again, the opportunity and
the moment — on behalf of the American people and their economic
condition and their livelihoods.    
  
And then it’s about family.  And it’s about health.  And interestingly
enough, all of those issues relate to what we do on the issue of our
climate — jobs, help families.    
  
So that’s our agenda.  And we are determined to meet our goal of a 50
percent reduction in emissions by 2030.  We are absolutely determined to
meet that goal.  Again, we know that it is not something that is just a
goal, it is an imperative.    
  
The priorities that we have on climate are three pronged, at least.
 There is the point that is about resilience, and that includes
addressing issues like Western water and, of course, wildfires — as you
all know, I’m from California; I feel strongly about that for many
reasons — and flood mitigation.    
  
In fact, last week, I was at Lake Mead, in Nevada.  I’m sure all of you
know it, but to see it — I stood there with the incredible folks who
work in that area.  And there’s a bathtub ring, which is so clearly
marked.  It’s not even gradual.  It’s not like it has a slow fade.  It’s
so clearly marked — the distinction between where the water always was
and where it is now.    
  
And the significance of that, of the contrast, just in the colors, is
how quickly this all changed so drastically.  And they described that
the length, that the height of the recession of water, it’s longer than
the height of the Statue of Liberty.  And this is just through the last
20 years — two thousand and — 2020.    
  
We are focused on climate resilience.  We are focused on reducing
emissions.  And as we know, this has to be through our focus on clean
energy.  It has to be through our focus on electric vehicles and
transmission.    
  
You know, electric vehicles — I was — it was one of my very — most
enjoyable visits, as Vice President, to go to a manufacturing plant here
in the United States that is manufacturing electric vehicles.  I’m just
obsessed with it, and particularly the school buses, because, of course,
this relates not only to emissions, but to all that we care about in
terms of environmental justice, all that we care about in terms of
equity, and acknowledging and then addressing disparities based on
race.  
  
Twenty-five million children, at least before COVID, go to school on a
daily basis on the current buses, which, of course, contribute to
emissions and a threat to our climate, but also a threat to the health
and safety of those children.  
  
So, these are some of the issues.  And then, of course, environmental
justice.  
  
You’ll remember — many of you know — back when I was District Attorney
of San Francisco, I created one of the first-in-the-nation environmental
justice units of any prosecutor’s office.  It’s an issue I take very
seriously.    
  
It was actually a decade ago that, as Attorney General, I took a group
of press, actually, to a place called Mira Loma, California, where the
emissions were so intense that the children of that community had been
noted by one of our major universities as having the lowest rate — or
the slowest rate of lung development of children anywhere.  
  
So, these are the issues that we are focused on.  These are the issues
that we are prioritizing.  And the negotiations continue, as you all
know.  
  
But I wanted to come by to also tell you that we — the President and I
and our administration — are unwavering in our commitment to these
issues — absolutely unwavering.  
  
But, you know, they — there’s an old saying: You don’t want to watch
sausage be made, and you don’t want to watch a bill be made.
 (Laughter.)  
  
Sometimes it’s not a pretty sight.  But the end result of — you know,
unless you’re a vegan, of course — (laughter) — the end result is
usually — is usually pretty — pretty good.    
  
But there’s work to be done.    
  
But I’ll just close my comments by saying that we strongly believe, as I
know you do, that this is a very specific moment in time.  And we cannot
squander, yes, the opportunities, but also the grave responsibility that
we have to do something.  And we are focused, as an administration, on
doing something and getting things done.    
  
And so, I know that you’ve been talking about it before I stopped in,
but I want you to know, you know, I believe strongly, as a devout public
servant, that a lot of the progress that we’ve ever made in government
is due in large part to the efforts and the push that comes from outside
to remind us of where we can go and what we need to get done.  And you
all have been doing that for so very long.    
  
And it’s so good to see you all.  And I want to thank you for traveling
to be here for this meeting.  Thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
2:55 P.M. EDT  
