---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-10-31'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/10/31/remarks-by-president-biden-at-global-summit-on-supply-chain-resilience/
published_time: 2021-10-31 15:07:03-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at Global Summit on Supply Chain Resilience
---
 
La Nuvola

Rome, Italy

5:28 P.M. CET

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you all for joining us today.  I think the Prime
Minister may be still occupied in another part of the building, so we’re
going to begin.

We’re going to bring our shared attention to a vital issue that is
impacting on all of our countries: supply chain disruptions.  Supply
chains are something that most of our citizens never think twice about
until something goes wrong.

And during this pandemic, we’ve seen delays and backlogs of goods — from
automobiles to electronics, from shoes to furniture.

Ending the pandemic is the ultimate key to unlocking the disruptions
we’re all contending with.  But we have to take action now, together
with our partners in the private sector, to reduce the backlogs that
we’re facing.  And then, we have to prevent this from happening again in
the future.

Now that we have seen how vulnerable these lines of global commerce can
be, we cannot go back to business as usual.  This pandemic won’t be the
last global health crisis we face.  We also need to increase our
resilience in the face of climate change, natural disasters, and even
planned attacks. 

Many of our supply chains are almost entirely owned and operated by the
private sector.  But government can play a key role identifying supply
chain risks and bringing the different pieces and actors together to
address these vulnerabilities.

In the United States, my administration has focused on this from our
earliest days of the administration, which is not that long ago — just
January 20th of this year.  In February, we began directing new
investments to strengthen supply chains at home and to work with
partners to bolster supply chains around the world.

Last month, we launched an early warning system to help get ahead of the
global supply chain disruptions from — for computer chips, which impacts
so many industries in my country and all of yours.

Just a few weeks ago, we were able to facilitate an agreement with key
unions, retailers, and freight movers to begin operating two of the
largest ports in the United States that account for 40 percent of the
imports on the West Coast: the Port of Los Angeles and the Port of Long
Beach, California.  So, we got them to move from 5 days a week, 8 hours
a day, to 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. 

I’m going to help get — it’s going to help get goods on the shelves
faster.  And our Build Back Better framework provides, for the first
time, funding dedicated to monitoring and strengthening supply chains. 

Today, I’m announcing two further steps: First, I’m allocating
additional funding to help American partners, as well as the United
States, cut port congestion by slashing red tape and reducing processing
times so that ships can get in and out of our ports faster. 

And second, I’m signing an executive order that will strengthen our
management of the United States defense stockpiles for minerals and
materials.  It’ll allow us — allow us to react and respond more quickly
to shortfalls in the industrial base.  

I urge all of you — all of you — to consider bolstering your stockpiles
critical to national security in your countries.  But like so many
challenges today, it isn’t a problem any one of our nations can solve
through unilateral actions.  Coordination is the key — the reason for
this meeting. 

The best way to reduce current delays and build in greater resilience
for the future is to work together across the entire supply chain, from
raw materials to warehousing and distribution. 

Our supply chain should be: one, diversified, so that we’re not
dependent on any one single source that might cause a failure; secure —
secure against natural and manmade threats, including cyber and criminal
attacks, like ransomware; and transparent so that both government and
the private sector can better anticipate and respond to shortages that
may be coming down the pike; and sustainable, to ensure our supply
chains are free from forced and child labor, supporting the dignity and
the voice of workers and are in line with our climate goals.

Because at the end of the day, supply chain resilience is really about
all of our people, the workers around the world who make the flow of
goods possible — factory workers, dockworkers, welders, shipping crews,
truckers, childcare providers, locomotives, so many other pieces.

Solving this is going to take all of us — government and private
industry, labor unions and research institutions.

So, I’m directing my Secretary of State — Secretaries of State and
Commerce to chair a multi-stakeholder forum in the beginning of next
year to bring all these key parties together with relevant officials
from all of our governments to chart a path forward.

I look forward to hearing from each of you and finding ways we can work
together to increase our resilience and enhance our shared prosperity.

Now I’m going to turn it over to Secretary Blinken to actually make sure
the trains run on time here.

5:36 P.M. CET
