---
date: '2024-09-26'
modified_time: 2024-09-27 11:30:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-26 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/26/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-president-volodymyr-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-before-bilateral-meeting-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

3:46 P.M. EDT

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Well, President Zelenskyy, it is good to see you
again.  This is our seventh visit together.  And welcome back to
Washington, D.C.

As I have made clear on our six previous meetings and throughout Putin’s
brutal aggression and war against Ukraine, my support for the people of
Ukraine is unwavering. 

I have been proud to stand with Ukraine.  I will continue to stand with
Ukraine.  And I will work to ensure Ukraine prevails in this war. 

To be safe, secure, and prosperous, the United States must continue to
fulfill our long-standing role of global leadership.  We must stand with
our allies and our partners.  We must des- — defend our democratic
values and stand up to aggressors.  And we must stand for international
order, rules, and norms.  Each one of these principles is at stake in
Ukraine, and that is why Ukraine’s fight matters to the people of
America. 

The Ukrainian people are bravely defending their homes and their
homeland, their freedom, and their democracy against a brutal dictator,
and the American people know well the meaning of freedom, of
independence, and the importance of rule of law.  These ideals are
central to who we are as Americans, and some of the most important
moments in our history have come when we stood up to aggressors like
Putin just as we must today. 

Indeed, standing with our friends and defending our ideals against
tyranny has helped make America the most powerful and prosperous nation
in the world.  Putin’s aggression is not only an attack on the people of
Ukraine, it is also an attack on fundamental principles such as
sovereignty and territorial integrity. 

 International rules and norms are not some abstract notion.  They
provide order and stability in our world.  They support American
security and American prosperity.  And when they are threatened
anywhere, they are threatened everywhere. 

History has shown us if we allow aggressors like Putin to take land with
impunity, they keep going.  And Putin could set his sights on Poland,
the Baltic states, and other NATO Allies.  We also know that other
would-be aggressors around the world are watching to see what happens in
Ukraine.  If Putin is allowed to win, they will become emboldened.  And
history reminds us and history is so clear in reminding us: The United
States cannot and should not isolate ourselves from the rest of the
world.  Isolation is not insulation. 

 So, then, the United States supports Ukraine not out of charity but
because it is in our strategic interest.  We will continue to provide
the security assistance Ukraine needs to succeed on the battlefield, as
demonstrated by President Biden’s significant announcement earlier
today.

I’ve been proud to work alongside President Biden and the 50-nation
coalition we have built up to allow Ukraine to defend itself.  Thanks to
this coalition and the skill and the bravery of the Ukrainian people,
along with your courageous leadership, President Zelenskyy, Ukraine has
stood up to Russia’s aggression, and today Kyiv stands free and strong. 

President Zelenskyy, I am clear: Putin started this war, and he could
end it tomorrow if he simply withdrew his troops from Ukraine’s
sovereign territory.  Of course, he has demonstrated no intention of
doing that.  Instead, he continues to assault civilian infrastructure
and terrorize the people of Ukraine.

In Switzerland, in June, along with 90 other nations at the Uka- — at
the Ukraine peace conference, I told you that the United States shares
your vision for the end of this war, an end based on the will of the
people of Ukraine and the U.N. Charter, and that m- — we must work with
the international community se- — to secure a just and lasting peace. 
And I told world leaders there: Nothing about the end of this war can be
decided without Ukraine. 

However, in candor, I share with you, Mr. President, there are some in
my country who would instead force Ukraine to give up large parts of its
sovereign territory, who would demand that Ukraine accept neutrality,
and would require Ukraine to forego security relationships with other
nations.  These proposals are the same of those of Putin.  And let us be
clear: They are not proposals for peace.  Instead, they are proposals
for surrender, which is dangerous and unacceptable.

So, President Zelenskyy, I look forward to our discussion today, and I
will continue to work with you to ensure Ukraine prevails in this
conflict and remains a free, democratic, and independent nation. 

Welcome back, again. 

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Thank you so much.  Madam Vice President, thanks
for invitation.  Happy to see you.

Dear journalists, I want to especially thank you for your participation
in the peace summit.  And, really, it was very important, and we
remember it.  The format was successful.  We are preparing the second
one. 

And now, we have to end this war.  We need a just peace, and we must
protect our people — Ukrainian families, Ukrainian children, and
everyone — from Putin’s evil.  And we are grateful to America for
supporting Ukraine all along. 

And we’ll have an important meeting today, right after I talked to
President Biden about the plan of victory, and I will share some details
of the plan with Vice President Harris.  It’s crucial for us to — to be
fully understandable and to work in a full coordination with the United
States. 

And this morning, I talked also to — to the congressmen, both chambers,
both parties.  And I am thankful for their bipartisan support.  We
believe this war can be won and just peace can be close only with a —
with the United States. 

Madam Vice President, this is our — you said seventh meeting?

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Seventh.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Yeah, and it’s not last.  And the third meeting —
as far as I remember, the third meeting this year. 

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Yes.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Thank you.  And I want to inform you about the
latest developments on the battlefield, of course, and about Ukraine’s
actions in the Kursk region, on what has been achieved and the ambitions
ahead.

Today, we have a new strong support package, as you said, and we have
common view on the things that need to be done.  We have to keep
pressure on Russia to stop the war and to make truly lasting and just
peace.  It’s a top priority for us and for other freedom-loving nations
to achieve not a freezing but real — real peace for us. 

So, we need to keep sanctions against Russia strong, and we need to use
the proceeds from immobilized Russian assets to protect Ukraine — our
people, our cities, our front line — from Russian evil.  And, of course,
we must work hard to bring all Russian war criminals to justice. 

And one more thing.  I want to inform Madam Vice President about the
latest Russian missile and the Shaheds attacks against Ukrainian energy
infrastructure.  We need to urgently strengthen Ukraine’s air defense to
save thousands of lives and reduce Russian terror to zero. 

It’s achievable. 

Thank you, again.  Thanks, America.  Thanks to you, Madam Vice
President. 

*Slava Ukraini.*

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Thank you so much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  It’s good to see you.

PRESIDENT ZELENSKYY:  Good to see you too.

                   END                     3:55 P.M. EDT
