---
date: '2024-09-13'
published_time: 2024-09-13 16:49:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/13/remarks-by-dr-liz-sherwood-randall-for-the-soufan-centers-global-summit-on-counterterrorism-and-political-violence/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall for the Soufan Center\u2019s Global Summit\
  \ on Counterterrorism and Political\_Violence"
---
 
Good morning. I’m delighted to be here with you at the Soufan Center’s
inaugural Global Summit on Terrorism and Political Violence. Thank you
for the introduction.

It’s a privilege to speak on the same program with so many of my closest
colleagues, including Christy Abizaid and Nick Rasmussen who are tough
acts to follow! Each of you has provided extraordinary service in the
Biden-Harris Administration and in prior administrations.

The day before yesterday, I accompanied the President and Vice President
to Ground Zero, Shanksville, and the Pentagon to commemorate the solemn
anniversary of the heinous attacks of September 11<sup>th</sup>, 2001. 
And standing here—in this place, on this day— I want to take a moment to
honor and recall the lives of those we lost and the generations of
Americans who have served and sacrificed over the last 23 years to
ensure we would never again see a day like September 11<sup>th</sup>.

As you all know, this was the precipitating event for transformation in
our national security enterprise and the motivation for so many careers
in public service. Indeed, it was the catalyst for the creation of the
role of the White House Homeland Security Advisor.

I live in a windowless office in the basement of the West Wing, which my
staff and I call the “The Cave,” and it has housed the Homeland Security
Advisor since the days immediately following 9/11. During each year of
my service in the office, this solemn anniversary has marked an
opportunity to reflect on how far we have come as a nation and what more
we still have to accomplish.

That is what I hope to discuss with you today—starting with how the
threat has evolved. 

**  
Evolution of the Threat Abroad and at Home**

Since that catastrophic and transformational day, the counterterrorism
community has succeeded in significantly hardening American defenses and
degrading foreign terrorist groups’ capabilities to attack the American
Homeland.

However, the threat we face today is more fluid and quickly evolving
than it has ever been. Defining events in recent years—such as the
killing of Iranian General Qasim Soleimani, January 6<sup>th</sup>,
2021, and especially October 7<sup>th</sup>—have layered atop gradually
shifting trendlines to change the character of today’s threat
landscape—both abroad and at home.  I’d like to reflect on several of
these defining events and trends.

Hamas’s horrific terrorist attack on Israel almost a year ago
demonstrates how quickly the terrorism landscape can change and the
far-reaching consequences of terrorists’ actions both domestically and
internationally.

The Intelligence Community has warned that images and messaging emerging
from the conflict are energizing networks and expanding the pool of
individuals who are susceptible to mobilization to violent acts, whether
as lone actors or as new recruits to terrorist groups from across the
ideological spectrum.

Terrorist groups such as ISIS and al-Qaida are exploiting the
Israel-Hamas conflict and calling for attacks against the West,
including in the U.S. Homeland.

This occurs within the context of an important trend—the weakening of
these groups by our counterterrorism pressure that has forced them to
decentralize and scatter across the globe. Yet, they remain linked by
enabling technologies. This has created vulnerabilities in their
networks—introducing communications and logistics challenges. But it has
also increased the burden on the global counterterrorism community to
detect threats emanating from a wider range of locations where the
thrust of our effort has not previously been focused.

This key trend is enabled by another—terrorists’ growing use of
encrypted communications platforms.  Although these technologies serve
the vital purpose of protecting the privacy of our citizens online and
safeguarding journalists, dissidents, and vulnerable people around the
world, they also complicate the work of law enforcement in identifying
and holding accountable those using these platforms to do us harm.  This
tension will become more acute as technologies evolve.

Another defining event—the killing of Soleimani in 2020—has added a new
dimension to the Homeland threat landscape.  Iran’s Islamic
Revolutionary Guard Corps, known to most of us as the IRGC, seeks to
target former U.S. officials that it deems responsible for Soleimani’s
death.  In addition, they continue plotting attacks against dissidents
in the United States.  This is a persistent reality that we are
confronting and disrupting.

A third trend I will discuss is perhaps the most fundamental threat our
nation faces—which is a growing normalization of violence—brought into
stark relief in the wake of defining events like January 6th and
domestic terrorism attacks in places like El Paso, Buffalo, Pittsburgh,
Poway, Colorado Springs, and Charleston.

Racially or ethnically motivated violent extremism and anti-government
or anti-authority violent extremism are on the rise. Due to the
proliferation of these ideologies online, they are reaching a growing
number of mostly young people who are influenced to believe that
violence is an acceptable response to ideological and political
grievances.

And as this threat evolves online, we have seen its “domestic”
dimensions become increasingly global. Successful attackers in the
Homeland have drawn inspiration from those overseas who espouse the
“great replacement theory.”

Earlier this week the FBI and Department of Justice arrested and charged
two leaders of the Terrorgram collective in the United States.  These
individuals created a global community of white supremacists to
communicate online with like-minded individuals, disseminate violent
propaganda, and encourage violent attacks on minority communities and
government officials.

**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Approach**

So—in this increasingly interconnected world, where borders matter less,
and global communities form and draw oxygen online, we have to tackle
both domestic and international threats simultaneously—not as distinct
categories, though always with legal authorities and tools. 

Since day one, the Biden-Harris Administration has pursued a rigorously
calibrated, integrated approach to countering foreign and domestic
terrorism threats that is aligned with our values and complementary to
our broader national security interests. We have done this by crafting
and implementing strategies that focus our system on addressing the
threats of today while being flexible and creative enough to adapt to
emerging threats for which there may be no evident precedent.

First, I’ll cover this in the overseas context, and then I’ll describe
our work domestically.

**Addressing terrorism overseas**

Our approach to countering foreign terrorist organizations was codified
in the National Security Memorandum to Counter International Terrorism
Threats, called NSM-13.  The guiding principles of the policy include:
focusing on the most acute threats to the United States; investing in
our partnerships; promoting civilian-led, nonlethal approaches wherever
possible; and executing the counterterrorism mission in a manner
consistent with U.S. values.

I previewed this policy in a speech to the Atlantic Council in September
2021, and today I’ll describe three years later the real progress we
have made in realizing its objectives—and also be candid about the
unfinished business that we all have to do going forward.

I’ll make three points about the ways in which we have implemented this
approach.

First—when necessary to protect the Homeland, the President has directed
decisive action to protect Americans from terrorists who seek to harm us
at home or elsewhere.

-   In February 2022—a ground raid resulted in the death of ISIS’s emir
    and his deputy in Syria.

<!-- -->

-   In July 2022, an airstrike removed al-Qa’ida’s overall leader in
    Afghanistan.    

<!-- -->

-   In January 2023, a raid resulted in the death of a key operative and
    facilitator for ISIS’s global network in Somalia.

<!-- -->

-   And, most recently in late August, an airstrike killed the emir of
    Hurras al-Din—al Qaida’s associated force in Syria.

These examples represent only a narrow slice of our counterterrorism
work. This is by design. We have generally reserved our use of our
direct-action capabilities for only those circumstances in which other
options are unavailable, the impact is substantial, and the risk of
civilian casualties can be minimized.  This issue is of paramount
importance to President Biden.

The second dimension of our approach—is the work we do with
international partners.  These efforts reach every corner of the globe
and represent a much wider share of our counterterrorism efforts than
direct action. 

We work with Five Eyes and European partners to prevent and disrupt
threats in the West, benefitting from their unique capabilities and
accesses to develop a shared intelligence and operational picture.  As
just one recent example, the United States shared information with
Austrian partners to enable the disruption of a threat to Taylor Swift’s
concerts in Vienna.  And we cooperated closely with France and other
partners to enable safe Olympic and Paralympic Games in Paris for
athletes and spectators from around the world. 

This extends well beyond Europe to partners in Africa, the Middle East,
Europe, and Asia.

This leads to my third point—We have been agile enough to pursue these
threats whenever and wherever they emerge because we have
reconceptualized our global counterterrorism footprint to align it with
the principal threats we face.

In August 2021, President Biden made the difficult decision to end the
war in Afghanistan.  We continue to mourn those who lost their lives
over the two decades of our presence and in the terrorist attack on
Abbey Gate.  But it is because President Biden understands what it means
to ask Americans to put their lives on the line that he was unwilling to
send another generation to fight in a war that he believed should have
ended long ago.  

This enabled us to redirect our resources to confront the current
threats we face, not historic ones.  The Intelligence Community assesses
that Al-Qa’ida is weaker today than it was in 2001 or 2021.

In the 36 months since we withdrew, we have continued to implement a
whole-of-government approach to ensure that Afghanistan does not once
again become a haven for terrorists to freely operate and plot attacks
against the United States or our allies. 

Core to this approach is retaining the capability to address threats
from over the horizon, most notably exercised with the removal of the
world’s most wanted terrorist, Ayman al-Zawahiri, in downtown Kabul 11
months after our withdrawal.  Another component of the over-the-horizon
approach is building the counterterrorism law enforcement and military
capacity of South and Central Asian partners to address the threat in
their neighborhoods. 

Many of you as experts will be tracking this evolution – but for some,
it may be novel. The most salient threat emanating from the region today
is not from Al Qa’ida, but from ISIS-Khorasan.  In countering it we have
mobilized a coordinated international effort to raise awareness of and
share information about the threat—including with Russia, Iran—and even
the Taliban.  This intelligence sharing has enabled us to catalyze
individual and collective action to disrupt the threat ISIS-K poses.

Let me briefly mention several other regions.

In Iraq and Syria, our forces are operating alongside Iraqi and Syrian
Kuridsh-led partners to aggressively suppress threats to our interests,
prevent ISIS from rebuilding its so-called caliphate, and ensure that
the remnants of al-Qa‘ida cannot threaten our Homeland and allies.

In two weeks, I will participate in the 10th Anniversary of the Defeat
ISIS Coalition Ministerial in Washington.  Over 90 nations and
organizations will be present as we discuss the evolution of operations
in Iraq to address the evolving threat, and the work that is still to be
done in Syria.

This includes encouraging countries to repatriate their nationals who
traveled to Syria to join ISIS and are now being held in prison or
living in refugee camps.  Since we began this process, we have assisted
nations with bringing home over 12,000 of their citizens from the Syrian
desert.

However, the threat remains. The population in these prisons and camps
is over 50,000 and provides ISIS with a ready reserve cadre and a
breeding ground for its next generation of terrorists.  This threatens
to undermine the hard-fought progress we have made against ISIS since
dismantling its physical caliphate and must be an area of intensive
focus moving forward. 

In Africa, President Biden recommitted to a persistent military presence
in Somalia, to provide consistent support to Somali partners who are
bravely struggling to resist al-Qa‘ida’s largest and wealthiest
affiliate, al-Shabaab. 

Our counterterrorism efforts in Somalia are ongoing, and they underscore
the reality that this work is hard, and it requires continuous
reassessment.  There are limits to what our partners can achieve, even
with U.S. assistance.  Nevertheless, modest investments in carefully
chosen partners can pay dividends for the security of our citizens at
home and abroad and, over time, help countries to resist further
destabilization by terrorist groups.

These commitments must be conditioned on the severity of the threat to
the United States and firmly rooted in the consent of our partners. And
we must be clear-eyed when those conditions change.

For example, last summer in Niger, an unanticipated and unconstitutional
transition of power overthrew a democratically elected government and
rapidly upended a counterterrorism partnership we had worked for the
last decade to build. Niger had provided relative stability in a tough
neighborhood, but pernicious forces eroded trust in its government.

As a result, Sunday, September 15, is the deadline before which we will
have withdrawn all U.S. troops from Niger. The Department of Defense is
working to establish a more geographically diverse set of
counterterrorism relationships Central in West Africa, in order to help
vulnerable partners who are facing rapid expansion of ISIS and
al-Qa‘ida-aligned groups.

**Confronting terrorism at home**

Now I want to shift to our work at home. As we have worked to counter
the threat overseas, a dynamic global threat environment reverberates
here in the United States. This is especially true in the post-October
7th landscape, in which we have seen an increase in domestic hate crimes
and credible threats. 

We have met the dynamism of the threat by driving unprecedented
cooperation between our intelligence and law enforcement communities to
identify and counter specific threats when they have emerged. Just last
week, the Department of Justice announced criminal charges against a
Pakistani national arrested in Canada who was planning to travel to New
York City to attack a Jewish Community Center on the anniversary of
October 7th.

Behind each headline about a threat or arrest, there are many dedicated
law enforcement and intelligence professionals harnessing the full force
of the U.S. counterterrorism enterprise and our partnerships around the
world to disrupt and hold accountable those who seek to do us harm.

This spring, as a result of extraordinary cooperation across the U.S.
Government, we identified, located, and disrupted eight individuals with
potential ties to ISIS.  Our law enforcement professionals took swift
and effective action to reduce any possible threat associated with these
individuals. This disruption was enabled by cooperation among DOJ, the
FBI, DHS, the National Counterterrorism Center, and other elements of
the intelligence community. 

My point is that our adversaries are dynamic, which requires us to be
even more dynamic. The systems we have built and refined since 9/11 to
keep the Homeland safe are working, and we have also continued to
innovate based on what we have learned and how the threats are evolving.

Key to that is ensuring that our tools are honed to meet the challenges
of today and of tomorrow.

To that end, we worked with Congress to renew and reform Section 702 of
the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act—one of the United States’ most
vital intelligence collection tools. This gives us essential authority
to understand and prevent a wide range of dangerous threats to
Americans, while protecting privacy and civil liberties. 

In addition, where we have identified gaps in the authorities required
to protect Americans in an evolving threat landscape, we have pushed to
close them. For example, recognizing the growing threat from the use of
Unmanned Aerial Systems by our adversaries—including terrorists—we have
been working since 2022 to persuade our partners on the Hill to pass a
legislative proposal to enhance our domestic defenses against the
pernicious use of this proliferating capability.

In parallel with those tireless efforts to thwart foreign terrorist
groups using all available tools, we have been determined to counter
domestic terrorism using different tools that are consistent with our
laws and values.  This is built on the President’s core belief that
domestic terrorism strikes at the very foundation of our democracy.

On his first day in office, President Biden directed me to lead a
100-day comprehensive review of U.S. Government efforts to address
domestic terrorism.  This led to our release of the first-ever National
Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism.

Since the launch of the Strategy in June 2021, we have deepened our
understanding of domestic terrorism and taken concrete actions to
counter it by increasing information sharing, expanding prevention
efforts, enhancing disruption and deterrence, and confronting the
long-term drivers.

First—We have made prevention a core element of our strategic approach
and prioritized support for state-led efforts to prevent acts of
targeted violence and terrorism.  For example, following the tragic
terror attack on the Tops Market in Buffalo, the Department of Homeland
Security rapidly ramped up support to New York State to build out a
statewide prevention capability.  This program has already seen 1,200
requests for assistance, has stopped terror plots well before any harm
came to the community, and is serving as a model for others.

Second—We have prioritized domestic terrorism-related investigations and
prosecutions at the Federal, state, and local levels.  From 2020 to
2022, the number of FBI domestic violent extremism and domestic
terrorism investigations more than doubled, with the FBI indicating it
has more than 2,700 open investigations on domestic violent extremists. 
In support of the strategy, the Department of Justice created a specific
domestic terrorism unit within its National Security Division to handle
these investigations and prosecutions.

Third—We have also significantly expanded cooperation with foreign
partners to identify and address the transnational dimensions of the
threat posed by racially or ethnically motivated violent extremists,
which have become global in nature and in reach.

And fourth—we have continued to build up efforts to address targeted and
hate-fueled violence that so often catalyzes individuals to domestic
terrorism.  These actions have proven especially important in the
post-October 7th landscape, in which we have faced a substantial rise in
hate crimes and violent acts targeting Jewish, Muslim, Arab and other
Americans.

In 2022, President Biden hosted the United We Stand Summit that
mobilized communities across the country to make commitments towards
advancing an inclusive and bipartisan vision for a more united America.

That led to an ongoing effort that I co-lead with the White House
Domestic Policy Advisor to craft a whole of society approach to address
Antisemitism, Islamophobia and related forms of bias and discrimination.
This effort resulted in the release in May 2023 of the
first-ever U.S. National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, which we have
worked to implement and adapt as threats have evolved. 

Currently, we are finalizing a national strategy to counter Islamophobia
and related forms of hate.  This work will continue as we deal with the
far-reaching implications of October 7th.

**Lessons Learned for the Future**

These nearly four years have confirmed that the terrorism threat will
persist and that it will not remain static.  Given our zero tolerance
for a terror attack at scale in the homeland or against Americans
overseas, this is a no fail mission for many across the Federal system
and our state and local partners—from the intelligence community, to our
operating agencies, to law enforcement at all levels.

We must continue to be resilient, nimble and flexible to respond quickly
to emerging trends. We need the resources and tools that support that
kind of resilience and agility. And our approaches must be built on the
humility to test our assumptions and change course when circumstances
require it or our efforts prove inadequate.

The three ingredients to build a sustainable, nimble, and creative
approach to counterterrorism are enduring—1) an unwavering commitment to
our values; 2) trusted partnerships and convening power to bring the
world together to solve the hardest problems; and 3) the talent of
dedicated public servants who work 24/7, 365 days a year to keep our
nation safe from harm. We must continue to invest in and nurture each
dimension, and in doing so we will ensure that America is prepared to
tackle the evolving terrorism threat well into the future.

Before I close, I will make one final point that broadens the frame.

In heeding these lessons learned from twenty-three years in the fight
against terrorism since 9/11, we have positioned ourselves to tackle new
transnational challenges with the same commitment to information
sharing; operational disruption; and international partnerships. 

There is no challenge more urgent in the Homeland than countering
illicit fentanyl that is driving overdose deaths like a weapon of mass
destruction.

In July, President Biden issued a National Security Memorandum that
declared fentanyl-related deaths a national security threat.

In practice, this transforms how our government will approach the
synthetic opioid epidemic for years to come, breaking down silos between
law enforcement and intelligence that were a hallmark of post-9/11
reforms.

We are drawing lessons learned from detecting and disrupting terrorists
by pursuing a network-driven approach.

The policy also prioritizes collaboration with the private sector,
including express cargo shippers and social media platforms, to stop
fentanyl before it gets to our border, just as we have collaborated with
the private sector to share information about harmful terrorist content
online.

This builds domestically on what the Administration has done globally to
elevate this issue on the world stage, using trusted partnerships to
deliver life-saving disruption of the fentanyl supply chain.

In the coming weeks, the President will convene a summit of the Global
Coalition to Counter Synthetic Drug Threats—just as the Global Coalition
to Defeat ISIS launched under President Obama’s leadership in 2014.

We know from these experiences that we are stronger and more capable
when we come together in acknowledgment of a grave threat, unite the
tools and resources across our vast Government, and join forces with
partners overseas to tackle it. 

Those of you with decades of expertise in countering terrorism and
political violence—who have dedicated your lives to public service and
to fighting hate wherever it exists—are essential to our success.  Thank
you for what you do, and thank you to the Soufan Center for the
opportunity to speak to you today.

\###
