---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 17:40:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 17:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/30/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-event-celebrating-the-2024-u-s-olympic-and-paralympic-teams/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at an Event Celebrating the 2024 U.S. Olympic\
  \ and Paralympic\_Teams"
---
 
South Lawn

12:01 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello!  (Applause.)   
  
If I didn’t say this, my dad would come down from heaven and you know
what — (laughter): Please excuse my back while I’m speaking.  I
apologize.  (Laughter.)  
  
Folks, hello, Team USA!  (Applause.)  
  
You got a few fans out there on the South Lawn.  (Laughter.) 
(Applause.)  Yeah, let’s hear you.  (Applause.)  Let’s hear the South
Lawn.  (Applause.)  
  
Paul, thank you to the introduction.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  USA!  USA!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You got it, kid.  (Laughter.)  You got it.  
  
And, Paul, for your incredible courage.  Adrina, I thank you.  I
\[don’t\] doubt you’ll be representing Team USA one day as well.  I
think it’s going to happen.  
  
Paul, along with Torri, thank you for representing your fellow Olympians
and Paralympians.  But, Torri, let me say, this is not my house; this is
your house.  This is your house.  (Applause.)  That’s the God’s truth:
Team USA’s house.  (Applause.)  I’m just a temporary resident.  It’s
only a couple months left.  (Laughter.)  
  
But thank you to all your family and friends who support these
incredible athletes.   
  
Torri’s dad said it best, only in America — (applause) — only in America
do we believe anything is possible.  
  
I spent close to 100 hours alone with Xi Jinping of China.  He asked me
— when I was in the Tibetan Plateau with him, when I was vice president,
he said, “Can you define America for me?”  It’s the God’s truth.  And I
said, “Yes, in one word.”  He looked at me.  I said, “Possibilities.”  
  
We’re the only nation that thinks anything is possible when we di- — set
mind to do it.  That’s what all of you embody.  
  
On behalf of the entire nation and thousands of fans here today, thank
you.  Thank you for representing the very best of America. 
(Applause.)  
  
And because I’m president and I cause commotion when I go places —
(laugher) — they wouldn’t let me go the Olympics.  But I watched it
all.  Jill, my wife, went to the Olympics.  (Applause.)  Guess what?  I
was supposed to be introducing at the inauguration of the president of
Mexico, who is a fine woman — I’m going to be seeing her shortly — but I
said I’m staying here and meeting you guys.  (Applause.)  She’s going to
represent the United States.  She’s in Mexico.  (Laughs.)  
  
But she was able to say hi to many of you this morning before you left. 
I said, “Where were you this morning?  I was looking for you.”  She
said, “I was out saying hello to the Olympians.”  (Laughter.)  
  
Now, as you know, she led the U.S. delegation to Paris.  All she did
when she came back home — I mean this from the bottom of my heart — was
talk about how amazing you all are, talk about the amazing resilience,
the courage, and the commitment, and your loyalty to one another.  
  
My staff would have their TVs on watching you as I was trying to get
briefed on national security.  (Laughter.)  But in fairness, I had the
TV on in the Oval Office as well.  (Laughter.)  
  
We felt so much pride, and I’m honored to welcome 400 athletes from
(inaudible) — USA — Team USA today here at the capital.  (Applause.) 
Part of a nation so vast, so diverse, and so talented, it’s like no
other country on Earth.  
  
Two hundred and thirty total medals win — won at this year’s Olympic and
Paralympic Games to finish the top of overall medal count, period. 
(Applause.)  
  
When you competed, it wasn’t just you in the spotlight.  You re- — you
represented all the people who sacrificed for you, as was mentioned
earlier, just as you’ve sacrificed yourselves — early hours, long days,
intense training, sometimes overcoming extreme disappointment.  
  
For many of you, you hold down multiple jobs to fund your dreams.  
  
And, by the way, we need to do more to support all of our Team USA al- —
athletes.  (Applause.)  You’re parents.  You’re caretakers.  And 28 of
you have also worn a uniform representing our country and one of our
armed forces.  (Applause.)  
  
As your commander in chief, I say thank you for your service, wherever
the hell you are.  (Laughter and applause.)  We owe you.  That’s not
hyperbole.  We owe you.

Yes, you’ve sacrificed, but you look at — you have to look at who you
lift up.  Your families wept with joy, filled with pride.  Your
hometowns honor you.  And to your fellow Americans, most of whom have
never known — you’ve never known, you’ve become their heroes — their
heroes. 

How many stu- — how many parents talk to their kids who are having
difficulty and say, “You can do this.  You can overcome anything”?  I
think we underestimate how much you do, what incentives you provide for
people.  You know, they see you and they begin to believe in
themselves. 

And, by the way, I told her, when she’s president of the United States —
(laughter and applause) — and they say, “Joe Biden is in the waiting,”
she promised me she won’t say “Joe who?”  (Laughter.)

Whether this was your first time at the Games or the peak of a
distinguished career, your legacy is one of discipline, success, joy,
and loyalty to one another.  And that legacy is part of something bigger
than yourselves: It’s about your country, the greatest sports nation in
the history of the world.  (Applause.)

In the next few years, we get to showcase to the world from our own
backyard.  (Applause.) 

The World Cup in 2026, hosted by the United States of America. 
(Applause.) 

And the Los Angeles Summer Games in ‘28. (Applause.)  I won’t be
president.  They can’t stop me from going there then.  (Laughter.)  That
will include distinctly Amer- — distinctly American sports for the first
time: flag football, lacrosse — and making their return — baseball and
softball.  (Applause.) 

And the Salt Lake City Winter Games of 2034.  (Applause.)  It matters. 

Let me close with this.  Last May, I awarded the nation’s highest honor,
an Presidential Medal of Freedom, to the late Jim Thorpe.   
  
(Inaudible) hold for a moment, my grandfather, Ambrose Finnegan, was an
All-American in college at Santa Clara.  And he was — always talked
sports all the time in Scranton.  He always talked about Jim Thorpe.  I
mean it sincerely.  And why — why we didn’t pay enough attention, why we
didn’t honor one of the greatest la- — athletes in American history. 
The first Native American to win an Olympic gold medal; world record
settler in the — <s>settler</s> \[setter\] in the decathlon —
(applause); world-class football, baseball, and basketball player.  Put
simply, the greatest ever. 

And his legacy wasn’t just cemented by example of his power but by the
power of his example.  (Applause.)

He overcame vile racism and shameful bigotry, and he broke barriers. 
Just like his given name, Bright Path — that was his name, Bright Path —
he led a way for future generations. 

And now it’s your turn — your turn to take the torch from those before
you, to run the race to the fullest, and then pass the torch to those
who follow.  I know something about that. 

Look, folks, Kamala and I had a wonderful time leading this U.S. del- —
delegation. (Applause.) 

We know the power of sports to empi- — empower and bring us together. 

There’s nothing like the simple truth that’s already been stated: only
in America.  And it’s a great honor to represent our nation and to hear
those letters: USA.  USA.  USA.

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA! 

THE PRESIDENT:  I mean it.

Folks, I’ve never been more optimistic about our future, and I mean
that.  We just have to remember who the hell we are.  We’re the United
States of America.  (Applause.)  And I mean this from the bottom of my
heart: There is nothing we can’t do when we do it together — nothing.

God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you for all you’ve done.  (Applause.)

12:11 P.M. EDT
