---
date: '2024-09-20'
modified_time: 2024-09-20 18:39:10-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-20 18:39:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-atlanta-ga-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Atlanta,\_GA"
---
 
Cobb Energy Performing Arts Centre  
Atlanta, Georgia

3:21 P.M. EDT

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Can we please hear it for Dr. Reddick?  Please. 
(Applause.)

Please have a seat, everyone.  Please have a seat. 

It’s so good to be back in Atlanta.  Thank you all.  (Laughs.) 
(Applause.)  Thank you. 

You know, I — I just want to say —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible) to have you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Laughter.)

I just — I want to say about Dr. Reddick — you know, I — some of you may
have seen I did a — an event last night with Oprah Winfrey and —
(applause) — and that — it highlighted so many tragic stories, but it
also highlighted so many important issues, which is why everyone has
taken time out of your busy lives to be here this afternoon.  And it
highlighted the importance of a Dr. Reddick.  

AUDIENCE:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because the courage, Dr. Reddick, that you are
showing in the face of these arcane and immoral laws, to stand so
publicly and talk about your commitment to your oath and to the health
and well-being of people who need to be seen and treated with dignity is
so extraordinary. 

And I do believe, in moments of crisis, the world has a way of revealing
the heroes among us.  (Applause.)  And I would say, Dr. Reddick, you are
one of them.  Thank you very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you,
thank you, thank you. 

And thank you to all of the elected and community leaders who have
joined us today.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, everybody —
everybody who is here.

So, Georgia, the- — this election right here is a fight for the future. 
(Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for
freedom — for freedom. 

And we know, in America, freedom is not to be given.  It is not to be
bestowed.  It is ours by right.  (Applause.)  It is ours by right, and
that includes the fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make
decisions about her own body and not have her government telling her
what to do.  (Applause.)  Yes, we must trust women.

And we all know how we got here.  When Donald Trump was president, he
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court — the
court of Thurgood and RBG — with the intention that they would overturn
the protections of Roe v. Wade.  And as he intended, they did.

And now more than 20 states have Trump abortion bans — extremists that
have passed laws that criminalize health care providers, doctors and
nurses, and punish women.  In two states of those states, they provide
for prison for life — prison for life for health care providers for
simply providing reproductive care, the care they so earnestly and
rightly believe must be delivered.  All Trump abortion bans. 

And think about this: Many of these bans make no exception even for rape
and incest. 

Now, many of you know I started my career as a prosecutor specializing
in crimes of violence against women and children.  What many of you may
not know is why. 

So, when I was in high school, my best friend, I learned, was being
molested by her stepfather.  And I said to her, “Look, you’ve got to
come and stay with us.”  I called my mother.  She said, “Of course she
does.”  And she came and she stayed with us. 

And so, I made the decision early in my life that I wanted to do the
work that was about protecting the most vulnerable among us and doing
the work that was about giving them dignity in the process. 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so — well, thank everybody here for being here,
standing in solidarity around the importance of that.  (Applause.)

And so, I say to you, then, from that experience and from the work that
I’ve done, the idea that someone who survives a crime of violence to
their body — a violation of their body — would not have the right to
make a decision about what happens to their body next, that’s immoral. 
That’s immoral.

And let us agree, and I know we do: One does not have to abandon their
faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do.  (Applause.)

If she chooses — if she chooses, she will talk with her pastor, her
priest, her rabbi, her imam.  But it should not be the government or
Donald Trump telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)

And think about it — the stories that Dr. Reddick shares with us, the
stories we heard last night, the stories we’ve been hearing for two
years. 

One in three women in America lives in a state with a Trump abortion
ban.  This includes Georgia and every state in the South except
Virginia. 

Think about that when you also combine that with what we know has been
long-standing neglect around an issue like maternal mortality.  Think
about that when you compound that with what has been long-standing
neglect of women in communities with a lack of the adequate resources
they need for health care — prenatal, during their pregnancy,
postpartum.  Think about that. 

And these hypocrites want to start talking about “this is in the best
interest of women and children.”  (Applause.)  Well, where you been? 
Where you been — (applause) — when it comes to taking care of the women
and children of America?  Where you been? 

How dare they?  How dare they?  Come on. 

And — and we understand the impact of these bans and the horrific
reality that women and families — their husbands, their partners, their
parents, their children are facing as a consequence every single day. 

Since Roe was overturned, I have met women who were refused care during
a miscarriage — wanted to have a child, suffering a miscarriage.  I met
a woma- — a woman — I’ve actually met several who were turned away from
the emergency room.  One, at early stages after the Dobbs decision came
down, told me with tears — she was with her husband — about how only
when she developed ses- — sepsis did she receive emergency care.  Only
when she developed sepsis did she receive emergency care. 

And now we know that at least two women — and those are only the stories
we know — here in the state of Georgia died — died because of a Trump
abortion ban. 

One — and we heard about her story last night — a vibrant, 28-year-old
young woman.  She was ambitious.  You know, we — I talked with her
mother and her sisters about her, and they described such an
extraordinary life of a person.  She was excited.  She was working
hard.  She was a medical assistant.  She was going to nursing school,
raising her six-year-old son. 

She was really proud that she had finally worked so hard that she gained
the independence.  Her family was telling me that she was able to get an
apartment in a gated community with a pool for her son to play in.  She
was so proud, and she was headed to nursing school. 

And her name — and we will speak her name —

AUDIENCE:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Amber Nicole Thurman. 

AUDIENCE:  Amber Nicole Thurman.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Amber Nicole Thurman.

AUDIENCE:  Amber Nicole Thurman. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right. 

And she had her future all planned out, and it was her plan.  You know,
let’s understand — just take pause on that for a moment.  She had her
plan, what she wanted to do for her son, for herself, for their future. 
And so, when she discovered that she was pregnant, she decided she
wanted to have an abortion, but because of the Trump abortion ban here
in Georgia, she was forced to travel out of state to receive the health
care that she needed. 

But when she returned to Georgia, she needed additional care, so she
went to a hospital.  But, you see, under the Trump abortion ban, her
doctors could have faced up to a decade in prison for providing Amber
the care she needed. 

Understand what a law like this means.  Doctors have to wait until the
patient is at death’s door before they take action. 

You know, on the other side of my — you know, the — the other folks, th-
— Trump and his running mate, and they’ll talk about, (deepens voice)
“Oh, well, yeah, but I — you know, I — I do believe in the exception to
save the mother’s life.”  (Laughter.)  Okay.  All right.  Let’s break
that down.  Shall we? 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let’s break that down.  (Applause.)  Let’s break
that down. 

So, we’re saying that we’re going to create public policy that says that
a doctor, a health care provider, will only kick in to give the care
that somebody needs if they’re about to die? Think about what we are
saying right now.  You’re saying that good policy, logical policy, moral
policy, humane policy, is about saying that a health care provider will
only start providing that care when you’re about to die? 

And so, Amber waited 20 hours — 20 hours, excruciating hours — until
finally she was in enough physical distress that her doctors thought
they would be okay to treat her.  But it was too late.  She died of
sepsis.  And her last words to her mother — which her mother, as you
know, tears up and cries every time she speaks it — last words to her
mother, “Promise me you’ll take care of my son.” 

     So, I met last night and I spent time with Amber’s mother and her
sisters, and they spoke about Amber — a daughter, a sister, a mother —
with the deep love that you can imagine and how terribly they miss her. 
And their pain is heartbreaking.  It’s heartbreaking. 

 Amber’s mother, Shanette, told me that the word “preventable” is over
and over again in her head when she learned about how her child died —
the word “preventable.”  She cannot — she can’t stop thinking about the
word that they spoke to her.  It was “preventable.” 

Because, you see, medical experts have now determined that Amber’s death
was preventable.  And through the pain and the grief of her mother, who
courageously told her story, I promised her, as she has asked, that we
will make sure Amber is not just remembered as a statistic — (applause)
— that she will not just be remembered as a statistic, so that people
will know she was a mother and a daughter and a sister and that she was
loved and that she should be alive today — (applause) — and that she
should be alive today.

And many of us remember — there’s so many leaders here — from two years
ago when the Dobbs decision came down, we knew this could happen.  There
is a word “preventable,” and there is another word: predictable. 

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And the reality is for every story we hear of the
suffering under Trump abortion bans, there are so many other stories
we’re not hearing but where suffering is happening every day in our
country, an untold number of people suffering.

     Women who are also being made to feel as though they did something
wrong.  The judgment factor here is outrageous — being made as though to
feel as though they are criminals, as though they are alone. 

So, to those women, to those families, I say on behalf of what I believe
we all say: We see you, and you are not alone, and we are all here
standing with you.  (Applause.)  Standing with you.  You are not alone. 
You are not alone.  (Applause.)

So, Georgia —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We will not be silent.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We — and we will not be silent.

AUDIENCE:  We will not be silent.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we will not be silent.  But this is a health
care crisis. 

 AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This is a health care crisis, and Donald Trump is
the architect of this crisis.  He brags about overturning Roe v. Wade. 
In his own words, quote, “I did it, and I’m proud to have done it,” he
says.  He is proud. 

Proud that women are dying?  Proud that doctors and nurses could be
thrown in prison for administering care?  Proud that young women today
have fewer rights than their mothers and grandmothers? 

How dare he?  How dare he?

And in our debate last week — (laughter and applause).  Well, that was
fun.  (Laughs.) 

But — and I know everyone here paid attention to the words, though — the
words, right? 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: (Laughs.)  I’m trying to get another debate.  We’ll
see.  (Laughter.)

But in our debate last week, remember when he said: Everyone wanted Roe
v. Wade to be overturned.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  I don’t know where “everyone” is.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, exactly.  I don’t know where everyone is
either, because — (laughter and applause) — women have been arrested and
charged for miscarriages.  They didn’t want that. 

 AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I — I was speaking with a physician who is here,
who has, in her professional experience, been administering care to
girls.  And what we know is that 12- and 13-year-old survivors of
assault are being forced to carry a pregnancy to term.  They didn’t want
this. 

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And couples just trying to grow their family being
cut off in the middle of IVF treatments, they didn’t want this. 

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on that last point, you probably saw, this
week, for the second time, Republicans in the United States Senate
blocked a bill that would protect access to IVF treatment. 

Now, consider among the multitude of ironies the fact that, on the one
hand, these extremists want to tell women they don’t have the freedom to
end an unwanted pregnancy, and on the other hand, these extremists are
telling women and their partners they don’t have the freedom to start a
family.  Okay.  And they want to restrict access to contraception as
well.

And now Donald Trump says that he would personally cast his vote in
Florida, which is where he now lives, to support their extreme abortion
ban, just like the one that is here in Georgia.  And —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Felons can’t vote!  (Laughter and applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, that’s a whole different policy discussion
that we’ll have for another day.  (Laughter.)

But let’s understand, if he is — if he is elected again as president,
Donald Trump will go further.  (Applause.)  But we know what we’re up
against, and we must — we must speak of the stakes.  We must remind —
everybody here knows, but we got to remind our friends, our neighbors,
our coworkers: The stakes are so high. 

Because, if he is elected again, I am certain he will sign a national
abortion ban, which would outlaw abortion in every single state.  And he
would create a national anti-abortion coordinator — look at Project 2025
— and force states to report on women’s miscarriages and abortions. 
It’s right there.

I can’t believe they put that Project 2025 in writing.  (Laughter.)  I —
I — they — they put it — they literally put it in writing.  They bound
it.  (Laughter.)  They handed it out.  I mean, they are simply out of
their minds.  (Laughter and applause.)

And it’s clear that they just don’t trust women. 

AUDIENCE:  They don’t.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we trust women.  We trust women.  (Applause.)

And like Dr. Reddick said, when Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedoms, as president of the United States, I will so
proudly sign it back into law.  (Applause.)  I will so proudly sign it
into law.  Proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)

So, 46 days to go.  And let us remember that momentum on this and so
many issues — momentum is on our side.  (Applause.)

Let’s remember, since Roe was overturned, every time reproductive
freedom has been on the ballot — from Kansas to California to Kentucky;
in Michigan, Montana, Vermont, and Ohio — the people of America have
voted for freedom.  (Applause.)  The people of America have voted for
freedom — and not just by a little but by overwhelming margins, from
so-called red states to so-called blue states, providing and making
clear, also, this is not a partisan issue.  This is not a partisan
issue.  And it is proving that the voice of the people has been heard
and will be heard again — and will be heard again.  (Applause.)

So, 46 days to go in probably the most consequential election of our
lifetime. 

     And with that, then, today, I ask: Georgia, are you ready to make
your voices heard?  (Applause.)

     Do we trust women?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in reproductive freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.) 

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.) 

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)

     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

     Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you all for being here.  (Applause.)

                             END                3:44 P.M. EDT
