---
date: '2024-09-12'
modified_time: 2024-09-13 14:50:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-12 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-greensboro-nc/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Greensboro,\_NC"
---
 
Greensboro Coliseum  
Greensboro, North Carolina

6:30 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, North Carolina!  (Applause.)  Good
evening, Greensboro!  (Applause.)  Good evening.  (Applause.)

 Yeah, we’re doing this.  Yes, we’re doing this.  (Applause.)  We are
doing this.  (Applause.)

Good evening.  Oh, it’s good to be back in Greensboro.  Can we hear it
for Jazmin, please?  (Applause.)  I’ll tell you, when I hear our young
leaders such as Jazmin, I know the future of our country is so bright —
so bright — so bright.  (Applause.)

And it is so good to be back in Greensboro and to be with so many
leaders.  (Applause.)  Thank you, everybody.  Thank you. I want to thank
the incredible governor, Roy Cooper.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Your next
governor, Attorney General Josh Stein — (applause); Representative
Manning — (applause); Mayor Vaughan — (applause); the Council of State
candidates — (applause); and all the leaders with us today.

So, North Carolina, two nights ago, Donald Trump and I had our debate. 
(Applause.)  You watched it?  Did you watch it?  (Laughs.)

 And, look, I believe we owe it to have another debate, right? 
(Applause.)  We owe it to the voters.  Because here’s the thing, in this
election, what’s at stake could not be more important.

On Tuesday night, I talked about issues that I know matter to the
families across America, like bringing down the cost of living,
investing in America’s small businesses, protecting reproductive freedom
— (applause) — and keeping our nation safe and secure.  (Applause.)

But that’s not what we heard from Donald Trump.  Instead — you know, and
I called it at the beginning of the debate: It was the same old show —
same old, tired playbook we’ve heard for years, with no plan for how he
would address the needs of the American people.

Well, folks, look, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  Turn the
page.  I see you.  (Laughs.)

America is ready for a new way forward, and we are ready for a new
generation of leadership that is optimistic — optimistic about what we
can do for our country together.  (Applause.)

And that is why Democrats, Republicans, and independents are all
supporting our campaign, because we agree — we agree we have a duty as
citizens to put country above partisanship and defend our Constitution —
and defend our Constitution. 

And that is my pledge to you: I will always put country above party. 
From the courthouse to the White House, I have always fought for the
people.  (Applause.)  Always fought for the people.

From being a young courtroom prosecutor —

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, USA.  Go on.  (Applause.)

From being a young courtroom prosecutor in Oakland, California, I stood
up for women and children against predators who abused them. 
(Applause.) 

 As attorney general of California, I took on the big banks and
delivered $20 billion for middle-class families who faced foreclosure. 
(Applause.) 

 I stood up for veterans being sued — being scammed by big for-profit
colleges; for workers who were being cheated out of their wages — the
wages they were due; for seniors facing elder abuse.

 I will be a president for all Americans.  (Applause.)  And together —
together, we will build a brighter future for our nation.  Together.

 AUDIENCE MEMBER: (Inaudible.)

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we’re — all right, Nupe.  (Laughs.)

 We are going to build a future where we build what I call an
“opportunity economy” so every American has an opportunity to own a
home, to build wealth, to start a business.  (Applause.) 

And let me tell you, I love our small businesses.  Are there small
business leaders here?  Raise your hand.  (Applause.)  That’s right. 
That’s right.

 So, you know, growing up — growing up, my mother, she worked long
hours.  She often worked very long hours, my mother.  And so, my sister
Maya and I would go over to Ms. Shelton’s house. 

Now, Ms. Shelton, we called her our second mother.  She was the second
mother to us.  She actually was from Louisiana, and she would take care
of us in the evenings and on the weekends when my mother was working. 
And she was a small-business owner.

And let me tell you what I learned from being a young child about a
small-business owner, Ms. Shelton.  Our small-business owners, you are
business leaders and you are civic leaders.  You are community leaders. 
(Applause.)  You hire locally.  You mentor.  You are part of the fabric
of our communities.

And you, like Ms. Shelton, are the backbone of America’s economy —
(applause) — the backbone.

 So, I have a plan for you, and my plan is to give a $50,000 tax
deduction for start-up businesses.  (Applause.)  Because I understand
not everybody, like the person that was on the stage with me the other
night, gets handed $400 million on a silver platter and then files for
bankruptcy six times.  (Applause.)  Come on.  Come on.

 I know what — because, look, my mother, she worked hard, she saved up,
and it wasn’t until I was a teenager she was able to buy our first
home.  I know the challenges that Americans and working people and
families are having right now in terms of affordable housing.  And we
need to build more housing in America.  (Applause.)

 So, part of my plan — part of my vision for an opportunity economy is
we are going to cut red tape and work with the private sector to build 3
million new homes by the end of my first term.  (Applause.)

And I have a plan to lower the cost of living for America’s families on
everything from health care to groceries, including taking on price
gouging — (applause) — and those corporations when they take advantage
of people in need.

Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a tax cut. 
(Applause.)  Thousands of dollars of your hard-earned money will go back
in your pockets, including $6,000 during the first year of a child’s
life — (applause) — for young parents, knowing in that critical stage of
your child’s development, you might need a little help, not just to get
by but to get ahead.  (Applause.)

And I will always put the middle class and working families first.  I
know where I came from.  (Applause.)  I know where I came from.  I’m
clear about that.

Now, Donald Trump — well, he has a different plan.  Just google “Project
2025.” 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I see you have.  (Laughs.)

It is a detailed and dangerous blueprint for what he will do if he is
elected president.  Donald Trump will give billionaires massive cuts —
massive tax cuts and cut corporate taxes by over a trillion dollars —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — even as they pull down record profits. 

He intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he wants to impose what I call a “Trump sales
tax” on everyday basic necessities, which will cost the average American
family nearly $4,000 a year.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Some of the top economists in our country and in
the world have reviewed these plans.  Goldman Sachs, for example, has
said that my plan would grow our economy and his plan would shrink the
economy — (applause) — that his plan would reignite inflation and send
us into a recession by the middle of next year. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  On top of this — on top of this, Donald Trump
intends to end the Affordable Care Act. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Now, think about that.  Think about that.  Think —
we remember what it meant when insurance companies could deny you for a
preexisting condition.  Remember what that was? 

So, he wants to get rid of it.  And as he said in the debate, he made
clear he has no plan to replace it.  In fact — you remember? 
“Concept.”  (Laughter.)  Do you remember?  He has, quote, “concepts of a
plan.”  Concepts of a plan. 

I mean, we’re 54 days from this election.  “Concepts of a plan,” which
means no actual plan — (laughter) — which means no actual plan.

And 45 million Americans are insured through the Affordable Care Act. 
So, understand what that means.  He’s going to end it based on a concept
and take us back when folks were suffering.

Well, we’re not going back.  We are not going back.  We are not going
back.  (Applause.)

We’re not going back.  No, we’re not going back.

No, we — we, together, will move forward, because ours is a fight for
the future.  (Applause.)  And — and ours is a fight for freedom —
(applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to be able to make
decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her what
to do.  (Applause.)

And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three
members of the United States Supreme Court with the intention —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — with the intention that they would undo the
protections of Roe v. Wade — with the intention they would undo the
protections.  And they did exactly as he intended.  And now, more than
20 states have a Trump abortion ban, including North Carolina —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and every single state in the South except
Virginia, many with no exceptions even for rape and incest.  It is
immoral — immoral. 

And I know everyone here understands.  Let us agree: One does not have
to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government
should not be telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  Come
on.  Come on.

And when — and when he was asked on Tuesday night, Donald Trump refused
to say that he would veto a national abortion ban. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well — well, when Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom, as president of the United States, I will proudly
sign it into law — (applause) — proudly sign it into law.  We are not
playing around.

And across our nation, we are witnessing a full-on attack on hard-
fought, hard-won fundamental rights and freedoms, like the freedom to
vote; the freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause); the freedom
to breathe clean air and drink clean water — (applause); and the freedom
to love who you love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)

And here’s the thing that I know about all of the North Carolinian
leaders who are here.  You know this so well as part of your DNA. 
Generations of Americans before us led the fight for freedom. 
Generations of Americans before us, many from right here —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Get a medic!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — led the fight for freedom.  (Applause.)  
  
 AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Medic!  Medic!  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let’s get a medic.  Let’s get a medic.  
  
 Do we have a medic?  Get — no — let’s get a medic over there, please. 
Let’s get a medic a- — over there.   
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  But let’s make sure — see — see, this is who
we are.  We look out for each other.  That’s what leaders do: looking
out for each other.  (Applause.)  
  
Okay, we’ve got a medic.  Okay.  
  
So, generations of Americans before us led the fight for freedom, and
now the baton is in our hands.  (Applause.)  The baton is now in our
hands. 

And we who believe, then, in the sacred freedom to vote will finally
pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and the Freedom to Vote Act. 
(Applause.) 

And we who believe in the freedom to live safe from gun violence will
finally pass an assault weapons ban, universal background checks, and
red flag laws.  (Applause.)   
  
So much is on the line in this election —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  You got this, Kamala!  

THE VICE PRESIDENT:   And — we got this.  (Applause.)  We got this.  

But look — but look, here’s the thing.  This is not 2016 or 2020.  The
stakes are even higher, because two months ago, the United States
Supreme Court basically told the former president that he will
effectively be immune no matter what he does in the White House.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well — well, here’s the thing, the courts will take
care of that.  Let’s take care of November.  How about that? 
(Applause.)  All right?  (Laughs.)  
  
But imagine — imagine what that court ruling means.  Imagine what that
means.  Because before, there might have been at least the — the belief
that there would be the threat of consequence, but now there’s an
explicit ruling from the court that suggests he would be immune.   
  
 Imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.   
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Imagine what that would look like.  He who has
vowed, if reelected, he will be a dictator on day one.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He who called for the, quote, “termination” of the
Constitution of the United States.   
  
And let us be very clear: Someone who suggests that we should terminate
the Constitution of the United States should never again stand behind
the seal of the president of the United

States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again.  Never.  (Applause.)  
  
And put that all in the context of people who have been talking about
how he was when they served with him in the White House, people who saw
him every day — his national security advisor, his defense secretary,
his chief of staff, and his vice president — all — all of whom have
warned America Donald Trump is not fit to be president of the United
States — (applause) — and should never occupy our nation’s highest
office again.  
  
 So, North Carolina, I believe it all comes down to this.  We are here
together.  We are here together because we love our country.  We love
our country.  (Applause.)  And we together understand the awesome
responsibility that comes with the greatest privilege on Earth: the
privilege and pride of being an American.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s an awesome responsibility.   
      
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  That’s right.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I do believe — I do believe it is the highest
form of patriotism to fight for the ideals of our country and to fight
to realize the promise of America.  (Applause.)   
  
 And so, North Carolina, we have 54 days until Election Day — (applause)
— 54 days until Election Day and just 35 days until early voting
begins.  (Applause.)  
      
And it’s not only the presidency that’s on the ballot.  There are many,
many important races, like Josh Stein running for governor — (applause)
— whose — whose opponent — whose opponent was handpicked by Donald Trump
because he wants a total ban on abortion in this state.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that is just one of the many stakes that are at
play in this election.   
  
But see, we know the power is with the people.  The power is with the
people.  (Applause.)  Your voice is your vote, North Carolina. 
(Applause.)  And you are going to make all the difference in the outcome
of this race.   
  
And look, we know ours will be a very tight race until the very end.  We
are the underdog.  Let’s be clear about that.  We are the underdog.  And
so, we have hard work ahead of us, but we like hard work.  (Applause.) 
Hard work is good work.  Hard work is good work.  
  
And with your help, we will win.  We will win.  (Applause.)

  
 And so, I ask you today, North Carolina, are you ready to make your
voices heard?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in freedom?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in opportunity?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in the promise of America?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)

  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And are we ready to fight for it?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  There you
go. 

     God bless you.  And God bless America.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                  6:55 P.M. EDT
