---
date: '2024-09-17'
modified_time: 2024-09-18 12:21:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-17 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-conversation-with-the-national-association-of-black-journalists-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Conversation with the National Association\
  \ of Black Journalists | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
WHYY Studios

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

2:28 P.M. EDT

Q    Let’s meet our three moderators for today’s discussion.  Gerren
Keith Gaynor is the White House correspondent and managing editor of
politics for TheGrio.   Eugene Daniels is co-author of the Politico
Playbook and is Politico’s White House correspondent.  Tonya Mosley is
the co-host of NPR and WHYY’s “Fresh Air.”  (Applause.)

Q    Hello, everyone, and welcome.  We’re going to get right to it. 
Without further ado, Vice President Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)

Thank you. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  Good afternoon, everyone.

AUDIENCE:  Good afternoon.

Q    Madam Vice President, thank you so much for doing this and making
the time.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Of course.

Q    It’s a little bit busy right now.  We want to start on an issue
that Americans across the country say is their number one concern, and
that’s the economy. 

A question that has been asked of you and everybody that’s on the
Democratic side is whether or not voters are better off now than they
were four years ago.  Are they better off now than they were four years
ago?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, when we came into — well, first of all, let me
just say: It — it is good to be with the National Association of Black
Journalists, and I thank you for the work you do and that your members
do every day.  It is very important that we ensure that this
organization and your members always have the resources and the
platforms to deliver the voices that must be heard.  So, I thank you for
hosting me today. 

 Four years ago, when we came in, we came in during the worst
unemployment since the Great Depression.  We came in during the worst
public health epidemic in centuries.  We came in after the worst attack
on our democracy since the Civil War.  And a lot of it due, in large
part, to the mismanagement by the former president as it relates to
COVID and, obviously, January 6th.

And we had, then, a lot of work to do to clean up a mess.  As of today,
we have created over 16 million new jobs, over 800,000 new manufacturing
jobs.  We have the lowest Black unemployment rate in generations.  We
have invested in small businesses, and I’m — they’re — to the benefit of
many people but including Black small businesses — some of the highest
rate of creation of new Black small businesses in years.

We have done the work of capping the cost of prescription medication for
our seniors for issues like insulin.  And, again, I’m speaking to the
Black journalists who care about all people, but, in particular, I’ll
talk about the impact on Black people, where we know Black folks are 60
times more likely — 60 percent, excuse me, more likely to be diagnosed
with diabetes. 

 And we have now finally capped the cost of insulin for our seniors at
$35 a month, capped the cost of prescription medication for our seniors
at $2,000 a year, because we — unlike the former president, who promised
to do it, we finally have allowed Medicare to negotiate drug prices
against the big pharmaceutical companies.  And these are just some of
the accomplishments. 

 Is the price of groceries still too high?  Yes.  Do we have more work
to do?  Yes.

And I will tell you, I do believe that I offer a new generation of
leadership for our country that is about, in particular, turning the
page on an era that sadly has shown us attempts by some to incite fear,
to create division in our country, and to do the work that is about
bringing some level of optimism and, dare I say, ambition, about what I
know is possible in our country. 

And so, my plan for the economy includes what I imagine and believe and
call an “opportunity economy,” what we can do to grow an opportunity
economy where all people have access to the resources to compete, to
apply their incredible work ethic, their ambition, their aspirations,
and their dreams and actually not just get by but get ahead. 

And I can talk in more detail about it, but, specifically, I’ll mention
a few things. 

  Q    Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  One of the big issues that affects people right now
in terms of the economy and their economic well-being is we have a
shortage of housing supply.  It’s too expensive.  People can’t afford to
buy a home. 

 You know, we grew up, our parents, where they had the ability to
somehow believe the American dream was attainable.  Not so much for
younger working people.  And I recognize that. 

 So, my approach is a new approach, which is to say, let’s just take
this and deal with it head on.  And part of my approach is to say I’m
going to employ and — and en- — and engage the private sector — in
particular, homebuilders — with tax credits to give them the incentive
to create new housing — 3 million by the end of my first term.

 And understanding that not everybody is, you know, handed a silver
spoon but works hard and is trying to save up for a down payment, part
of my plan under my opportunity economy is to give first-time homebuyers
a $25,000 down payment assistance so they can just get their foot in the
door to be able to then engage in what will prove to be their
opportunity to build intergenerational wealth. 

 And here’s my personal experience coming at that: I grew up a
middle-class kid.  My mother was hardworking.  She raised me and my
sister, Maya.  She saved up, and it was only by the time I was a
teenager that she could afford to — to actually buy her first home.  And
I know and I identify with — I know where I come from.

     Q    Madam Vice President —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I know — but I’m just going to finish.  I know
that so many people work so hard and should have the opportunity to just
get their foot in the door.  Again, so it’s not just about getting by
but getting ahead. 

     Please. 

 Q    I’d like to ask you more about the opportunity economy.  Housing
is —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — a part of it, as well as expanding the Earned Income Tax Credit —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    — financial support, as you mentioned, for first-time buyers —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.

Q    — and a $50,000 tax deduction for start-ups and small businesses. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    But I want to talk to you about the squeeze that millions of
Americans are also dealing with that impacts their ability to work and
make money, and that is childcare —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — and eldercare.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    And it’s a squeeze for millions of people.  In some parts of the
country, it costs more for childcare than for rents.  I think Bloomberg
—

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

 Q    — recently reported an average of $33,000 a year.  So, I’m just
wondering: You mentioned that — in your opportunity economy, a Child Tax
Credit, but that’s just one part of an ecosystem. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Right.

 Q    Please tell us: What plans will you propose to guarantee that
families can actually afford childcare and eldercare? 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, to your point, it is — it is, sadly, the state
of affairs in our country that working people often have to decide to
either be able to work or be able to afford childcare.  Like, they can’t
afford childcare and actually do the work that they want to do because
it’s too expensive, and it doesn’t actually level out in terms of the
expense versus the income. 

My plan is that no family — no working family should pay more than 7
percent of their income in childcare, because I know that when you talk
about the return on that investment, allowing people to work, allowing
people to pursue their dreams in terms of how they want to work, where
they want to work benefits us all.  It strengthens the entire economy. 

We saw, for example, during the pandemic, what happened, and it sadly
has dissipated as a conversation that we need to resuscitate, which is
the number of women that had to leave the workforce because of a lack of
childcare and home health care.  And so many of our families — and, in
particular, women end up carrying the responsibility — men do too, of
course — of what — what we call people who are in — in the sandwich
generation —

  Q    Exactly.

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — who have young children and are also taking care
of their parents.  And it is just absolutely too expensive for them to
be able to work and do that.   
  
 So, my plan is not only about 7 percent of income for working people
for childcare, but also, we need to do better for our childcare
providers and our home health care providers, in terms of ensuring that
they receive the wages that they deserve based on the dignity of their
work.   
  
I have spent time with home health care providers, and their work is
some of the most taxing work you can imagine.  And I actually, when my
mother was sick with cancer, did a lot in terms of taking care of her. 

 And the — the work that is about taking care of a loved one — in
particular, an elder — is extraordinarily heavy in terms of the
emotional toll, the time it takes.  And — and we do it because that is
what we do.  But not everyone has the ability to take time from work to
do it, and they need help.  And we need to make sure we have home health
care workers that can help them.   
  
But I want to also get back to the earlier point that you made about
extending the Child Tax Credit.  So, part of my new approach is we need
to expand the Child Tax Credit.  And so, part of my plan that is under
an opportunity economy is to extend and expand the Child Tax Credit to
$6,000 so that young families, in particular, for the first year of
their child’s life, which is an extraordinarily important time in their
development, have the resources to be able to buy a crib, buy a car
seat, buy children’s clothing and not have to worry about whether
they’re going to be able to meet their other needs.   
  
And I will — I don’t need to remind anybody here, especially these —
these esteemed journalists — but when we expanded the Child Tax Credit a
couple years ago, we reduced Black child poverty by half. 

 And so, again, if you talk about the benefit and if you think about the
benefit to the economy overall, it strengthens our economy to do things
like pay attention to affordable childcare, affordable home health care,
and extending the Child Tax Credit.   
  
     Q    Madam Vice President, Black men, as you know, are a closely
watched voting bloc.  You’ve hosted Black men at your residence.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
     Q    You have engaged Black men and centered them in your Eco- —
Economic Opportunity Tour.  But polling shows that some Black men,
particularly young Black men, are considering voting for Donald Trump,
and they see him as better for the economy.  What is your message to
young Black male voters who feel left out of this economy?  And how can
your economic policies materially change their lives?  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I appreciate the spirit of the question.  But
I’ll tell you, I’ve often been asked this question in a way that I’ve
had to respond by first saying that I think it’s very important to not
operate from the assumption that Black men are in anybody’s pocket. 
Black men are like any other voting group.  You got to earn their
vote.   
  
 So, I’m working to earn the vote, not assuming I’m going to have it
because I am Black but because the policies and the perspectives I have
understands what we must do to recognize the needs of all communities,
and I intend to be a president for all people. 

 Specifically as it relates to what we need to do, to your point, around
economic opportunity, yes, I started — way before I was at the top of
the ticket and — what I called an Economic Opportunity Tour focused on
Black men, understanding that, for example, we have so many
entrepreneurs in the community who do not have access to capital, but
they’ve got great ideas, an incredible work ethic, the ambition, the
aspiration, the dream but don’t have the relationships, necessarily.   
  
 So, my work has included, as vice president, getting billions more
dollars into community banks, including working with the big banks to do
that so that we can increase access to capital for our small businesses,
for our start-ups.   
  
 Part of my plan, under my economic opportunity plan going forward, is
that right now start-up entrepreneurs, small businesses only get a tax
deduction of $5,000.  Nobody can start a small business with $5,000. 
So, I’m expanding that to $50,000, understanding, again, that when
people have the opportunity to have the resources to get started,
they’re going to put the good ideas, they’re going to put the hard work
into it.   
  
 And part of what I also know is that our young Black men, our Black
men, just like any group of people, anybody — our small businesses are
really the — the backbone of our economy overall.  And when they do
better economically, we all do better.   
  
 Part of my work is about understanding what we need to do in dealing
with, for example, the historic inequities that have faced the Black
community around homeownership.  Right?  I don’t have to go through the
history with anybody here about what that has meant in terms of
redlining, what that has meant in terms of biases in home appraisals,
and what that — the impact it has had on stemming the opportunity to
build intergenerational wealth because of those obstacles.   
  
  So, part of the work that I have done and will continue to do is
identify, speak truth about those obstacles, and address them.   
  
 Another example is medical debt.  One in four Black families or
individuals is more likely to carry medical debt than others.  So, part
of my perspective and, as vice president, part of the work that we have
done is to say that we’re going to eliminate medical debt from being on
your credit score.  Because, until now, medical debt worked against your
credit score.  And, you know, people know their me- — their credit score
like you know your weight.  Right?  You know that number.   
  
  And the difference between what that number is and what it needs to be
is the difference between you being able to get a can loan, a small
business loan, or even a lease in an — on an apartment.  And so, part of
my approach is understanding the obstacles that traditionally and
currently exist to allow anyone, including Black men, be able to achieve
economic wealth.   
  
And I’mma tell you, I don’t think it is sufficient to just only talk
about economic policy around reducing unemployment.  It is an important
marker, and I’m proud of the work that we’ve done thus far, but it
should be a baseline that everybody’s working.   
  
 The point is: Do people have an opportunity to build wealth if that’s
what they choose to do, if that’s what they want to do?  And a lot of my
perspective as we go forward is just that.  
  
 I believe that there are a lot of opportunities that are available to
the American people if we just see — if we see people and understand
what they want for themselves and their families, and then meet them
where they are.   
  
 Q    Madam Vice President, I want to switch gears a little bit and talk
about the war in Gaza.  You’ve called for a ceasefire hostage deal and a
two-state solution as an end to the war for many months now.  And while
you’ve expressed support for Israel to defend itself, a two-state
solution and a ceasefire are at odds with what Benjamin Netanyahu has
said is their right to defense.   
  
  If it matters, as you say, how Israel defends itself, where do you see
the line between aggression and defense and our power as Israel’s ally
to — to do something?   
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  A lot to unpack in what you just said, so
let’s start with this.

I absolutely believe that this war has to end, and it has to end as soon
as possible, and the way that will be achieved is by getting a hostage
deal and a ceasefire deal done.  And we are working around the clock to
achieve that end.   
  
Stepping back, October 7, 1,200 Israelis were slaughtered — and actually
— and some Americans, by the way, in that number, slaughtered — young
people who were attending a — a concert.  Women were horribly raped. 

 And, yes, so I have said Israel has a right to defend itself.  We
would.  And —  
  
 Q    But, Madam Vice President —  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But n- — but let me finish —  
  
 Q    — I think my ask is the —  
  
 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, no, let me finish.  
  
 Q    — difference between aggression and defense here.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, but it’s important to put it in context, which
is what I’m doing, and I’ll get to that.

 And so, how it does so matters. And far too many innocent Palestinians
have been killed — women and children. We have seen with horror the
images coming out of Gaza. And we have to take that seriously. And we
have to agree that not only must we end this war, but we have to have a
goal of a two-state solution, because there must be stability and peace
in that reason \[region\] inasmuch as what we do in our goal is to
ensure that Israelis have security and Palestinians, in equal measure,
have security, have self-determination, and dignity.

 Q    A question for you on that, though: What levers does the U.S. have
to support Palestinians in their right to self-determination?  And is it
even possible as Israel’s ally?

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, absolutely.  I’m — I — I will tell you, I
have been actively involved in, for example, meeting not only with
Israeli officials but with Arab officials to

talk about how we can construct a day-after scenario where we
participate in ensuring those exact goals that I outlined, including, as
part of the principles that should be applied to those goals, that there
be no reoccupation of Gaza, that there be no changing of the territorial
lines in Gaza, that there be a — an ability to have security in the
region for all concerned in a way that we create stability — and let’s —
let us also recognize, in a way that ensures that Iran is not empowered
in this whole scenario in terms of the peace and stability of the
region.

But absolutely, the U- — the — the United States of America absolutely
has a role, which is why we have been active, in particular, with the
Qataris and the Egyptians around attempting to get a deal done and get
it done as quickly as possible.

Q    Madam Vice President, just to — to follow up really quickly.  Is
there a specific policy change that you, as vi- — as president of the
United States, would say you would do that would help this along? 
Because, you know, you’ve gotten a lot of credit for emphasizing the
humanity of Palestinians.  But what I often hear from folks is that
there’s no policy change that would — that — that either you or the
president — President Biden have gone and said they would do.

Is there a specific policy change, as president, that you would do in
our helping of Israel —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need to get —

Q    — in this war?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — this deal done, and we need to get it done
immediately — 

Q    But in the way that —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and that is my position, and that is my policy. 
We need to get this deal done.

Q    But in the way that we send weapons, in the way that we interact as
their ally, are there specific policy changes?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, Eugene, for example, one of the things that
we have done that I am co- — entirely supportive of is the pause that
we’ve put on the 2,000-pound bombs.  And so, there is some leverage that
we have had and used.

But ultimately, the thing that is going to unlock everything else in
that region is getting this deal done.  And I can — I’m not going to
disclose private conversations, but I will tell you I’ve had direct
conversations with the prime minister, with the president of Israel,
with Egyptian leaders, and with our allies.  And I think we’ve made
ourselves very clear: This deal needs to get done in the bent- — best
interest of everyone in the region, including getting those hostages
out, who — I mean, we saw the — the latest example of what happened with
the — the six most recently, one of whom was an American citizen.

Q    But what do you say to those that say that’s not enough, that
stopping the 2,000-pound bombs the one time wasn’t enough, that this
administration and your possible administration has to do more?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are doing the work of putting the pressure
on all parties involved to get the deal done.  But let me be very clear,
also: I support Israel’s ability to defend itself, and I support the
need for Palestinians to have dignity, self-determination, and security
as we move forward and get a two-state deal done. 

But right now, the thing we need to get done is this hostage deal and
the ceasefire deal.  We need a ceasefire.  We need the hostage deal.

 Q    I want to switch gears to racial justice, Madam Vice President. 
Last month, you eulogized Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    Jackson Lee’s signature bill, one of a few, was H.R.40, which would
create a commission to study the history of U.S. slavery and study the
issue of reparations.  She introduced H.R.40 every session of Congress,
taking up the mantle from Congressman John Conyers.  This is a bill that
you have cosponsored as a U.S. senator. 

Yet this has — despite the fact that this has been sir- — similar
commissions have been created on the state level and on the local level,
it’s yet to pass in Congress, let alone come out of committee. 
Congresswoman Jackson Lee, Congresswoman Barbara Lee, and other
advocates have called for President Biden to take executive action to
ins- — to take — to create this commission.  Would you, as president,
take executive action to create this commission, or do you believe that
it should happen in Congress?

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I just — as you mentioned,
Sheila Jackson Lee — she was an extraordinary leader, who we just
recently lost, and — and she was a friend and a real champion for so
many issues.  So, I feel compelled to say that about her.

On the issue of what we need to do going forward.  Look, first of all,
we just need to speak truth about history, in spite of the fact that
some people would try and erase history and try and teach our children
otherwise.  We need to speak truth about the generational impact of our
history, in terms of the generational impact of slavery, the
generational impact of — of redlining, of Jim Crow law- — I could go on
and on and on.

     These are facts that have had impact, and we need to — we need to
speak truth about it, and we need to speak truth about it in a way that
is about driving solutions.

     And frankly, I think that we — you know, and part of that is — is
studying it to figure out exactly what we need to do.  But part of what
we can do right now is, for example, what I’m talking about in terms of
building an opportunity economy, which is addressing explicitly the
obstacles that historically and currently exist and dealing with them:
student loan debt; medical debt; bias in home appraisals; what we need
to do in terms of dealing with an issue that I have championed for
years, Black maternal mortality, which is the fact that Black women are
three to four times more likely to die in connection with childbirth
than other women, and we know that the reasons for that include
disparities that preexist her pregnancy, including disparities that
exist in the system during her pregnancy. 

     So, all of those things must be addressed.

     Q    Do you have a position on whether that should happen — this
commission should happen through executive order or via Congress?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I — I think Congress ultimately will have the
ability to do this work.  I’m not discounting the importance of — of any
executive action.  But ultimately, Congress — because if you’re going to
talk about it in any substantial way, there will be hearings, there will
be

a level of public education and dialogue that — and I think that was
part of the — the spirit behind the congressional action thus far, to
ensure that everyone can participate in this conversation in a way that
elevates knowledge about history and the reference points that have —
that are the impetus of this conversation.

     Q    Madam Vice Pre- —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Especially, again, when people are trying to
deny history; when people — our, you know, so-called leaders are saying
that enslaved people benefited from slavery.  I mean, let’s talk about
the delta here in terms of the work that needs to be done.  It’s
profound.

Q    Madam Vice President, I want to move to Springfield, Ohio, and
what’s happening there. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    We’ve seen school closures —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — parents worried about their kids leaving the home because of
racist conspiracy theories that I won’t repeat here.  But they have been
repeated by leaders on the Republican side: President Trump, vice
president- — excuse me, former President Trump, vice — (laughs) — and
vice-presidential nominee J.D. Vance.

From your perspective, is this just a case of irredeemable racism that
can’t be mitigated by any rational action, or is this a situation in
which a federal response could help this community heal?  Is it a
question of resources and —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, n- — I — I’ll let you finish, and then I’ll
speak. 

Q    No, please.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s a crying shame.  I mean, my heart breaks for
this community.  You know, there were children — elementary school
children who it was — it was school photo day — you remember what that’s
like, going to school on picture day? — who were dressed up in their
best, got all ready, knew what they were going to wear the night before,
and had to be evacuated.  Children.  Children.  A whole community put in
fear.

And I’ll say a couple things about it.  One, you know, I learned a long
time ago in my career, having a background as a prosecutor, when you
have these positions, when you have that kind of microphone in front of
you, you really ought to understand at a very deep level how much your
words have meaning.  I learned at a very young stage of my career

that the meaning of my words could impact whether somebody was free or
in prison. 

As attorney general, I was — of California, the fifth largest economy in
the world — I was acutely aware that my words could move markets. 

When you are bestowed with a microphone that is that big,

there is a profound responsibility that comes with that that is an
extension of what should not be lost in this moment, this concept of the
public trust, to then understand what the public trust means.  It means
that you have been invested with trust to be responsible in the way you
use your words, much less how you conduct yourself — and especially when
you have been and then seek to be again president of the United States
of America.

And so, I go back to it’s a crying shame, literally, what’s happening to
those families, those children in that community, not to mention what is
happening in terms of — look, you say you care about law enforcement —
law enforcement resources being put into this because of these serious
threats that are being issued against a community that is living a
productive, good life before this happened, and — and spewing lies that
are grounded in tropes that are age-old.

And, look, I said it not very far from here the other day at the
debate.  This is not new.  This is not new in terms of these tropes. 
This is not new in terms of where it’s coming from.

And, you know, whether it is refusing to rent to people, rent to Black
families; whether it is taking out a full-page ad in The New York Times
against five innocent Black and Latino teenagers, the Central Park Five,
calling for their execution; whether it is referring to the first Black
president of the United States with a lie, birther lies —

And, look, the American people deserve and, I do believe, want better
than this.  I do believe that.  I know — I know the vast majority of us
as Americans know we have so much more in common than what separates
us.  I know that.  I know that regardless of someone’s background, their
race, their gender, their geographic location — I know that people are
deeply troubled by what is happening to that community in Springfield,
Ohio.  And it’s got to stop. 

And we’ve got to say that you cannot be entrusted

with standing behind the seal of the president of the United States of
America engaging in that hateful rhetoric that, as usual, is designed to
divide us as a country, is designed to have people pointing fingers at
each other.  It’s designed to do that.

And I think most people in our country, regardless of their race, are
starting to see through this nonsense and — and to say, “You know what? 
Let’s turn the page on this.”  This is exhausting and it’s harmful and
it’s hateful and — and grounded in some age-old stuff that we should not
have the tolerance for.

So, let’s turn the page and chart a new way forward and say, “You can’t
have that microphone again.”

Q    Madam Vice President, I’m switching gears again.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.

Q    Quick question.  I want to talk to you about gun control. 

So, you’ve said you support an assault weapons ban and universal
background checks.  And we actually learned during the debate that you
are a gun owner.  But in cities like Philadelphia, handguns are
responsible for most homicides and violent crime.  The most recent FBI
data shows handguns were involved in 59 percent of murders in our
country. 

How will you address the issue of the use of handguns?  Because a push
for an assault weapons ban only addresses a significant but small part
of the problem.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first of all, yes, I am a gun owner.  And Tim
Walz is a gun owner.  And we’re not trying to take anybody’s guns away
from them.  But we do need an assault weapons ban. 

Assault weapons are designed to kill a lot of human beings quickly and
have no place —

Q    I ask an assault weapons ban — yes.   

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and have no pla- — I’m going to get to it.

Q    Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And have no place on the streets of a civil
society. 

We need universal background checks, which, to your point about
handguns, is about saying that it is just reasonable to want reasonable
gun safety laws that say we should do background checks, that we ought
to know — it’s just reasonable — you might want to know, before someone
can buy a lethal weapon, if they’ve been found by a court to be a danger
to themselves or others.  You might just want to know.  And then un- —

Q    And, respectfully, we do understand that.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But you —

Q    Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You’re asking about — you’re asking —

Q    I’m asking specifically about handguns, because many of those
handguns are purchased in places —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Universal background checks —

Q    Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — apply to handguns.

Q    Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  They do.  And —

Q    But in many instances, those handguns aren’t even bought lawfully,
yes. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Which is why I also have been very adamant for
years — in fact, I myself protested at a gun show probably 10, 15 years
ago about the gun show loophole and why we need to close that.  Because
what ends up happening is that gun shows at flea markets, gun dealers
are not, under existing law in the past, required to register their
sales. 

And so, you are exactly right that a lot of homicides, for example, a
good number — I don’t have the — the st- — statistic in front of my mind
— are committed with illegally purchased guns.  And that’s why we need
to address each entry point in the issue, including universal background
checks, closing the gun show loophole, and what we need to do as a
general matter to focus not only on reaction to crime but prevention of
crime. 

So, you’re raising a very important issue that has many facets,
including what we need to do in terms of reasonable gun safety laws and
what we need to do around crime prevention, what we need to do around
crime deterrence.

But, listen, I have personally prosecuted homicide cases.  I have held
the mo- — hands of mothers who have come to me crying, who have said, “I
only want to talk to Kamala,” because they knew, when they sat down, I
would treat them with the dignity and respect that they were entitled
and due about the loss of their child — often, their son — to gun
violence and the need to take it seriously.

And we must take it seriously in every way, understanding it’s not just
about a sound bite; it’s about a comprehensive approach that deals with
the tragedy of, to your point, everyday gun violence in America.  It’s
real. 

It has had a profound impact in terms of trauma that, for the most part,
has gone undiagnosed and untreated.  The trauma that exists in
communities around the violence of losing their children, losing a
brother, losing a father, an uncle — all of that must be addressed, and
we have to have a holistic response to it.

Q    Are there things we haven’t thought about yet?  Because every time
we bring up this issue of gun violence, universal background checks
comes up and an a- — a ban on assault weapons.  Are there other
solutions that you’re also thinking about that will get at this issue?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.  For example, part of what we did with
— so, we — in — as vice president, with — with the president, we were
able to pass the first meaningful gun safety legislation in 30 years. 
And part of what that involved was millions and millions of dollars to
put more mental health counselors in public schools.  Right?  Because we
know that there is an aspect of this that is about treating the trauma
and — and dealing with it at its source before it ends up manifesting
itself in a problem. 

There is the work that we need to do that is about putting resources
into communities around violence prevention.  I’ve been a big advocate
of that for years, which includes what we need to do around putting
resources into community-based intervention that is not just requiring
on the good people in the community to volunteer to do the intervention
but actually paying people to do it because it’s a full-time job. 

It’s about understanding what we need to do to, again, understand that,
to your point, we have to have a holistic response to this issue and
prioritize it, instead of reacting to the tragedy that, sadly, they are
too predictable.  Let’s all agree: Enough of that.  We — there are very
few solutions that we haven’t thought of. 

Q    Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need to re- — put the resources into them.

Q    Madam Vice President, we want to move to the topic of reproductive
access —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — something that you have worked in leading on, both for the
administration, Democrats, and — and now the top of the ticket.  You’ve
said that, as president, you would want to codify Roe.  If it came to
your desk, you would sign a bill —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

Q    — that did that.  Roe protected access until fetal viability, which
it also says is, quote, “at about seven months, but it may occur
earlier, even at 24 weeks.” 

So, do you similarly support also codifying Roe’s restrictions, which
allowed states to ban abortion in the third trimester of pregnancy, unl-
— unless necessary to save the mother’s life?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need to put the protections of Roe v. Wade back
into law.  And when that bill gets passed by Congress, I will proudly
sign it into law.

Understand what is happening in our country.  Over 20 states have passed
what I call Trump abortion bans, because u- — understand how we got
here.  The former president handpicked three members of the United
States Supreme Court with the intention they would undo the protections
of Roe v. Wade.  They did as he intended, and in state after state, laws
have been passed criminalizing health care providers. 

I don’t know if anyone here has heard, most recently, the stories out of
Georgia — tragic story about a young woman who died because it appears
the people who should have given her health care were afraid they’d be
criminalized after the — the Dobbs decision came down.

Laws that make no exception even for rape or incest, which means that
you’re telling a survivor of a crime of a violation to their body that
they have no right to make a decision about what happens to their body
next, which is immoral. 

The — an approach that doesn’t take into account that most people, I
think, agree you don’t have to abandon your faith or deeply held beliefs
to agree the government should not be telling her what to do with her
body.  If she chooses, she will talk with her pastor, her priest, her
rabbi, her imam.  But it should not be the government or Donald Trump
telling her what to do about her own body and her life.

So, that’s where I stand.  We need to put back in place the protection
of Roe v. Wade and put that into law —

Q    And those re- — and those restrictions that are also in Roe?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We need to put back in protect- — in place the
protections of Roe v. Wade and let an individual, in consultation with
her doctor, make the decision based on what she can determine, because
she’s smart enough to know what’s in her best interest, instead of
having her government tell her what to do — especially a bunch of people
in these state capitals who think they’re in a better position to tell
her what to do than she is to know what’s in her best interest.

Q    Before we conclude, Madam Vice President, “joyful warrior” has been
used to describe your campaign.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You didn’t see that just a minute ago, though. 
(Laughter.)  

Q    And —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  I’m back to my joyful part.  (Laughs.) 

Q    And your — you opponent and Republicans have, at times, weaponized
you laughing in — in campaign ads, for example.  Wh- — why is joy
important to you to insert into this election?  And what do you make of
— of Republicans using that as a way to suggest that you’re not a
serious candidate?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, sometimes, I think — and I’ll say to whoever
the young people are who are watching this: There are some times when
your adversaries will try and turn your strength into a weakness.  Don’t
you let them.  Don’t you let them.

I find joy in the American people.  I find joy in optimism, in what I
see to be our future and our ability to invest in it.  I find joy in the
ambition of the people.  I find joy in the dreams of the people.  I find
joy in building community.  I find joy in building coalitions.  I find
joy in believing that the true measure of the strength of a leader is
not based on who you beat down but who you lift up.

And — and I think we should all find joy and have a sense of optimism
about who we are as Americans and what we mean to each other and what we
can do to lift each other up.

Q    Madam Vice President —

Q    Madam — yeah.

Q    — did you — President Biden spoke to former President Trump after
the attempt on his life this weekend.  Did — have you spoken to him?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I have.

Q    And — earlier today, I assume?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    How’d that go?  You want to give us some intel?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Sure.  I — I checked on him to see if he was okay.

Q    Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I told him what I have said publicly: There is
no place for political violence in our country.  I am in this election,
in this race for many reasons, including to fight for our democracy. 
And in a democracy, there — there is no place for political violence. 
We can and should have healthy debates and discussion and disagreements
but not resort to violence to — to resolve those issues.

Q    On January 6, your vehicle was allowed to kind of — passed a viable
pipe bomb.  We’ve seen these —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, I was in the building.

Q    You were in the building.

Q    You were in the building?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Uh-huh. 

Q    And we’ve seen what’s happening with former President Trump.  Do
you have full confidence in the Secret Service —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I do.

Q    — to protect all of you?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I do.

Q    You — you feel safe, you and your family?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:   I do. 

But, I mean, you can go back to Ohio.  Not everybody has Secret
Service.  And there are far too many people in our country right now who
are not feeling safe.  I mean, I look at Project 2025, and I look at,
you know, like the “Don’t Say Gay” laws coming out of Florida.  Members
of the LGBTQ community don’t feel safe right now.  Immigrants or people
with an immigrant background don’t feel safe right now.  Women don’t
feel safe right now.

And so, yes, I feel safe.  I have Secret Service protection, but that
doesn’t change my perspective on the importance of fighting for the
safety of everybody in our country and — and doing everything we can to,
again, lift people up and not beat people down so they feel alone and
are made to feel small and made to feel like they’re somehow not a part
of it or us.

Q    Madam Vice President, thank you so much for your time.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.

Q    Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’ve appreciated this.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you all.  Take care.  Thank you.

                   END                     3:13 P.M. EDT
