---
date: '2024-09-25'
modified_time: 2024-09-26 09:54:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-25 09:54:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/25/remarks-by-president-biden-at-an-event-with-world-leaders-launching-a-joint-declaration-of-support-for-ukrainian-recovery-and-reconstruction-new-york-ny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at an Event with World Leaders Launching a Joint\
  \ Declaration of Support for Ukrainian Recovery and Reconstruction | New York,\_\
  NY"
---
 
InterContinental New York Barclay  
New York, New York

4:03 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Welcome
to Washington.

Fellow leaders, friends, nine hundred and f- — for 944 days, Putin has
waged his vicious onslaught against Ukraine.  For 944 days, the
Ukrainian people have stood unwavering, unbroken, and unbowed. 

Today, we’re launching a Joint Declaration of Support for Ukrainian
Recovery and Reconstruction to make it clear: We stand with Ukraine now
and in the future. 

That starts on the battlefield.  I am determined to ensure that Ukraine
has what it needs to prevail in its fight for its survival.  Tomorrow, I
will announce a series of actions to accelerate support for Ukraine’s
military. 

But we know Ukraine’s future victory is about more than what happens on
the battlefield.  It’s also about what Ukrainians do to make the most of
a free and independent future, of which so many have sacrificed so
much. 

With this declaration, over 30 countries and the European Union have
made important commitments. 

First, as Ukraine continues to make necessary reforms to fight
corruption, we are committed to providing Ukraine with the resources it
needs to build back stronger than it was before. 

Folks, it’s no secret Russian attacks have caused significant damage to
Ukraine.  And less well-known is the story of Ukraine’s economic
resilience. 

Ukraine’s GDP is stable and actually growing.  Ukraine’s defense
industry, forged in the fire, is six times larger than it was a year
ago.  And Ukraine is now exporting almo- –exporting almost as much grain
as it did before the war, feeding people and the world once again. 

Ukraine’s economy is resilient, and together, we can help Ukraine go
from economic resilience to economic revival.  

Second, we commit to hold Russia accountable for the damage it has
caused.  This builds on a historic effort by the G7.  Back in 2022, two
days after Russia’s invasion, members of the G7 and the EU worked
together to freeze $280 billion in Russian Central Bank funds outside of
Russia. 

This summer, at the G7, the United States and our partners reached a
decision to unlock $50 billion from the proceeds of those frozen assets
to put that money to work for Ukraine as it rebuilds and recovers its
economy. 

Today, we reaffirm that with all our respective countries and legal
systems, Russia’s sovereign assets will remain immobilized until Russia
ends its aggression and pays for the damage it has caused. 

Finally, we’re committed to coordinate closely, through efforts like the
Ukraine Donor Platform, so we can make sure that each dollar goes as far
as possible, reinforcing one another instead of duplicating work. 

Let me close with this.  This war has shown the Ukrainians can do
anything they set their minds to. 

Today, we show the Ukrainians you’re not alone.  You’re not alone in
this fight.  You’re not alone in the reconstruction that comes after.  

Ukrainian people have fought and died to win a future of freedom and
independence.  Mr. President, we all — we all stand by your side to help
Ukraine make the most of it. 

Thank you all very much.  (Applause.) 

4:07 P.M. EDT
