---
date: '2024-09-22'
modified_time: 2024-09-24 21:38:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-22 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-after-air-force-two-arrival-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris After Air Force Two\_Arrival"
---
 
Joint Base Andrews  
Prince George’s County, Maryland

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, guys.

Well, you’ve probably heard: I would like another debate.  So, I’m
hoping the former <s>vice</s> president will agree to that, but we have
a lot more to discuss. 

Q    You — you raised $27 million from this fundraiser. That’s the
largest since you raised — since you were at the top of the ticket. 
That’s a lot of money.  How are you feeling about that?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, it — it’s showing that there’s a lot of
support for our message and — and what we need to do in terms of, you
know, moving forward and charting a new way forward and dispensing with
all of the attempts to divide our country and — and to just, you know,
really —

The — the problem, I think, on the other side is that there is a — a
devaluation of who the American people are.  They just don’t really
understand that we’ve got a lot of good people in our country who want
to work hard and do well and want a leader who believes that we are, you
know, in this together — and I do.

Q    Are you giving an economic speech this week, Madam Vice President?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

Q    Can you tell us anything about what that’s going to be about?  Any
preview?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I’m going to be giving a speech this week that
is really to outline my vision for the economy. 

As you’ve heard me talk about, I believe in what we can create in terms
of opportunity for the American people.  I’ve named it an “opportunity
economy,” which really, in short form, is about what we can do more to
invest in the aspirations, the ambitions, and the dreams of the American
people while addressing the challenges that they face, whether it’s the
— the high price of groceries or the difficulty in being able to acquire
homeownership because — for a number of reasons, including we don’t have
enough housing supply.

Q    Will the care economy be part of this?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I will touch on it for sure, yeah.

Q    And your message to Donald Trump as you call for a second
presidential debate?  I know you told your donors that he’s looking
excuse or a reason not to.  So, what’s your message to him?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:   Join me on the debate stage.  Let’s have another
debate.  There’s more to talk about, and the voters of America deserve
to hear the conversations that I think we should be having on substance,
on issues, on policies, what’s your plan, what’s my plan.  And — and we
should have another one before Election Day.  So —

Thank you all.

END
