---
date: '2024-09-27'
modified_time: 2024-09-27 17:04:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-27 17:04:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/27/remarks-by-second-gentleman-honoring-the-2023-major-league-soccer-champions-columbus-crew/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Second Gentleman Honoring the 2023 Major League Soccer Champions,\
  \ Columbus\_Crew"
---
 
*East Room*

*As Prepared for Delivery*

SECOND GENTLEMAN DOUGLAS EMHOFF: Good morning, everyone.

On behalf of President Biden, the First Lady, and my wife, Vice
President Harris: congratulations to the 2023 Major League Soccer
Champions, Columbus Crew, and welcome to the White House.

To all the members of Congress and other distinguished guests: thank you
for joining us and for the work you do every day. It’s great to be with
all of you.

As Second Gentleman, I’ve traveled to Columbus, Ohio a couple times. And
one thing I learned during my travels is just how big of a sports town
Columbus is – with loyal ride or die fans to the Crew.

I’ve always loved soccer. I grew up playing a lot of sports as a kid.
And at my Jewish Summer camp, I was voted “Most Athletic.”

Later on in life, I was a proud soccer dad for my kids.

First, I was their coach. Then, I became a referee. I had a lot of fun
wearing that yellow outfit with the whistle, short shorts, and big
socks. Though I think my kids didn’t enjoy that part as much.

And these days, I’m still a massive fan who gets up early to watch the
sport.

Last year, I led the Presidential Delegation to the Opening Ceremony of
the 2023 FIFA Women’s World Cup. And just a couple months ago, I had the
honor of representing the United States at the Closing Ceremony of the
2024 Paris Olympic Games, where I watched the U.S. women’s national
Soccer team take home the gold.

Now, I get to join you all for today’s celebration.

Columbus Crew is a team that exemplifies excellence.

Since 1996, you’ve won 9 major trophies.

During the 2023 regular season, you were the top-scoring team in MLS for
the first time in the club’s history.

In Round One of the playoffs, you beat Atlanta in three hard-fought
games.

In the Conference Semis, you shut out Orlando on the road.

In the Conference Finals, you capped a legendary comeback against your
Cincinnati rivals and came back from 2-0 down at the half to win 3-2 in
extra time.

Before the Championship match, Coach Nancy, you shared an important
lesson with your team. You reminded them that you have one virtue in
life: courage.

“Without courage, you can’t do anything.”

Courage is exactly what you showed in that championship match. You
played brave: taking risks, attacking early and often, and relying on
each other.

And it paid off.

By the end of the game, you were champions once again, for your second
MLS Cup in four years.

You’re not only champions on the field. You’re leaders off the field,
too. Through the Columbus Crew’s community efforts, you are:

Developing new fields for kids to play soccer;

Providing equipment to help more kids pick up the sport;

And combating chronic absenteeism in Ohio with the Stay in the Game
initiative.

Through your work and dedication, you have made the Central Ohio
community – and our entire nation – incredibly proud.

Part of why I love sports so much is that it unifies us.

As we all know, we have way more in common than what divides us. There
is a lot of hate and division out there at this moment. But sports bring
people – and our country – together.

That’s what each of you do every day. You inspire people across our
nation, and you lift them up with a sense of joy and community. You show
them what true leadership looks like.

This is something Coach Nancy knows a thing or two about.

Right before the MLS Cup Final, Coach Nancy showed all of you pictures
of yourselves as kids.

He reminded you — his team — to play with the same joy you did when you
were young and helped to lighten the mood before a high-pressure match.

Coach – in only two seasons as head coach for the Crew, you are already
making your mark. You are setting an example for coaches across our
nation and around the world.

So, Columbus Crew, congratulations once again, on your championship. And
good luck on the remainder of the 2024 season.

Now, please join me in welcoming Coach Nancy.

\###
