---
date: '2024-09-13'
modified_time: 2024-09-16 16:41:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-13 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-wilkes-barre-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Wilkes-Barre,\_PA"
---
 
Wilkes University

Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania

6:20 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  Good
evening.

Can we please hear it for Mary-Grace?  (Applause.)

It’s good to be back in Pennsylvania.  Hi, everyone.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.

Okay.  Okay.  We got some business to handle.  Okay.  (Applause.) 
(Laughs.) 

So, let me start by saying to everyone here, thank you for all you are
doing and for taking the time to be here this evening. 

You know, one of the things that I love about everyone who is here and
what we are doing: You know, in the midst of this moment where there are
people trying to divide us as a nation, trying to make people feel small
and feel alone, these are moments that remind all of us that we are all
in this together as one loving community.  (Applause.)  We’re all in
this together.  We’re all in this together.

So, thank you all for the time you’ve taken to be here this evening. 

I want to thank also all the incredible leaders, including Governor
Shapiro, who you heard from earlier — (applause); Senator Bob Casey, who
we will reelect to the United States Senate — (applause); and Mayor
Brown.  And thank you, Mayor, for the warm welcome.  (Applause.)

All right.  So, Pennsylvania, three days ago, Donald Trump and I had our
debate.  (Applause.)  (Laughs.)  You watched it?  (Laughs.) 

 So — yeah.  So, here’s the thing.  So, I — I take it many people here
watched it.  So — (applause).  (Laughs.)  So, you’ll remember, that
night I talked about issues that matter to families across America, like
bringing down the cost of living, investing in America’s small
businesses, protecting reproductive freedom — (applause) — and keeping
our nation safe and secure.  (Applause.)

 But that is not what we heard from Donald Trump. 

 AUDIENCE:  Noo —

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Instead, it was the same old show, the same tired
playbook we’ve heard for years with no plan — no plan on how he would
address the needs of the American people.

Well, folks, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  Let’s turn the
page. 

We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And —

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we are not going back because —

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back because America is ready for a
new way forward.  (Applause.)  We are ready for a new generation of
leadership that is optimistic about what we can do together, which is
why — and, Mary-Grace, thank you — which is why Democrats, Republicans,
and independents are supporting our campaign.  (Applause.)

We need a president of the United States who works for all the American
people — (applause) — and that just stops with all the trying to divide
us.  Like, people are exhausted with that stuff.  (Applause.) 
Exhausted.

 And, you know, my entire career, I have fought for the people.  As a
young courtroom prosecutor in Oakland, I stood up for women and children
against predators who abused them.  (Applause.)  As attorney general of
California, I took on the big banks and delivered $20 billion for
middle-class families who faced foreclosure.  (Applause.)  I stood up
for veterans and students being scammed by big for-profit colleges —
(applause); for workers who were being cheated out of the wages they
were due — (applause); for seniors facing elder abuse.

And as attorney general of a border state, I took on transnational
criminal organizations, like the Sinaloa Cartel, that traffic in drugs
and threaten the safety of our communities.  (Applause.)  I know these
cartels firsthand, and as president, I will make sure we prosecute them
to the fullest extent of the law — (applause) — for pushing poison like
fentanyl on our children.  (Applause.)

And as president, I will fight on behalf of all communities and all
Americans.  And together, we will build a brighter future for our
nation.  (Applause.)  Together.  Together.

 AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And that future — and that future we build will
include what I call an “opportunity economy” so that every American has
an opportunity to own a home, to build wealth, and to start a business. 

You know, I love our small businesses.  So, growing up — (applause) — I
really — do we have small-business leaders here?  Raise your hand. 
(Applause.)  Yeah.  Right?  Right?

So, growing up, my sister and my mother — my sister and me had a mother
— have a mother — had a mother — excuse me; she passed.  But our mother
worked long hours.  She worked hard; she worked long hours.  And my
sister, Maya, and I would go over to Ms. Shelton’s house.  Ms. Shelton
lived a couple of doors down, and she helped my mother take care of us. 
And we, in fact, used to call her our second mother.

Well, Ms. Shelton was a small-business owner.  And I will tell you,
since I was a child, I know the character and the — the person who is a
small-business owner.  You’re not only business leaders; you’re civic
leaders.  You hold the community together.  You’re part of the fabric of
the community.  And small-business owners are the backbone of America’s
economy.  (Applause.)  The backbone of America’s economy.

 Which is why part of my plan that you heard about the other night will
give a $50,000 tax deduction to start up small businesses — (applause) —
knowing that not everybody, like my opponent, got handed $40 million on
a silver tray and then filed for bankruptcy six times — (applause) — and
people sometimes just need the opportunity, because we, as Americans, do
not lack for ambition, for aspiration, for dreams, for the preparedness
to do hard work, but not everyone has the opportunity, because not
everyone has the access. 

When I talk about building an opportunity economy, it is grounded in
that foundational belief that when given an opportunity, people excel
every day — (applause) — every day. 

Part of my focus is on the fact that we need to build more housing in
America.  (Applause.)  And so, we are going to cut red tape and work
with the private sector to build 3 million new homes by the end of my
first term.  (Applause.)  And I have a plan to help lower the cost of
living for America’s families on everything from health care to
groceries, including I will take on corporate price gouging — (applause)
— which, as we know, is about those few bad guys taking advantage of
desperate people.  And there needs to be a consequence.

Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a tax cut,
including — including expanding the Child Tax Credit — (applause) — to
$6,000 during the first year of a child’s life, understanding that new
parents need support in that most critical phase of their child’s
development to help them — (applause) — buy a car seat, a crib, baby
clothes. 

I will also make sure good-paying jobs are available to all Americans,
not just those with college degrees.  (Applause.)  For far too long, our
nation has encouraged only one path to success: a four-year college
degree.  Our nation needs to recognize the value of other paths —
additional paths, such as apprenticeships and technical programs. 
(Applause.)

So, as president, I will get rid of the unnecessary degree requirements
for federal jobs — (applause) — to increase jobs for folks without a
four-year degree, understanding that requiring a certain degree does not
necessarily talk about one’s skills.  (Applause.)  And I will challenge
the private sector to do the same.  (Applause.)

All of this to say, look, I come from the middle class.  I understand
where I come from, and I’m never going to forget that.  And I will
always put middle-class working people first.  It will always be my
priority — (applause) — always be my priority.  I know where I come
from.  I know where I come from.

 But now, Donald Trump has a different plan. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just google — just — just look up the Google. 
(Laughter.)  Just google Project 2025.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is a detailed, dangerous blueprint for what he
will do if he were elected president again.  Donald Trump will give
billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts, like he did before.  He
intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he wants to impose what I call the “Trump sales
tax” on everyday basic necessities, which, as economists have reviewed,
would cost the average family nearly $4,000 more a year. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  In fact, independent economists like Goldman Sachs
have said my plan would grow our economy — (applause) — and his plan
would shrink the economy, reignite inflation, and send us into a
recession by the middle of next year. 

On top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to end the Affordable Care
Act.  And let’s remember —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Like, we’re not here with Trump amnesia.  We
remember.  Remember, when he was president, he tried 60 times to end the
Affordable Care Act.  And as he said in the debate just this week, he
has no — no plan to replace it.  (Applause.)

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Right.  You said it.  He said he has,
quote, “concepts of a plan” — “concepts of a plan,” no actual plan. 

So, let’s — let’s just think about this for a moment.  He’s going
threaten health insurance for the 45 million people who rely on it based
on a concept and take us back —

     AUDIENCE:  Noo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — when insurance companies had — but — because we
remember where that was.  We remember what that was when insurance
companies had the power to deny people with preexisting conditions. 
Remember what that was like?  Remember.

     Well, we are —

     AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

  THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — not going back.  We are not going back. 
(Applause.)  No.  We are not going back.  (Applause.)

 Because — because — because ours is a fight for the future. 
(Applause.)  And — and ours is a fight for freedom — (applause) — like
the fundamental freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body
and not have her government telling her what to do.  (Applause.) 

And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump handpicked three members
of the United States Supreme Court with the intent that they would
overturn Roe v. Wade, and they did exactly as he intended. 

     (Protestor interruption.)

 AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not
going back! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we — and we understand where we are.  We
understand where we are. 

     AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, listen.  Listen.  Now — now is the time to
get a hostage deal and ceasefire.  I — we have been working around the
clock to get that done.  (Applause.)  And I respect your voice, but
right now I am speaking.  (Applause.) 

 So, on the issue — so, on the issue of fundamental rights and freedoms,
we remember how he selected those members of the Supreme Court to undo
Roe v. Wade.  They did just as he intended.  And what we have seen is,
in state after state, they passed laws to criminalize health care
providers, to punish women.  Now, more than 20 states have a Trump
abortion ban, many with no exceptions —

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — many with no exceptions for rape and incest,
which is immoral.  To tell a survivor of a violation to their body that
they don’t have a right to make a decision about what happens to their
body next, that’s immoral.

And let us agree: One does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to
do — (applause) — not the government.

And I will tell you, when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive
freedom, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into
law.  (Applause.)  Proudly.

 And I’m traveling our country, and I’ll tell you, across our nation, we
are witnessing a full-on assault on other hard-fought, hard-won
fundamental freedoms and rights, like the freedom to vote — (applause);
the freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause); the freedom to
join a union — (applause); and the freedom to love who you love openly
and with pride.  (Applause.)

 And generations — let’s remember who we are as Americans.  Generations
before us led the fight for freedom.  And to the friends here, I say:
The baton is now in our hands.  (Applause.)  It is now in our hands. 

And so much is on the line in this election.  We all know and remember. 
This is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher than they were
then, because two months ago, the United States Supreme Court
essentially told the former president that he will effectively be immune
no matter what he does, if he gets back into the White House.

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails. 
Imagine what that might mean. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  He who has vowed, if reelected, he would be
a dictator on day one. 

     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He who calls for the, quote, “termination” of the
Constitution of the United States.  And let us be clear: Someone who
suggests we should terminate the Constitution of the United States of
America should never again stand behind the seal of the president of the
United States.  (Applause.)  Never again.  Never again.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, Pennsylvania, it all comes down to this.  We
are here together because we love our country.  (Applause.)  We love —
we love our country.  And we who are here understand the awesome
responsibility — the awesome responsibility that comes with the greatest
privilege on Earth: the privilege and pride of being an American. 
(Applause.)  That’s right. 

     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

 THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I do believe it is the highest form of
patriotism to fight for the ideals of our country and to fight to
realize the promise of America.  (Applause.)

 So, Pennsylvania, 53 days until Election Day.  (Applause.)  And we know
ours will be a tight race until the very end.  We are the underdog.  We
are the underdog.  Let’s remember that and know that.  And we know how
they play.  We know how they play.

We are the underdog, and we have some very hard work ahead of us.  But
here’s the thing.  We like hard work.  Hard work is good work. 
(Applause.)

And with your help, we will win.  (Applause.)  We will win. 

So, Pennsylvania, today, I ask you: Are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

     And when we fight —

     AUDIENCE:  We win!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)

     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)

                          END                      6:44 P.M. EDT
