---
date: '2024-09-30'
published_time: 2024-09-30 20:38:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/30/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-reception-hosted-by-u-s-ambassador-to-mexico-ken-salazar/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Reception\
  \ Hosted by U.S. Ambassador to Mexico, Ken\_Salazar"
---
 
Mexico City, Mexico

Thank you, Ambassador.

It’s wonderful to be here representing the United States with so many of
you.

Buenas tardes.

As we gather this evening, our hearts are with everyone who has been
affected by the devastation of Hurricane Helene. Joe and his team have
mobilized a full federal response to save lives and help survivors.

The head of FEMA is on the ground, and we are sparing no resources to
help the areas in need. Please keep those families and the first
responders in your prayers.

The Mexican-American author Sandra Cisneros once said of the impact of
her writing: “It is transmitting light, but I was just the conduit for
that light, not the source. I am fortunate and blessed to be the flute,
but I recognize and acknowledge I am not the music.”

Being a conduit of light and culture, this is diplomacy at its best.

And when I look around, I see her words come to life in all of you.

Because each of you, in your own way, channels the light and music—the
hope and talent and vision—of one nation to the other.

Few country-to-country relationships are as consequential to Americans’
daily lives as that of the United States and Mexico.

I am honored to be with you tonight to celebrate the strength of the
relationship between our countries—at such a historic moment.

Ambassador Salazar, thank you for welcoming us to your home. Over the
past three years, Joe and I have seen your steady, thoughtful leadership
to strengthen our ties with Mexico. We’re grateful to you, Hope, and
your beautiful family for your service.

Thank you to the incredibly talented dancers for their performance
earlier, and for sharing that vibrant piece of Mexican tradition with
us.

And a special thanks to the entire team at the Embassy, including so
many staff members who are from Mexico. Every day, you reinforce the
connections between our two countries. We’re grateful for your
dedication to the U.S. Mission.

There’s something special in the air this evening. I felt it as soon as
I landed—a crackle of excitement to see the inauguration of the first
woman president of Mexico.

As President-elect, Dr. Sheinbaum, has noted, she didn’t arrive to this
historic moment alone. She said: “We all arrived, with our heroines who
gave us our homeland, with our ancestors, our mothers, our daughters and
our granddaughters.”

Tomorrow, those generations of women will arrive together at the
Legislative Palace to see her take the oath of office.

Joe and I—and so many Americans—wish her well and look forward to her
leadership.

Under Dr. Sheinbaum’s presidency, I know that we will continue to build
a more prosperous, safe, and democratic region. And take the next steps
in our U.S.-Mexico partnership.

We are all part of that work.

Together, we can be the conduit for the light of our two nations,
illuminating the path toward even brighter tomorrows, lifting up each
other and the world.

\###
