---
date: '2024-09-26'
modified_time: 2024-09-27 13:25:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-26 23:24:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/26/remarks-by-president-biden-vice-president-harris-and-mayor-woodfin-on-the-scourge-of-gun-violence-in-america/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Vice President Harris, and Mayor Woodfin on the\
  \ Scourge of Gun Violence in\_America"
---
 
East Room

5:13 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon, everyone. Good afternoon.
(Applause.) Thank you, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.

Please have a seat. Please have a seat.

Sari, you are extraordinary. You are right, I have been traveling our
country for many years meeting with extraordinary heroes, and you are
really an extraordinary leader. And when I look at you, I know the
future of our country is bright. Thank you, Sari. (Applause.) Thank you.
Thank you. Thank you.

And all of the — all of the leaders here — survivors, family membered
\[members\], loved ones — thank you all for the work that you do and the
voice that you carry for so many who are not in this room right now but
deserve to be seen, deserve to be known, deserve to be heard. I thank
you all for all that you do to sacrifice your time and your hearts to
give what you give to so many.

And so, it is good to be with everyone, including our extraordinary
president, Joe Biden. (Applause.)

And, you know, I have — I have the great blessing and fortune to work
alongside our president. And wherever we are together, whether the
cameras are in the room or not, he cares about the American people. He
loves the American people. And he — in his leadership, so much of his
leadership is always about fighting for the dignity of all people and
understanding the pain that many might experience and what we must do as
leaders to alleviate that pain.

And I thank you, Mr. President, for all that you are. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: And to all the members of Congress who are here, all
of the leaders who are here, I thank you.

So, before I begin, I will say a few words about Hurricane Helene. So,
the president and I, of course, are monitoring the case and the
situation closely, and we urge everyone who is watching at this very
moment to take this storm very seriously and please follow the guidance
of your local officials.

And President Biden and I, of course, will continue to work closely with
state and local officials to ensure that everyone is safe and to protect
communities before, during, and after the storm.

So, with that, I will return to the subject at hand.

I believe the right to be safe is a civil right — (applause) — and that
the people of America have a right, then, to live, work, worship, and
learn without fear of violence, including gun violence.

And yet our nation is experiencing an epidemic of gun violence. I’m
telling a bunch of leaders who know. Today, one in five Americans has a
family member that was killed by gun violence. Gun violence is now the
number one cause of the death of children in America — not car
accidents, not cancer — gun violence — the number one cause of death for
the children of America.

And this is the result of many, many issues, including mass shootings
and school shootings that are too frequently occurring in our nation.
And it is, of course, the result of everyday gun violence, which occurs
in cities and neighborhoods and towns across our nation.

And we know that the prevalence of this violence causes trauma that is
far too often undiagnosed and untreated, which means that the effect of
it is from that moment and lingers for a lifetime if we don’t take
seriously what are the seen and visible and unseen injuries that result
from this violence.

Over the years, I have held the hands of far too many mothers and
fathers to try and comfort them after their child was killed by gun
violence.

And let us all agree: It does not have to be this way. We know —
(applause) — we have in our possession, we know how to stop these
tragedies. And it is a false choice to suggest you are either in favor
of the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone’s guns away.
(Applause.) I am in favor of the Second Amendment, and I believe we need
to reinstate the assault weapons ban — (applause) — and pass universal
background checks, safe storage laws, and red flag laws. (Applause.)

When we took office, we promised to take on the crisis of gun violence.
And we passed, under the president’s leadership, the first major gun
safety law in nearly 30 years, a bipartisan law which includes an
historic investment to address the trauma caused by gun violence.

We are hiring 14,000 new mental health counselors in public schools
across our nation. (Applause.) We need to hire more. We need to hire
more. But it is the single-largest investment in student mental health
in history.

And for as much as we have accomplished, more must be done. We need more
leaders — we need more leaders like the leaders in this room — in
Congress who have the courage to take action, to stand up to the gun
lobby, and to put the lives of our children first.

Last week — (applause) — last week, I met with young leader. Her name is
Natalie. She is a 15-year-old student at Apalachee High School and a
survivor of gun violence. When we met, Natalie was still wearing
bandages. And she is extraordinarily brave.

And so, on behalf of her, on behalf of all the survivals — all the
survivors that we have lost, let us continue to fight to end the
epidemic of gun violence and to keep our communities and our children
safe.

And now — (applause) — and now, it is my great honor to introduce a
leader and a friend who understands the urgency of this crisis. He is a
mayor who knows firsthand what it is like to lose a loved one to gun
violence and to see his community shaken by tragedy. A dear friend who
is not only a local leader but a national leader, please welcome Mayor
Randall Woodfin. (Applause.)

MAYOR WOODFIN: Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, thank you.

Thank you, everyone. And thank you for the introduction, Madam Vice
President.

As stated, my name is Randall Woodfin. I am honored to serve as mayor of
the city of Birmingham, Alabama. I want you all to know that I am not
here representing myself. I am here representing the 200,000 residents I
serve.

Gun violence — gun violence is very — what I would say, very personal to
me because I know the scream of a mother when her child is killed. I
know that because I heard it from the voice of my own mother when my
brother was killed by gun violence.

I know that scream. I heard that scream again this past Saturday as the
lives of 4 people were stolen and 17 other victims were shot during the
horrific mass shooting in Birmingham.

Saving lives — saving lives should not be partisan. Saving lives should
not be Democrat or a Republican thing. (Applause.) Saving lives,
everyone — saving lives shouldn’t even be political. Saving lives is the
most American thing we can do together. (Applause.)

And so, we have been working with our U.S. attorney, with the Justice
Department to get machine gun conversions, like Glock switches, off our
city streets. But still, my community — and I imagine other communities
— are still finding the use of these devices at crime scene after crime
scene.

And so, that is why I am grateful to our president — that is why I’m so
grateful to our vice president as well — who today are taking more
action to help people not only in Birmingham but across our country.
Today, we work to loosen the grip that gun violence has on our
communities.

I know firsthand what it means to have a president who is not only a
partner but a friend to a community and cities. The Biden-Harris
administration is making historic and transformative investments in our
neighborhoods but, most importantly, in our people.

Instead of being overlooked, I am happy to stand on this stage and tell
you we have a president who not only sees us but truly believes in us.

And that is why it is my honor to introduce President Joe Biden, who has
been a true friend to Birmingham, Alabama. (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. Please. Thank you. (Applause.)

Thank you, thank you, thank you. Please. Please. (Applause.) Thank you.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT: (Inaudible.) Thank you.

AUDIENCE: Thank you, Joe! Thank you, Joe! Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT: Please have a seat. That was very nice of you all. Thank
you very much. (Laughter.)

Mayor Woodfin, thank you for your introduction — (laughter) — and, quite
frankly, for your extraordinary leadership in Birmingham. You know,
through your love for your brother, you’re helping ensure that he and
all the victims of gun violence di- — have not died in vain.

May I ask a question? How many of you in this audience have lost someone
in the family to gun violence?

I know from experience what a loss is. That this is bittersweet. We want
us to be doing this, but it brings back the very moment it happened, no
matter how long it — since it’s occurred. You’re here, and you remember
— you remember the first time you heard my son, my daughter, my mother,
my father, my brother, my sister — somebody you lost. I know the feeling
in a different context, and it’s heartbreaking.

So, thank you for the courage to be here. I know — I know the intensity
of your feelings. But thank you, because it really does require you to
relive the moment it occurred, and that’s tough. And I don’t think
people who haven’t been the loss of someone through an accident or
through violence fully understands it until it happens. And I hope that
it doesn’t happen to the rest of you in any circumstance.

So, thank you for — Sari, for sharing your story and your classmates’,
your teachers’, your friends’ in Parkland. You know, an extraordinary
courage, it inspires the nation. And we stand with you, for real.

Quite frankly, you inspired me when I met many of you after that
tragedy.

Before I begin, let me speak to our preparedness and — very briefly for
the Hurricane Helena. We’re expecting a catastrophic storm, winds and
flooding throughout the Southeast, starting in Florida right now. Kamala
and I have been briefed and spent many hours with FEMA, including
recently.

Ambassador Griswell \[Criswell\] is on the scene tomorrow. I’ve directed
FEMA to work with the state partners to take proactive measures to
ensure the communities in Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, Alabama,
Tennessee, South Carolina, and other states have the support and the
resources they need. That includes improving prelandfall emergency
declaration requests from the governors of Florida, Georgia, North
Carolina, and Alabama.

At my direction, more than 1,000 federal personnel have already been
deployed to those areas. We have search and rescue teams, medical teams,
power restoration teams, generators, water, food on the ground and ready
to support families throughout the coming days.

But let me say this. Everyone needs to take it seriously — extremely
seriously. The potential storm surge is well beyond the immediate path
of the hurricane. It could be significant and deadly.

You know, for you and your family’s sake, I urge everyone in and near
the path of the hurricane to listen to local officials and follow
evacuation orders and been — when told to do so.

Remember two years ago — just two years ago — 150 people were killed
when the surge was only 14 feet. Now the surge is expected to be up to
20 feet — 20 feet. So, take this seriously.

I have — from the bottom of my heart, please take it seriously, anybody
listening to this. And — because — anyway. The tendency is to say, “I
can do this,” but you can’t. Twenty-foot storm surge — you can’t.

Folks, now for the reason we’re here today. I want to thank Vice
President Harris and members of our Cabinet, members of the Congress,
including Birmingham’s extraordinary congresswoman, Terri Sewell. Terri,
stand up. Stand up. (Applause.)

I want to thank Congressman Mike Thompson. Mike, stand up. (Applause.)

And a good friend and one of the brightest people I know, Jamie Raskin.
Jamie, stand up. (Applause.)

And Congressman Maxwell Frost, who started by organizing opposition to
gun violence and is now the youngest member of Congress. (Applause.)
Even when I was the second-youngest senator in history, I never had that
much hair. (Laughter.)

And Representative Lucy McBath, whose son Jordan was killed by gun
violence. (Applause.) Thanks, Lucy. Thanks for being here. I know events
like this are difficult.

Look, folks, I want to thank you for the courage. And I also want to
thank the chiefs of police and sheriffs, to all the advocates and
allies, and especially to the survivors and families, many of whom I’ve
met with. Jill and I have gotten to know some of you very well over the
years. Thank you for being here.

With absolute courage, you have turned your pain into purpose — that’s
what it’s all about, turning your pain into purpose — your loss into
determination, your anger into commitment and the power in — (a child in
the audience cries) — of a movement of saving lives.

That’s okay. Babies rule in my house. (Laughter and applause.) Don’t
worry about it.

This past Monday, the FBI reased — released data showing how crime is
down in America. The year before we came to the presidency, we saw the
biggest increase in murder rates on record.

Last year, we saw the largest decrease in murder rates nationwide in
recent history — (applause) — thanks to guys like you wearing those
uniforms. The homicide rate in 2023 was 16 percent below the year before
we became president and vice president. In the first half of 2024, in
large cities across the country, homicide rate dropped another 17
percent. Last year, we also saw the lowest rates of all violent crime in
more than 50 years. Murder, rape, aggravated assault, robbery all
dropped, along with burglary, property crime. It matters.

And together, we’re making clear: If we want to talk about reducing
crime and violence in America, you need to talk about guns in America —
(applause) — you need to talk about guns.

You just heard Kamala cite the statistics all Americans should be
ashamed of. Guns are the number one — hard to believe — they’re the
number one killer of children in America — more than any other cause:
accidents, ca- — more than any other cause. It’s almost in- — in- —
unbelievable to think that’s — it’s sick.

Last year, after another school shooting, my predecessor said it — just
said, like some mem- — members of Congress say, just go — just “get over
it.”

I’m going to be very blunt. Secretary \[Senator\] Vance of Ohio has
called these shootings “facts of life.”

Who the hell do these people think they are? (Applause.) I mean it.

Think about it. The only industry that is ex- — exempted by law from
being investigated and being dealt with is the gun industry. Imagine had
that be the case with the tobacco industry, what cancer would be li- — I
mean this sincerely. Think about this.

This time last year, we stood in the Rose Garden to launch the
first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention in our nation’s
history. (Applause.)

I look around the room, and I see survivors, like our former magnificent
congresswoman, who is always out there fighting. Thank you, Gabby. Thank
you, Gabby.

And, you know, it’s staffed by gun violence survivors and experts,
overseen by our incredible vice president. The purpose is to drive and
coordinate the government in a nationwide effort to reduce gun violence
in America.

Over the past year, we’ve made tremendous progress: more background
checks required for firearms sold at gun shows \[and\] online; a new
interagency response team to support communities after mass shootings.

And I’ve been to all but three mass shootings in — in the United States
of America and spent time with surviving families, many of whom I see
here in this audience. Because it’s important to raise up what’s
happening.

The most comprehensive federal guide ever on safe gun storage of
firearms. The first-ever surgeon general’s advisory declaring gun
violence to be a public health crisis. (Applause.)

And, by the way, parenthetically, as I travel the world with other world
leaders, they ask, “Do you really have a pub- — do you cite that you
have a public health crisis with gun violence?”

Well, today, I’m proud to announce a new executive order that’s going to
— two additional things.

First, the executive order will establish a new federal task force on
emerging firearm threats.

Previously, my administration took action to crack down on private
manufacturers of firearms, including kits of so-called “ghost guns.”
This is probably the only audience that knows what ghost guns are. They
don’t have to have a serial number. When guns don’t have serial numbers,
it’s hard for them to track back to the shooter and hold them
accountable when something happens.

But today, we’re taking the next step. Our new task force will address
3D printed firearms. And — and for those listening — everybody in this
room knows what that is — but they actually can produce a plastic
firearm with a 3D printer. That mag- — you know, and magnetometers can’t
detect these, or they don’t have a serial number.

This task force is also going to tackle machine gun conversion devices
that were mentioned by the mayor, devices that illegally turn
semiautomatic weapons, and including handguns, into fully automatic
machine guns that can fire up to 20 bullets in tw- — in 1 sec- — in 2
seconds — 20 in 2 seconds.

These devices are already illegal under federal law and can be made on a
3D printer for just 40 cents in less than 30 minutes and sold for as
little as $20. But local law enforcement in cities across the country
tell me the streets are flooded with machine gun conversion devices —
isn’t that right, Captain? —

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, sir.

THE PRESIDENT: — because the parts are small, cheap, and easy to make.
The impact of these devices is devasting.

Just this weekend, a machine gun conversion device was found at the
scene of a mass shooting in Birmingham. I can tell you, over 100 shell
casings — 100 shell casings were found, including 4 killed and 18
injured and a community shattered.

Enough.

Within 90 days of — our task force will send me a ri- — a risk
assessment and a strategy to address these emerging firearm threats.
It’s about se- — it’s about sending a clear message to — (a child in the
audience cries).

Don’t worry about the babe. It’s okay. (Laughter.) Really.

Sending a clear message to local law enforcement and cities all across
the country: We’re here to help, and together, we can save lives.

Look, the second part of this executive order relates to active shooter
drills in schools. You know, it’s a good thing, but people don’t — you
all understand, many of you in here — but the psychological impact that
has on a child.

You know, I’m old enough we used to have drills for — you know, duck and
cover for nuclear devices. But guess what? Now we’re talking about kids
know what’s happening.

Kamala just talked about the worry of parents and the stress and fear
students have when they’re told to participate in active school shooter
drills. The lack of guidance today on how to prepare students while
minimizing the trauma of active shooter drills is — it’s unacceptable.

So, today, I’m directing the members of my Cabinet to return to me
within 110 days with resources and information for schools to improve
active shooter drills, minimizes harm, create age-appropriate content,
and communicate with parents before and after these drills happen so
they know what’s going on. (Applause.)

Folks, we — we just have to do better, and we can do better.

But that’s not all. Today, my administration is also announcing a whole
series of new actions to address gun violence. We’re releasing a new
tool with resources to help schools communicate with parents about
safety of storing firearms in their homes. (Applause.)

And, by the way, I, along with Dianne Feins \[Feinstein\], was the guy
that passed the first assault weapons ban. And here’s the deal: It was
amazing — amazing how many of those gun violence occurred with those
fire- — when they were outlawed, what — with the — with these firearms
were a consequence of a parent not being responsible with the guns they
own, or in a recent case — I won’t get into because it’s under litiga- —
a parent who provided an assault weapon to a young child.

It’s been found that when school administrators communicate with parents
about safe storage of firearms in their homes, it motivates parents to
act.

We’re awarding $135 million on top of the $238 million we’ve already
awarded last year to 48 states for crisis intervention — (applause) —
including tools like red flag laws. I’m going to say — be very personal
here. My son was attorney general — it was the first state in the nation
to institute that statewide. (Applause.)

Removing — temporarily removing firearms from those who are a danger to
themselves and others.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes.

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Right.

THE PRESIDENT: Well, it’s important.

We’re awarding an additional $85 million to 30 community violence
intervention programs on top of the $200 million we’ve already invested
in these programs. (Applause.)

As you all know, these local intervention programs stop shootings before
they happen, utilizing trusted messengers, community members, leaders to
work directly with people at risk who are the most vulnerable to gun
violence.

And, folks, all these new actions build on historic steps we’ve already
taken since I took office to address gun violence in America.

Through the American — American Rescue Plan — which, by the way, not a
single one of the opposition voted for — (laughter) — I don’t say that
for political re- — I say that to make sure people understand it’s not
costless to do — do that — helped deliver more than $15 billion — the
largest investment ever in public safety. Let me say it again: All my
opponents — all our opponents voted against the largest funding ever in
public sa- — safety.

I also announced a dozens executive orders to reduce gun violence, more
than any of my predecessors.

And with your help, we passed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the
most significant gun violence \[legislation\] in 30 years. (Applause.)
And so many things because we had a first-rate prosecutor who had —
(applause) — no — who has incredible experience dealing with this. Among
many things, it strengthened background checks for anyone under the age
of 21 seeking to purchase a firearm.

Since we implemented the background check system last year, we’ve kept
almost 1,000 guns out of the hands of people under the age of 21. But,
folks, the law also invests over $1 billion, the largest one-time ever
investment ever, in seeking to deal with mental health issues in our
schools — (applause) — to help them deal with the grief and trauma of
gun violence and other traumatic experiences.

We spent a lot of time — didn’t we? — with those kids. Afraid to go back
to school. Not an unusual thing to be concerned about if you’ve sat
there and you’re — the kid sitting next to at your desk gets shot and
killed.

My former Senate deputy chief of staff is here with me today — Roger
Harrison — sitting in the back there. He founded an organization that
does outreach programs for middle and high school students dealing with
mental health issues, and many others around the country are doing
similar things.

We still have more to do, but the steps we’ve taken so far in reducing
gun violence and saving lives are real. But we have to keep going.
There’s so much more we have to do.

I think it’s time to reinstate the assault weapons ban and high-capacity
magazines. (Applause.)

When I was a senator and I introduced the first effort to ban them,
those weapons, I literally was walking through the swamps of eastern —
the Northeast Cor- — excuse me, in southern Delaware, down in the area
where the r- — where the swamps and rivers are. There was a guy fishing,
and he looked at and me and he said, “Biden, what the hell you going to
take my gun for? Why are you going to take my assault weapon?” He was
fishing. And I said — (laughter) — true story. And I said, “You need
that?” And he said, “Yeah.” (Laughter.) I said, “You must be one hell of
a lousy shot.” (Laughter.) “And I don’t see a lot of dear running around
here wearing Kevlar vests.” (Laughter.) He said, “Well, that’s not” —
“Well, why do you have it?” “Well, I hunt.” “You hunt? Like hell.”
(Laughter.)

Look, it’s time we establish universal background checks — (applause) —
universal — and require safe storage of firearms. (Applause.) I mean it.
Start holding parents accountable for being negligent. (Applause.)

By the way, if you pulled up here — wherever you parked here — and left
your key in your car, and a student steals the car and gets in an
accident, you are held responsible. Why in the hell would not that be
the case if you leaved a gun case open? (Applause.) No, I mean it.

And I’ve been fighting for this. I’m going to continue after I leave
this office: End immunity for the gun industry. End it. End it. End it.
(Applause.)

Look, folks, I taught constituted law for years — constitutional law.
Never was the Second Amendment meant to be absolute. Back when it was
passed, you could not own a cannon. (Laughter.) No, well I’m not jo- —
I’m not joking. People are like, “The — you know, the — the — the
liberty of America is — is watered with the blood of patriots.” Like
hell. (Laughter.) I’m serious. Think about it. Think about it. It was
never absolute — never, never, never, never.

It’s time we increase funding for the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
Firearms and Explosives — (applause) — and other law enforcement
agencies that deal with crime and solve crimes faster.

We get a lot of heat from the other guy — she get a lot of heat from the
other guy, talking about “We’re not helping” –we’re the ones funding
cops.

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Yes, we are.

THE PRESIDENT: We’re the ones funding these things.

It’s time to increase funding to help victims in crime and support
community groups helping hun- — and hurting — people hurting from gun
violence. No, I really mean it. (Applause.)

Unfortunately, my predecessor and a lot of congressional other people
oppose all these steps to reduce gun violence. Instead, they tried to
stop the crackdown on ghost gun kits, by the way. You kn- — know, that’s
a real big deal to them. “We can’t deny the Second Amendment right to” —
oh, give me a break. (Laughter.)

If they got their way, criminals could traffic guns and commit crimes.

Congressional — our opponents are trying to defund the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention. There’s an amendment to defund the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention. “Bless me, Father,” as we say in my church.

They attack the FBI and want to abolish the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,
and Firearms and Explosives — by the way, that’s out — written out —
which is responsible for fighting gun crimes.

Folks, you can’t be pro-law enforcement and be anti-FBI and ATF. It’s
outrageous. (Applause.)

Well, that’s why we’re here today and why this is so important. We need
your help in fighting and standing up to the gun lobby, gun
manufacturers, the politicians who oppose commonsense gun legislation.

Because whether you’re a Democrat or Republican or independent, we all
want our families to be safe. We drop families off at the house of
worship or a child at a mall or a movie theater or a school — we don’t
have to worry about whether it was — that’s the last time we’ll see
them. No, I — I mean, think about. Think about it. We all want our kids
to have the freedom to learn how to read and write in schools instead of
duck and cover.

Let me close with this. I know how difficult this work is, particularly
for someone who’s been through the tragedies of consequences of it. But
I also have no illusions about the champions and heroes in this fight,
including all of you. I really don’t.

Look at what you’ve already done. Look at the movement you’ve built.
Look at the elected officials standing alongside me in — that are here
today.

Listen to the young people speaking out. That’s the power of your loved
ones and their memory. (Applause.) And that’s the power of this
movement. That’s the power of America.

We just have to keep going, have — have faith in who we are.

Ladies and gentlemen, we’re the United States of America. There is
nothing beyond our capacity — nothing, nothing, nothing. I mean that. I
swear to God.

I know I look like I’m only 40, but I’m 100 years old. (Laughter and
applause.) I’ve been around a long time.

I really mean it. There’s nothing beyond our capacity. We’re the only
nation in the world — as a student of history, I can tell you — that’s
come out of every crisis stronger than we went in. And we’ve got to come
out stronger now.

Now, I’m going to sign this executive order.

Thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

(The president moves to signing desk.)

All right. What I’m about to sign is “Combating Emerging Firearms
Threats and Improving School-Based Active-Shooter Drills.” I never
thought I’d have to sign something like this, but we do.

MR. GUTTENBERG: And we thank you.

MS. GIFFORDS: Thank you.

(The executive order is signed.)

MS. GIFFORDS: Bravo. (Applause.)

(The president gives a pen to Representative McBath.)

(The executive order is signed.)

THE PRESIDENT: Keep it going, boss. (Laughter.)

(The president gives a pen to the vice president.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you.

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you. (Applause.)

5:51 P.M. EDT
