---
date: '2024-09-17'
modified_time: 2024-09-18 15:51:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-17 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/17/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-voter-registration-event-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Voter Registration Event | Philadelphia,\_\
  PA"
---
 
Community College of Philadelphia  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

3:41 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, Gabby.  (Applause.)

Thank you all so very much.  I — first of all, Mayor, thank you for
being here, and I (inaudible) — (applause).  You’ve been — you’ve just
been extraordinary as a leader and also as a friend, and I thank you so
very much.

Hi, guys.  (Applause.)  I’m so happy to see you guys.

What schools are represented here?

AUDIENCE:  (Inaudible.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  UPenn!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Okay.  (Laughter.)  Poor guy.  You’re the only one
in here from UPenn.  (Laughter.)  (Applause.) 

Okay.  Come on.  (Laughter.)  (Applause.)

I’m so happy to see you guys.  You know, I — you guys know how I feel
about you and your generation.  You all are just killing it.  And you
are the reason — one of the reasons, for sure, that I am so optimistic
and excited about the future of our country.

Your generation — seriously, because you guys — the thing I love about
you: You’re brilliant, you care, you are impatient.  (Laughter.)  You’re
like, “I’m not waiting for somebody else to handle this; I’m going to
work on getting it done,” which is why you guys are all here. 

You all have figured out — you know, I think we’re all born as leaders,
and it’s a matter of when you decide to kick it in, and you all have
decided to do that at this stage of your life in such a critical way. 

And every issue that is at play in this election is going to directly
impact you.  And, of course, you know that, and that’s why you’re here,
because you’re taking matters into your own hands. 

And I think it’s really important at a moment like this, when there are
some powerful forces, frankly, that are trying to diminish and belittle
and suggest that, you know, we have nothing in common and divide us that
leaders pull together, build community, build coalitions — right? — who
really intentionally understand the power in the collective.  And you
all have figured that out in such an amazing way.

And I hope you’re making friends with each other, because you’re going
to run into each other years from now like, “Yeah, you remember ‘24
(inaudible)” — (laughter).  You guys are going to remember each other
when — whether you decide to run for elected office or whatever you
decide to do with your role of leadership.  So, I hope you’re making
friends and enjoying each other as you build up what we need to do over
the next 49 days.

In 49 days, we are going to make such a big difference, and we’re going
to win.  We are winning this campaign.  (Applause.) We are winning this
campaign. 

And I will tell you — and I will tell you, it’s very, very important to
me, and I know to you that our goal, yes, is that we must and will win
and that through these next 49 days, we continue to build community and
coalition.  Let’s leave something for the work we are doing right now
that lifts people up, that strengthens people, that strengthens
communities.  Right?  Let’s have that as our co-equal goal, because
that’s when we really — combined with the goal, the ultimate goal of
winning, that’s when we’re about building something that will be bigger
than any one of us, and it’s a great feeling.

You all have heard me say probably many times, I think part of what’s
wrong and backward thinking about what we’ve been seeing from some folks
is the suggestion that the measure of the strength of a leader is based
on who you beat down, instead of what we all know: The true measure of
the strength of a leader is based on who you lift up.

 So, let’s do our work.  (Applause.)  Let’s do our work in a way that is
about doing just that, and that includes being a volunteer.  You know,
I’ve worked on many campaigns, and I don’t know if some of you know, but
I — my first political office that I ran for was freshman class
representative of the liberal arts student council.  (Laughter and
applause.) 

 Mayor, it was a very tough race.  I ran against this girl from Jersey. 
She was tough.  (Laughter.)  But I was from Oakland, so we were all
right.  (Laughter and applause.)

 But I say all that to say that there is so much that you guys are going
to do during these next days.  It’s about knocking on doors and talking
with people.  You know, I know everyone is living online and through
their phones, but the power that I hope you have seen already and you’re
going to see over these next 49 days — there’s an incredible power that
comes with just looking somebody in the eye, shaking their hand, asking
them, “How are you doing?  What are you concerned about?  What are you
worried about?  What are your dreams?  What are your hopes?” 

 It’s an incredible, incredible thing you can do when you do that
sincerely.  And you’re going to see that there’s a lot of joy that comes
with that experience, too, but an incredible amount of power.

 And so, that’s the — that’s the joy of — of volunteering.  You know,
and you going to knock on doors, you’re going to call.  It is just as
equally important.  You know, I mean — you know, so many people in my
life, they’re like, “You’re the only person who leaves voicemails that I
know.”  (Laughter.)  But they love my voicemails — (laughter) — because
there’s something about hearing another human’s voice in addition to
receiving a text message.  Right?

And so, you’re going to be doing the calls, and you’re going to be
texting, and you’re going to be engaging.  And it’s a reciprocal
relationship, and you’re going to be receiving so much in the process. 

So, thank you all for all that you are doing and that you’re committing
to do over these next 49 days.  I know there are many other things you
could be doing. 

Don’t put aside your studies.  (Laughter.)  You know, shower from time
to time.  (Laughter.)  Try to eat vegetables when you can.  (Laughter.) 

But enjoy it and know — know, most importantly, you are making a
difference.  You are making a difference.  Our country is relying on you
guys.  We really are.

So, keep at it.  Thank you for everything.  Today is National Voter
Registration Day.  We — voting registration, I believe, ends October
21st, so we’ve got, you know, about a month to get this done and make
sure that people are registered.   And then we’re going to remind them
about why it’s important that they are, because their voice is their
power; their power is their voice.  We’re going to remind people: Don’t
ever let anybody silence your power.  (Applause.)  Right?  (Inaudible.)

So, with that, I’ll see you all in these streets.  And please take
care.  (Applause.)  And be well.

And thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you all.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

                        END                     3:48 P.M. EDT
