---
date: '2024-09-19'
modified_time: 2024-09-20 19:25:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-19 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/19/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-with-oprah-winfrey-at-a-unite-for-america-2024-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation with Oprah Winfrey\
  \ at a Unite for America 2024\_Event"
---
 
Studio Center  
Farmington Hills, Michigan

8:24 P.M. EDT

     MS. WINFREY:  Kamala Harris!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.

     MS. WINFREY:  So, welcome to —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oprah —

     MS. WINFREY:  Oh, hello!

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  (Laughs.)

     MS. WINFREY:  Madam Vice President, hello.  Welcome to Michigan.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s so good to be back. 

     And, Governor, thank you for everything you are and everything you
do for this state.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

     MS. WINFREY:  Well —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

     MS. WINFREY:  Can you see this?  We have a thousand —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, my goodness.

     MS. WINFREY:  — screens here —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, my goodness.

     MS. WINFREY:  — representing people from all over the country.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Oh, my goodness.

     MS. WINFREY:  Can you feel — can you feel —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

     MS. WINFREY:  Can you feel it?  Can you feel —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I can.

     MS. WINFREY:  — the joy rising in here?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I can.  And I — I have to tell you, there is
so much that I love about our campaign, because it really is about the
people.  And I look around at these screens, Oprah, I look at who’s in
the room, and this is America.

     MS. WINFREY:  This is.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This is America.  You know, I was saying with
a group of friends earlier: I think, in this moment, where we’ve dealt
with so much that I think is quite exhausting around powerful forces
that would try and divide us —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and try us — to have us, as Americans,
pointing fingers at each other —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — that this movement that is about reminding
each other that we have so much more in common than what separates us is
so critically important, and this is about the strength of who we are as
Americans.  And this movement that we’re in about, as I like to say,
seeing in the face of a stranger, a neighbor.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes, yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes, yes, yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  An extension of “love thy neighbor,” that you
literally, in the face of a stranger, see a neighbor —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and approach each other with that level of
dignity and grace and — and kindness.

     MS. WINFREY:  Well, that’s exactly what happened with —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know?

     MS. WINFREY:  — Win With Black Women.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

     MS. WINFREY:  I know you’ve known Jotaka —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Jotaka.

     MS. WINFREY:  — for many years.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, my dear.  Oh.

     MS. WINFREY:  Well, that’s exactly what happened — (applause) —    

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  She started it.

     MS. WINFREY:  — tha- — is that they had this big call —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Jotaka started it.

     MS. WINFREY:  They had the big call —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s your fault.  (Laughs.)

     MS. WINFREY:  They had the big call and then said, “Let’s open the
door.”

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  “Let’s open the door and invite everybody else in.” 
And everybody actually came.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Organically.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Organically.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Like, this is the beauty of our country.  I —
you know, there’s so much at stake in this election, and, ultimately,
the question before us is: What kind of country do we want to live in?

     And the beauty of a democracy — as long as we can hold on to it —
the beauty of a democracy is each of us has the power —

     MS. WINFREY:  That’s right.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — each of us has the power —

     MS. WINFREY:  That’s right.  That’s right.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to answer that question.

     MS. WINFREY:  That’s right.  Everybody —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?

     MS. WINFREY:  — on this call and beyond has the power.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  But can I just start with this?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, please.

     MS. WINFREY:  I have to say this, because in all of my private
conversations — Gayle and I have said this a hundred times —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  Ev- — and everybody is saying it.  You all have said
it.  I know you have.  It seems to us that something happened to you the
moment Joe Biden — President Biden stepped aside and withdrew his
candidacy, that a veil or something dropped, and you just stepped into
your power.  (Applause.)

     I mean, literally, looking at you at a speech like the week before,
which was a great speech, very nice — (laughter) — and then the next
week —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oprah.  (Laughs.)

     MS. WINFREY:  — I saw you walking in the thing — (Oprah struts
around the stage) — (laughter and applause) — and I said, “What happened
to you?”

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know, we each have those moments in our
lives where it’s time to step up.

     MS. WINFREY:  Time to step up.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Time to step up, you know.  (Applause.) 

     MS. WINFREY:  Well, the moment you heard — I mean, I really have
been saying to people, it felt like a veil dropped, and you sort of
stepped through that veil.  Did — did that actually — did you feel like
that?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I felt a sense of responsibility, to be honest
with you.  And with that, comes a sense of purpose.

     But, I mean, we’re all here, and you all are taking time out of
your busy lives — everyone here, everyone on the screen — because there
really is so much at stake.  You know, I have spent the majority of my
career being concerned about the well-being of other people.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As I have said, my career as a prosecutor, I
never looked at a — a victim or a witness and asked them, “Are you a
Republican or a Democrat?”  The only thing I ever asked them is, “Are
you okay?”

     MS. WINFREY:  “Are you okay?”  I know, when I heard that —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know?

     MS. WINFREY:  — it touched me.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And traveling this country and knowing what is
at stake in terms of fundamental freedoms, what’s at stake in terms of
fighting against hate and those — those efforts to divide us, and I do
know that I am in a position to do something about it. 

     So, I felt a great responsibility and — and the incredible power of
the people — right? — who — and I’m not the only leader in this.  We’re
all leaders in this. 

     This is so much bigger than me.  It’s about who we are as
Americans, and it’s about making clear what we stand for.  And what we
stand for is it is about the ideals upon which we were founded,
including the importance of freedom and — and the importance of
independence and — and the importance of dignity and — and purpose, but
it is also about what we stand for in terms of our values.

     I — I think of it this way —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah, I think a lot boils down to values.  I just
said: Values are —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It really does.

     MS. WINFREY:  — on the line here.  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It does.  I mean, think about it, Oprah.  The
idea that some would suggest and that my opponent and — suggests, which
is that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat
down — come on.  The real measure of the strength of a leader is based
on who you lift up.  And it’s — it’s important for us — (applause) —

     MS. WINFREY:  Absolutely.  And, you know —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — to articulate that.

     MS. WINFREY:  You know, ever since the debate, we feel for our
fellow citizens in Springfield.  Do you not —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  — think about the fellow citizens in Springfield,
Ohio; the Haitian families; the — the non-Haitian families; everybody
having to deal with this lie that has endangered the lives of Haitian
people and anybody who looks Haitian?  Everybody in America feels for
that.

     And I — also, everybody in America — left, right, middle — has
concerns about immigration.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  And I’m told that Justin — Justin, where are you in
the audience?  Justin —

     PARTICIPANT:  Hello.

     MS. WINFREY:  — in our audience.

     PARTICIPANT:  Hello, Madam Vice President.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, Justin.

     MS. WINFREY:  You live in Michigan?

     PARTICIPANT:  Yes, ma’am.

     MS. WINFREY:  Don’t you love saying, “Hello, Madam Vice
President”?  (Laughter.)

     PARTICIPANT:  I do.  I do.

     MS. WINFREY:  What’s — what’s your question?  It’s an immigration
question, I was told.

     PARTICIPANT:  My question for you is: When you become president,
what would be your specific steps —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  With your help.  (Laughter.)

     PARTICIPANT:  Yeah, of course.  What would be your specific steps
to strengthening the border?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, it’s a wonderful and important question. 
I — you know my background was as a prosecutor, and I was also the
elected attorney general for two terms of a border state.  So, this is
not a theoretical issue for me.  This is something I’ve actually worked
on.

     PARTICIPANT:  Okay.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I have prosecuted transnational criminal
organizations for the trafficking of guns, drugs, and human beings.  I
take very seriously the importance of having a secure border and
ensuring the safety of the American people.

     Sadly, where we are now can be traced most recently back to the
fact that when the United States Congress — members of the Congress,
including some of the most conservative Republicans, came up with a
border security bill — and here’s what that border security bill would
have done: It would have put 1,500 more border agents at the border.

     And let me tell you, those border agents are working around the
clock.  It would have just been about giving them some support and
relief, which is probably why the border agents actually endorsed the
bill.

     It would have allowed us to stem the flow of fentanyl.  And I’m
looking at people from all over the country here, so I don’t need to
tell the folks who are watching this what fentanyl has done to families,
to — to kids in our country, and the need to take seriously stemming the
flow coming into our country and addressing that extraordinary and — and
tragic issue in terms of its effect.

     The bill would have allowed us to have more resources to prosecute
transnational criminal organizations, and it would have been part of the
solution.

     And Donald Trump called up those folks and said, “Don’t put that
bill on the floor for a vote.”  He blocked the bill.  And you know why? 

     PARTICIPANT:  Why?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because he’d prefer to run on a problem
instead of fixing a problem.  (Applause.)

     And he has put his politil — personal political security before
border security.  Because understand, even in the intervening months,
what that bill would have done to give support to folks who care about
this issue.

     And this, again, gets to the point about what does leadership
really look like, and is it about you or is it about the people? 

     PARTICIPANT:  Right.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Is it about running on problems or fixing
problems?

     My work and my career has always been about saying, “Let’s fix
problems.”

     MS. WINFREY:  So —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let’s address the needs, because we know it’s
within our capacity to do that.

     MS. WINFREY:  So, to answer Justin’s question, now that that bill
has gone and hasn’t passed, will you reintroduce that?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.  And when I am elected president
of the United States, I will make sure that bill gets to my desk, and I
will sign it into law.  (Applause.) 

     MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Justin.

     PARTICIPANT:  Thank you.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Justin.

     MS. WINFREY:  Listen to this.  A majority of young Americans, 18 to
34, say that the cost of living is their top issue ahead of the
election.  Let’s take a look.

     (A video is played.)

     Well, Rachael and Garrett are joining us on Zoom from
Pennsylvania.  And I understand your sister and brother-in-law moved in,
and you’re hoping to save money to have a second child.

     PARTICIPANT:  (Via teleconference.)  That’s right.  Hi, Oprah.  Hi,
Madam Vice President.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, guys.

     PARTICIPANT:  It’s nice to be with you all.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.

     MS. WINFREY:  And so —

     PARTICIPANT:  (Inaudible.)

     MS. WINFREY:  — what did — what did you want to say to the vice
president?

     PARTICIPANT:  So, Madam Vice Predi- — President, we are, like many,
many young Americans, just experiencing a very high cost of living.  We
ended up giving up our apartment, moving in with our parents, who were
so gracious to take us in for over a year so that we could save money
and ultimately buy a home, because that’s what we thought the American
dream was: to —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  Yeah.

     PARTICIPANT:  — to get married and buy a home and have a baby.

     And now, here we are, and our mortgage is incredibly higher than
what we thought it would be.  And my sister and our brother-in-law are
living with us right now so that they can hopefully one day do the
same.  And while it’s beneficial for us because they help us pay off
some of our mortgage, it’s also beneficial for them because they can
save on cheaper rent. 

     But we really would love to know what your plan is to help lower
the cost of living.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  I — first of all, thank you both for
being here.  And yours is a — a story I hear around the country as I
travel, and in terms of both rightly having the right to have
aspirations and dreams and ambitions for your family and working hard
and finding that the American dream is, for this generation and so many
recently, far more elusive than it’s been.  And we need to deal with
that, and there are a number of ways. 

One is bringing down the cost of everyday necessities, including
groceries.  So, that’s why I’m taking on, for example, price gouging,
which is when — you know, most companies and corporations are good, but
for those bad ones, they take advantage of people, especially during a
pandemic or extreme weather, and they end up jacking up prices.  And
there needs to be accountability and consequence for that.  So, I’m
going to be taking on price gouging.

But it’s also about dealing with what we need to do around
homeownership, right?  So, as someone mentioned during this — this film
— look, I grew up a child of a mother who worked very hard.  She raised
me and my sister.  And she saved up, and by the time I was a teenager,
she was able to buy a home. 

And we grew up, actually, for a long time, in an apartment on top of a
childcare center that was owned by the woman we called our second
mother, because she helped my mother raise us, and she was a small
business owner: Ms. Shelton. 

So, I’ll bring all this together to tell you: The way I think about it
is, one, when people work hard and have a dream of buying a home, we
should give you the opportunity to be able to do that, which is why part
of my plan is for first-time homeowners — -buyers to have a $25,000 down
payment assistance to buy your first home.  Because people just need —
(applause) — to be able to get their foot in the door, and then you’ll
do the hard work. 

Part of my plan is what we need to do to support small businesses,
because my second mother was a small-business owner.  And I love our
small businesses and our small-business owners.  They are not only
business leaders, they are community leaders.  They — they mentor; they
hire locally.  And we have so many entrepreneurs in our country who have
great ideas, incredible work ethic, but not necessarily access to
capital, because not everybody, like my opponent, was handed $400
million on a silver plate that he filed bankruptcy six times on. 
(Laughter.)

And so, part of my plan is to give start-up small businesses a $50,000
tax deduction to start up their small business.  Right now, it’s
$5,000.  Nobody can start a small business with $5,000.  So, that’s part
of my plan. 

MS. WINFREY:  It’s — that’s a teeny-tiny business.  (Laughter.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s — that — that’s business in —

MS. WINFREY:  $5,000 — teeny-tiny business.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s a concept of a business.  Right?  (Laughter.)

MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know where I’m going.  (Laughs.)

MS. WINFREY:  That’s right. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And part of —

MS. WINFREY:  It’s still on paper with the $5,000.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Right.

MS. WINFREY:  It’s still on paper.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It just hasn’t happened.  But —

MS. WINFREY:  Right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Part of the — to speak to you guys and your family
and your dreams — is what we need to do around giving middle-class
families tax breaks. 

And so, part of my plan is also to ext- — extend and expand the Child
Tax Credit to $6,000, so that you can, in the first year of your child’s
life, have the resources to be able to buy a crib and a car seat and —
and clothes for your baby, knowing that’s such an extraordinarily
important time in their development and you shouldn’t have to worry
about how you’re going to take care of their basic needs. 

All of this and more is part of what I plan to build, and I call it an
opportunity economy.  And it’s basically about creating opportunities,
knowing so many people have the ambition, have the aspirations, are
working hard, but just need opportunity to reach their goals and their
dreams. 

MS. WINFREY:  I saw you smiling with that $25,000 credit for the home. 
I saw that smile on your face —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

MS. WINFREY: — and the $6,000.  Thank you all so much. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, guys.

MS. WINFREY:  I want to just introduce you to Shelby, who’s also in our
virtual audience.  (Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.

MS. WINFREY: Thank you, guys.

     Shelby from Virginia, who’s also struggling with the cost of
living.  Tell us your story, Shelby.  Why? 

PARTICIPANT:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi.  Hi, Madam Vice President.  Hi,
Oprah. 

I’m 24 years old.  I’m a graduate student living with my parents, and I
want to move out next year and potentially buy a home.  And I’m
concerned about the affordability of one —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

PARTICIPANT:  — with the extra cost and bills that I’m paying now, along
with the bills and costs I will pay in the future too. 

And so, everything just has a cost and everything is so expensive.  And
so, I’m worried about my capacity and how I’m able to fully support
myself once I do live independently.

MS. WINFREY:  You sound like one of my daughter girls from South
Africa.  Graduated — she was like, “I hate adulting.”  (Laughter.)  “I
hate adulting.” 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.

MS. WINFREY:  “This adulting isn’t going so well.”  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, so par- — first of all, congratulations on
all the success you’ve already achieved.  And it is — your story and the
story of our friends before you is really — that’s the American story,
right?  You — you are working hard, you have goals, you have ambitions. 

And so, part of it is, again, the $25,000 down-payment assistance. 

Part of it is what we need to do to also push back against a very
different vision for our country.  Because, look, in this election,
there are two very different visions for our country: One, for me, that
is focused on the future, including you; and another that is focused on
the past. 

What Donald Trump — what my opponent plans on doing for the economy is
doing what he did the last time he was president, and giving another tax
break for billionaires and the biggest corporations that would add $5
trillion to our deficit.  

And get this.  He plans on what — doing what I call a “Trump sales tax,”
which is, basically, he’s going to put a 20 percent tax on everyday
necessities that economists have estimated will cost the average
American $4,000 more a year — which is why Goldman Sachs, which is why
Moody’s, which is why Wharton School of Business, which is why 16 Nobel
laureates have collectively determined after analyzing our plans, one,
mine would strengthen the economy, his would weaken it; two, that on his
plan, he would actually blow up inflation and invite a recession by the
middle of next year. 

So, when you think about the cost of living, my approach is about
lifting you up.  His would be about actually weakening our economy. 

And I feel very strongly when an individual, when a small business, when
a family, when the middle class is strong, America is strong.

MS. WINFREY:  Amen to that.  Amen to that.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Shelby.  Thank you, Rachael and Garrett. 

So, the Harris campaign kicked off the Fighting for Reproductive Freedom
bus tour to support the fundamental right for women to make decisions
about our own bodies.  And here is a short tape on that.

(A video is played.)

So, for the millions of you who watched the Democratic National
Convention, you will remember Hadley Duvall telling her incredibly
powerful story.  And in case you didn’t see it, here’s just a brief
look.

(A video is played.)

Hadley is here. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  There’s Hadley.

MS. WINFREY:  Stand up, Hadley.  (Applause.)  
  
     I have to tell you, we are all standing up because we are so
impressed by your courage to stand up and share your story. 

Where did that come from, the strength to — to do this? Because I’m sure
you thought long and hard before deciding to go public with your story. 

PARTICIPANT:  When Roe v. Wade was overturned —

MS. WINFREY:  Thanks, everybody.

PARTICIPANT:  — I woke up with a harsh reality of my abuse was over but
my story is not.  And I just could not fathom thinking about the other
Hadleys out there that don’t have that choice, that don’t have somebody
to go to.  So, being able to find courage and be the light for them,
that’s — that’s really what I do it for.

MS. WINFREY:  And so, what do you want to say to other people who are
voting in this election regarding what happened to you and what that
means?

PARTICIPANT:  You can’t wait until it’s too late to care about
reproductive health care, because then it’s too late.  And when it
affects you, it — it hits, and it — you can’t deny it.  You can’t look
at someone with a story like mine and say it didn’t happen.  And there
are more people like me out there, and there are going to be so many
more who deserve their options.  They deserve their choices. 

Let’s get involved.  We have someone who’s willing to hear us at a level
like never before.  We have someone who wants to know what we want in
this country.  We have someone who wants to lift up our voice, and we
need to show out and show up for her, just like she’s showing out and
showing up for us.  (Applause.)

MS. WINFREY:  All right.

Is there something wanted to say to Madam Vice President?

PARTICIPANT:  Madam Vice President, I just want to say thank you.  Thank
you for seeing us, for hearing us when the Supreme Court won’t.  Thank
you for fighting and, you know, really showing us that life is — is not
about the hard things that you go through.  You don’t bow down —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

PARTICIPANT:  — even when you’re the underdog — especially when you’re
the underdog —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

PARTICIPANT:  — you stand up and you stand tall.  And you give me so
much hope and so much strength.  And thank you.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Aw, Hadley.  Honestly —

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Hadley, for coming all this way.  I hope you
continue to use your voice.  I hope you continue that. 

This week, the case of a young woman who lost her life after the
abortion ban took place in Georgia made national headlines.  Amber’s
case came to light through the reporting of journalist Kavitha Surana
with Pro- — ProPublica.  And so, listen to her story.

(A video is played.)

Amber’s mother, Shanette, and older sisters C.J. and Andrika are here,
and they — are they wanted to be here tonight to speak out for the first
time. 

Ms. Shanette, what do you want us to know about Amber’s story?

PARTICIPANT:  Initially, I did not want the public to know my pain.  I
wanted to go through it in silence, but I realized that it was selfish. 

I want y’all to know Amber was not a statistic.  She was loved by a
family — a strong family, and we would have done whatever to get my
baby, our baby, the help that she needed.

When ProPublica came to my home, I pushed them away.  “No.  No.  No.” 
But Kavitha, she kept — she was persistent.  She said it was something
that you needed to know; you have to hear me: Women around the world,
people around the world, need to know that this was preventable. 

Two years later, after speaking with my daughters — because I lost
strength; I lost hope — you’re looking at a mother that is broken.  The
worst pain ever that a mother, that a parent could ever feel — her
father and myself and the family — you’re looking at it.

MS. WINFREY:  Well, we appreciate so deeply you being here.  And I —
we’re all watching you hear that tape and those words.  We know how
re-traumatizing that is and the strength it takes for you to be here to
tell your story, and we deeply appreciate it. 

And I have to ask you, as her sisters, how are you coping?  And what
does knowing that this could have been prevented — how does — how does
that sit with you?  How do you cope with that on a daily basis?

PARTICIPANT:  I mean, it’s heartbreaking.  You know, that was my baby
sister.  I loved my baby sister, you know?  I’m beyond hurt.  I’m
disappointed.  I feel guilty.  I wish I could have helped her, you know,
because she was suffering. 

And we had no idea.  We trusted them to take care of her, you know?  And
they just let her die because — because of some stupid abortion ban. 
They treated her like she was just another number.  They didn’t care for
her as if, you know, she was their daughter or their, you know,
granddaughter. 

MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.

PARTICIPANT:  You know, and she’s not here.  She’ll never come back. 

MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  Andrika, what do you want to say?

PARTICIPANT:  I want to say that it’s — it’s very disheartening that my
sister was allowed to suffer for 20 hours.  She suffered.  There was
nothing that we could do to help her.  We trusted the health care
professionals to do their job and save her, but they failed her.

MS. WINFREY:  Well, I think the most powerful thing that you’ve said
here, Ms. Shanette, is that your daughter is not a statistic.  She had a
life.  She was loved by her sisters, loved by her family, loved by those
who knew her.  And she’s not just a tis- — statistic.  And we are happy
to speak her name tonight.

In — in this room, talking about what this country needs in terms of
reproductive rights and freedom, what do you want to say, Madam Vice
President?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m just so sorry.  And the courage that you all
have shown is extraordinary, because also you just learned about how it
is that she died.  And —

MS. WINFREY:  They just recently learned, yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  How, yeah.

MS. WINFREY:  Yeah, yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and Amber’s mom shared with me that the word
over and over again in her mind is “preventable.”

MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Preventable.”  That word keeps coming to her.

And this story is a story that is, sadly, not the only story of what has
been happening since these bans have taken place. 

And, you know, so the — just to step back in terms of how we got here. 
The former president chose three members of the United States Supreme
Court with the intention that they would overdo the protections of Roe
v. Wade, and they did as he intended. 

And in state after state, including yours, these abortion bans have been
passed that criminalize health care providers.  In a couple of states,
prison for life, Oprah — prison for life in a couple of states for a
doctor or nurse who provides health care. 

And so, it — it seems very apparent that —

MS. WINFREY:  Even when the — even when the mother’s life is in danger.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But see, here’s the problem with that.  Here’s the
problem with that.  So, is she on death’s door before you actually
decide to give her help?

MS. WINFREY:  Mm-hmm.  That’s the problem.  (Applause.)  That’s the
problem.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Is that what we’re saying?

MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  That you’ve got to prove —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That —

MS. WINFREY:  — you’re on death’s door.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Like, literally, a doctor or a nurse has to say,
“She might die any minute.  Better give her now care, because otherwise
I might go to prison for life,” in some cla- — cases. 

Think about what we’re doing in terms of saying that certain people who
are in these state houses — and then starting with the former president
of the United States — think they’re in a better position than a doctor
or a nurse to determine when their patient needs medical care. 

This literally — and — and Amber’s story highlights the fact that among
everything that is wrong with these bans and what has happened in terms
of the overturning of Wa- — Roe v. Wade, it’s a health care crisis. 
It’s a health care crisis that affects the patient and the profession. 

And going back to Hadley’s story — and, Hadley, you’ve been so
remarkable —  
  
     PARTICIPANT:  Thank you.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — in telling your story and being so strong in
the way you do it.  And both of these stories — really, I mean, the
courage for — out of pain, for you to tell these stories to help other
people is e- — is just extraordinary.  It’s — and, Hadley, and — and I’m
— you just — you’ve been so remarkable.

     You know, I — Oprah, I don’t know if you know this, but when I was
in high school, I learned that my best friend was being molested by her
stepfather. 

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.  Yes.  We heard that story on the — at the DNC,
yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And — and I said to her —

     MS. WINFREY:  And you had the courage then to go to her and say,
“You’ve got to come” —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “You come” — 

     MS. WINFREY:  — “to our house.”

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — “you have to come” — yeah.  And she came to
stay with us.  I called my mother, and she came to stay with us. 

     And the idea that these same legislators who would be saying, you
know, “criminalize health care providers” are also saying that after a
person’s body has been violated, that they have no right to make a
decision about what happens to their body next — that’s immoral.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  (Applause.)  I think it —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s immoral.

     MS. WINFREY:  — it’s not just immoral.  And here’s — here’s what I
want to say: I just don’t believe that those legislators, that the
government has a right to be in your womb.  They have no right to be in
your womb with decisions about your womb.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And one does not have to abandon their faith —

     MS. WINFREY:  Right.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling her what to do.  (Applause.) 

     MS. WINFREY:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  If she chooses, she will talk with her
priest, her pastor, her rabbi, or her imam, but not the government
telling her what’s in her be- — best interest.

     MS. WINFREY:  Well, this is a long healing process for this family,
and we thank you, and we hope that by being amongst people who heard you
and heard your daughter’s story will be meaningful to you in this
journey to healing.  Thank you so much for being here. 

     Okay, I want to also — (applause).  Thank you. 

     I want to hear from Star Walker, who is a campaign engagement
organizer in Milwaukee — one of my hometowns, Milwaukee. 

     Hi, Star.  What’s going on in Wisconsin?

     PARTICIPANT:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi, Oprah.  Hi, Madam Vice
President.  We are fired up here in Wisconsin.  I’m an engagement
organizer, so I’m focused on (inaudible) — (applause) — within their
personal networks, as friends, family, teammates.  Yeah, and by
empowering people to leverage their relationships, we amplify their
voices and deliver progress. 

     We’re fired up, but we also know it’s a razor-thin race.  So, just
like in 2020, this is going to be won by a field margin.  It’s on us to
roll up our sleeves and do the work.  Let’s make phone calls and knock
on doors.  Go to Go.KamalaHarris.com to join this people-powered
movement.  That way, when we look back, we won’t just be remembering how
we felt, we’ll be remembering what we did. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

     MS. WINFREY:  Wooo!  I love that.  I love that.  Y’all, I love
that.  That’s a big takeaway, because we are feeling really good right
now, but it — what really matters is: What are we going to do?

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.

     MS. WINFREY:  What are we going to do?

     Thank you so much, Star. 

     I see somebody else on the screen.  Julia Roberts!  Hi, Julia. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, Julia.

     MS. ROBERTS:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi.  Hi.

     MS. WINFREY:  I heard you were so excited; you wanted to be here
tonight.  Why?

     MS. ROBERTS:  Well, first of all, Oprah, thank you for hosting
this, because, I guess, if I started a voting club, it would be
“Conversationalists for Kamala” —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.  Yes.  (Laughter.) 

     MS. ROBERTS:  — because to — to talk, to — to listen, to be heard,
to have this back-and-forth is so unique in this campaign to beautiful,
wonderful Kamala Harris, who I have had the good fortune of knowing for
many years.

     And I am a mother of two kids.  This is their first chance to vote
in an election — (applause) — and I couldn’t be more excited for them to
have the legacy to say that their first vote they ever cast for
president was for you.  I have just chills saying that out loud.

     MS. WINFREY:  Are you all going to the polls together?  Are you
organizing a party?  Are the Moders —

     MS. ROBERTS:  We —

     MS. WINFREY:  — having a poll party?  What’s happening?

     MS. ROBERTS:  (Laughs.)  I wish we were all going together.  In
fact, you know, they are in college, so we will be separated on the
great day.  But — but in spirit, united always for what we believe in
and what we —

     You know, I feel like it’s interesting.  We talk so much about
being Americans united for something, but this has become such a global
representation of our country and what we stand for.  And I get to
travel internationally a lot, and I want people to say, “Oh, you’re
American” and not “Oh.  Huh.  How’s it going over there?”  (Laughter.) 
You know? 

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     MS. ROBERTS:  So, I want to get back to that space.  (Applause.)

     MS. WINFREY:  Exactly. 

     MS. ROBERTS:  And I — and I just —

     MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Julia.  Exactly.  Thank you.

     And, hey, there’s Tracee Ellis Ross coming up there.   
  
     Tracee, we sh- — now, listen —

     MS. ROSS:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi.

     MS. WINFREY:  If anybody should have a voting party, I think it
should be at your house, because you have great parties, girl. 
(Laughter.)

     MS. ROSS:  I just want to say hi.  Hello, Madam Vice President.  It
— Ma- — Ma- — it’s just an honor.  I actually have never met you —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I know.

     MS. ROSS:  — which is — which is crazy.  And hi, Oprah. 
(Laughter.)

     I am here because — wait, what did I miss?

     MS. WINFREY:  You go — she go- — we just saw each other the other
day.  Okay.  (Laughter.) 

     Oh, hi, Tracee.  Hi.

     MS. ROSS:  We did.  Hi, Oprah.  How are you doing?

     MS. WINFREY:  Good.  (Laughs.)  Yeah.

     MS. ROSS:  Okay.

     MS. WINFREY:  This is exciting, though, isn’t it?  Isn’t it
exciting?

     MS. ROSS:  It’s exciting.  It’s exciting because I believe in
democracy.  I believe in the future of our country, in reproductive
freedom, bodily autonomy, women leading.  I believe in decency.  The
idea of leading with joy and kindness has always been in my DNA.  And
I’m here both for the seriousness of this election but the joy with
which it is being handled.  It is stunning. 

     And then, I — I also really want to remind everybody — it hasn’t
been mentioned — but voting up and down the ballot — (applause) — is
incredibly important.  Your freedom and your daily life are — are all
the way up and down that ballot.  People are policies, and we need the
right people in all areas —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MS. ROSS:  — all — all positions. 

     And then, I would like to say to you two women: Thank you for what
you represent, because as a 52-year-old childless woman, I want to say
to the people who think that a woman’s worth is measured in her baby
count — I mean, shout out to all the amazing mothers — but the childless
women have been mothering the world and elevating culture — (applause) —
as aunties, godmothers, teachers, mentors, sisters, and friends and the
list go- — goes on, and you do not need to push out a baby to help push
humanity forward. 

     MS. WINFREY:  Amen to that.  Thank you so much.  Tracee Ellis
Ross.  (Applause.)  Thank you so much. 

     So, another important issue of this election is, of course, our
safety.  And just two weeks ago, our country experienced yet another
horrific school shooting.  Watch this.

     (A video is played.)

     We live in a country where 383,000 children have been exposed to
gun violence.  Now just sit with that number for a second.  It’s a
number until it’s your child. 

     This is not normal, y’all. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

     MS. WINFREY:  This is not normal, and this is not right.  Other
people in other countries do not have this issue.  We — Americans, we
have to do better.  We have to do better.  (Applause.)  We cannot
continue to just settle for your “our thoughts and prayers.”  Lives are
being destroyed. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  
  
     MS. WINFREY:  Fifteen-year-old Natalie Griffith and her parents,
Doug and Marilda, are here.  And, Natalie, we are so sorry to know that
you, too, have been added to that number because you were in algebra
class when you were shot twice by a 14-year-old fellow student.   
  
     We’re so glad that you lived to tell your story.  And so, how are
you tonight?

     PARTICIPANT:  Well, before that thing — the video, I was ver- — I
was very happy.  I still am very happy to be here and to — and to tell
my story and what hap- — and what happened, because it was a terrible
thing, and it should — and it should not have — what’s it called —

     PARTICIPANT:  Never happened.  
  
     MS. WINFREY:  Where were you shot?  Where were you physically shot?

     PARTICIPANT:  I was right here on my shoulder, and then around
here, right —

     PARTICIPANT:  Her wrist.

     PARTICIPANT:  — around my wrist.

     MS. WINFREY:  I was saying that 383,000 students in our country,
the United States of America, have been — been exposed to violence —
that same scene that you experienced in your school.  Had you all been
having, you know, drills or preparation —

     PARTICIPANT:  Yes.

     MS. WINFREY:  — for what should happen should there be a shooting?

     PARTICIPANT:  We have — I’ve had intruder drills and fire drills
and stuff in my old schools.  We had — we have had a fire drill at
Apalachee, but it was the first two months of — of the school year.  We
hadn’t had an — had an intruder drill yet. 

     So, we didn’t even — we weren’t even completely sure where to go in
the classroom.  We all just — I remember being like huddled and
(inaudible).

     MS. WINFREY:  So, I was watching your mother, even just when that
tape was coming on.  It’s still very much PTSD, very much traumatic. 
You’re still reliving it.  And how has it been for you?  How did you —
how were you notified that there was a shooting at the school?

     PARTICIPANT:  I was notified by a friend.  She called me.  I was at
work, and she called me, and she said, “Do you know about the
shooting?”  Which — with the school that she goes to, the Apalachee.  I
said, “No, I don’t.”  And then she said, “There was a shooter at the
Apalachee High School.”  My dr- — my heart just dropped.  In my heart,
it just got so heavy, and I could not stop — I just like — I had to
leave. 

     I told my coworkers, “I got to go.  I have to leave.”  And my first
thing I did is drop my knee on the floor and just start praying.  I
prayed for about 30 minutes from my — from my work on the way to the s-
— I didn’t get to get to the school on my car.  I had to leave my car at
a gas station about two — maybe two and a half, three miles, and I walk
on foot. 

     And I ran because my heart was so heavy, I could not get — I
couldn’t get in touch with my daughter.

     MS. WINFREY:  And I hear you have a message for people in power
regarding guns now. 

     PARTICIPANT:  I do.  I want to finish that story, because no parent
should go through this.  I want to just finish what —  
  
     MS. WINFREY:  Yes, go ahead.  
  
     PARTICIPANT:  — you know, the whole — the experience — you do not
know what feels until it’s you. 

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     PARTICIPANT:  You know, all those numbers that you show on the TV —

MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

PARTICIPANT:  — you know, a lot of people that are here are mothers. 
You know, what are we doing about this?  What are we doing?  Let’s make
sure that everybody listens.  Let’s make sure that everybody hears it. 
The whole world needs to hear that we women that have our children, we
have a job.  That job is to protect our children.  That job is to
protect our nation.  That job is to protect our country.  (Applause.)  

     We cannot let — we cannot leave — we cannot let that go on.  We
have to stop it. 

     You know, where — I was asking earlier, where are those people
(inaudible) the shooting?  Where are they?  They needed to make a
noise.  I’m ready to make a noise about this, and I’m ready to stop it. 
Because no one — no one knows what feels when you can’t find your
child.  When you call her and you call her and she’s not answering. 

     When I went through it, you know, it’s just me that knows it.  And
I’m sure — I’m so sorry for those that lost — their — their children
actually died.  I can actually hug my child.  My child is here.  And I
gave all these praise to my — the Lord, our Father in Heaven saved my
child.  You know, but the other two mothers there lost their kids, and
there are the teachers that died. 

     You know, those people are suffering like I’m suffering.  I’m very
sorry for them.  I’m very sorry that they lost the pe- — their loved
ones.

     MS. WINFREY:  And you have a message for the people in power.

     PARTICIPANT:  Yes, the people in power: Let’s make it a change. 
Let’s make happen.  Let’s make — you know, let’s just not hear about
this.  Who wants to just hear about this?  (Applause.)  We got to change
it.  We got to make it happen.  You know?

     MS. WINFREY:  And, Doug — Doug, I hear you’re not a registered
Democrat, but you now say it doesn’t matter what side of the aisle
you’re on when it comes to this issue.  What change do you want to see
now that it has affected your family?

     PARTICIPANT:  You know, common sense.  You know, I think a first
step would just be metal detectors in schools — you know, make a budget,
make a plan.  And — and the people that say, “Well, we’ve never really
done stuff like that before.”  I don’t care.  You know, they didn’t have
metal detectors at airports at one time.  You know, they didn’t have
metal detectors at courthouses. 

     They — you know, I think that if a child knew that he would — would
get caught that the likelihood of him trying would be — they may — there
may be another target, but it wouldn’t be us having to worry about
schools being hardened.  Or, you know —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  Yeah.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  I mean, I think that Doug has said it so
eloquently, which is, we just need to apply common sense.  And, look, I
think for far too long on the issue of gun violence, some people have
been pushing a really false choice to suggest you’re either in favor of
the Second Amendment or you want to take everyone’s guns away. 

     I’m in favor of the Second Amendment, and I’m in favor of assault
weapons bans — (applause) — universal background checks, red flag laws. 
And these are just common sense.  These are just common sense.

     MS. WINFREY:  I thought it was so powerful at the convention when
you s- — when — when you said you have guns — no, at the debate.  At the
debate when you s- —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I’m a gun owner.  Tim Walz is a gun owner.

     MS. WINFREY:  I did not know that.  (Laughter.)

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And if somebody breaks into my house —

     MS. WINFREY:  And I thought that was powerful.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — they’re getting shot.  (Laughs.)  I’m sorry.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.  Yes.  I — I hear that.  I hear that.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Probably should not have said that. 
(Laughter.) 

     MS. WINFREY:  But I —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  My staff will deal with that later.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  (Laughter.)

     But you have been a gun ow- — gun owner for a while.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I have.

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But — but here’s — here’s my point, Oprah, is
that I’m not trying to take everyone’s guns away.  I believe in the
Second Amendment. 

     But we have to agree that — look, I — I did, last fall, a — a
college tour with college-age young people.  So, I also did trade
schools.  And packed audience every time in their auditorium, and I
would ask, “Please raise your hand if at any point between kindergarten
and 12th grade, you had to endure an active shooter drill.”  Almost
every hand went up.  It was bone-chilling. 

     MS. WINFREY:  Yeah.  This is the way our kids —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It’s bone-chilling. 

     MS. WINFREY:  — are living.  Yeah.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And think about it.  You know, I grew up — we
had fire drills only — well, I grew up in California, we also had
earthquake drills. 

     But the fact that our children are sitting in a classroom where
they should be fulfilling their God-given potential and exploring the
wonders of the world, and some part of their brain realizes somebody
could bust through that classroom drawer — door with a — with a weapon —
with an assault weapon. 

     And — and let’s all agree that the — the trauma so many children,
even those who have not directly experienced the tragedy —

     MS. WINFREY:  Just being in the environment. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I —

     MS. WINFREY:  Just being in the environment.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I cannot tell you the number of young people
who — I mean, our kids had active shooter drills — that — that they’re
concerned that there might be somebody who would kill them while they
are at school.  This is not the sign of a civil society.

     MS. WINFREY:  It is not.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And we — it doesn’t have to be this way. 

     MS. WINFREY:  It doesn’t have to —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It does not have to be this way. 

     MS. WINFREY:  — be this way.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But we need to have the courage to act.  I
mean, look, my opponent, when he was told and — and knew about a — a
shooting of a young girl, you know what he said?  “Get over it.”  “Get
over it.”  No, we’re not getting over it.  No. 

     And — and to the point, everyone should have a sense of collective
responsibility for the children of our community —

     MS. WINFREY:  Yes.

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and understand their right to live and be
safe. 

     I have personally prosecuted homicide cases.  I know — I’ve —
autopsies.  I’ve seen autopsies.  I’ve seen what these weapons do to the
human body.  And we’ve got to agree that, in particular, when we’re
talking about something like an assault weapon, it’s literally designed
to be a tool of war.  It has no place on the streets of a civil
society.  (Applause.)  It’s designed to kill a lot of human beings
quickly. 

     And there are things we can do.  I mean, thankfully, over the last
three years —

     MS. WINFREY:  Gosh, it just seems like —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we’ve done some.

     MS. WINFREY:  — common sense.  It seems like —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But it is common sense.

     MS. WINFREY:  It just seems like common sense.  We would see this. 
We would see this. 

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I think so.

     MS. WINFREY:  And I think that the majority of Americans agree with
you —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
      
     MS. WINFREY:  — that we do not want assault weapons in the hands of
children and other people who have no business with those types of
weapons.  (Applause.)

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  Right.

     MS. WINFREY:  We know this is true.  So, we thank you, Natalie, and
your family, for being here. 

     PARTICIPANT:  Thank you for —

     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

     MS. WINFREY:  And good luck in that marching band this year.  I
hear you’re going to go out for the marching band still.

     PARTICIPANT:  Thank you for inviting us. 

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you.

PARTICIPANT:  It’s — it’s — we are — unfortunately, it’s a sad moment
for us, but I wanted to make sure that, you know, we came because we
needed to be heard and we needed to — you know, change has to be made. 
It — and we ready to fight for this.

     MS. WINFREY:  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

     Okay.  We want to hear what’s going on in another battleground
state.  Tracey is a regional organizing director in Nevada.   
  
     Tracey, tell us how things are going for you.  Hi.

     PARTICIPANT:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi, everybody.  I’m Tracey Ly,
a regional organizing director in Nevada.  I’m in the Silver State this
year because there’s so much on the line.  From health care to lowering
costs, these inch- — these issues impact all of us. 

     My team and I have been building relationships with voters across
this state, because, here in Nevada, we know that enthusiasm alone does
not win campaigns; organizing does.

So, all of you watching tonight can become organizers.  Whether you talk
to your sister, a roommate, or a grandparent about why you’re so excited
to vote for Vice President Harris, you are organizing and energizing
other supporters. 

So, please go to Go.KamalaHarris.com to find ways to help.  And enjoy
the rest of tonight’s event, and let’s get to work.

MS. WINFREY:  Let’s get to work.  Let’s do something.  (Applause.)

Meryl Streep, hello.  You and I — hi, Meryl Streep.  (Applause.)

MS. STREEP:  (Via teleconference.)  Hi.  (Laughs.)

MS. WINFREY:  You and I have talked about this moment.

MS. STREEP:  Hi, hi, hi.

MS. WINFREY:  How are you feeling?  How are you feeling about the
momentum?

MS. STREEP:  Oh, man.  This — this has been overwhelming to have the
privilege to sit in and — and listen to the testimony of the people
here. 

Hello, President Harris — oh.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Not yet.

MS. STREEP:  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter and applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Forty-seven days.

MS. WINFREY:  Forty-seven days, yes.

MS. STREEP:  (Laughs.)  From my mouth to God’s ear.  (Laughter.)

And hello, Oprah. 

I think the word of the day has been “preventable.”  Preventable.  All
of this, the surround of hatred and —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. STREEP:  — and venom and toxicity and encouraging some segment of
Americans to hate other segment of Americans —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
     MS. STREEP:  — it’s just crazy, and nobody wants it.  We’re done. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. STREEP:  We’re done with it. 

I’m just — I wanted to ask you — (laughs) — I can’t believe I have this
opportunity.  (Laughter.)  I probably never will again.  (Laughter.) 

If — I have a little Debbie Downer moment, because, actually, I think
you’re going to win.  I’m sure you’re going to win.  I think —
(applause) — yeah.  But what happens when you win —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. STREEP:  — and he doesn’t accept it?  And you know that there’s
going to be this long slog of shenanigans.  And I’m wondering wh- — how
we get to that moment, how we preserve certification on January 6th? 
Because if it doesn’t happen, it’ll be maybe thrown back to the
legislatures of the states. 

And I’ve been — I’ve been working with State Government Citizens’
Campaign, which is SGC\[C\]America.com, so — they’re — they’re a great —
they’re doing the — the unglamorous, down-ballot work of promoting those
— those candidates.  Because we really — I’m worried about it.  And I
wonder — I wonder if we’re ready for January 7th, 8th, 9th, and what
happens.  What happens?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, we will be ready.  But just taking a step back
and — and thank you, Meryl, for your — just the gift that you give: you
— you are a — you — your talent and your creativity.  Thank you for
being here. 

One of the things that I have realized in the course of our campaign is
that more Americans than we may realize who voted for Trump before have
decided January 6th was just a bridge too far.  It — when we reflect and
think about what January 6th was, where the president of the United
States, sitting in the Oval Office, incited a mob, a violent mob, to
attack the United States Capitol, such that 140 law enforcement officers
were injured — some were killed — to — to try and upend a free and fair
election where the American people voted — that was a bridge too far for
a lot of people. 

And we have sadly now seen how far he could go.  And I think there is
absolutely no tolerance whatsoever for the vast majority of Americans
for that.  And they’ve seen the lies. 

They understand, for example, almost every court case — I think every
court case where he’s challenged an election he lost.  I said on the
debate stage, look, because he’s having a very difficult time,
obviously, processing the fact that 81 million people fired him. 
(Applause.)  Right?

But — so, there is that: that it really was a bridge too far for so many
people that they are not willing to repeat.  But the other piece of it
is the lawyers are working.  The — it’s very important that we all speak
to our friends and our neighbors about misinformation and help them now
see how it occurs, where it is occurring.  It is important that we stand
up for the integrity of poll workers and people who are working on
Election Day. 

And — and that we also — and this is critically important, that we ask
people to be alert about mis- and disinformation, and we ask them, “Do
not be afraid to vote.”  Because I think there is also something quite
insidious about these attacks on the electorate in these various forms
that are intended to convince people that their vote won’t matter.  And,
in that way, there’s a little bit of reverse psychology going on here,
and let’s — let’s just make sure nobody falls for it. 

Your vote does matter, and we cannot let anyone ever take our power from
us.  We can never let anybody silence us.  (Applause.) 

And when we get those votes out, starting soon — early voting is already
going to start this week, I think — through November 5th.  And let’s
make sure everyone votes.  And we are going to have a good Election
Day.  We’re going to fight for the integrity of the people’s voice and
for our democracy. 

And, you know, I’ll just mention.  Earlier, a couple of folks talked
about what this means in terms of the world.  You know, Oprah, as — as
vice president, I have — I’ve met over 150 world leaders: presidents,
prime ministers, chancellors, and kings.  And the thing about
representing the United States of the America is when we walk in those
rooms around the world, we have historically and traditionally been able
to walk in those rooms chin up, shoulders back, with the self-appointed
and earned authority to talk about the importance of democracies.

People around the world are watching right now.  Because, you see, the
thing about walking into a room and being a role model is people watch
what you do to see if it lines up with what you say. 

And, in that way, the consequences of this election are directly going
to impact the American people and people around the world.  That’s what
we’re fighting for and those are the stakes. 

And that’s why we’re going to win, because we know what we’re fighting
for.  We — because we know what we stand for.  (Applause.)

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Meryl.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

MS. WINFREY:  So — thank you, Meryl.

What is on your heart to say to the American people, as we have 47 days
until November 5th?  What’s on your heart —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We —

MS. WINFREY:  — to say to particularly those people who are still
undecided or maybe indifferent or on the fence still?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We love our country.  I love our country.  I know
we all do.  That’s why everybody is here right now.  We love our
country.  We — we take pride in the privilege of being American.

And this is a moment where we can and must come together as Americans,
understanding we have so much more in common than what separates us. 
Let’s come together with the — the character that we are so proud of
about who we are, which is we are an optimistic people.  We are an
optimistic people. 

Americans, by character, are people who have dreams and ambitions and
aspirations.  We believe in what is possible.  We believe in what can
be.  And we believe in fighting for that. 

That’s how — that’s how we came into being, because the people before us
understood that one of the greatest expressions for the love of our
country, one of the greatest expressions of patriotism, is to fight for
the ideals of who we are, which includes freedom to make decisions about
your own body; freedom to be safe from gun violence; freedom to have
access to the ballot box; freedom to be who you are and just be, to love
who you love openly and with pride; freedom to just be.  And that’s who
we are.  We believe in all that. 

And so, this is a moment where we stand, knowing what we are fighting
for.  We’re not fighting against.  It’s what we’re fighting for. 

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Madam Vice President. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.

And I want to say — (applause) — thank you, Madam Vice President.  I
also want to say: Thank you, Jotaka.  (Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Jotaka.

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you, Jotaka Eaddy and the Win With Black Women, who
started the gatherings on Zoom and all of the grassroots.

Now each of you listening tonight, you become your own grassroots
organization to go forward and do something, coming together for the
largest Zoom call we’ve all ever had. 

Thank you so much.  (Applause.)

And I just want to say — I just want to say, for all of you watching who
are still on the fence — you’re in the middle; you’re independent, as I
am — or whether you’re — just still don’t know what you’re going to do:
This is the moment for all decent people, all caring people who want the
best for yourself and you want the best for other people.  This is the
moment for people who are tired of all of the bickering and all of the
name-calling; people who are exhausted by the craziness —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. WINFREY:  — and the made-up stories and the conspiracies.  This is
the moment.  You want to get on with your life, because you know that we
can do better and that we deserve better. 

You know this.  I know you know this.  I know you feel this.  I know
this is what you’re saying amongst yourselves.  It’s in all the
conversations that we’re having, that you’re having. 

And we’re better than this.  We’re better.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re better than this.

MS. WINFREY:  We’re better. 

And we want to create a world where our children will be safe in school
again.  And as my friend and mentor Maya Angelou always said, “When you
know better, you got to —

AUDIENCE:  Do better.

MS. WINFREY:  — do better.”  Thank you.

So, let’s do better and vote for Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Oprah.

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you to all of our special guests.  Thank you for
sharing your stories, for being here — Ms. Shanette.  (Applause.)

Vice President Harris, we thank you.  We hope you keep fighting for us —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I will.

MS. WINFREY:  — and the country we deserve to have. 

Thank you so much.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Oprah.

MS. WINFREY:  To find out more about how you can register or where you
can vote, go to IWillVote.com. 

Good night, everybody. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good night.

MS. WINFREY:  Thank you on Zoom.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

END                 9:33 P.M. EDT
