---
date: '2024-09-21'
modified_time: 2024-09-23 13:27:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-21 13:25:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/21/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan-and-prime-minister-albanese-of-australia-at-quad-cancer-moonshot-announcement-claymont-de/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India,\
  \ Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, and Prime Minister Albanese of Australia at Quad\
  \ Cancer Moonshot Announcement | Claymont,\_DE"
---
 
Archmere Academy  
Claymont, Delaware

6:42 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Hello, hello, hello.

(A helicopter flies overhead.)

By the way, that little thing up in the air there, don’t worry about
it.  (Laughter.)  It’s not armed.

Good evening, everyone — Prime Minister Albanese, Prime Minister Modi,
and Prime Minister Kishida; and Governor John Carney, Senator Chris
Coons, and Representative Lisa Blunt Rochester; all the scientists and
doctors and advocates here tonight.  What a fitting way to end the Quad
Summit, by launching another historic endeavor. 

When I was vice president, Jill and I launched here in the States what
we call the Cancer Moonshot.  We committed to end cancer as we know it
and make — reach 50 percent cure for cancers in a timeframe that we’ve
announced. 

We had lost our son to glioblastoma in 2015 — Beau, a graduate of this
great institution.  And like many mothers and fathers, quite frankly, we
were ready to give up.  But — I wasn’t going to run again.  My son Beau,
knowing he was going to die shortly, pulled me aside — not a joke; I
wrote about it — made me promise that I wouldn’t walk away, that I’d
stay involved, because he knew the impact if we stayed — and we stayed
and made the case. 

I remember him saying to me, “Dad” — this is the God’s truth — “Dad, I’m
not afraid.  I’m going to be okay.”  He knew he was about to die.  But
he said, “You’ve got to promise me you’ll stay involved.”  Because he
knew, the way he talked about it, that — that it would give people hope,
that those of us and many of you experienced it. 

I bet if I asked you to raise your hand, including the press, for
anybody who’s lost a family member or has been diagnosed with cancer,
it’s the vast majority of you.

And it seems to me there is nothing that families and/or the cancer —
person suffering from cancer needs more than hope — hope — hope that
science will outrace the disease.

When I — after Beau died, I literally visited every major cancer
research facility in the world — seven of them around the world.  I
wanted to see what was possible, and I did.

And, by the way, I didn’t do it alone.  I want to thank Danielle
Carnival, who is here — where are you, Danielle?  I want people to see
you — who is (inaudible) and ma- — worked on putting this together for
me. 

During those trips, I got to see in- — the incredible dedication —
incredible dedication that the scientists, doctors, and nurses.

And, by the way, having spent a lot of time, like many of you have, in
hospitals, you know, doctors let you live; nurses make you want to
live.  They give you ho- — male and female, you think I’m kidding.  They
had hope.

And they’re making a significant progress, all of you — those of you
scientists out here.  And it’s not just because it’s personal — this —
but it’s because it’s possible.

When I became president, we reignited our Cancer Moonshot with an
ambitious goal: cut the cancer death rate by at least 50 percent over
the next 25 years or even cure — and cure many cancers. 

Throughout this effort, what amazed me was that leaders around the world
asked about the Cancer Moonshot.  Its mission that brings us — that’s
the — the mission that brings us together tonight and one that brings
the best of us.  That’s why we’re here today.

I’m proud to announce that the Quad Cancer Moonshot is what we’re
talking about.  Our goal is to team up, end cancer around the world, and
start — starting with cervical cancer.  I know it may sound unrealistic,
but it’s not. 

Cervical cancer is one of the most preventable cancers in the world.  In
fact, we have prevention and screening tools and treatments to make it
the first cancer that can — ever to eliminate — be eliminated.  Yet it’s
still one of the most deadly ca- — cancers across the world. 

Every year, 150,000 women die from cervical cancer in the Indo-Pacific —
every year.  That’s more than double the population of this city.  We
can’t and will not let that continue. 

The four of proud us are proud democracies.  We’re coming together to
deliver a better hope, more hope for our people.  In practice, the Quad
Cancer Moonshot means more collaboration between our hospitals, research
centers, and cancer foundations; more investment in screenings,
treatment, and research; and more exchanges between our countries to
improve vaccination rates all across the region. 

Right now, only 1 in 10 women across the Indo-Pacific, which is the most
populated part of the world, have received HPV vaccinations for cervical
cancer.  So, I’m proud to announce that our four countries, the leaders
behind me, and many organizations here today are committing over $150
million for HPV — HPV screening and therapeutics. 

And next year, doctors and nurses from the U.S. Navy will begin a
program to train Indo-Pacific counterparts in conducting cervical cancer
screening and vaccinations so we can reach every woman in the region. 
And it matters. 

Folks, let me close with this.  During my first year as president, I
received a letter from a mother from Tennessee.  She had been recently
diagnosed with cervical cancer.  She said she experienced every emotion,
from denial to anger to fear to grief.  Jill and I remember those
feelings as well. 

But when she asked herself, “What am I going to do?  Am I going to give
up?  Am I going to fight?”  She answered, “I choose to fight.” 

We’ve got to choose to fight.  Choose to fight (inaudible).

Ladies and gentlemen, today America, Australia, India, and Japan choose
to fight for every patient asking for one more day, one more week, one
more year; every survivor and caregiver who carries the scars of
recovery; and every person we’ve lost and every person we can save. 

Because there is only — there’s truly nothing beyond our capacity when
we act together — not even beating cancer.  And that’s what this group
is about today.

So, I want to thank you all for being here.  And now, who am I
introducing next?  Who’s next?

ANNOUNCER:  Distinguished guests, the prime minister of the Republic of
India.  (Applause.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  By the way, he’s from a small country like ours.  It’s
low population.  (Laughter.)  But he’s become a good and decent man and
a good friend.

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  Thank you.  (Laughs.)

(As interpreted.)  Excellencies, I thank President Biden for organizing
this very important event.  This demonstrates our shared firm resolve to
provide affordable, accessible, and quality health care.

During the COVID-19 pandemic, we took the Quad vaccine initiative for
the Indo-Pacific.  And I am pleased that in the Quad, we have decided to
face the challenge of cervical cancer together. 

In cancer care, collaboration is essential for cure.  In order to reduce
the burden of cancer, it is necessary to have an integrated approach of
prevention, screening, diagnosis, and treatment. 

In India, an exceedingly cost-effective cervical cancer screening
program is being implemented on a mass scale.  At the same time, India
has also implemented the world’s largest health insurance scheme, and
special centers to provide generic medicine at affordable costs have
also been set up.

India has also developed its own vaccine for cervical cancer.  And with
the help of AI, we have also implemented new treatment protocols.

Excellencies, India is ready to share its experience and expertise. 
Several Indian experts working in the field of cancer care have also
joined us at this event today. 

India’s vision is One Earth, One Health.  It is with this sentiment,
under the Quad Moonshot Initiative, I announced an assistance of
sampling kits, detection kits, and vaccines worth $7.5 million. 
(Applause.)  India will also provide support in radiotherapy treatment
and capacity-building. 

I am pleased that for the countries of the Indo-Pacific, under the
initiatives of Gavi and Quad, 40 million doses of vaccine will be
contributed by India.  These 40 million doses of vaccine will be rays of
hope in the lives of millions of people.

As you can see, when the Quad acts, it is not just for nations, it is
for the people.  This is the true essence of our human-centric
approach. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

ANNOUNCER:  Distinguished guests, the prime minister of Japan.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  President Biden, Prime Minister Albanese, Prime
Minister Modi, dear participants, it is my pleasure to attend the Quad
Cancer Moonshot on the sidelines of the Summit. 

Joe has worked passionately on measures against cancers over many
years.  I wish to express my heartfelt congratulations to you, Joe, on
the fruition of your dedication in the form of the Quad cooperation, and
I express my esteem for Joe’s leadership.

The Quad demonstrated strong solidarity in the response to the COVID-19
pandemic.  In the post-COVID era today, the response to health-related
challenges that have receded due to the pandemic is even more
important.  Efforts to deal with regional health and security, including
cooperation on cancers, is indeed a timely initiative.

Regarding our support for measures against cancers in the Indo-Pacific
region, Japan has offered support, such as the deployment of equipment
and technical cooperation or support through international organizations
and initiatives.  We are also collaborating with research institutions
working on cancers in the United States, Australia, and India. 
(Applause.)

Regarding the measures against cervical cancers, we have supported the
deployment of medical equipment and facilities, offered technical
cooperation, or have contributed to international organizations,
including Gavi Vaccine Alliances, UNFPA, and IPPF, among others.  And
such endeavors will continue going forward.

We will cooperate with you closely in order to bring together the
technologies and networks of the Quad to raise the effects of our
measures against cancers even further.

Thank you for kind attention.  (Applause.)

ANNOUNCER:  Distinguished guests, the prime minister of Australia. 
(Applause.)

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  Thank you very much.  I’m delighted to be here
today alongside my good friends President Biden, Prime Minister Modi,
and Prime Minister Kishida. 

The unifying principle of the Quad is that we can achieve more together
than on our own.  Our work on health is a powerful example of that. 

At the very first Quad Leaders’ Summit, chaired by President Biden, the
Quad agreed to work together to improve access to COVID vaccines.  As a
direct result, more than 400 million vaccine doses made their way into
communities in the Indo-Pacific.  That changed lives, and it saved
lives.

That’s what the Quad Cancer Moonshot Initiative is all about as well. 
This program builds on one of President Biden’s signature policy
initiatives, not just in his term as president but throughout his time
in public life.  It’s a reflection of the ambition and empathy, the
vision and compassion that has defined President Biden’s leadership. 

It’s about understanding people’s pain but doing something to help. 
This is personal for the president and for Dr. Biden.  It is personal
for all of us, because in our nations, as in every part of the world,
cancer casts its shadow on the lives of our citizens and our loved ones.

Australia is proud of the leading role that we’ve played preventing
cervical cancer worldwide.  The HPV vaccine was developed at the
University of Queensland by Australian of the Year, Professor Ian
Frazer.  That vaccine, together with improvements in screening and
treatment, means Australia is on track to be the first country in the
world to eliminate cervical cancer.

Yet, beyond our shores, the story is very different.  One in four global
cervical cancer cases occur in the Indo-Pacific.  And tragically, women
in the Pacific die of the disease at up to 13 times the rate of women in
Australia. 

These people are not numbers.  They are our neighbors, members of our
Pacific family, and we’re stepping forward to help.

Today, I can announce that Australia is expanding our funding commitment
to the Elimination Partnership in the Indo-Pacific for Cervical Cancer,
known as EPICC.  Alongside a generous contribution from the Minderoo
Foundation, the expansion will use Australian cervical cancer expertise
to help more partner governments get HPV vaccine programs up and running
across the region.

This will also increase screening and treatment and provide support for
health workers.  It will build on what we’ve learned in the Western
Highlands of Papua New Guinea and Vanuatu and make it available to
Malaysia, Timor-Leste, the Solomons, Tuvalu, Fiji, and Nauru as well.

It’s fitting that this Cancer Moonshot takes its name from a famous
American achievement that inspired the world: a choice America made to
mobilize its collective talent and go to the Moon not because it was
easy but because it was hard.  That’s the spirit of this endeavor. 

All of us know that curing cancer, defeating it once and for all, will
be hard but not as hard as the lonely, exhausting physical and emotional
ordeal of diagnosis and treatment and never as hard as losing the people
we love, which everyone here, I’m sure, has been impacted by at one
stage in their life.

In 1969, seven years after President Kennedy called on his fellow
Americans to organize and measure the best of their abilities to meet an
unprecedented challenge, the world watched as two Americans walked on
the Moon.  The images of that defining moment in human history were
carried to Tokyo and Osaka, New Delhi and Chennai, Wilmington and
Washington, D.C., by the Australian radio telescope in Parkes.

Australians will always be proud of the part we played in sharing that
triumph of science and human courage with the world. 

We’re proud to stand with the United States, with India, and with Japan
in this shared effort to change lives for the better.

Thank you.  (Applause.)

7:00 P.M. EDT
