---
date: '2024-09-29'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 13:17:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-29 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-las-vegas-nv/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Las Vegas,\_NV"
---
 
World Market Center  
Las Vegas, Nevada

7:51 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hey, Las Vegas.  (Applause.)

Good evening, Nevada.  (Applause.)  Good evening.  Good evening.  Good
evening.  (Applause.)  (Inaudible.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you all.  Thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you,
everyone.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And can we please hear it for Captain Quintero?  (Applause.)

Oh, thank you all.  Thank you, everyone.  Oh, it is so wonderful to be
back in Nevada.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And happy Hispanic Heritage Month to everyone.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you all.  It’s good to be back, and I want to thank
everyone for all that you do. 

I know we have some extraordinary elected leaders here, and I want to
thank them for their incredible work and friendship.  It is good to be
with all the leaders who are here, including Representative Susie Lee,
who is here — (applause); Steven Horsford — (applause); Dina Titus —
(applause); the great General Ford — (applause); Senator Catherine
Cortez Masto — (applause); Senator Jacky Rosen, who we’re going to send
back to the United States Senate.  (Applause.)

Thank you, everyone, and all the local leaders here.  There are so many
leaders here.  It is good to be back with you.  (Applause.)

Thank you, thank you, thank you. 

And wait a minute.  We also tonight have here some of the Vegas Raiders,
who won their game tonight. (Applause.)  Thank you.  Congratulations. 
Oh, congratulations.  You came right from the game.  Congratulations.

Give them an applause, right?  (Applause.)  Well done.  Well done.  Well
done.

So, in all seriousness, everyone, before I begin, I want to say a few
words about Hurricane Helene.  And please have a seat if you’re able. 

I want to talk about Hurricane Helene for a moment, and I know that
everyone here sends their thoughts and prayers for the folks who have
been so devastated by that hurricane and the ensuing events in Florida,
in Georgia, the Carolinas, and other impacted states.  And we know that
so many have been impacted; some have died.

But I want to thank everyone for doing everything you can to think about
them.  Send them your thoughts.  Send them your prayers. 

I want to thank the first responders who have done so much. 
(Applause.) 

And we will stand with these communities for as long as it takes to make
sure that they are able to recover and rebuild. 

Earlier today, I received an operational briefing from FEMA Director
Criswell.  More than 3,300 federal personnel have been mobilized.  We
are deploying food, water, and generators and working to restore water
and power.  (Applause.)

And the president and I have told state and local leaders we will
provide whatever help they need in the days and weeks ahead. 

And so, I thank you all for sending your best wishes to everyone there. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

So, Las Vegas, we have 37 days until the election.  (Applause.) 
Thirty-seven days.  And we know this will be a tight race until the very
end. 

And let’s level set.  We are the underdog.  We are the underdog, and we
have some hard work ahead. 

But here’s the thing.  We like hard work.  Hard work is good work.  Hard
work is good work.  (Applause.)

And with your help, we will win in November.  (Applause.)  Yes, we
will.  Yes, we will.  Yes, we will. 

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.

AUDIENCE:  We will win!  We will win!  We will win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We will win.

And here’s why — and here’s why — and here’s why: Because we here know
that this election is about two very different visions for our nation. 
And the contrast, I think, was quite clear in our debate.

Did you all see the debate?  (Applause.)  You saw — you saw the debate. 
You saw the debate.  Yeah, yeah.

And in two days, I know we will cheer on Coach Walz when he debates J.D.
Vance.  (Applause.)  Yeah. 

But listen, also, their debate should not be the last word.  I’m trying
to debate Donald Trump again and — (applause) — I think he should debate
again.  The American people have a right to hear us discuss the issues. 
And as you say here in Las Vegas, I’m all in.  I’m all in — (applause) —
even if my opponent is ready to fold, so there you go.

But you will remember, in our first debate, I talked about issues like
bringing down the cost of living, investing in small businesses,
protecting reproductive freedom — (applause) — and keeping our nation
secure.  (Applause.)

But from Donald Trump, well, it was the same old, tired playbook — same
old, tired playbook — with no plan on how he would address the needs of
the American people. 

Well, folks, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It’s time to turn
the page. 

America is ready to chart a new way forward — (applause) — ready for a
new and optimistic generation of leadership — (applause) — which is why
Democrats, Republicans, and independents are supporting our campaign,
because we know we need a president who works for all the American
people.  (Applause.)

Enough of the division.  Enough of the hate.  We are all in this
together.  (Applause.) 

And you all know, for my entire career, I’ve only had one client: the
people.  The people.  (Applause.)   
  
From being a young courtroom prosecutor in Oakland, I stood up for women
and children against predators.  (Applause.)  As attorney general of
California, I took on the big banks — (applause) — and delivered $20
billion for middle-class families who faced foreclosure.  (Applause.)  I
stood up for veterans and students being scammed by for-profit colleges
— (applause) — for workers who were being cheated out of their wages. 
(Applause.)  
  
And I pledge to you, as president, I will fight for all Americans.  And
together, we will build a brighter future for our nation.  (Applause.)  
  
We will build a future that includes thinking about our economy in a way
that it is about lifting everyone up.  We will build what I call an
“opportunity economy” so that every American has an opportunity to own a
home, to build wealth, to start a business.  (Applause.)  
  
And let me tell you, I love our small businesses, of which I’ve met so
many right here in Vegas.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, growing up, our mother worked very long hours, and so, my
sister Maya and I would go over two doors down to Ms. Shelton’s house. 
She — we called her our second mother.  And Ms. Shelton was a
small-business owner.  So, I know, since I was a young child, who our
small businesses are, who our small-business owners are.   
  
Small businesses are the backbone of America’s economy.  (Applause.)  I
know that.  I know that.  And Latina small-business owners are the
fastest growing segment of our economy.  (Applause.)  
  
 So, my plan is about tapping into that ambition, those aspirations,
those dreams, those incredible ideas, that strong work ethic that people
have, also understanding not everybody gets handed $4 million on a
silver platter and files for bankruptcy six times. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, my plan is about saying we’ve got to help
entrepreneurs, startups out, and I will give a $50,000 tax deduction to
help entrepreneurs start their small businesses.  (Applause.)  Because
right now, that tax deduction is $5,000.  Can’t nobody start a small
business in 2024.  So, we’re going — we are going to make it something
what — where it is doable to lift folks up.   
  
We also need to build more housing in America.  (Applause.)  My mother
saved up for years, until I was a teenager, when she was able to buy our
first home.  And right now, a serious housing shortage is part of what
is driving up cost.  So, we will cut the red tape and work with the
private sector to build 3 million new homes — (applause) — and provide
first-time home buyers with $25,000 down-payment assistance — (applause)
— so you can just get your foot in the door.  You’ll do the rest.

  
 And we must lower the cost of living, because while our economy is
doing well by many measures, prices for everyday things like groceries
are still too high.  You know it, and I know it. 

So, I have a plan that includes lowering costs on everything from health
care to groceries, including I will take on the corporate price gouging
that we know — (applause) — has resulted in jacking prices up, often
around tragedies and emergencies.   
  
 We will give a tax cut to 100 million more Americans, including $6,000
during the first year of a child’s life — (applause) — knowing that the
vast majority of our young parents have a natural desire to parent their
children well but not always the resources to do it.  And that $6,000 in
extending and expanding the Child Tax Credit will help buying a crib,
buying a car seat, doing the things that are so critical in that first
phase of life.  
  
 I will also make sure good-paying jobs are available to all Americans,
not only those with college degrees.  (Applause.)  Because we need to
recognize the value of additional paths, such as apprenticeships and
technical programs.  (Applause.)  And so, as president, part of how I’m
going to push this forward is I will get rid of unnecessary degree
requirements for federal jobs — (applause) — understanding that having a
college degree is not the only measure of the skills and experience of a
worker.  (Applause.)  And when we do that with the federal workforce,
I’m coming to ask the private sector — challenge you to do the same. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, all of this is to say I will always put the middle class and working
families first.  I come from the middle class, and I will never forget
where I come from.  (Applause.)  Never.  
      
Now, Donald Trump has a different plan.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  Just google “Project 2025.”  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Which, I have to say, I still can’t believe they
put that thing in writing.  (Laughter.)  They printed it up.  They bound
it.  They handed it out.  Just google it.  It is a detailed and
dangerous blueprint for what he would do if he were elected again as
president.   
  
Donald Trump will give billionaires and corporations massive tax cuts
again —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — cut Social Security and Medicare —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” which
would be a 20 percent tax on everyday basic necessities —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which economists have measured would cost the
average family nearly 4,000 more dollars a year in everyday expenses.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And on top of all this, Donald Trump intends to end
the Affordable Care Act.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he has no plan to replace it.

He has, quote, “concepts of a plan.”  (Applause.)  “Concepts.”  
  
So, here’s the thing, though.  We can laugh about many things, but the
consequences of this are quite serious — quite serious.  Because think
about it: He’s going to threaten health coverage and health insurance
for 45 million people in our country based on a concept and take us back
to when insurance companies could deny people with preexisting
conditions.  You remember what that was like?  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, we are not going back.  (Applause.)  We are
not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We — we will move forward
and — (applause) — and we will take on the biggest issues facing our
nation.   
  
We have talked about the economy.  We have talked about what we can do
in terms of investing in the ambition, the aspirations of our country. 
We will take on the issue of immigration.  We will take on a number of
issues.  
  
On the subject of immigration, we must have comprehensive immigration
reform — (applause) — with strong border security and an earned pathway
to citizenship — (applause) — including for hardworking immigrants who
have been here for years, including our DREAMers — (applause) —
including our DREAMers. 

And I was attorney general of a border state.  I prosecuted
transnational criminal organizations who traffic in guns, drugs, and
human beings.  And as president, I will double the resources for the
Department of Justice to go after those transnational cartels —
(applause) — and take action to stop the flow of fentanyl coming into
our country, which is destroying entire communities.  (Applause.)  
  
These are serious problems, and we know Donald Trump won’t solve
them.   
  
When he was president, he did nothing to fix our immigration system. 
(Applause.)  And earlier this year, we had a chance to pass the toughest
bipartisan border security bill in decades, and Donald Trump tanked the
bill because he thought that that bill, if passed, would have hurt him,
and he’d prefer to run on a problem instead of fixing a problem.  That’s
not the kind of president we want.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  As president, he cruelly separated families and
plans to do it again.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And he continues to fan the flames of fear and
division.   
  
Look, we need a president who cares more about solving problems than
playing political games and demeaning people full

time.  (Applause.)  We’re tired of that.  We’re — we’re done with
that.  
  
 So, Nevada, ours is a fight for the future and it is a fight for
freedom — (applause) — like the fundamental freedom of a woman to be
able to make decisions about her own body and not have her government
tell her what to do.  (Applause.)  
  
And we remember how we got here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three
members of the United States Supreme Court — the court of Thurgood and
RBG —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — so that they would do as they did and overturn
the protections of Roe v. Wade.  And now one in three women in America
lives in a state with a Trump abortion ban —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — many with no exceptions, even for rape and
incest.  It is immoral.  Immoral.   
  
And let us agree, one does not have to abandon their faith or deeply
held beliefs to agree the government shouldn’t be telling her what to
do.  (Applause.)  If she chooses, she will talk with her priest, her
pastor, her rabbi, her imam, but not the government telling her what to
do with her body.  (Applause.)  Come on.  
  
 And with Jacky Rosen back in the United States Senate — (applause) —
when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom, as
president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law. 
(Applause.)  Proudly sign it into law.  
  
 And, Nevada, you know I’m traveling all over our country.  Across our
nation, we are witnessing a full-on assault on other hard-fought,
hard-won freedoms and rights, like the freedom to vote, the freedom to
join a union, the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean water,
the freedom to love who you love openly and with pride — (applause) —
and the freedom to be safe from gun violence — (applause) — which after
1 October  Nevada proved that smart gun safety laws are just common
sense.  (Applause.)  
  
So, look, generations before us, generations of America led the fight
for freedom, and the baton — well, it’s now in our hands.  It’s now in
our hands.  (Applause.)   
  
 And it all comes down to this.  We are here together.  You came out on
a Sunday evening.  We are here together because we know what is at
stake, and we are here together because we love our country.  We love
our country.  We love our country.  (Applause.)  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I do believe — I do believe that one of the
highest forms of patriotism that we could show is to then fight for the
ideals of our country.  That’s what this is about.  It is a fight to
realize the promise of America.  (Applause.)  
  
 And I know the people of Nevada; you are Battle Born.  You are Battle
Born.  (Applause.)  Yes, you are.  And we are all ready for the work
ahead.  Thirty-seven days.  (Applause.)  Thirty-seven days.  
  
And here in Nevada, every voter will receive a ballot in the mail, and
in-person early voting starts October 19th.  (Applause.) 

So, now is the time to make your plan for how you are going to vote. 
Okay?  And I’d ask you to start making your plan now for how you are
going to vote.  And if you choose to vote by mail, do not wait.  Fill
out your battl- — ballot, sign it, and send it back right away. 
(Applause.)  Okay?  And tell your neighbors.  
  
Because, folks, the election is here — (applause) — and we need to
energize and organize and mobilize.  And remember, your vote is your
voice.  Your voice is your power.  Don’t ever let anybody take your
power from you.  Never.  (Applause.)  Never.  Don’t let anybody silence
you ever.   
  
 So, Las Vegas, today, I ask you, are you ready to make your voices
heard?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)  
  
     Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)  
  
     And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)  
  
     And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  
  
 God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God bless
you.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END               8:18 P.M. PDT
