---
date: '2024-09-13'
modified_time: 2024-09-13 14:13:28-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-13 14:13:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/13/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-30th-anniversary-of-the-violence-against-women-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the 30th Anniversary of the Violence Against\
  \ Women\_Act"
---
 
South Lawn  
(September 12, 2024)

6:14 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  My name is Joe Biden.  (Laughter.)  I’m Jill Biden’s
husband — (applause) — and Ashley Biden’s dad. 

Thank you, Ruth, Nicole, and Kyle for sharing your stories.  Your
courage literally inspires the nation, and we stand with you.  The
entire nation stands with you.

You know, my daughter, Ashley — the love of my life and the life of my
love — she is — she — and — and anyway, I don’t get — anyway. 
(Laughter).  I get emotional when I talk about her. 

And thank you, Ada, and your beautiful poetry. 

It’s also an honor to see so many friends, brave survivors, and devoted
advocates. 

And thank you to the bipartisan members of Congress who have worked
tirelessly — and I mean tirelessly — to ensure and expand what we’re
doing here today, as well as the — (applause) —

The reason I put these glasses on, the sun is shining that way, and I
want to see you all over there.  (Laughter.)

As well as the late Dianne Feinstein and Representative Sheila Jackson
Lee — (applause) — who we miss very much. 

It wasn’t too long ago that we as a country didn’t want to talk about
violence against women as a national epidemic, let alone do something
the government had to address.  Society often looked away. 

In so many — so many places, violence against women wasn’t a crime; it
was referred to as a “family affair.”  We were told addressing it would
cause disintegration of the family.  That’s what I got accused of:
“Biden was disintegrating the family.”  Not a joke.  That was a
full-blown campaign.

And that shelters — this is the one that really angered me — shelters
that we were putting in place were nothing more than “indoctrination
centers” — indoctrin- —

Few police — few police departments had special victims units.  And
there was no national hotline to call — none.

There was a background — that was the background when I first wrote the
Violence Against Women Act in 1990.  My goal was to do more than change
the law: to change the culture of America — (applause) — I mean it; to
provide more protection and support for survivors; and to create
accountability for perpetrators.  

The way I looked at it — I come from — I was raised by a dad — a gentle,
decent man.  He taught my siblings and me that the greatest abuse of
power — the greatest abuse of power was to abuse power.  And the
cardinal sin that a man could do was raise his hand to a woman or a
child. 

So, I believed that the only way we could change the culture was by
shining a light on that culture and speaking its name.  We started
holding public hearings, despite senators saying it was — I was — it was
too salacious for the public to see.  That was one of the arguments. 
“You may be right, Joe, but it’s too salacious for the public to see. 
They won’t understand.” 

We had to let America know what was going on.  Americans, at our core,
are basic, decent people, and I believed that if they could see the
truth, we could begin to change things.  And that’s what happened. 
(Applause.)

The Violence Against Women Act broke the dam of congressional and
cultural resistance, brought this hidden epidemic out of the shadows,
and began to shift the legal and social burdens away from the survivors
onto the perpetrators where they belonged.  (Applause.)

For example, the new law created the first-ever national hotline for
survivors to get help.  (Applause.)  It supported shelters, rape crisis
centers, housing, legal assistance for women and children all across
America.  And the law helped train police officers and advocates and
prosecutors and judges and court personnel to make our entire system —
entire system more fair and responsible to the needs of survivors. 

And over the last 30 years, every time we’ve reauthorized that law —
when I was senator, when I was vice president, when I was president —
we’ve strengthened it.  We’ve broadened the law’s domestic violence
protections — (applause) — to including dating violence and to better
support survivors of stalking and sexual assault.  We expanded services
to protect immigrants, communities of color, rural communities, Tribal
lands, LGBTQ survivors.

And to create a new program to end the backlog of rape kits, instead of
prevention programs in every state, we secured historic funding to
increase so much more. 

Since we passed VAWA, according to the Department of Justice, between
1993 and 2022, annual rates of domestic violence have dropped by almost
70 percent — (applause) — while rape and sexual assaults have declined
by more than 55 percent.  (Applause.) 

And our first-ever Domestic Violence Hotline has received over 7 million
calls since 1996.  (Applause.)  It matters.  It saves lives, being able
to pick up that phone and call.  I remember the first time I listened
in.  “I can hear him.  I can see him.  He’s coming.  Please, send
somebody.  Please, please, please.”

You know, but there’s always more to do.  Let me just say, the first and
best decision I made when I was the nominee in 2020 was selecting Kamala
Harris as vice president — (applause) — not a political statement; it’s
a factual statement — a former district attorney, attorney general, U.S.
senator, who has prosecuted and stood up to sexual violence offenders
her entire career. 

You can’t say that about my predecessor. 

Kamala and I have also taken steps beyond this law to address violence
against women.  We know that during the pandemic — and you know it as
well — domestic violence increased. 

That’s why, through our American Rescue Plan, I directed $1 billion in
supplemental funding to ensure survivors trapped in bad situations could
get the <s>port</s> \[support\], including safe housing. 

We also passed the most significant gun safety law in 30 years that
narrowed — (applause) — that narrowed the so-called “boyfriend loophole”
to include dating partners convicted of abuse who say they could not own
a firearm.  What a fight that was, but we won it.  (Applause.)

I signed a bipartisan bill to end what’s known as forced arbitration. 
Remember that?  We hire you.  If, in fact, you — anything happened, you
— where you — it has to go to arbitration and not — you can’t go to
court.  It prevented survivors of abuse and harassment in the workplace
from getting their day in court.  We ended that.  (Applause.)

It was amazing, the people who opposed us doing that.  That just stunned
me.

And to keep college students safe, we sent the — we strengthened the
protections under Title IX that my predecessor then weakened. 
(Applause.)  And building on the work we started when I was vice
president, when I launched the “It’s On Us” program that Kyle mentioned
earlier, we’re increasing funding — increasing funding to prevent campus
assault — sexual assault.  (Applause.)  It’s important.

And we’ve created reforms that fundamentally shift how the military
investigates and prosecutes sexual assault and domestic violence,
including — (applause) — including independent prosecutors who now
report outside the military officer command structure.  (Applause.) 

And I want to thank Kir- — Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Congresswoman
Jackie Speier.  Is Jackie here?  I know Kirsten couldn’t be here.  And,
Jackie, if you’re here, stand up, because you deserve special
recognition.  I don’t see you, but you may be out there.  (Laughter.) 
Jackie’s leadership on this has made a big difference. 

For the first time in nearly a decade, the rates of sexual assault and
harassment within the active-duty military forces are down, finally —
down.  (Applause.) 

Kamala and I also continue to stand with women and girls worldwide who
are facing violence and demand basic human rights.  I also signed the
historic presidential memorandum to punish individuals around the globe
who use rape and sexual violence as a weapon of war and terror. 
(Applause.)

And we continue to condemn Russia for its widespread violent sexual
assaults in Ukraine — (applause) — just as we condemn the terrorist
group Hamas and its appalling, despicable acts of rape, mutilation,
sexual violence in Israel on October 7th and against hostages in
captivity.  (Applause.)

Silence and denial can hide much, but it can erase nothing — nothing. 
Some injuries are so heinous, so horrific, so grievous, they can’t be
buried, no matter how hard people try. 

And today, I’m proud to announce a new significant actions:  a record of
nearly $700 million in grants this year alone to more than 40 VA- —
VAWA-funded programs in states, Tribal communities, and across the
country — $700 million.  (Applause.)

We’re also issuing new policies to expand housing protections for
survivors, give law enforcement more tools to remove guns from domestic
abusers, and we are — (applause) — we are tackling the next frontier of
gender-based violence and abuse: deep-fake images and videos generated
by artificial intelligence.  (Applause.)

Back in 2022, we established civil protections for those who — whose
imine- — whose intimate images are shared without their consent.  It’s
now a crime.

Today, in response to my call to action, we have received new
commitments from leading technology companies to combat the creation of
exploitive deep-fake images and to stop distributing and making money
off this kind of sexual abuse, which they’re doing now.  (Applause.)

Folks, but the fact is we know our work never stops.  To any survivor
who is struggling, I want you to know you’re not alone.  <s>Doug</s>
\[Jill\] and I, Kamala and Doug, and our entire administration and
entire community have your back. 

For example, Kamala and I will continue to defend reproductive freedom
in America.  (Applause.)  My predecessor is proud that he put justices
on the Supreme Court to overturn Roe v. Wade.  As a result, Republicans
are criminalizing doctors, denying IVF treatment, turning women away
from emergency room, and forcing survivors of rape and incest to leave
their states to get care.  It is outrageous.  (Applause.) 

In its decision to overturn Roe v. Wade, the Supreme Court majority
wrote, and I quote, “Women are not without electoral or political
power.”  End of quote.  No kidding.  (Laughter.)   No kidding. 
(Applause.) 

Talk about out of touch.  (Laughter.)  Clearly, the Supreme Court and my
predecessors have no clue about the power of women in America. 

Let me close with this.  The Violence Against Women Act is my proudest
legislative accomplishment in all the years I’ve served as senator, vice
president, and president.  (Applause.)  I mean that from the bottom of
my heart.  (Applause.) 

Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank —

And I’m so proud, so grateful for the heroes — the heroes I’ve met along
the way, standing up here on these Capitol steps, who are here today and
across the country: women and men who run shelters and rape crisis
centers; fighters and allies who stand up to industry titans to expose
the truth; survivors who speak up for them- — themselves and empower
those suffering in silence. 

You’ve changed the nation.  You’ve turned your pain into purpose. 
(Applause.)  And your bravery and your spirit are unbreakable.  And
because of you — and this is not hyperbole — because of you, we’re a
better nation than we were 30 years ago.  (Applause.)

By the way, my daughter is a social worker in Philadelphia, providing
housing for abused women and those coming out of prison.  She was going
to be here today, but she’s ill.  She was going to introduce me. 

I want to thank her and all like her.  You all are the reason why — and
I mean this from the bottom of my heart.  I hear about what a terrible
nat- — I’m an — optimistic about our nation.  I’ve never been more
optimistic about our future.  (Applause.)  I really haven’t.

We just have — we have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States
of America.  (Applause.)  And there is nothing — nothing beyond our
capacity when we do it together. 

We’re the only nation in the world that’s come out of every crisis
stronger than we went in.  And we’re going to continue to fight and end
all this scourge that we had to deal with.

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

  6:29 P.M. EDT
