---
date: '2024-09-23'
published_time: 2024-09-23 12:45:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/23/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-sustaining-american-auto-leadership/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Sustaining American\
  \ Auto\_Leadership"
---
 
*Detroit Economic Club, Detroit, Michigan*

*As Prepared for Delivery*

Thank you to the Detroit Economic Club for hosting me today. It is a
pleasure to be back in the Motor City where I had a great time working
on autos in one of my first jobs. 

I want to thank Governor Whitmer for her important partnership, along
with Mayor Duggan, County Executive Evans, Senators Stabenow and Peters,
and Representatives Dingell, Stevens, Tlaib, Thanedar, and many others.

The President and Vice President are determined that America’s iconic
automakers and autoworkers are positioned to win the future. Our auto
strategy is designed to invest in America’s world class autos supply
chain from end to end; take tough, targeted enforcement actions against
China’s unfair practices; and invest in America’s best-in-class autos
workforce. 

Today, I am pleased to announce two important new steps to advance our
autos strategy. We are proposing a first-of-its-kind rule to safeguard
America from the risks posed by connected vehicles from China. And we
are building out the Michigan Workforce Hub to give workers the skills
they need to contribute to this dynamic sector and expanding access to
capital for small- and medium-sized auto manufacturers.

**The American Auto Sector**

The auto sector is an iconic American industry and our largest
manufacturing sector. Over 3.2 million Americans work in the auto
industry, and one third of those are in manufacturing jobs. The auto
sector creates good-paying, union jobs that provide a ladder to the
middle class, a sense of community, and the opportunity to work and
retire with dignity.

Nowhere is that more evident than right here in the proud city of
Detroit and the great state of Michigan.

While it wasn’t born here, America quickly made the auto industry our
own. Here in Detroit, Henry Ford revolutionized transportation by mass
producing a car for the common man. By 1930, the Big 3 had come to
dominate global auto sales. The legendary Flint sit-down strike in 1936
gave rise to the United Autoworkers, and by 1941, hundreds of thousands
of UAW members had good-paying, middle class jobs and pensions at the
Big 3. During World War II, the auto industry became the center of the
Arsenal of Democracy, churning out bombers, tanks, and engines by the
thousands.

When the Global Financial Crisis hit our auto sector hard, President
Obama and then-Vice President Biden came to the rescue of the Big 3 and
Detroit. UAW members made difficult sacrifices to get the industry back
on its feet.

Just a decade later, the pandemic brought new challenges. Decades of
offshoring had left our supply chains fragile, and shutdowns of
semiconductor factories in Asia and shipping disruptions led to layoffs
on shop floors here and unfinished vehicles piling up in parking lots.  
Our automakers and autoworkers are no stranger to a tough fight. And
this Administration has always stood with them.

We worked tirelessly with business and labor to move semiconductors to
auto plants and repair snarled transportation and logistics networks.
These actions and our recovery plan enabled U.S. auto production to
rebound three times faster than Europe. During this Administration, the
U.S. auto industry has created more than 275,000 new jobs – in contrast
to the loss of 86,000 auto jobs under the previous administration.

Now our automakers and autoworkers face another seismic shift – the
growing presence of clean vehicles, the rise of connected cars, and a
wave of underpriced Chinese auto exports hitting global markets due to
Chinese overcapacity.  

**Investing in America’s Auto Supply Chain**  

The President and Vice President have a comprehensive strategy to
position the American auto sector to win the future.

First — we are investing in America’s auto supply chain from end to end
to make sure American autos remain best in class. That means investing
in every stage, from small suppliers to final assembly, and using every
tool at our disposal, from grants and loans to tax credits. This
investment approach deploys demand- and supply-side incentives, from
removing barriers to providing upfront consumer rebates to bolstering
our domestic supply chains.

Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are building a nationwide
network of EV charging stations and building a domestic supply chain for
batteries and critical minerals. Just last week, we announced $3 billion
in selections for projects through the Battery Supply Chain Awards,
including several projects in Michigan, to boost domestic production of
advanced batteries, funding the expansion and construction of new
facilities for critical minerals, battery components, battery
manufacturing, and recycling.

Through the CHIPS and Science Act, we are supporting dedicated
investments for the legacy chips that power cars and the advanced chips
and materials that enable electric vehicles to drive further and charge
faster.

Through the clean energy incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act, we
are providing families with an up-front rebate of up to $7,500 when they
choose to buy a U.S.-made electric vehicle with U.S. batteries and
materials. The Department of Energy’s Domestic Automotive Manufacturing
Conversion Grant Program is providing $1.7 billion of federal investment
that is leveraging $5 billion in total investment to help retool 11 auto
plants across eight states to produce electric vehicles and electric
vehicle (EV) components while protecting good jobs and union jobs.
Michigan is receiving $650 million of federal investment from this one
program alone.

These incentives have already driven historic investment totaling more
than $177 billion in the EV supply chain, including in the battery
supply chain that China dominates. They are supporting investments that
are projected to transform the United States into a major lithium
producer by the end of the decade and that are now projected to produce
batteries to meet all forecasted U.S. demand for EVs by 2030.  

**Protecting American Autos from Unfair Competition**

Second — we are taking tough, targeted action to protect our auto sector
from security risks and to ensure China does not unfairly undercut our
auto sector. Americans should drive whatever car they choose – gas
powered, hybrid, or electric. But, if they choose to drive an EV, we
want it to be made in America, not in China.

In order for companies to invest in innovative new designs and models
here in America, they need to be assured that their investments won’t be
undercut by unfairly underpriced cars from China. And in order for
consumers to be safe and secure in increasingly connected cars on
American roads, we need to guard against national security risks from
China.

China is flooding global markets with a wave of auto exports at a time
when they are experiencing overcapacity. We have seen this playbook
before in the China shock of the early 2000s that harmed our
manufacturing communities. We saw it in Michigan – according to one
analysis, the Detroit metro area lost more than 55,000 manufacturing
jobs due to import competition from China. We are seeing that same
playbook in EVs and batteries after a period when China compelled
American automakers to form joint ventures and license their technology
in China.

The Administration is determined to avoid a second China shock, which
means putting safeguards in place before a flood of underpriced Chinese
autos undercuts the ability of the U.S. auto sector to compete on the
global stage. That’s why this Administration imposed a new 100% tariff
on EVs imported from China. It’s why we increased tariffs on China to
diversify the autos supply chain, including on EV batteries, legacy
semiconductors, and critical minerals.

Many of our allies, including Canada and the European Union, have
followed our lead. Moving forward, we will partner with Mexico and
Canada to ensure that our North American supply chains remain free from
state-owned enterprises and foreign entities of concern. China’s
overcapacity in EVs will be a major area of focus as we look to the
U.S.-Mexico-Canada trade agreement mid-term review in 2026.

And today, we are taking action to guard against safety and security
risks in connected cars and ensure that our auto supply chains are
resilient from foreign threats. Connected cars have the ability to
exchange data with other cars, your personal devices, America’s
infrastructure, our power grid, and auto manufacturers. The computer
systems that power these cars can control vehicle movement and collect
sensitive driver and passenger data, and the cameras and sensors
embedded within them can record detailed information about our country
and citizens.

There are many benefits associated with connected vehicle systems, such
as promoting safety, assisting drivers with navigation, and reducing
emissions. But where we source these technologies has important
implications for our national security, safety on our roads, and the
resilience of our auto supply chains.

China has taken steps to dominate the future of connected vehicles by
dominating the software and hardware systems associated with those cars.
But connected vehicles with Chinese software and hardware systems could
expose the American people to new risks. Without the appropriate
safeguards in place, sensitive data on Americans could be passed to
Chinese authorities, or connected vehicles might provide a backdoor for
malicious foreign actors to engage in espionage or sabotage.

That is why, today, the Department of Commerce is using its ICTS
(Information and Communications Technology Services) authorities for the
first time to propose a new rule that would ban vehicles that rely on
Chinese software and hardware from driving on American roads.

Recall that for years China has required vehicle and battery makers to
rely on Chinese data centers and software providers as a condition of
operating in China.

In effect, this rule will protect against potential vulnerabilities
while allowing Americans to benefit from all that connected vehicles and
technological innovation have to offer. 

**Investing in America’s Auto Workforce and Small Suppliers**

Third — we are investing in the autoworkers and small suppliers that are
the backbone of our auto sector. We want to ensure that the next
generation of leading American autos is produced by union autoworkers
and that no auto community is left behind, especially here in Michigan.

Today, we are unveiling new resources for workers through the new
Michigan Workforce Hub. This spring, the President designated Michigan
as a Workforce Hub to help Michigan workers prepare for the good jobs
created by historic investments in the EV supply chain. The Workforce
Hub, which we’ve developed in partnership with the Michigan Department
of Labor and Economic Opportunity, will expand pathways to EV and
battery manufacturing jobs and union jobs, particularly for underserved
communities in the state.

Today, the Department of Labor and the Michigan Department of Labor and
Economic Opportunity are announcing a new pilot program to train workers
in Wayne County for over 140 high-quality jobs in the auto supply chain,
partnering with local automotive employers to enable workers to earn a
paycheck while they train, addressing a major barrier to enrollment.

In addition, the Department of Energy’s Battery Workforce Challenge
Program is announcing over $1 million to fund curriculum, equipment,
internships, and job placements in community colleges, high-schools, and
training institutions across the state. Henry Ford Community College,
for example, will receive $200,000 in seed funding to establish a
state-of-the-art Battery and Electric Vehicle Technical Center. Key
partners in these programs will include the Michigan Economic
Development Corporation, high schools, vocational institutions,
community colleges and universities, and battery and automotive
manufacturers.

Through our Good Jobs Executive Order, we’re ensuring the benefits of
federal grants and investments accrue to workers and communities. For
instance, the projects receiving Domestic Conversion Grants will create
nearly 3,000 new good-paying auto jobs and retain 15,000 high skilled,
union jobs. As a condition for these grants, manufacturers committed to
supporting their local communities and workforce. By supporting strong
investments, we also support pathways to the middle class, including
through union jobs.

For instance, Blue Bird pledged to expand training programs in local
high schools and invest in childcare for working parents at its
facilities. And ZF North America is using their Conversion grant to
retain and retrain 536 workers – mostly UAW workers – at its facility in
Marysville, Michigan, for the production of components to electrify
vehicles.

Last year, the UAW secured record contracts with the Big 3 that will
help ensure an equitable transition to electric vehicles. Since then, we
have seen a large number of additional automakers announce record wages,
and a rise in new labor organizing. From Tennessee to Georgia, and in
new battery plants in Ohio and Michigan, workers in the EV supply chain
are seeing the benefits of joining a union.

Our auto workforce also includes hundreds of small and medium-size
suppliers manufacturing products ranging from screws and bolts to
e-axles. The U.S. economy has added more than 55,000 jobs in
manufacturing automobile parts and bodies during this Administration.
Many are based here in Michigan: in fact, 96 of the top 100 auto
suppliers in North America do business in Michigan and 60 are
headquartered here.

This summer, Vice President Harris came here to Detroit to announce more
than $100 million from across the federal government to support small-
and mid-sized suppliers and parts manufacturers. That includes. millions
of dollars we set aside from the manufacturing conversion grants program
for states to make awards to small- and medium-sized suppliers because
we heard from officials and suppliers right here in Michigan that
smaller manufacturers struggle to tap into large federal grant programs
directly.

Today, we are building on the Vice President’s announcement
with additional actions to support capital access for small- and
medium-sized suppliers. This includes a commitment from Monroe Capital
to launch a new fund of up to $1 billion to provide lower-cost debt
capital to auto manufacturers, as well as a $9.1 million grant from the
Department of Treasury to launch the Michigan Auto Supplier Transition
Program, which will help small and underserved automotive manufacturers
and aftermarket suppliers secure financing to scale and shift to supply
the EV supply chain.  
Conclusion

Our economic resilience and national security have been tied to the
strength of our auto sector for the past century. Now it is critical the
U.S. auto sector is positioned to lead the 21st century.

We believe that an investment in our auto supply chain – especially here
in Michigan – is one of the best investments we can make. That’s why we
are investing across the supply chain and strengthening our suppliers,
small businesses, workers, and communities that are the lifeblood of the
industry.

Today’s announcements underscore our commitment to auto communities,
union jobs, and to the competitiveness and safety of the U.S. auto
sector. It is part of a comprehensive approach that is forward looking
and leverages the strengths of American manufacturing and the talents of
American automakers – here in Detroit, throughout Michigan, and across
the country.

\###
