---
date: '2024-09-02'
modified_time: 2024-09-03 18:20:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-02 17:47:59-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/02/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-pittsburgh-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event\
  \ | Pittsburgh,\_PA"
---
 
IBEW Local 5  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

5:26 P.M. EDT

    THE PRESIDENT:  Hello!  (Applause.)  Hello, hello, hello! 
(Applause.)  Hello, Pittsburgh!  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, I’ve celebrated many Labor Days in Pittsburgh. 
(Applause.)  And it’s always good to be back with so many great friends,
many of whom flew with me on Air Force One today — represent the unions
that have been with me since the beginning of my career — they’re not
that old, but they — they’re — (laughter) — since I was a 29-year-old
kid. 

I want to thank Liz Shuler of the AFL-CIO — (applause) — and Kenny of
the IBEW — (applause) — for that strong endorsement.

By the way, we have an expression in Delaware.  The IBEW, when I ran for
president, they’re the ones that “brung me to the dance” starting off. 
Not a joke.  (Applause.)

And Dave McCall and the Steelworkers.  (Applause.)  Dave, in 1972 —
Steelworkers were the first union to endorse a 29-year-old kid named Joe
Biden who wasn’t old enough to be senator when he got elected.  It
mattered.  (Applause.)

A guy named Hughie Carcella was the district president, because we used
to have one of the largest labor forces in Claymont, Delaware, and north
— over 4,000 workers.  And it was — anyway, it all went lo- — it went
south.

But Hughie — Hughie went to the national president, I. — I.W. Abel, and
he said he wanted me — he wanted me to get ele- — endorsed.  Everybody
thought it was crazy.  I literally wasn’t old enough to be sworn in the
day I got elected.  (Laughter.)

But guess what?  President Abel stuck with me.  (Applause.)  And they
got stuck with me for the rest of their — my career.  (Laughter.)

Eric Dean and the Iron Workers.  (Applause.)  Tim Driscoll of
Bricklayers.  (Applause.)  April Verrett and SEIU.  (Applause.) 

Lee Saunders of AFSCME and a great friend.  Where are you, Lee? 
(Applause.)

And Jimmy Williams and the Painters and Allied Trades.  And his dad. 
His dad is a really good man.  (Applause.)

And Mike Coleman and the Sheet Metal Workers.  (Applause.)

We’ve also got some of the best elected officials in America.  Governor
Josh Shapiro is doing an incredible job.  (Applause.)  And the great
Lieutenant Governor Austin Davis.  (Applause.)  And one of America’s
best — where is Ed Gainey?  Ed, you’re doing a hell of a job. 
(Applause.)

And Sara Innamorato.  County executive, I think, is the hardest job in
American politics.  Everybody knows where you live, and they think you
can solve all the problems.  You don’t have enough money.

But I tell you one thing, I’m the first president ever — I used to be a
county official when I was 26 years old, and it always bothered me that
the county — the sta- — the federal government would send money to the
state to be distributed to the county.  What the hell is the state going
to send to the county for?  All the state reps need the money. 
(Laughter.)

But guess what?  Under my administration, it goes straight to the
county.  (Applause.) 

And one of my best friends — my name is Joe Biden; I’m from Scranton,
Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  Bobby Casey has been a great friend.  His
dad was a great friend as well.  And, by the way, we grew up three
blocks from one another.  Three blocks.  And they still worry about us
not showing up.  (Laughter.)

And guess what?  I was on North Washington Avenue; he was on Adams. 
Guess what?  They’ve renamed North Washington Avenue down where I lived
“Biden Way.”  (Inaudible.)  (Applause.)  And, Bobby — Bob, we’ll make
sure we get — you get reelected again.

And while he couldn’t be here, I want to thank his partner in the
Senate, John Fetterman.  (Applause.)  If you’re in a foxhole, you want
Fetterman in there with you.  (Applause.)  He couldn’t be here today,
but guess what?  He sent the best part of the family, Gisele.  She’s
here.  (Applause.)

Let me just say it means so much to be with a true friend — a true
friend: the vice president and the next great president of the United
States of America, Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)

Look, folks, I come from two neighborhoods where it’s not hard to say
the word “union.”  But you know what?  The fact of the matter is an
awful lot of politicians have trouble saying “union.”  (Inaudible)
working people.

Guess what?  I’m not one of them.  Neither is Kamala.  We know the
simple truth.  Wall Street did not build America; the middle class built
America, and unions built the middle class.  That’s a fact. 
(Applause.)  

And, by the way, that is a not a slogan.  That’s a fact.  I asked the
Treasury Department to do a study, and it shows that when unions do
well, all workers in America do better.  That’s a fact.  That’s a fact. 
(Applause.)

It’s the biggest reason why our economy is the strongest economy in the
world today without question — because of unions.  (Applause.)

You know, my dad, like many of his generation, going into World War II,
wasn’t able to go to — to college.  My dad was a really well-read guy,
and he was always engaged.  And he’d come home from work before he’d go
back and close up his shop and — for dinner.

And the dinner was a place where we had discussions and, incidentally,
ate.  You know, my dad taught me — my dad would say this all the time:
“Remember, Joey, a job is” — and I give you my word to this — “a job is
about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about
community.  It’s about your place in the community.  And it’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay,’ and mean it.” 

Well, that’s why — (applause) — that’s why Kamala and I are so proud —
so proud of the greatest job creation record of any president in a
single term in American history.  (Applause.)

Sixteen million new jobs so far.  (Applause.)  Eight hundred thousand
manufacturing jobs.  (Applause.)

Eight years ago, how many times you hear about we can no longer be the
manufacturing capital of the world?  Where the hell is that written?  We
are the greatest manufacturing city — or county in the world — state in
the world — (inaudible) the world.  (Applause.)  And we’re going to
remain that way.

And I’ll tell you something.  Kamala and I are damn proud that we
protected the pensions of over 1 million workers and retirees. 
(Applause.)

Remember all those years of promising we were going to do something
about it?  Well, damn it, we finally did it with the Butch Lewis Act. 
(Applause.)  Over 52,000 workers and retirees across Pennsylvania alone
are benefitting from that.

Not only did we restore the full amount, we got them their back pay as
well.  (Applause.)  We made them whole again.

And as I once said to Barack, “That’s a big deal.”  (Laughter.)  Yeah. 
Long story.  (Laughter.)

You just heard Liz and Kenny describe another big deal.  Union workers
are rebuilding American infrastructure and building new factories here
in America. 

They told me we couldn’t get anything done in infrastructure.  A
trillion two hundred billion dollars we got done.  (Applause.)

Remember Trump, for four years, promised every month “Infrastructure
Week.”  For four years, he promised that.  He didn’t build a damn
thing.  Nothing.  (Applause.)  I mean it.  Not — nothing.  (Applause.)

Well, thanks to our infrastructure law, Pennsylvania, so far, has
received $17 billion — $17 billion.  (Applause.)  Over 2,000 projects,
from clean water to affordable high-speed Internet for every
Pennsylvanian to projects that include $858 million to expand the
Montgomery Lock better — to accommodate bigger barges to get millions of
tons of goods and shel- — on shelves faster and more reliable and create
thousands of union jobs.  (Applause.)

I was working on the Great Lakes, and I got a call from Bobby — from
Senator Casey.  He’s been — no bigger champion than Casey for this.  You
know what I call them?  I call them the “Casey Locks.”  (Laughter and
applause.)  Not Goldilocks.  The Casey Locks.

Bobby is also a champion of Pennsylvania’s energy communities.  We
passed what’s called the Casey Credit, available to 45 Pennsylvania
counties where energy jobs such as coal — where coal mining and — had
been before it disappeared, before we came to office. 

The Casey Credit provides major incentives for companies to build new
battery factories, wind turbines, and more to create high-paying jobs in
those coal and natural gas communities.  (Applause.)

And on top of that, there’s over $4 billion that private companies have
committed to invest in clean energy and advanced manufacturing here in
Pennsylvania — $4 billion.  (Applause.)

And guess what?  With your support, I signed an executive order to make
sure large federal construction projects all use project labor
agreements.  (Applause.)

For folks at home who may be watching this on television know what
project labor agreement is, it’s when contractors, subcontractors, and
unions put in place before construction begins what the rules are —
before it begins.

These agreements make sure construction is top-notch, on time, on task,
and, by the way, on budget.  (Applause.)

There’s another big deal.  “Buy American” — that’s been the law since
1930.  I’ve got to admit, I’ve been around — I’m only 40, but I’ve been
around a long time.  (Laughter.)  But I, quite frankly, until 10 years
ago, wasn’t aware — you know, back in the ‘30s, when they were trying to
make sure unions could organize and businesses couldn’t interfere, they
put — a law was passed that said every penny the president gets from the
Senate, the House, and Congress to spend on a project, he should hire an
American worker and use an American product.

But past administrations — (applause) — seriously.  Past
administrations, including my pres- — predecessor, failed to buy
American.  They shipped jobs overseas where labor was cheaper and
brought home the product that was more expensive.

But not anymore.  Federal projects build American roads, bridges,
highways, and they’ll be made with American products by American
workers.  That’s why — (applause) — that’s why we’re creating all these
— I’m serious.  It’s simple and basic.  That’s why we’re creating so
many good-paying jobs.

In fact, we’re requiring those kinds of projects to pay Davis-Bacon
prevailing wages so they’re jobs you can raise a family on. 
(Applause.) 

Many of those jobs don’t require a college degree.  In fact, we expanded
registered apprenticeships.  Remember all the hell I got for doing that
— we got for doing that?  Well, guess what?  It resulted in hiring over
1 million apprentices since we came to office.  (Applause.)

And lots of folks don’t realize getting an apprenticeship is like
getting a college degree.  Why?  You have to train for four or five
years to get that.  And some of the best workers in the world are why
the — why we are where we are.   
  
You know — (applause) — when you’re in Pittsburgh, you’re standing with
steelworkers.  Let’s be clear.  I believe in American steel companies —
American-owned-and-operated steel companies.  (Applause.)  A simple
reason — it’s not hyperbole — American steelworkers are the best
steelworkers in the world.

And I made it clear last time I was in Pittsburgh: United States Steel,
an iconic American company for more than a century, is going to remain
an American company.  (Applause.)

I remember as a young senator why the N- — National Labor Relations
Board was sometimes so anti-labor.  It was set up to help labor, to be
pro-labor.   
  
Well, guess what?  That’s why one of the most significant things we’ve
done, Kamala and I, is appointing a National Labor Reser- — Board —
Relations Board that actually believes in unions and believes in
recognizing the right to organize.  (Applause.)  It’s a big deal.  It’s
a big deal.

Remember — we have short memories.  I’m all for forgiveness.  I’m not
for this: Trump appointed union busters on that board. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE PRESIDENT:  No, that’s a fact.  But it’s real.  It affects people’s
lives. 

Are we going to let that son of a gun do that again?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Folks, we’ve made a lot of progress, and Kamala and I
are going to build on that progress, and she’s going to build on it. 
I’ll be on the sidelines, but I’ll do everything I can to help. 
(Applause.)

But, look, I’m not joking when I say — this is not a joke.  When I said
this when I was running in 2020, a lot of people didn’t believe me.  You
did, but a lot didn’t believe me.  It’s all at risk because of Donald
Trump, literally.  With a stroke of the pen, he can get rid of a lot of
this.

And do you think this guy gives a damn about your pensions?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m serious.  Do you think he lo- — loses even an
instant of sleep over it?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Do you think he cares about all the work you do every
day and how hard it is?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Do you think he cares about good-paying jobs for
hardworking people who built this economy?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE PRESIDENT:  Hell — (laughter) — he regards picket lines — he’d
rather cross one than walk one.  (Applause.) 

But I have no problem walking a picket line.  (Applause.)  Never have. 
Neither — nor does Kamala.  (Applause.)  We’ll always walk aside —
alongside you.

Union workers built this country.  And, again, that’s not hyperbole. 
That’s a fact.  These are — these are facts.  These are not campaign
slogans.

Let me close with this.  Five years ago, I began my campaign for
president right here in Pittsburgh.  I said one of the reasons I was
running was to rebuild the backbone and spine of America — the middle
class and working-class folks.  Not a joke.  Think about it.  Think
about it. 

Well, five years later, we’ve done just that.  (Applause.)

I’m back in Pittsburgh on Labor Day again with a simple message as we
look at this election.  I <s>spelt</s> \[spent\] my — my whole career
believing in unions.  I’m not joking when I say that.  I’m honored to be
considered the most pro-union president ever.  (Applause.) 

By the way, remember all the talk?  “Biden got elected, and he’s going
to do a planned economy.  We’re going to collapse, and there’s going to
be all this caving in.  Interest rates are going to go through the
ceiling.”  Come on, man.  (Laughter.)

I’m here to tell you it’s about increasing the strength of your unions,
which it’s all about.  If you care about hardworking people, just give
them a fair shot.  Everyone in America deserves a fair shot.  No guar- —
a fair shot.  (Applause.)

If you care about the dignity of work — if you care about the dignity of
work — and I mean it; it matters — the dignity of work, the way you’re
treated, the decency. 

I remember when my great-grandfather was one of the — only the second
Catholic elected statewide to the state senate here in — in
Pennsylvania.  And I remember they talked about when he — when they were
running against him in 1906, they said, “Guess what?”  They said, “He’s
a Molly Maguire.” 

You know what a Molly Maguire was?  Well, those of you who don’t, a
Molly Maguire, back in the — in the old days, when we Irish and the
Catholics came and then the Poles and others that were Catholic — when
they came to the United States of America in the beginning, the 1840s
and — late 1840s, they made their way down into Pennsylvania, a lot of
them.  And there — there’s a tier in this — in the coal mines.  Those
guys who got there last ended up being the last people in the coal
mines.

But a lot of the English owned the coal mines.  And what they did was
they’d really beat the hell out of the — the mostly Catholic population
who was in the mines.  Not — not a joke.  Not a joke.

But there was a group.  They’re called the Molly Maguires.  And the
Molly Maguires, if they’d find out the foreman who was taking advantage
of an individual — and they’d literally kill him.  Not a joke.  And
they’d bring his body up and put him on the doorstep of his family. 
Kind of crude.

But I’ve got to admit, they accused my great-grandfather of being Molly
— he wasn’t.  But we were so damn disappointed.  But, you know —
(laughter) — I — that’s a joke.  That’s a joke.  (Applause.)

Look, it’s about the dignity of work.  It’s about how you’re treated. 

And when I met with the IBEW when I started off this last campaign
first, I said, “There’s two things that — asking of me.”  You’re — and I
said, “Two things I’m asking of you.  One, you got to open up your
unions to more women.”  (Applause.)  Not joke.  “And, two, to more
minorities.” 

You’ve done both that.  (Applause.)  And guess what?  Instead of having
the support of 30 percent of the American people, it’s now over 65
percent of the American people support the American union movement. 
(Applause.) 

Look, it really is all about the dignity of work.  And there’s only — if
you care about the dignity of work, there’s only one person you have a
rational choice with this time, and that’s Kamala Harris.  Not a —
(applause).

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me tell you about this woman.

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE PRESIDENT:  I know her.  I trust her.  Not a joke.  I trust her. 

Number two, the first decision I made the nomina- — as nominee in 2020
was selecting her as my vice president.  (Applause.)  And, by the way,
it was the single best decision I made as president of the United States
of America.  (Applause.)

And I was — I was watching something sent to me: When they asked Barack
— they said Barack picked me as vice president because he knew I could
be president.  Well, I know she’ll be a good president.  (Applause.)  I
know it.

I’ve watched her when all the experts, foreign and domestic policy,
would give us advice, then we’d sit alone in a room, and she has a
backbone like a ramrod.  (Applause.)  And she has the moral compass of a
saint.  This woman knows what she’s doing.  (Applause.)  

Folks, I promise you, if you elect Kamala Harris as president, it will
be the best decision you will have ever made.  (Applause.) 

And Kamala believes, as I do, that unions are the spine of this
economy.  She’ll be a historic pro-union president. 

So, folks, we got one more job to do together. 

Let me ask you: Are you ready to fight?

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!

THE PRESIDENT:  Are you ready to win?

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!

THE PRESIDENT:  Are you ready to elect Kamala Harris our next president
of the United States of America?  (Applause.)

And, in the process, are you ready to make Donald Trump a loser again? 

AUDIENCE:  Yeah!  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s future. 
We have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of America. 
There’s nothing, nothing — I mean this from the bottom of my heart —
there’s nothing beyond our capacity — nothing — when we do it together. 
(Applause.) 

And that means elect my friend, our great vice president, president of
the United States.  Kamala Harris.  (Applause.)

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, Pittsburgh!  (Applause.)

Thank you, Joe!  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is good to be in the house of labor. 
(Applause.)  It is good to be in the house of labor.  And it is good to
be back at IBEW Local 5.  (Applause.)

And can we please give it up again for our president, Joe Biden? 
(Applause.)

Now, I don’t have to tell the brothers and sisters of labor that you
really get to know somebody when you’re in the middle of a fight, when
times are hard, when the forces are mighty, when people don’t believe
something can get done, and they have a thousand excuses for why it
can’t get done. 

And I have spent more time with this extraordinary human being when the
cameras were not in the room, when the stakes were high, when the heat
was intense.  And Joe Biden has always stood with the workers of America
and labor unions of America.  (Applause.)  Always.  Always.

I’ve been with him when he’ll bring folks into the Oval Office.  And you
know how Joe can get sometimes.  He doesn’t spare words.  It’s good that
sometimes the cameras are not in the room when he has those
conversations.  (Laughter.) 

Because the thing about the Joe Biden I know — and I know you know,
because he has been a frain- — friend of labor for so long, for his
whole life — Joe Biden can be quite impatient, and that’s a good thing
for that kind of leader.  (Laughter.)  Quite impatient. 

And I say to all of the friends here, the press that’s in the room:
History will show what we here know.  (Applause.)  Joe Biden has been
one of the most transformative presidents in the United States that we
have ever witnessed.  (Applause.)  And it comes from his heart. 
(Applause.)

And, you know, Joe and I talk a lot about the fact that we are so proud
to be the most pro-union administration in America’s history, and it’s
thanks to your leadership.  (Applause.)  
  
And, as we know, Joe has still got a lot of work to do, so let’s — let’s
also understand that.  
  
So, I want to thank all the incredible leaders who are here today,
including the governor, Shapiro; Lieutenant Governor Davis; Senator
Casey, who we will reelect this November — (applause); Mayor Gainey;
President Shuler; President Cooper; all the leaders of labor who are
here; all the union members who are here.  
  
So, I’ll just get right to a few points.  I love Labor Day. 
(Laughter.)  I love celebrating Labor Day.  And Pittsburgh, of course,
is a cradle of the American labor movement.  (Applause.)  It is the
birthplace of the AFL, headquarters of the Steelworkers, home to Fire
Fighters Local 1, and, of course, the historic IBEW Local 5. 
(Applause.)  
  
For more than 150 years, the brothers and sisters of labor have helped
lead the fight for fair pay, better benefits, and safe working
conditions, and every person in our nation has benefited from that
work.  
  
You know, everywhere I go, I tell people, “You may not be a union
member, but you better thank unions for that five-day work week.  Thank
unions for sick leave.  Thank unions for paid family leave.  Thank
unions for your vacation time.”  (Applause.) 

Because when union wages go up, everybody’s wages go up.  When union
workplaces are safer, all workplaces are safer.  When unions are strong,
America is strong.  (Applause.)  
  
And we are clear: Not only has Pittsburgh shaped the history of
America’s labor movement, today you are also shaping its future. 
(Applause.)  
  
In 2021, with my dear friend, the Secretary, Marty Walsh, who the
president appointed to be Secretary of Labor, he and I hosted a meeting
right here in this Local, and it was part of the White House Labor Task
Force that I lead.  
  
That day, we met with a group of computer programmers who were working
to form a union.  One month later, they signed their contract and became
the first — one of the first technology unions in our nation —
(applause) — standing on the shoulder of all those who have been here
and fought the good fight.  
  
So, Pittsburgh, I r- — I remind us of that to say, together, we are
fighting to build an economy that works for all working people. 
(Applause.)  And that has always been the vision of the labor movement. 
And that is the vision of our campaign.  (Applause.)  
  
You know, in this election, there are two very different visions for our
nation: one, ours, focused on the future; the other focused on the
past.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We fight for the future.  (Applause.)  We fight for
a future of dignity, respect, and opportunity for all people. 
(Applause.)  
  
We fight knowing it’s some backward thinking for those folks to have
been suggesting for years that the — the measure of the strength of a
leader is based on who you beat down.  You know, that’s the stuff
they’re pushing — that the measure of the strength of a leader is based
on who you beat down — when we know the true measure of the strength of
a leader is based on who you lift up — (applause) — who you lift up.

  
Do you fight for workers?  Do you fight for families?  Do you fight for
those who must be seen and heard and deserve the dignity that comes with
hard work?  (Applause.)  
  
That’s what we fight for.  And when you know what you stand for, you
know what to fight for.  (Applause.)  
  
So, we’re 64 days out from this election.  (Laughter.)  Ballots in
Pennsylvania will start dropping in 14 days — (applause) — 14 days.  And
this election is, as much as anything else, a fight for the promise of
America — (applause) — for the promise of America.  
  
We love our country.  (Applause.)  We love our country.  And we know it
is one of the highest forms of patriotism to fight for the ideals of our
country, and that’s what this election is about, and about the promise
of America.  
  
And I don’t need to tell unions what the promise looks like.  It’s what
you do every day.  (Applause.)  
  
But as we fight to move forward, Donald Trump is trying to pull us
backward, including back to a time before workers had the freedom to
organize.  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s going to jail!  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, the courts will handle that, and we will
handle November.  How about that?  (Laughter and applause.)  We’ll
handle November.  Let the courts handle that other thing.  But we’re not
going back.  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  And —  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And one of the ways — one of the ways we’re going
to guarantee we don’t go back is that we remember.  Right?  It is
important to remember what that was and what it is.  
  
Remember, as president, Donald Trump blocked overtime benefits for
millions of workers.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He opposed efforts to raise the minimum wage.  As
the president said, he appointed union busters to the National Labor
Relations Board.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And don’t forget, he supported so-called
right-to-work laws.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And if Donald Trump were to be reelected, he
intends to give more tax cuts to billionaires and big corporations.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He wants to impose what, in effect, would be a
national sales tax.  I call it the “Trump national sales tax” on
everyday products and basic necessities that would cost a typical
American family — the economists have said this — almost $4,000 a
year.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to repeal the Affordable Care Act

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and take us back to what we remember — because it
wasn’t that long ago — was a time when insurance companies could deny
people with preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was? 
Children with asthma.  Breast cancer survivors.  Grandparents with
diabetes.  
  
Well, look, America has tried those failed policies before, and we are
not going back.  (Applause.)  We are not going back.  
  
AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And instead — and instead, we fight for a future
where no person has to go broke just because they get sick. 
(Applause.) 

And so, building on the work of President Joe Biden and I and the work
we have done in the White House, we will continue to strengthen the
Affordable Care Act and make prescription drugs affordable for all
Americans.  
  
We — (applause) — we — we fight for a future where every worker has the
freedom to organize.  And we will pass the PRO Act and end union busting
once and for all, and Bob Casey will help us do that.  (Applause.)  
  
We — we see and know and fight for a future where every person has the
opportunity not just to get by but to get ahead.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, we will continue to build what I call an “opportunity economy”
so that every American has an opportunity to buy a home or start a
business or build intergenerational wealth and have a future that
matches their dreams and ambitions and aspirations.  (Applause.) 

Because, of course, that’s the nature of who we are as Americans.  We
have dreams.  We can see what is possible, unburdened by what has been. 
We have aspirations.  We have ambitions.  And the system that is a good
system is one that supports that and allows people the opportunity to go
where they can see and imagine themselves to be.  
  
That’s what I’m talking about when I talk about an opportunity
economy.  
  
We fight for a future where every senior can retire with dignity, and so
we will continue to defend Social Security and Medicare and pensions. 
(Applause.)  And pensions.  And pensions.  (Applause.)  
  
And we will continue to strengthen America’s manufacturing sector.  
  
And on that point, the president mentioned it, U.S. Steel is an historic
American company, and it is vital for our nation to maintain strong
American steel companies.  And I couldn’t agree more with President
Biden, U.S. Steel should remain American-owned and American-operated. 
(Applause.) 

And I will always have the back of America’s steelworkers — (applause) —
and all of America’s workers.  
  
So, friends, 64 days until the most \[important\] election of our lives,
and probably one of the most important in the life of our nation,
truly.   
  
And we know this is going to be a tight race to the very end.  It’s
going to be a tight race to the very end.  So, let’s not pay too much
attention to those polls.  Because as unions and labor knows best, we
know what it’s like to be the underdog.  And we are the underdog in this
race, and we have some hard work, then, ahead of us.  
  
But here’s the beauty of us in this room: We like hard work.  Hard work
is good work.  Hard work is joyful work.  (Applause.)     
  
And so, in this fight, I will continue to count on the strength, the
determination, and the hard work of the leaders in this room to knock on
doors, to get folks to the polls, and — bluntly put, because the people
in here do it — to help us win Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  
  
So, today, I ask, are you ready to make your voices heard?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in freedom?    
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in opportunity?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Do we believe in the promise of America?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  (Applause.)   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And are we ready to fight for it?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Yes!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And when we fight —  
  
AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  
  
God bless you.  God bless America.  (Applause.)

  
     6:27 P.M. EDT
