---
date: '2024-09-20'
published_time: 2024-09-20 14:50:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/20/remarks-by-president-biden-and-first-lady-jill-biden-before-cabinet-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and First Lady Jill\_Biden Before Cabinet\_Meeting"
---
 
11:37 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good morning.  I guess it’s still morning, isn’t
it?  Yep.  
  
Before I begin this Cabinet meeting, I want to discuss very briefly the
need for Congress to pass a continuing resolution.  It’s critical.  And
we have 10 days for Congress to pass a short-term funding bill that
gives them more time to deliver on our national defense, veterans,
hardworking families — what we’ve already appropriated.  It’s important
we get it done.

And it’s the only path forward, b- — it’s by working across the aisle. 
We got to have faith that our leaders will pull this together.  It’s
really important.  It’s a — and — to fund the government. 

And — and so, this Cabinet meeting comes at a time when we have four
months left in the administration.  And we’re going to keep running
through the tape because the vice president and I are determined to keep
making sure that the democracy delivers what the American people are
asking for and what we provided.  
  
That means continuing to implement the historic laws we’ve passed. 
They’ve allowed us to invest in America, rebuild our infrastructure, and
implement our historic laws.   
  
So, we’re grateful that Jill is here today.  (Laughter.)  I heard that
clapping — it wasn’t for me — when we came in.  
  
And here, across previous administrations, first ladies have attended
these meetings and on — for specific reasons.  It’s the first time Jill
has joined us.  And it goes to show how important the issue is, what
she’s about to speak to, to both of us.  
  
Today, at the top of our meeting, Jill is going to give an update on the
House initiative — White House initiative to fundamentally change the
approach and fund — on how we approach and fund women’s health
services.  
  
So, I’d like to turn it over to Jill and — for any comments she has.   
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thanks, Joe.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  And it’s all yours, kid.  
  
THE FIRST LADY:  Thank you.  
  
You know, sometimes the White House surprises you.  When Joe became
president, I knew I wanted to keep shining a light on the issues that
I’d worked on for so many years: supporting military and veteran
families, ending cancer as we know it with the Biden Cancer Moonshot,
lifting up educators, and promoting free community college as a pathway
to good-paying careers.  
  
But then last year, I learned about — more about gaps — huge gaps in our
understanding of women’s health.  Our nation is home to the best health
research in the world, yet women’s health is understudied and research
is underfunded.  And we still know too little about how to affectively
prevent, diagnose, and treat a range of health conditions in women, from
heart disease to cancers.  
  
It was one of those moments where you can never see the world the same
way again.  And I knew that I had to add this to my portfolio.   
  
So, last November, Joe and I launched the first-ever White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research.  And what has never surprised me
about the White House is that when you have a great team, which Joe has
in all of you, you can bring about solutions quickly.  
  
I’m here, my first time at a Cabinet meeting, to thank you for the
incredible progress we’ve made on women’s health research, all in less
than a year.  
  
Joe directed federal departments and agencies to prioritize women’s
health research and innovation, and you responded.  
  
In February, ARPA-H, the agency Joe created to pursue breakthrough
health research, at lightning speed, launched its first-ever Sprint for
Women’s Health.  The $100-million investment will fund innovations that
will be life-changing for women.  
  
Then, a month later, NIH committed another $200 million to fund
interdisciplinary women’s health research, for ex- — for example,
looking at how menopause affects heart health, brain health, and bone
health.  
  
In May, the Department of Defense and the VA launched a new joint effort
to improve research for women in the military and for women veterans.  
  
On Monday, I’ll be at the Clinton Global Initiative to make a new
announcement, and we will share more then.  
  
In June, the Department of Health and Human Services announced new
funding to address the unique mental health and substance use treatment
needs of women.  
  
Your agencies are strengthening standards so that when the government
funds research, it includes women from the beginning.  That means making
sure women are enrolled in clinical trials and that researchers design
studies, analyze data, and report finding\[s\] in ways that improve
women’s health.  
  
Joe’s executive order directed the most comprehensive set of actions
that any president has ever taken to advance women’s health research. 
And in his State of the Union Address, he asked Congress for $12 billion
to secure the bold and transformative health discoveries we need.  
  
Our White House initiative has built momentum for health research
focused on women, but we have to keep moving forward.  We have to keep
wok- — working across government and the private sector to incentive
innovative health research for women.  
  
It’s time to write a new story of health care in this country, one where
women get the answers we need, where the United States continues to be
home to the most cutting-edge research in the world, and where everyone
can lead healthier lives.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, is it realistic to get to a ceasefire?  
  
Q    Mr. President, what do (inaudible)?  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  On the peace process, we’re continuing to try to do what
we’ve tried from the beginning to make sure that both the people in
Northern Israel as well as Southern Lebanon are able to go back to their
homes and go back safely.  And the secretary of State, the secretary of
Defense, our whole team is working — the intelligence community — to try
to get that done.  And we’re going to keep at it until we get it done. 
But we’ve got a way to go.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Is it realistic?   
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Shh.  Hey.  
  
Q    Is it realistic to get to a ceasefire deal, or have too many bad
things happened that make it difficult?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  If I ever said it’s not realistic, we might as well
leave.  
  
A lot of things don’t look realistic until we get them done.  We have to
keep at it.  
  
Thank you.

11:45 A.M. EDT
