---
date: '2024-09-04'
modified_time: 2024-09-05 12:15:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-04 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-north-hampton-nh/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event| North Hampton,\_NH"
---
 
Throwback Brewery  
North Hampton, New Hampshire

3:05 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Hi.  (Applause.)

Good afternoon, North Hampton!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Oh, my
goodness. 

Can we hear it for Nicole and Throwback Brewery?  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  Hi, guy- — thank you.  Thank you, thank
you.  Wow.  (Applause.)  Thank you, all.  Thank you, thank you, thank
you, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.

It’s so good to be back in New Hampshire.  Thank you all.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.

And Doug sends his love to everyone as well.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)

Oh, thank you, everyone.  Nicole, thank you.  You guys are just so
extraordinary, and I applaud the way you do the business that you do and
the love that you do in giving community.  I love our small-business
owners.  It is what you do — I’m going to talk a bit about you in a
minute, but you are part of the fabric — the essential fabric of a
community that cares about one another.

Thank you for everything.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

And thank you to the outstanding congressional delegation: Senators
Shaheen, Hassan — (applause); Representatives Pappas and Kuster —
(applause); and all the leaders who are here today.  Thank you all. 
Thank you all for — for taking the time to be here this afternoon. 
Thank you, everyone.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

So, before I begin, I do want to say a few words about this tragic
shooting that took place this morning in Winder, Georgia.  We’re still
gathering information about what happened, but we know that there were
multiple fatalities and injuries.  And, you know, our hearts are with
all the students, the teachers, and their families, of course, and we
are grateful to the first responders and the law enforcement that were
on the scene.

But this is just a senseless tragedy on top of so many senseless
tragedies.  And it’s just outrageous that every day in our country, in
the United States of America, that parents have to send their children
to school worried about whether or not their child will come home
alive.  It’s senseless.  It — it is — we’ve got to stop it.  (Applause.)

And we have to end this epidemic of gun violence in our country once and
for all.  You know, it doesn’t have to be this way.  It doesn’t have to
be this way. 

So, we will continue, of course, to — to send our prayers and our
thoughts to the families and all those who were affected, including, you
know — I — I’m going off script right now, but, listen.  I mean, you
know, at — at the — last year, at — I — I started a college tour, and I
— I traveled our country, meeting with our young leaders, right?  And
so, it was college-aged young leaders.  So, I did trade schools,
colleges, universities, community colleges.

By the way, I love Gen Z.  I just love Gen Z.  (Laughter.)  (Applause.) 
Right? 

But I’ll tell you one of the things — one of the things that I asked
every time I went to the auditorium — and it would be filled with these
young leaders, students — and I’d ask them, “Raise your hand if at any
point between kindergarten and 12th grade you had to endure an active
shooter drill.”  And the — for the — for the young leaders who are here
who are raising their hand, I’m telling you, every time, the auditorium
was packed, and almost every hand went up.

You know, a lot of us — I’ll tal- — I’ll speak about myself.  You know,
we had — well, I grew up in California — earthquake drills; we had fire
drills.  But our kids are sitting in a classroom where they should be
fulfilling their God-given potential, and some part of their big,
beautiful brain is concerned about a shooter busting through the door of
the classroom. 

It does not have to be this way.  (Applause.)  It does not have to be
this way.  And, you know, this is one of the many issues that’s at stake
in this election.

So, New Hampshire, look, we have 62 days to go — (applause) — 62 days to
go.  And I’m going to tell you what you already know: This race is going
to be tight until the very end. 

So, please, let’s not pay too much attention to the polls, because we
are running as the underdog.  We know what they’re capable of on the
other side.  The only thing we can take for granted is the love that we
as Americans have for each other, knowing we have so much more in common
than what separates us.  (Applause.) 

And we’ve got some hard work ahead, but we like hard work.  Hard work is
good work.  (Applause.)  Hard work can be joyful work.  And so, we are
up for the task.  And with your help, we will win in November. 
(Applause.)  We will win in November.

And that, in large part, is because we know what we stand for, and when
you know what you stand for, you know what to fight for.  (Applause.) 

We love our country, and we believe in the promise of America.  That’s
so much of what I think brings us all together this afternoon.  We
believe in the promise of America, and that includes a topic we’re going
to discuss today, which is what I call an “opportunity economy” —
building an opportunity economy.  (Applause.)

And my vision of an opportunity economy is one where everyone can
compete and have a real chance to succeed; where everyone, regardless of
who they are or where they start, can build wealth, including
intergenerational wealth; where workers are treated with dignity, and
everyone has the freedom to join a union if they choose — (applause);
where we remove barriers to opportunity, so anyone who wants to start a
business can have access to the tools and the resources they need to do
that.

I believe — and I said it before to Nicole — I believe America’s small
businesses are an essential foundation to our entire economy.  Think
about it.  (Applause.)  Think about it.  Small businesses in our country
employ half of all private-sector workers.  Half of all private-sector
workers own or run a small business or work for a small business.  They
do trillions of dollars of business every year.  They generate revenue
that helps repair our roads and pay our teachers. 

And, you know — (applause) — for all of those who are or know of
small-business owners, the thing I love about you is that you’re not
only leaders in business, you are civic leaders, you are community
leaders, you are mentors, you hire locally, you believe in the
community, and you’re part of the glue of the fabric that holds
communities together. 

You provide the local meeting space.  You are the types of folks where
you know who your regulars are, and when someone is walking in the door
and you can tell they’ve had a bad day, you know exactly what they
need.  Isn’t that the best of who we are?  (Applause.)  Isn’t that the
best of who we are?

And I’ve met so many entrepreneurs across the country who take the
incredible leap of faith that is required to start a small business —
folks who put their life’s savings on the line and work through the
weekends and holidays because they aren’t just building a business,
they’re pursuing a dream.  They’re building a better future for their
employees and for the people they love and their communities.  And by
extension, they’re building a stronger middle class and a stronger
America for us all.  (Applause.)

And so, all of this is why, as president, one of my highest priorities
will be to strengthen America’s small businesses.  (Applause.)  And here
I am in New Hampshire to announce a few elements of my plan to do that. 
(Applause.)

So, first, we’re going to help more small businesses and innovators get
off the ground.  Okay?  (Applause.)  Now I’m setting what some, I’m
sure, are going to call a very ambitious goal.  But you know what?  I
think we should admire ambition in each other.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

So, I want to see 25 million new small-business applications by the end
of my first term.  (Applause.)  And to help achieve this, we will lower
the cost of starting a new business.

So, here’s the thing, on average, it costs about $40,000 to start a new
business in America.  That is a great financial barrier for a lot of
folks, and it can hold entrepreneurs back.  And the current tax
deduction for a start-up is just $5,000.  Okay?  So, then you got to
make up the delta there; you got to figure out how you’re going to do
that.  Not everyone has access to that kind of wealth and capital.

So, part of my plan is we will expand the tax deduction for start-ups to
$50,000.  (Applause.)  It’s essentially a tax cut for starting a small
business.

Second, my plan will help existing small businesses grow.  We will
provide low- and no-interest loans to small businesses that want to
expand, and we will — and this is very important — cut the red tape that
can make starting and growing a small business more difficult than it
needs to be — more difficult than it needs to be.  (Applause.)

For example, we will make it cheaper and easier for small businesses to
file their taxes, similar — (applause) — similar to how individuals can
take a standard deduction.  You know, I said to my team, kind of like —
now, I’m going to date myself again, because they no longer do it — but
kind of like — you remember the 1040EZ?  Like, that kind of idea,
right?  Like, let’s just take away some of the bureaucracy in the
process to make it easier for people to actually do something that’s
going to benefit our entire economy.

Third — (applause) — third, my plan will invest in small businesses and
innovators throughout America, and here’s why.  We know that talent
exists everywhere in our country, from rural towns to city centers.  But
not everyone has access to the financing, to venture capital, or expert
advice.  It’s not that they don’t have the skills, it’s not that they
don’t have the work ethic; it’s access to these resources.

So, under my plan, we will expand access to venture capital.  We will
support innovation hubs and business incubators.  (Applause.)  And we
will increase federal contracts with small businesses.  (Applause.)  And
we will have a particular focus on small businesses in rural
communities, like right here in New Hampshire.  (Applause.)

Finally, my plan will make our tax code more fair, while also
prioritizing investment and innovation. 

So, let us be clear: Billionaires and big corporations must pay their
fair share in taxes.  (Applause.)  Because here is the thing — here is
the thing.  It’s just not right that those who can most afford it are
often paying a lower tax rate than our teachers and our nurses and our
firefighters.  (Applause.)  It’s just not right.  It’s just not right.

So, that’s why I support a billionaire minimum tax and corporations
paying their fair share.  (Applause.)  And while we ensure that the
wealthy and big corporations pay their fair share, we will tax capital
gains at a rate that rewards investment in America’s innovators,
founders, and small businesses.  (Applause.)

So, here’s the detail.  If you earn a million dollars a year or more,
the tax rate on your long-term capital gains will be 28 percent under my
plan, because we know when the government encourages investment, it
leads to broad-based economic growth and it creates jobs, which makes
our economy stronger.  (Applause.) 

Now compare that to what Donald Trump plans.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He intends to cut off federal programs that give
loans to small businesses.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  He plans to give billionaires massive tax cuts and
to cut corporate taxes by over a trillion dollars, even as they pull in
record profits.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  His plans will add more than $5 trillion to the
national debt, and that is on top of the $2 trillion tax cut he gave
them when he was president and when he exploded the deficit.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We know how to count.  (Laughter.)  We know how to
count.

And now he also wants to impose what, in effect, is a national sales tax
on everyday products and basic necessities, which will skyrocket the
cost for families and small businesses. 

And, New Hampshire, on top of all of this, if Donald Trump were to win
in November, he intends to end the Affordable Care Act —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — which would significantly increase costs on small
businesses, as we know —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Lock him up!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — and — well, you know what?  The courts are going
to handle that, and we will handle November.  How about that? 
(Applause.)  How about that?  (Laughs.) 

That’s how we’ll handle that.  How about that?  (Applause.)

But think about it.  He wants to end the Affordable Care Act, taking us
back to a time when insurance companies could deny people with
preexisting conditions.  You remember what that was?  Children with
asthma, breast cancer survivors, grandparents with diabetes. 

So, yeah, look, we are here to tell him and them: We are not going
back.  (Applause.)  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’re not going back.  We’re not going back.

AUDIENCE:  We’re not going back!  We’re not going back!  We’re not going
back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  No, we are not, and we will move forward, because
ours is a fight for the future.  (Applause.)  And — and it is a fight
for freedom.  (Applause.)  And it is a fight for freedom.

Now, I don’t have to tell the folks of New Hampshire, the “Live Free or
Die” state.  (Applause.)  You know the importance of individual
freedoms, fundamental freedoms.  You know how hard people fought for
these freedoms and that they are foundational to who we are and what we
stand for as America, including the fundamental freedom of a woman to
make decisions about her own body and not have her government telling
her what to do.  (Applause.)

And understand how we got here.  Understand how we got here.  And, of
course, we’re not going to fall for the gaslighting he’s pushing, right?

AUDIENCE:  No!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  When he was president, Donald Trump handpicked
three members of the United States Supreme Court with the intention that
they would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And as he intended, they did.  And now, in more
than 20 states in our nation, there is a Trump abortion ban, many with
no exceptions even for rape and incest, which is immoral — immoral.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And let us agree, and I know we do: One does not
have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the
government should not be telling her what to do with her body. 
(Applause.) 

And if he wins — and if he wins, you can be sure Donald Trump will go
further, and he will sign a national abortion ban.  And — and you know
Project 2025, which I just —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I mean, can you believe they put that thing in
writing?  (Laughter.) 

And under Project 2025, he would create a national antiabortion
coordinator, which would force states — I mean, this is unbelievable,
right? — which would force states to report on women’s miscarriages and
abortions.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  You know what they are making really quite clear? 
They just don’t trust women.  They just don’t trust women. 

But we trust women.  (Applause.)  We trust women.

And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive freedom, as
president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into law. 
(Applause.) 

Across our nation —

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  (Inaudible.) 

Across our nation — across our nation — and I’ve been traveling for
many, many mo- — well, years, actually, and certainly months, most
recently.  Across our nation, I’m telling you, we are witnessing a
full-on attack on hard-fought, hard-won fundamental freedoms and rights,
including the freedom to vote, the freedom to be safe from gun violence
—

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the freedom to breathe clean air and drink clean
water —

AUDIENCE:  Yes!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — the freedom to love who you love openly and with
pride.  (Applause.) 

And so, here’s what I don’t have to tell the folks of New Hampshire,
because you know it so well, it’s part of your DNA.  Generations of
Americans before us, they fought for freedom and they led the fight for
freedom in our country.  And now the baton is in our hands.  The baton
is in our hands.

So, let us understand, which we do, our purpose at this very moment. 
Let us remember the broad shoulders upon which we stand and the
traditions of this very fight that have led to what we have been able to
accomplish. 

And let us understand, then, that when we say “fight,” it is a fight for
something, not against something.  It is for something.  (Applause.) 
That’s what we’re talking about when we talk about a new way forward. 
This is for something. 

And so, as an example, let us finally pass the John Lewis Voting Rights
Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.  (Applause.)  Let us finally pass an
assault weapons ban and universal background checks and red flag laws —
(applause) — because we are clear, on that point, it is a false choice
to say you’re either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to
take everyone’s guns away.  I’m in favor of the Second Amendment, and I
know we need reasonable gun safety laws in our country.  (Applause.)

And there’s another point that I’d like to stress about this election in
‘24.  This is not 2016 or 2020.  The stakes are even higher this time
for a number of reasons, but I’m going to mention one, in particular:
what the Supreme Court recently did when they basically just told the
former president that, going forward, he will effectively be immune, no
matter what he does in the White House.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But let’s take this seriously and understand what
it means.  Before, at least, there might have been the threat that there
would be consequence and accountability.  With that ruling, what this
means is that almost explicitly, he has been told no consequence. 

And imagine — just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.  Just
imagine with no guardrails. 

He has openly vowed to be a dictator on day one.  He has said he would
end the independence of the Department of Justice — the United States
Department of Justice —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — so he could have the unchecked power to seek
vengeance against people who disagree with him. 

He even called for — I’m going to quote now — the “termination” of the
Constitution of the United States of America.

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Let us be very clear: Someone who suggests we
should terminate the Constitution of the United States of America should
never again stand behind the seal of the president of the United
States.  (Applause.)  Never again.

So, I’ll end where I started.  When it comes down to it, we are all here
together because we love our country.  We love our country, and we know
the privilege — the privilege and pride that comes with being an
American. 

And I do believe it is one of the highest forms of patriotism to fight
for the ideals of our country.  That is how we realize the promise of
America.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right. 

AUDIENCE:  USA!  USA!  USA!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, with that being said, I ask: New Hampshire,
are you ready to have your voices heard?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in freedom?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in opportunity?  (Applause.)

Do we believe in the promise of America?  (Applause.)

And are we ready to fight for it?  (Applause.)

And when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win!

God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God bless
you.  (Applause.)

                     END                3:33 P.M. EDT
