---
date: '2024-09-17'
modified_time: 2024-09-18 17:51:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-17 17:49:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/17/remarks-by-homeland-security-advisor-dr-liz-sherwood-randall-on-implementing-the-los-angeles-declaration-on-migration-and-protection-at-the-carnegie-endowment-for-international-peace/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall on Implementing\
  \ the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection at the Carnegie Endowment\
  \ for International\_Peace"
---
 
When people think about migration, they often think about it as a
problem that starts and stops at our border, but in fact it is a global
problem. 

As a result, this significant domestic policy issue is also a foreign
policy and national security issue.  

And, like all tough matters of foreign policy and national security, it
requires close coordination with our key partners.

Intensive bilateral and multilateral international engagement is core to
the Biden-Harris Administration’s approach to ensuring American safety
and security across a range of issues, including migration management. 

Which is why over two years ago, at the Summit of the Americas in
Southern California in June 2022, President Biden brought 20 heads of
state together from across the Western Hemisphere to launch the Los
Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection.

At the time, we were confronting new migration patterns fueled by
pandemic-induced economic disruptions, climate change, and repression in
the region by autocratic leaders like Venezuela’s Nicholas Maduro,
resulting in an unprecedented number of people on the move.

To tackle this challenge, the Los Angeles Declaration calls on all
partner countries to invest in three mutually-reinforcing efforts:

-   *First*, strengthening enforcement and disrupting the smuggling
    networks that profit off of vulnerable migrants.

<!-- -->

-   *Second*, expanding lawful pathways to provide opportunities for
    people to move safely and legally, as an alternative to risk-filled
    unlawful migration; and

<!-- -->

-   *Third*, fostering long-term stabilization and integration of
    migrants, while continuing to address the root causes of migration.

Today, I will talk about the ways in which we have collectively advanced
these three, interdependent pillars of the Los Angeles Declaration.

First, we have used our immigration and law enforcement tools to deter
unlawful migration and hold those who exploit vulnerable migrants
accountable.

Over the past decade, we have seen transnational criminal organizations
increasingly profit off of migrants.  This pattern of exploitation is on
vivid display in the Darien Gap – a treacherous mountain range and
jungle connecting Colombia and Panama – where record numbers of migrants
have paid smugglers to take them on harrowing journeys. 

I saw this heartbreaking phenomenon first hand when I traveled there in
2022, and I can tell you that what is happening in the Darien is both a
humanitarian and ecological crisis. 

At home, we have taken of a series of steps to deter this kind of
migratory movement by significantly strengthening the consequences
facing those who arrive at our border unlawfully, within the constraints
of current law.

Under the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris, we
have:

-   Surged law enforcement personnel and resources to the border;

<!-- -->

-   Adopted new rules and processes to streamline and incentivize lawful
    migration, while disincentivizing unlawful migration;

<!-- -->

-   Mobilized resources to increase investigations, arrests, and
    prosecutions of human smuggling and trafficking networks;

<!-- -->

-   Imposed visa restrictions and financial sanctions on criminal
    smuggling networks in the region; and

<!-- -->

-   Increased repatriation flights in order to return migrants more
    quickly.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have also repeatedly called on
Congress to play its part and update our outdated asylum laws that no
longer match the realities of our times and provide more resources so
that we can do more to manage our border effectively. 

Last year, the President directed his team to work with a bipartisan
group of Senators to craft a tough and fair set of border reforms
consistent with both our values and interests – including funding for
1,500 additional border personnel and more than 4,000 additional asylum
officers to more quickly remove people encountered at the border who
cross without authorization.

Unfortunately, the opposition to this constructive and comprehensive
legislation was fierce, and it was twice voted down.  As a result,
President Biden had no choice but to take decisive executive actions on
June 4 of this year to restrict asylum at the border during times of
elevated encounters.  These actions have led to a more than 50 percent
reduction in unlawful entries at our border since June.

In the meantime, throughout our Administration, we have invested heavily
in building strong multidimensional regional partnerships, in
recognition that we cannot solve this problem alone:

-   We have worked with countries across the region to launch new visa
    policies with significant results.  In July, for example, Ecuador
    announced it was imposing visas on Chinese nationals, which helped
    reduce the number of these individuals arriving in and transiting
    Panama by 95 percent.  In August Brazil imposed restrictions on the
    entry of Indian nationals along with other nationalities.

<!-- -->

-   We have also entered into biometric information-sharing agreements
    with countries throughout the region – enabling us to identify and
    prevent the travel of criminal actors before they arrive at our
    borders.

<!-- -->

-   Countries such as Mexico, Panama, and Costa Rica have also
    significantly increased repatriations of migrants, returning them
    early in their journeys north before they reach the United States.

Among all of these countries, our neighbor Mexico has been an essential
partner in our endeavors to understand the mobility of people in our
Hemisphere and address the challenges we face with humanity and
discipline. 

Early on, President Biden established a relationship of mutual respect
with his Mexican counterpart President Lopez Obrador, and he asked me to
worked closely with Mexican counterparts to develop and scale
cooperation at the strategic, operational, and policy levels in pursuit
of our joint interests across a range of security issues – from
migration to fentanyl to arms trafficking.

And we see the results.  For example, as Mexico increased resources and
personnel devoted to enforcement and limited the unsafe use of trains
and buses by migrants, we saw the number of unlawful migrants at our
border decrease dramatically. 

This created a deterrent effect that benefited Mexico and other partners
in the region that were also coping with large influxes of migrants that
overwhelmed their border management systems.   

And that brings me to the second element of our three-pronged approach
to managing migration: expanding lawful pathways. 

We have paired our enforcement efforts with the establishment of viable,
legal alternatives – giving migrants a safe, orderly and lawful option
to choose over an unlawful and unsafe one. 

And we have done this in concert with our regional partners such as
Mexico; they have opened up legal pathways as well and together we have
innovated to develop new approaches as circumstances presented us with
unprecedented situations.

-   For example, following Russia’s February 2022 invasion in Ukraine,
    we started to see large numbers of Ukrainian migrants arrive at our
    southwest border, seeking refuge in response to Putin’s unprovoked
    act of war.

<!-- -->

-   In response, the Department of Homeland Security launched a novel
    initiative that enabled Ukrainian nationals to register in Europe
    via a tablet-based application.  If they confirmed they had
    U.S.-based supporters, they could secure permission to fly directly
    to the United States with lawful permission for arrival at a port of
    entry. 

<!-- -->

-   When coupled with strong enforcement at the southwest border, the
    number of Ukrainians showing up irregularly at our southwest border
    plummeted to near zero almost overnight.

<!-- -->

-   We adopted a similar model with the Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans,
    and Venezuelans (CHNV) parole process.  In this innovative process
    that began in the fall of 2022, we established a balance.  For a
    certain number of Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans who
    applied to the program from the region, were fully vetted, and had
    confirmed U.S.-based supporters, we offered permits for lawful
    arrival and temporary work authorization.  However, we made clear
    throughout the Hemisphere that those CHNV nationals who came
    unlawfully and neglected the procedures we established would be
    swiftly returned – and negotiated arrangements with our partners to
    conduct those returns.  This program also resulted in an immediate,
    significant decrease in border encounters of those nationalities.

<!-- -->

-   As part of President Biden’s broader four-year effort to rebuild our
    refugee resettlement program, we launched the Safe Mobility
    Initiative, with offices now across the region in Guatemala,
    Colombia, Ecuador, and Costa Rica.  Migrants can go to these centers
    to be screened for protection claims and access lawful pathways,
    without having to make a further journey.

<!-- -->

-   In part because of this initiative, the U.S. Government has
    increased the number of refugees resettled from this region from
    just 4,000 in 2022 to over 30,000 this year.

Together, these efforts have helped steer migrants away from dangerous
unlawful routes – saving lives and, over time, substantially reducing
flows to our border while creating an orderly process that incentivizes
lawful entry.

Under the auspices of the Los Angeles Declaration, countries all over
the region have stepped up to provide lawful pathways that complement
ours and strengthen the incentive structure.

Mexico and Canada have both made new commitments, as part of the Los
Angeles Declaration framework, to provide temporary work visas to help
fill labor gaps.

And in May of this year, we launched Labor Neighbors – a bold new idea
as part of the Safe Mobility Initiative – to help countries with
significant labor needs to attract workers.

The goal of this initiative is to build a regional and ultimately global
matching system, optimally one that is app based, establishing a virtual
clearinghouse for workers who can be linked to job opportunities in
advance of their movement across the Hemisphere and beyond.

The third dimension of our approach focused on stabilization and
integration efforts in the region.

The unprecedented size of the massive exodus from Venezuela, the largest
migrant movement of a single population in the Hemisphere’s history, has
highlighted the criticality of this work.

Our partners throughout South America have stepped up to help absorb –
and provide stability to – so many of these individuals.

There is a largely untold story happening in this region that is
remarkable.

Over half of the Los Angeles Declaration partner countries have provided
legal status and helped integrate more than 4.4 million Venezuelan
migrants into their communities.  And they continue to do so.

Four countries in South America – Colombia, Ecuador, Brazil, and Peru –
are hosting over 80 percent of the Venezuelan migrants within Latin
America.

Colombia led the way by providing 10-year legal status to over two
million migrants, most of whom are Venezuelan, and recently announced an
expansion to include parents of migrant children.

Others have stepped up as well.  Last month, Ecuador extended its
regularization program to 200,000 additional migrants, enabling them to
apply for formal jobs and fully integrate into their communities. 
Brazil has pioneered a one-of-a-kind policy that matches migrants’
skills with labor needs all across the country.

And we’ve been right there to support them.  During this Administration,
we have provided over $2.4 billion to support partner countries that are
helping migrants as they put down roots, enroll their kids in school,
and restart their lives in a new place.

Surveys indicate that those who have legal status and opportunities in
the countries where they reside tend to stay put.  In fact, the
International Organization for Migration has reported that only about
1.2 percent of Venezuelans transiting the Darien Gap between June 2022
and June 2023 had a residency permit of some kind – demonstrating that
legal status in a third country significantly reduces onward migration
toward our border.

And the research also shows significant economic benefits of migrant
integration for host countries.  The International Monetary Fund
estimated that integrating Venezuelan migrants could add 4.5 percent to
host countries’ GDPs in the next decade.  As just one example, in
Bogota, the arrival of 600,000 Venezuelans migrants has created 9,000
formal businesses and generated 188,000 new jobs.  90 percent of
working-age Venezuelans in Colombia are employed and Venezuelan migrants
contributed over $500 million to the Colombian economy in 2022. 

Building on his legacy as Vice President, President Biden has also been
firmly committed since the beginning of his Presidency to supporting
economic development and democratic governance throughout Latin America
and the Caribbean in order to generate stability, economic opportunity
and hope for the future. 

We know, from years of experience, that individuals who are hopeful
about their futures in their homelands are much more likely to remain
there and much less likely to migrate.  And Vice President Harris’s
leadership in addressing the root causes of migration from Northern
Central America has been a critical element of this effort.

During the Biden-Harris Administration, we have worked hard to craft a
Hemispheric system of burden sharing that creates incentives for
individual and collective action to manage 21<sup>st</sup> century
migration flows. 

Although we have made substantial progress, as with all complex
challenges, especially at the intersection of foreign and domestic
policy, there is more to be done.

We have sought to adapt existing tools and we have created new ones,
including innovative frameworks like the Los Angeles Declaration, to
disincentivize unlawful migration and incentivize pathways that create a
safe and orderly flow to our borders. 

If you take one thing away from these remarks, it should be that
sustained success in this vital endeavor will require us to maintain
strong ongoing partnerships with countries across the region and around
the world.
