---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-06 11:26:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 22:46:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/05/remarks-by-president-biden-highlighting-how-his-investing-in-america-agenda-is-benefitting-communities-across-wisconsin-and-ensuring-americans-have-a-brighter-more-prosperous-future-westby-wi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Highlighting How His Investing in America Agenda\
  \ is Benefitting Communities Across Wisconsin and Ensuring Americans Have a Brighter,\
  \ More Prosperous Future | Westby,\_WI"
---
 
2:54 P.M. CDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello.  (Applause.)  Hello, hello, hello.  Hello,
Wisconsin.  (Applause.)  
  
The first time I was here was about 180 years ago with William Proxmire
when I was a 31-year-old senator.  (Laughter.)  I’m only 40 now, but,
you know —  
  
Please have a seat, if you have one.   
  
It’s great to be back.   
  
Before I begin, with your permission, I’d like to say a few words about
the school shooting yesterday in Winder County, Georgia.  You know, my
wife, Jill, and I are mourning those four gunned down — two — two
students and two teachers — and wounded and hospitalized nine others. 
I’m sure you all are as well.   
  
You know, students — just young teenagers.  Educators just doing their
jobs.  A community, like so many around the country, just getting back
to school.  And a joyous and exciting time absolutely shattered —
shattered.  
  
I directed my team to immediately ensure that we’re doing everything we
can to provide support.   
  
The Department of Justice and the FBI are working closely with the state
and local law enforcement o- — investigating this.  We have a lot of
information, not all of it.  We are grateful to the school personnel and
first responders who prov- — and prevented more people from being killed
or injured and brought the suspect to custody.   
  
But, as a nation, we cannot continue to accept the carnage of gun
violence.  (Applause.)  I’m a gun owner.  I believe strongly in the
amendment, but we need more tho- — more than thoughts and prayers.   
  
Some of my Republican friends in Congress just finally have to say,
“Enough is enough.  We have to do something.”  
  
Together, let’s ban assault weapons.  (Applause.)  My dad was a hunter. 
I don’t know a whole hell of a lot of deer wearing Kevlar vests.  I’m
serious about this.  High-capacity magazines — once again, what do we
need them for in terms of domestic use?   
  
There are too many people who are able to access guns that shouldn’t be
able to.  So, let’s require safe storage of firearms.  I know I have
mine locked up.  But how could you have an assault rifle, a weapon in a
house, not locked up, and knowing your kid knows where it is?  We’ve got
to hold parents accountable if their — let their child have access to
these guns.  (Applause.)  
  
Let’s enact universal background checks and end immunity — and end
immunity for gun manufacturers.   
  
And I realize I’m in a rural area, like the rural parts of my state,
where guns — we all have them.  And it’s not popular to talk about it. 
But the truth is there’s a difference between rational and
irrational.   
  
Imagine — you know, the only outfit in the world that we can’t sue — and
by law; passed by law — are gun manufacturers.  How about if that was
the case with Big Tobacco?  What do you think would happen if we were
not able to have sued Tobacco how many more people would be dead now but
— but for the — but for the ability to change the law?  
  
Folks, commonsense measures supported by responsible gun owners.  You
know, it won’t bring back those children, but thousands of children have
been gunned down acro- — you know, more children are killed or die from
a gunshot wound than any other reason in the entire United States —
every disease, every action — everything.  More die as a consequence of
a bullet in the United States of America.  But it’ll help save lives if
we do the things we’re talking about and prevent communities from being
ripped apart again.  
  
We can do it if we do it together, and I really think we can.  
  
So, I just wanted to say that before we began.  (Applause.)  And now to
our event today.   
  
Thank you, Darin, for that introduction and for sharing your story as a
family farmer.   
  
And thank you to one of America’s best — I say one of the three best
governors in the entire United States of America.  (Applause.)  Where —
where is he?  There he is.  Tony, you’re the best, pal.  When I think of
Tony Evers — and I mean this sincerely — one word comes to mind:
integrity.  Integrity.  (Applause.)  
  
And sitting next to him is a former governor of not far from here — from
Iowa — named Tom Vilsack, who’s a — and his — and his wife, Christie. 
Christie, you’re th- — yeah, there you are.  She’s smarter than he is —
(laughter) — just like Jill is smarter than I am.  But Tom is doing a
hell of a job as secretary of agriculture.  (Applause.)  
  
And thanks to all the local elected labor and community leaders that are
here.  And a special thanks to Brent Ridge, the CEO of Dairyland Power
Cooperative, for hosting us today.  (Applause.)   
  
You know, I come from the state of Delaware.  Everybody thinks it’s an
Eastern industrial state.  Our largest industry in Delaware — and I
served as senator there for 36 years; I know I don’t look that old, but
I am — (laughter) — for 36 years — is agriculture.  It’s a $4 billion
enterprise in the Delmarva Peninsula.   
  
And it’s co-ops that made it happen.  But millions of Americans rely on
co-ops like yours for electricity every single day.  And it matters.   
  
In June of 2021, five months after I came into office, I went to nearby
La Crosse, Wisconsin.  It was the 65th anniversary of President
Eisenhower signing the bill that created the Interstate Highway System. 
I talked about my vision to do something just as historic: to invest in
infrastructure, in clean energy, and so much more in rural America; to
invest in all America and all Americans; to propel us into the future,
creating millions — and I mean millions — of good-paying jobs,  and
positioning America to win the economic competition of the 21st
century.   
  
And I’m back t- — again today to begin a series of trips and events
showing that progress we’ve made together by our Investing in America
agenda, an agenda that has come to fruition over the last decade. 
Invest in America.  Invest in American workers.    
  
Here in Westby, you know, I’m proud to announce that my — my investments
— that through my investments, the most significant climate change law
ever — and, by the way, it is a $369 billion bill.  It’s called the — we
— we should have named it what it was, but it — but any rate. 
(Laughter.)  
  
The Department of Agriculture is able, from that legislation, to
announce $7.3 billion — (applause) — in grants to 16 electric co-ops
nationwide to help rural communities transition to clean, affordable,
reliable energy.   
  
It’s the most significant, transformative investment in electritia- — in
electrification and clean energy for rural America since FDR’s New Deal
nearly 90 years ago.  And that’s not hyper- — that’s a fact.  And it
includes Dairyland Power Cooperative, that will receive $580 million to
develop — (applause) — and purchase solar power, wind power, energy
storage right here in Wisconsin and all across the Midwest.   
  
And here’s why it’s a game changer.  Before the New Deal, private
companies refused to provide affordable electricity to rural
communities.  As a result, 1 in 10 rural households — only 1 in 10 had
electricity before FDR came to power.  So, farmers had to organize
electric co-ops to distribute electricity to their families and their
communities.   
  
With help from the New Deal, there are now more than 800 rural electric
co-ops to provide electricity for 40 million Americans in 48 states. 
But key challenges — they’ve overc- — overcome them, but there’s still —
the co-ops are still nonprofits.  They don’t have the same resources
that private utility companies have to modernize their energy
infrastructure.  And for decades, they couldn’t access tax credits to
make clean energy more affordable.   
  
That’s why Kamala and I ensured that the — for the first time in
American history, that these nonprofit co-ops can benefit from clean
energy tax credits just like for-profit utilities have for decades. 
(Applause.)   
  
We also created new tools for co-ops to refinance prior debts so those
fu- — they can go out there and not be held back from investing in their
future.   
  
Today’s historic announcement of $7.3 billion for rural electric co-ops
builds on those steps.  It means clean, affordable electricity for over
5 million rural households and businesses across 23 states.  It means
20,000 jobs — good-paying, high-quality jobs, including union jobs, so
rural America is empowered to lead our clean energy future. 
(Applause.)   
  
It means covering the upfront costs of clean energy so rural families
can save on their energy bills and get just a little more breathing room
at the end of the month.  And it means rural entrepreneurs and
manufacturers, who are so fundamental to our economy, are powered with
reliable, affordable energy and they can create more job opportunities
in their communities.   
  
And guess what?  It’s also good for the environment as well.   
  
Because of our historic actions, we’re going to reduce by 43 million
tons greenhouse gas pollution every single year as a consequence of
these investments.  (Applause.)  That is the equivalent of removing
pollution from more than 10 million gas-powered vehicles — 10 million. 
That’s going to save <s>$265 billion</s> \[$256 million\] in health care
costs because of better, cleaner quality of air — people aren’t
breathing polluted air and getting sick.  That comes from the NIH.  It
matters, folks.  You know it.   
  
And, folks, I’ve kept my commitment to be president for all America and
all Americans, including rural America.  Your communities are the
backbone — and that’s not hyper- — you’re the backbone of this country. 
You deserve the same resources as folks in our cities and our suburbs. 
And that’s what today’s announcement is all about: generating rural
power for rural America.   
  
But that’s not all.  Last year, I was next door with your good neighbor,
Governor Walz of Minnesota.  I think the guy is going places
(inaudible).  (Applause.)  I talked about we’re making the most
fundamental and significant investment ever in rural America, creating
new and better markets, new income streams that are generators that
rural America — that can grow and thrive.   
  
For example, we’re taking on big corporations and doing everything from
increasing competition in the meat markets to boosting domestic
fertilizer production.  In fact, here in Wisconsin, that means $12
million to lower fertilizer costs for farmers across the state, which
also creates jobs and grows new businesses. 

Here in Wisconsin, we also invested $47 million to lower energy costs;
install renewable and energy-efficient technologies, like solar panels
behind me, on farms and rural small businesses.   
  
Darin just shared how that’s cut his family electricity bill in half. 
We’re helping farmers and ranchers and entrepreneurs tackle the climate
crisis.   
  
Climate-smart agriculture, such as cover crops, nutrient management,
storing carbon in the soil — these practices reduce the greenhouse gas
emissions and improve the overall health of the soil and the water. 
They put us on a path to continue to grow the food, the fuel, the fiber
that will power our nation for decades to come.   
  
Through our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law — it’s a fancy way of saying
that $366 billion for the environment — the most significant investment
in America’s infrastructure.  And what the infrastructure bill, by the
way — the bipartisan bill — that was a trillion 200 billion dollars. 
And guess what?  We’re still lowering the deficit.  Any rate —
(applause).  
  
The most significant investment in America since Eisenhower’s Interstate
Highway System.  We’ve invested $4 billion so far in 350 projects to
modernize Wisconsin’s transportation — just in Wisconsin that’s been
invested — (applause) — infrastructure, (inaudible) three roundabouts on
Route 14 — U.S. 14, and a new bridge on County Highway M.   
  
Folks, look, just like we’re making the most significant investment in
rural electrification since FDR, we’re also making the most significant
investment ever in affordable high-speed Internet.  Because affordable
high-speed Internet is just as essential today as electricity was a
century ago.  In order to be able to do business and ev- — when — when
things are shut down, your kid doesn’t have to sit outside of McDonald’s
and — anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
That’s why we’ve invested $1.6 billion, just in Wisconsin, to connect
everyone to affordable high-speed Internet in Wisconsin.  (Applause.) 
And since I took office, 72,000 more Wisconsin homes and small
businesses have access to high-speed Internet for the first time ever. 
And we’re going to keep it going.   
  
We’ve also invested $200 million to <s>relace</s> \[replace\] lead pipes
across the state so a kid can drink clean water without worrying about
brain damage — and changing their schools as well.  (Applause.)  
  
We’ve launched the Rural Partners Network, putting new federal staff on
the ground to help communities access federal resources — let them know
what they are, where to go, how to get it, because it’s complicated. 
So, I want people on site being able to tell people how they qualify,
how they apply, how they get it done.  
  
And after years of importing 90 percent of our semiconductor chips,
which, I might add, America invented — we invented the computer chip;
it’s needed for everything for automobile engines to weapons — we passed
the CHIPS and Science Act. 

It has led private companies from around the world to come back.  We
used to have 40 percent of the market not too many years ago.  And now
we’ve got down to basically zero.  Invest a- — and so, around from —
countries around the — I traveled from everywhere from North Korea —
anyway — Sou- — excuse — South Korea to across the world to get these
computer chip factories to come.  
  
I asked the — I asked, when we convinced one of the companies in South
Korea to invest in building these chips in America — I said, “Why would
you do it?”  And they’re investing several billion dollars.  They said,
“Because you have the fine- — you have the most advanced workers in the
world, and it’s the safest place in the world to invest.”  
  
Well, our CHIPS and Science Act has led private companies from around
the world to invest hundreds of billions of dollars in new chips and
battery factories and more of them right here in America.  With the
leadership of your governor, you’ve already added 200,000 new jobs and
attracted over $5 billion in Wisconsin in private-sector investments in
clean energy and advanced manufacturing.  (Applause.)  
  
In fact, this spring, I was with your governor in Racine, where
Microsoft announced a $3 billion investment — $3 billion investment —
(applause) — to build a data center to help operate one of the most
powerful artificial intelligence systems in the entire world.  It’s
going to create thousands of good-paying jobs on site and across the
state, creating even more opportunities in rural communities.   
  
And let’s remember: My predecessor promised you that he would redevelop
Foxconn factory in Racine.  You been there lately?  (Laughter.)  He
didn’t do a damn thing.  Nothing.  
  
Folks, all these investment means family farms can stay in the family,
rural entrepreneurs can build their dreams, your children and
grandchildren won’t have to leave home to make a living. 

I don’t know how many of you have been confronted, growing up, where
everything is going well and th- — the son or daughter comes to mom or
dad and said, “I can’t stay.  There’s not work for me here.  I got to
leave.”  That’s stopping now.  (Applause.)  
  
Because we’re spreading opportunities that benefit everyone, building a
future where no one is left behind, growing an economy from the middle
out and the bottom up, not the top down.  Because when you do that,
everybody does well — everybody does well.  
  
When it c- — my dad used to have an expression — say, “Joey, a job is
about a” — my dad was a hardworking guy.  Didn’t go to college —
well-read guy — because of World War II. 

Anyway, he worked like hell.  He’d always come home to dinner before
he’d go back and close his shop.  And my dad used to say, “Joey, a job
is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s
about respect.  It’s about being treated with respect.  And it’s about
knowing you can look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to
be okay.  You’re not going to have to leave home to get a job.’”  
  
That’s in stark contrast to my predecessor.  When he was in office, he
enacted a $2 trillion tax cut — $2 trillion tax cut that overwhelmingly
benefitted the very wealthy and the biggest corporations, and it drove
up federal deficit every single year of his presidency.  He left office
with the largest annual deficit in American history — $3 trillion.   
  
And, by the way, I made a commitment when I got elected, and my f- — my
vice president made a similar commitment: No one making under $400,000
will see a single penny in their taxes raised — not a single penny. 
(Applause.) 

The neighborhood I come from in Claymont, Delaware, and Scranton,
Pennsylvania, would say, “Well, that’s too damn much.”  But the point is
it’s to make sure that we know it’s not a — this isn’t an attack on the
wealthy.  
  
He left us with a pandemic raging and economy reeling.  His allies in
Congress — with all due respect, I’ve had this conversation with your
senator, Ron Johnson — voted against every one of the things I talked
about today.  Every single thing I talked about in terms of rural
economy, he voted against it — voted against it.   
  
It’s hard to imagine your senator voting against interests in a rural
state that is so large and so consequential as the state of Wisconsin. 
Meanwhile, your other senator, Tammy Baldwin, has done everything to
take care of the state so she can be devoted to you.  (Applause.)  
  
Vice President Kamala Harris fought like hell for all of you and for the
future worthy of your aspirations.   
  
Look, just think about how far we’ve come.  We have — we have more to
go.  We have more to go.  Too many people are still in trouble.  
  
But nearly four years that we’ve been president and vice president,
we’ve had one of the most extraordinary periods of progress in American
history. 

COVID no longer controls our lives.  We’ve gone from eco- — an economic
crisis to the strongest economy in the world.  Let me say it again: We
have the strongest economy in the world, and no one challenged that. 
We’ve got more to do.  (Applause.)  
  
And we’re seeing something else.  In thousands of cities and towns
across the country and across Wisconsin, we’re seeing the great American
comeback story.   
  
The way I see it — and I talk — the other team talks about how bad off
we are and how America is in (inaudible).  The way I see it: Today’s
announcement is about far more than just giving rural America the power
to turn on the lights.  It’s about giving the power to shape our own
future.   
  
In fact, Wisconsin has been a — has a strong, strong history of neighbor
helping neighbor, in forming cooperatives which are literally owned and
powered by the people of Wisconsin.  Because of you, we’re planting
seeds today that grow and blossom for generations to come.   
  
That’s what we’re seeing here in Wisconsin, a state with a proud
tradition of rural communities leading our nation forward.  And, again,
that’s not an exaggeration.  You’ve been a leader in the nation.  
  
Let me close with this.  As I travel this state and the country, I hope
you feel what I feel: pride — pride in our hometowns, pride in making a
comeback, pride in America, pride in knowing we can get big things done
when we work together.   
  
Folks, I’ve never been more optimistic about our nation’s future.  We
just have to remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United States
of America.  (Applause.)  That’s who we are.  Not a joke.   
  
We’re the only nation in the world that’s come through every crisis
stronger than we went into that crisis, because we’re a hardworking,
optimistic people — a decent people.  We know from experience that
there’s nothing — nothing beyond our capacity when we work together —
and, again, that’s not an exaggeration — when we work together.  
  
I remember the days when I first got started, when a lot of Republican
senators were my close friends.  We worked together; we compromised.  We
didn’t talk about things — and if there was a — we were in a — it was a
dire moment, that democracy was at stake, we actually worked together. 
We fought like hell, but we worked together.   
  
We’ve got to return that for our children, because our democracy depends
on it.   
  
I’m keeping you too long in the sun, so let me just say — (laughter) —
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  You’ve got a beautiful state.  (Applause.)   
  
3:17 P.M. CDT
