---
date: '2024-09-10'
published_time: 2024-09-10 16:02:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/10/remarks-by-president-biden-honoring-the-2023-2024-ncaa-mens-basketball-champions-the-university-of-connecticut-huskies/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Honoring the 2023-2024 NCAA Men\u2019s Basketball\
  \ Champions, the University of Connecticut\_Huskies"
---
 
1:45 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)

Well, let me be the first to say: Welcome back.  (Laughter and
applause.)  I won’t be here next year, but you may be.  (Laughter.)  If
these guys over here have anything to do with it, they’re both trouble.

Look, it’s great to have so many UConn friends and fans here today with
us, including Education Secretary Miguel Cardona.  (Applause.)  You
know, Miguel is a slow learner.  (Laughter.)  He has four degrees and
credentials from UConn.  I told him that equals one from Delaware. 
(Laughter.)  No, only kidding.  Only kidding.  (Laughter.)  Don’t get
mad at me.  Don’t get mad. 

He couldn’t make the damn basketball team, but there’s no doubt he’s a
Husky through and through, man.  

And my personal aide, Jacob, who sits outside the Oval Office, played
tennis at UConn.  (Applause.)  Jake — but you’d think, during basketball
season, he played basketball.  It’s all he talks about, man. 
(Laughter.)  All he talks about.

We’re also joined by several good friends and members of Congress:
Senator Blumenthal, who was a good friend of my deceased son, Beau; and
Senator Murphy.  Stand up, guys.  Come on.  (Applause.) 

And the former senator from the state of Connecticut — you’d think he
had gone to UConn — and a great friend, Chris Dodd.  Is Chris here? 
(Applause.)  Get up, Chris.  Get up.  The Dodd Center is at the
University of Connecticut, isn’t it?  Your dad and your — yeah, well,
I’ll tell you what, man.  Do they intimidate you?  (Laughter.)  Because
they d- —

January 20th, 2020, following the loss to Villanova, Coach Hurley said,
quote, “People better get us now.  That’s all.  You better get us now.” 
(Laughter.)  Damn, Coach, you were right.  (Laughter.)

Four years later, for the first time in 17 years, there was back-to-back
men’s college basketball champions, the UConn Huskies.  (Applause.)

And we’ve got two future Huskies right there who are going to play on
the basketball team, right in the front row here.  (Laughter.) 

And for the sixth time in just 25 years, the UConn Huskies are atop the
men’s basketball world again, man.  That’s pretty cool.  (Applause.) 

It wasn’t easy.  Last year, you started on a — underestimated.  The only
thing is, you only lost three star players the previous season to the
NBA.  People questioned whether or not you had the talent to go
back-to-back.  I guess they didn’t see you guys standing up, man. 
(Laughter.) 

Although, I should note, I picked you guys on my ticket.  (Laughter.) 
And this morning, I picked the mayor’s South Carolina girls.  I made a
lot of money.  (Laughter.)  That’s a joke.  (Laughter.)  Trust, that is
a joke.

But, man, you proved everybody wrong.  You were a force, winning the Big
East regular season title, winning the Big East tournament, winning the
NCAA tournament games.  By an average of 23 points, you won those
games.  (Applause.) 

But even you made it look easy at times, you know, you made a lot of
sacrifices.  The trust you built in each other, taking <s>the time</s>
to the court, knowing every team in America was going after you.  Every
time you showed up on the court, you were the number one target.  And —
but you’re winners.  And winners win.  You know, you know that — that
winning takes a lot of work.  We know that. 

Together, you capped off one of the most successful two-year runs in the
— in the history of the sport, ushering in a new era of UConn men’s
basketball, passing the likes of Duke and Indiana for all-time national
titles.  (Applause.)  And now there’s no doubt at all about who are the
blue bloods of basketball.  (Applause.)  

With this team sending 4 players to the NBA draft this year, this
university sending 11 athletes to the Paris Olympics, there’s clearly
something — you must have something in the water up there, man. 
(Laughter.)  I don’t know what you all are drinking. 

Coach, you’ve said that UConn has been running college basketball for 30
years.  With you at the helm, I think they better get ready for another
30.  (Applause.)  

Every single one — every single one of you embodies the — the — I don’t
know — the possibilities of your school, your state, and this great
nation. 

So, congratulations to you all.  And may God support our troops and
bless our troops. 

I want to hand this over now to Coach Hurley, who’s going to say a few
words how I’m going to fill in next year —  (laughter) — as a — as a
player.  (Laughter.)

Anyway, Coach, the floor is yours.  You’re the good man.  (Applause.)

COACH HURLEY:  Everywhere we go — (laughs) — everywhere we go, we say
this thing — right? — every — every arena that we go into, we start —
when we — when we enter a place and it’s: “The champs are here.” 

THE PRESIDENT:  I thought you started with dragon underwear. 
(Laughter.)

COACH HURLEY:  Well, it’s not just the dragons.  I have sharks; I have
wolves.

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh.

COACH HURLEY:  I ride the hot hand.  You know?  (Laughter.)  And I —
actually, I don’t just make the dragons do the games.  I actually got
the dragons on right now as a — (laughter) — a reward for the dragons. 
They’re on right now. 

Yeah, I thought this would be easier in year two.  Oh, man, I’ve been to
the White House before.  This is scary as shit.  (Laughter.) 

Stick — stick to the script.  All right.

Thank you, Mr. Pres- —

THE PRESIDENT:  I went to Catholic school too.

COACH HURLEY:  (Laughs.)  You’re just — thank you, Mr. President, and,
obviously, everyone in here, you know, who’s joined us, you know, for —
for the celebration today.

You know, we said it last year.  We wanted to make this thing an an- —
an annual visit for us.  And, you know, here we are again as — as
back-to-back champs, right back here.  So, you know, obviously thrilled
to be here.

Our — our goal, really, going into the year: We knew we had the
potential to have a special team, and it was like a real simple mindset
that we were trying to create, which was like: Let’s just win every
single, you know, tournament or every opportunity to win a championship;
like, let’s just win everything.

And there were five opportunities for us to win championship trophies
during the course of the season, and we — and we won — we won all five. 
(Applause.) 

You know, being a championship program, I think everyone in the
organization understands the standards and the way we go about our
business.  In the organization, it’s the highest possible standards that
we hold each other to.  We understand that because we’ve climbed the
mountain before.

And this team here, it was — it was a different group of men that we
took the court with this year and, you know, produced even greater
results and an even — an even greater team — and a team that will go
down as one of the most dominant teams in college basketball history,
the way we just destroyed everybody.  (Applause.)

From those early season tournaments all the way through to, you know,
the Big East tournaments and — and March Madness, you know, we won
everything.  Our kind of — our mindset is, like,

relentless competitiveness with the way we go about things, a focus on
just consistent improvement.  You know, we mindfully communicate with
each other.  I don’t do that with the refs, but — (laughter) — with each
other, we do well with it.

And then we — we really — you know, we’re really a strong pack of
Huskies here.  You know, we don’t have any — you know, any weakness in
the group here.  It is just an incredibly strong, you know, group of men
— their relentlessness, their resilience and toughness, their talent,
their skill,

the preparation, their connection and brotherhood and the way they
sacrifice for each other. 

You know, we played a brand of basketball that was absolutely beautiful
to watch and absolutely dominant

and — but then all we can think about is winning the next one.  It’s
weird as shit.  (Laughter.)  Sorry again.  (Laughter.)  I just don’t
know where I am.

Strengthened by our success as a program, you know, our focus, again, is
— is quickly turning to our pursuit of this third national championship
in a row, potentially.  (Applause.)  Yeah.

Tod- — I mean, today is, like, an incredible moment for us to pause,
because, basically, you just celebrate cool stuff like this and then
just work really hard.  You know, like, that’s basically all that this
thing is. 

And — and for us right now, it’s just like, you know, lock in on this
three-peat, celebrate these incredible players that we’ve lost, and
then, you know, go get ready to — to truly make history in college
basketball next year as the — as the first three-peat champion since
Coach Wooden and truly do something historic.

And that is not lost on any of us.  The enormity of our season coming up
is — is special, so we’re excited about that. 

But thank you, President, for giving us the opportunity to be here.  And
it’s — only the champs come in here.  You know, there’s no — no
participation or high scorer, you know?  (Laughter.)  “Oh, I was the
high scorer.  I had a triple-double.”  I’m going, “No.  Triple-doubles
don’t get you in the White House.  You’ve got to be a champion to get in
here.”  And we’re in here.

Mr. President, we’d like to have you add something to your UConn
collection of — (laughter) — of championship swag.  (Applause.)

(The president is presented with a University of Connecticut Huskies
jersey.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Good.

Any parents in the room?  Stand up.  Any parents, stand up.  Come on. 
(Applause.)

COACH HURLEY:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  You and I had something in common: We married up. 
(Laughter.)

All right.  Any graduates of the University of Connecticut in the room? 
Stand up.  (Applause.)

All right.  Such a great honor.  Thank you very, very, very much.  And
although I won’t be president next year — I’m retiring — but I may come
back and watch you.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  (Applause.)

1:58 P.M. EDT
