---
date: '2024-09-24'
published_time: 2024-09-24 18:22:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/24/remarks-by-president-biden-honoring-the-2023-national-womens-soccer-league-champions-nj-ny-gotham-fc-september-23-2024/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Honoring the 2023 National Women\u2019s Soccer\
  \ League Champions, NJ/NY GOTHAM FC | (September 23,\_2024)"
---
 
10:38 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, guys.  How are you doing?  (Laughter.)  Holy
mackerel.  I like your tie.  (Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Can you guys say thank you?

THE PRESIDENT:  “Dad, you didn’t tell me the president was going to talk
to me.”

Please, have a seat. 

Well, good morning.  For the first time — for the first time in National
Women’s Soccer League history, welcome to the White House to the 2023
championships \[champions\] the Gotham F.C.  (Applause.)    
It’s so good to be joined by so many friends from New York and New
Jersey — (applause) — team owners, the Tisch family — 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Yes!

THE PRESIDENT:  There you go.  God love you.  We go back a long way.
 (Laughter.)  Led by Carolyn.  

And — and the team — the fellow team governors and investors, Ed, as
well as the great Sue Bird — (applause) — was here a few years ago to
celebrate the Seattle Storm’s WNBA championship, and she’s simply
incredible.  No, you are.  I tell you what, man.  (Applause.) 

I also want to thank the founding team owners, and good friends of mine,
the Murphys and, particularly, Tammy, to continues the — to be the
champions for women’s sports.  They couldn’t be here today because they
are representing the great state of New Jersey on a trade mission
abroad.  

But I also want to thank New Jersey’s newest United States senator,
George Helmy.  Where — where are you, George?  (Applause.)  There you
are, George.  George, you don’t get to take the trophy home.
 (Laughter.) 

And, of course, a special thanks to the incredible players.  You know —
(applause) — one thing is clear: This organization is no stranger to
adversity.  In 2022, Gotham placed last in the entire league.  There
were doubts about turning things around.  But you never gave up.  You
never gave up.  And you kept the faith, as my mother would say.  You
retooled the roster, hired a new coach.  Something clicked.  

 And after a tough season, you were in — the final team to make the
playoffs.  But as the saying goes, winners simply win.  Back-to-back
playoff wins holding North Carolina and Portland scoreless and then
beating Seattle to win it all.  The new Tiffany trophy is one at — new
home now in Gotham.  

Look, just yesterday, you clinched the playoff spot, so maybe you’ll be
back here next year.  (Applause.)  Now, if you are, I won’t be president
but ask if I can come and listen.  (Laughter.) 

What’s really important is your championship win also set an attendance
record.  I think it’s fair to say everyone — everyone watches women’s
sports.  (Applause.)  It’s about time.   

I got some All-State soccer players as well as — a goalie as well as
lacrosse champions in my family.  And, by the way, in my family, we have
a — an advantage: All the women are smarter than all the men —
(laughter) — including me. 

Look, and when fans watch you play, they also see the power of the
example off the field as well.  It matters.  And I really mean it.  You
lead the way in providing sports medicine and health care focused on
women.  My wife is deeply involved in trying to make sure there’s enough
attention paid and research done on women’s diseases as men.  As a
matter of fact, we’re going to the United Nations after this to make
that very case.

You helped establish the Players Association fighting for the dignity of
work all across the league.  And most powerful — I’m — you know, I get —
I get categorized as the most pro-union president in American history.
 I am, and I approve of what you’re doing, man.  (Laughter.)    

You know, and your teammate Midge came to the White House with the U.S.
Women’s National Team to highlight the campaign and equal — for equal
pay.  That’s happening too.  Matter of fact, it’s going to get unequal
here; you’re going to be paid a hell of a lot more, I think (inaudible).

But let’s be clear.  And I mean this sincerely.  I was raised by my best
friend in the world, who is my sister.  She — she — anyway.  I won’t get
into all that, but — (laughter) — you know, I mean this sincerely: A
woman can do anything a man can do — anything a man can do, including
being president of the United States.  (Applause.)  

Let me close by thanking you all.  You really represent our nation with
such dignity.  You inspire all of us — and you really do; you’re an
inspiration.  Think — I bet you wh- — you can’t walk down the street in
your hometown without some young girl coming up to you just wanting to
talk to you, just wanting to touch you, just wanting to hold your hand.
 It’s amazing.  

And congratulations to the Bats of Gotham.  You like being called the
“Bats of Gotham”?  (Laughter.)

GOTHAM FC PLAYERS:  Batties.  

MS. PURCE:  The Batties.  

THE PRESIDENT:  (Inaudible.)  

MS. KRIEGER:  Batties.

MS. PURCE:  The Batties.  

THE PRESIDENT:  I like that.  (Laughter.)

Look, I’m going to turn it over to the top Bat — no, the top —
(laughter) — to Ali, last year’s team captain, who, by the way, I
watched in 2015 win the World Cup in — when I was vice president — in
Canada.  Ali, it’s great to see you again, kiddo.  (Laughter.)  The
floor is yours.  (Applause.)

MS. KRIEGER:  Thank you.  

THE PRESIDENT:  I like your kicks.

MS. KRIEGER:  Thank you.  They’re — I wore them for you, so —
(laughter).  Yeah.

Mr. President and esteemed guests, thank you for hosting Gotham FC, the
reigning NWSL champions.  (Applause.)  

We are deeply honored to be the first NWSL team to receive this
recognition, marking a pivotal moment for women’s sports.  

Firstly, I have to thank my teammates for their grit and perseverance to
enable us to be the champions standing here today.  (Applause.)

Starting the 2023 season, coming off of the last place finish — from
worst to first — (laughter) — nobody backed this team to do what we did.

Reflecting on my career, I recall times when women’s soccer lacked
coverage and support.  Our progress since those days have been
remarkable, from our humble beginnings to becoming champions.  

Both Gotham and the NWSL have seen tremendous growth with more fans,
greater engagement, and increased recognition.  

Yet, despite these strides, we are reminded that our work is far from
over.  

Every time we step on the field, we think of young girls who dream the
future in sports.  This moment is not just about titles or trophies,
it’s about paving the way for them.  Being the first is historic, but
it’s even more important that we ensure we are not the last.  

We all know that we are committed to build on this momentum for future
generations. 

As a token of our appreciation and commitment to advancing women’s
sports, we are delighted to present you with a Gotham FC jersey.
 (Applause.)

We expect you to be wearing that under the suit soon, okay?  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll wear it over it.

MS. KRIEGER:  Yeah, great.  (Laughter.)

On behalf of my exceptional teammates and the entire organization, thank
you again for this incredible honor, for sup- — and for supporting the
growth of women’s sports.  

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.

MS. KRIEGER:  Thank you.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  You know, I thought when I got to be president, I’d get
to do things that I wanted to do, but my staff tells me what I can’t do.
 (Laughter.)  But I’m going to do it anyway.  All the young women —
young kids out there that are wa- — are out there, come on up and do
this when we — stand behind me when we do this.  Come on.

AUDIENCE:  Aww.  (Applause.)

THE PRESIDENT:  And the guys.  Come on.  (Applause.)  

(The president greets children coming to the stage.)

THE PRESIDENT:  All right.

MS. KRIEGER:  So, our head coach, Juan Carlos Amorós, and the — the
championship 2023 MVP, Midge Purce.  (Applause.) 

(The president is presented with a Gotham FC jersey.) 

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

10:49 A.M. EDT
