---
date: '2024-09-16'
modified_time: 2024-09-17 10:21:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-16 15:04:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-2024-national-hbcu-week-conference-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 2024 National HBCU Week Conference | Philadelphia,\_\
  PA"
---
 
Philadelphia Marriott Downtown  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

1:46 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Please —
please have a seat.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.

  
Now, look, I love Kamala — (applause) —  
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you all.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Thank you, Joe!  Thank you, Joe!  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  As the saying goes, you all brung me to the dance. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Folks, I want to get something straight at the outset.  I love Kamala —
(applause) — but Delaware State is the best HBCU in America. 
(Applause.)  
  
They’re the ones — oh, you think I’m kidding?  I was a 29-year-old kid,
and they embraced me.  They embraced me like you can’t imagine.  And we
won — the second youngest person in American history — because of a HBCU
called Delaware State.  (Applause.)   
  
And, by the way, I hired a young man from Delaware State named Tony
Allen.  (Applause.)  Came to work for me.  While there, I encouraged him
to continue to get his d- — extend his degree.  He got his doctorate and
left.  He became president himself.  (Laughter.)  
  
I don’t how the hell that happened so quick.  (Laughter.)  But, Tony,
thank you, man.  I’ve been introduced countless times but never quite
like that.  And I mean it, Tony.  From the bottom of my heart, I’m
deeply moved.  By God’s grace, we were true friends, and Delaware State
will always have a special place in my heart, for real.   
  
And to the presidents and administrators of our 101 Historic Black
Colleges and Universities, it’s an honor to celebrate — and I mean
celebrate — HBCU Week with you.  (Applause.)  
  
Before I begin, I want to make a quick reference on the — on the — the
attempted assassination against our former president in Florida
yesterday.   
  
I commend the Secret Service for the expert handling of the situation. 
(Applause.)  And the former president was protected from harm, and the
subject is — and is — the subject is in custody.  And acting head of the
Secret Service is in Florida today assessing what happened and
determining whether any further adjustments need to be made to ensure
the safety of our former president.   
  
Let me just say: There is no — and I mean this from the bottom of my
heart; those of you who know me — many of you do — no place in political
violence — for political violence in America.  None.  Zero.  Never. 
(Applause.)  
  
I’ve always condemned political violence, and I always will.  In America
— in America, we resolve our differences peacefully at the ballot box,
not at the end of a gun.   
  
America has suffered too many times the tragedy of an assassin’s
bullet.  It solves nothing and just tears the country apart.  We must do
everything we can to prevent it and never give it any oxygen.   
  
Folks, now to today’s event.   
  
It’s an honor to recognize HBCU excellence in our nation.  I see
excellence in it every single day.  I see it this weekend at the
Congressional Black Caucus Foundation — (applause) — I tell you what —
the foundation gala — only about 3,500 people there.  (Laughter.)  And I
was happy — and I’ve been wanting to do this — to celebrate the
first-ever White House brunch to celebrate Black excellence — Black
excellence — (applause) — which many of you and your alumni attended. 
It’s about trying to point out what’s already been done.  
  
I’m proud to have the most diverse administration in history that taps
into the full — (applause) — I mean it.  I made a commitment: My
administration was going to look like America.  It taps into the full
talents of our nation, including graduates of HBCUs, like our amazing
vice president is.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, together, Kamala and I know that an education makes a person
free.  HBCU’s education makes you fearless, as well.  It matters. 
(Applause.)  I mean it.  
  
More than 180 years, born under the shadow of slavery and Jim Crow,
HBCUs have instilled a sense of purpose and freedom, a commitment to
make a difference for all their students; to lift up not just yourselves
but others along the way.  Institutions grounded in the belief that
every American of every race and every background, every zip code — and
you know me; I mean this — should have a fair and equal chance to go as
far as their God-given talents can take them.  (Applause.)  That’s who
we are.  That’s what we stand for.  
  
But as I’ve said before, we face an inflection point in history.  It
comes along every six or seven generations.  One of those rare moments
in our history when the deci- — when the decisions we make now — right
now — are going to determine the fate of our nation and the world for
the next decades — for six, seven decades to come.  And I mean it.   
  
When I wasn’t going to run for president again after my son died coming
back from Iraq, I decided that I was going to write another book.  I was
going to write a book about the inflection points in world history, how
it changed history, going all the way back to dealing with the printing
press and how it’s changed everything.  
  
But, look, we’re still in the battle — we’re still in the battle for the
very soul of America.   
  
In 2020, I ran — and I give you my word this was the reason.  I ran to
redeem the soul of America, to restore decency and dignity to the office
of the presidency.  (Applause.)  I ran to rebuild and expand the
backbone of America: the middle class.  And I ran to unite the country
and remind ourselves that we can do anything we want to do when we do it
together. 

Four years later, we’ve made incredible progress, because Kamala and I
kept our commitment to you to ensure that all our students and all of
our college and universities should be able to succeed.  That’s why I
signed an executive order reestablishing the White House Initiative on
HBCUs after my predecessor allowed it to lapse. 

Thank you, Dr. Trent, for leading it.  (Applause.)  I can’t see you out
there, but I’m sure you’re there. 

And thank you, Tony and Dr. Glover, for leading my presidential board on
HBCUs.  (Applause.)

I’m also proud to lead the first administration in history to have a
working group from the Divine Nine in the White House.  (Applause.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I — I got it, man.  I may — may be a white boy, but
I ain’t stupid.  (Laughter and applause.)  I figured out real quick. 
(Laughter.)  And, by the way, as an official group in the White House. 

Together, we get to work — we got to work right away with our signature
investment in addressing one of the most pressing issues for HBCUs.  We
all know — and I mean this sincerely — that HBO — HBCU students are just
as capable as any other students.  (Applause.)  No, but — but HBCUs
don’t have the endowments like many other college and universities that
are able to fund research labs, improve campus infrastructure, and so
much more. 

That’s why I’m proud to be delivering on a record $17 billion —
(applause) — $17 billion for HBCUs — the most ever any administration
has ever, ever, ever, ever committed.  (Applause.) 

Stay where you were. 

And we’ve already distributed well over a billion. 

Folks, look, I want to make something clear at the outset.  If you
notice, the spending we’ve done —

I asked them to hold back there.

But the spending we’ve done has not fundamentally increased the deficit
like that other guy did.  (Laughter.)  It — no, no, seriously.  It grows
the economy. 

The more educated — how can we lead the world without being the most
educated nation in the world?  How can we lead the world without
reaching out to the young people of this country to improve their
capacity?

You know, it’s helped everything from — HBCUs to do everything from
providing financial aid via Pell Grants to building new housing and
research labs to prepare Black students for jobs and industries of the
future in high-demand fields like cybersecurity, engineering,
biochemistry, health care, and so much more. 

But that’s not all.  Together, we spearheaded one of the most sig- —
equitable economic recoveries in history.  

How — as I said, how can we be the strongest economy in the world and
lead the world without the best education system, without — taps into
the talents of every student in our — I mean, every student?

In fact, my Council of Economic Advisers issued a report this spring on
the economic power of HBCUs.  Here’s what they found.  They found HBUs —
HBCUs are engines of economic mobility in our country, raising the
standard of living for everybody.  For real.  Despite representing only
3 percent of the college and universities in America, HBCUs are
responsible for 40 percent of all Black engineers — (applause); 50
percent of all Black teachers — (applause); 70 percent of all \[Black\]
doctors and dentists — (applause); and 80 percent of all Black judges,
and I’m increasing that number too.  (Applause.)  

But that’s not all.  My CHIPS and Science Act, which I was committed to
— finally got it done — will ensure we create more hubs of innovation at
HBCUs, create pathways to develop more researchers, and grow a diverse
semiconductor workforce here at home.  (Applause.)

For example, I was in New York where I announced a significant chips
investment in — with Micron, a leading semiconductor company, that
parented and partnered with Norfolk State University — (applause) — to
build a 6,000-square-foot high-tech facility for students and other
researchers. 

My National Science Foundation just awarded $2 million to Clark Atlanta
University — (applause) — to support their work in the HBCU CHIPS
Network, fueling semiconductor research and development and a workforce
capacity at HBCUs.  This is in addition to last week’s announcement of
$10.5 million for National Science Foundation grants to facilitate STEM
research at more than a dozen HBCUs — (applause) — including Central
State University, a project to build a semiconductor R&D capacity.

I’m also excited to announce that four HBCUs — Fort Valley State
University — (applause); Rust College; Savannah State University; and
Shaw University — (applause) — are receiving additional critical funding
to boost their STEM programs, prepare their students for these
incredible opportunities.  (Applause.)  And moving forward, I’ve
encouraged semiconductor companies to continue to create and expand
partnerships with HBCUs as they invest in American manufacturing. 

And Vice President Harris and the National Space Council she leads are
ensuring the federal government inju- — industry partner and HB\[C\]Us
collaborate on opportunities for space-related technologies and
innovation — the future. 

And, folks, my Office of Science and Technology Policy is developing and
sharing the best approaches across the entire government, how to expand
STEM research and investments in HBCUs. 

In addition, my administration continues to diversify the federal
workforce, starting by opening doors of opportunity like the HBCU
Scholar Program — (applause) — that celebrates its 10th anniversary. 

I want to congratulate the 2024 cohorts of scholars — (applause) — the
largest cohort, all of whom are with us.  Stand up, if you’re here. 
(Applause.)  All right. 

If I’m still around when one of you are president, make sure you don’t
say, “Who?  Joe who?”  Okay?  When you — (laughter). 

We also know that <s>Black</s> studies show Black students who have
Black teachers are significantly more likely to graduate from high
school and to enro- — we’ve known this for a long time — enroll in
college. 

That’s why my Department of Ed- — of Education has provided $450 million
to ensure that teachers in our schools reflect diversity in our co- —
(applause).   These small things matter a lot.

For example, this funding has gone toward the Augustus F. Hawkins
program, which is preparing the next generation of teachers at HBCUs. 
We’re the first administration to secure funding for this program,
providing almost $40 million to date. 

And today, I’m proud to announce four more HBCUs: Grambling State
University.  (Applause.) 

Morehouse College.  Oh, I’m so tired of hearing about Morehouse, man. 
(Laughter and applause.)  I did the commencement at Morehouse.  One grad
came up and said — came up to me, “Mr. President, you’re not a Morehouse
man.”  The closest I get was doing a — doing the commencement. 
(Laughter.) 

North Carolina Central University.  (Applause.)

And Prairie View A&M University.  (Applause.)

They’re being awarded new grants to increase tea- — to increase teacher
diversity. 

But we know that while a college degree is still a ticket to the middle
class, that ticket is becoming too expensive.  That’s why we increased
the maximum Pell Grant by $900 a year — (applause) — the largest
increase in a decade.  It matters because HBCUs have twice the
percentage of Pell Grant students as non-HBCUs.   
  
And my administration has also relieved the debt of 5 million Americans,
including a significant number of Black borrowers.  (Applause.)  That
means you can now start a business, you can buy a home, save for your
children’s school, give back to your community. 

And it grows the economy for everybody.  It (inaudible) cost.  It grows
the economy. 

There’s so much more we’re doing to help more HBU — HBCU students walk
into a life of generational wealth and to be providers for their
families, leaders of the communities, dreamers and doers of the nation. 
In fact, in just four years working with HBCU leaders, we’re making the
most significant investment in Black America ever in American history. 
(Applause.)

But, look, we have to be honest about the forces we face.  We gather
together in a year when we commemorate two of our nation’s most historic
achievements: the 70th anniversary of Brown v. the Board of
Educationthat desegregated our public schools.  It laid the groundwork
for the Civil Rights Act of 1964 <s>and it</s> \[that\] outlawed
discrimination in employment and public places, and which we’ve just
observed its 60th anniversary. 

Instrumental in both achievements was Thurgood Marshall, an alum of
Lincoln University and Howard Law School — (applause) — by the way,
Lincoln is closer to Wilmington than it is to Philly; I — (laughter) —
been there many times — and generations of HB\[C\]U educators and
students come — who came before.   
  
It opens the doors of hope and opportunity for a generation of Black
Americans and for the entire United States of America.  It really does.

But today, affirmative action and the values of diversity, equity, and
inclusion are under attack like not long since I started as a young
civil rights guy.  Books are being banned.  History is being erased. 
HBUs — HBCUs have received bomb threats.  And right now, lies and hate
are being spread about Haitian Amer- — Haitian Americans in Ohio.  It’s
wrong.  It’s simply wrong, and it must stop. 

There are those who want a country for some of us but not for all of
us.  But I’ve always believed that the promise of America — and I mean
this sincerely — is big enough for everyone to succeed.  (Applause.) 
No, I really mean it.  Everyone. 

And there’s been no more important voice for that truth than the Black
community and our HBCUs.  That’s what I see in your students: future
doctors and researchers curing cancer, artists shaping our culture,
fearless journalists and intellectuals challenging convention, preachers
and advocates inspiring us all. 

You prove that Black history is American history.  It is American
history.  (Applause.)  And Black excellence is American excellence. 
(Applause.)

Let me tell you something.  If I show up on your campus, you better be
nice to me.  (Laughter and applause.)

Look, let me close with this.  Mary McLeod Bethune was the high- —
(applause) — was highest-ranking Black woman in Franklin Delano
Roosevelt’s administration.  A pioneering educator, activist, she
founded the proud HBCU Bu- — Bethune-Cookman University.  And here’s
what she said.  She said, “The freedom gates are half-ajar.  We must pry
them fully open.”  (Applause.)  That’s what I’m trying to do: pry them
fully open. 

For over 180 years, HB\[C\]Us have been prying open freedom’s gates. 
For the past four years, Kamala and I, with the help of all you and
great leaders out there in — sitting that I served with in the — the
Congress and the Senate, are pushing right alongside them.  And God
willing, as a HBCU graduate, the future president of the United States
is going to soon be sitting behind the Resolute Desk pushing the gates
of freedom open once and for all.  (Applause.)

Folks, you’ve probably heard me say this before.  We just have to
remember who the hell we are.  (Applause.)  No, I mean it.  We’re the
United States of America.  There is nothing beyond our capacity when we
act together — nothing, nothing, nothing.  (Applause.)  We’re the only
nation in history that’s come out of every crisis stronger than we went
in.  That’s because of you, because of all of us.  We’re a diverse
nation; therein lies our strength when we unite.

So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Every time I’d walk out of my Grandfather Finnegan’s home up in
Scranton, Pennsylvania, he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.”  And my
grandmother would yell, “No, Joey.  Spread it.”

Go spread the faith.  (Applause.)

2:07 P.M. EDT 
