---
date: '2024-09-23'
published_time: 2024-09-23 12:06:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/23/remarks-by-president-biden-prime-minister-modi-of-the-republic-of-india-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan-and-prime-minister-albanese-of-australia-before-quad-leaders-summit-meeting-claymont-de/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden, Prime Minister Modi of the Republic of India,\
  \ Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, and Prime Minister Albanese of Australia Before\
  \ Quad Leaders\u2019 Summit Meeting | Claymont, DE (September 21,\_2024)"
---
 
Archmere Academy  
Claymont, Delaware

4:05 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I’ll say to my fellow leaders: Welcome to
Delaware.  Welcome to Claymont, Delaware.  It used to be a steel town
here years ago.  And welcome to the border of Wilmington, Delaware. 
(Laughs.) 

And I’m really pleased that you were able to be in my home and — and see
where — where I grew up.  I got a chance to do that in Hiroshima.  I got
a chance to do that in other places, and I’m glad you got to see it.

You know, welcome.  We’re democracies.  We’re democracies who know how
to get things done.  That’s why, within the first days of my presidency,
I reached out to each of you — each of your nations to propose we
elevate the Quad, make it even more consequential.

Four years later, our four countries have more strategically — are more
strategically aligned than ever before.  And today, we’re announcing a
series of initiatives to deliver real, positive impact for the
Indo-Pacific that includes providing new maritime technologies to our
regional partners so they know what’s happening in their waters;
launching cooperation between coast guar- — coast guards for the first
time; and expanding the Quad fellowship to include students from
Southeast Asia.

So, I want to thank you all again for being here.  You’ve come a long
way to get here, and I appreciate it. 

And while challenges will come, the world will change, because the Quad
is here to stay, I believe — here to stay.

And I’m going to turn it over now to all of you.  And I’d like to start
by recognizing Prime Minister Modi. 

PRIME MINISTER MODI:  (As interpreted.)  Your Excellencies, President
Biden, Prime Minister Kishida, and Prime Minister Albanese, it gives me
immense pleasure to participate at this Quad Summit today with friends
very early on in my third term. 

There cannot be a better place than President Biden’s own hometown of
Wilmington to celebrate the 20th anniversary of Quad.  The way you are
associated with this city and with Delaware as “Amtrak Joe,” your
relationship with Quad also is somewhat similar. 

Under your leadership, in 2021 the first summit was held.  And in such a
short span of time, we have enhanced our cooperation in every sphere in
ways unprecedented.  Your personal role in this has been extremely
important.

I express my heartfelt gratitude to you for your firm commitment, your
leadership, and your contribution towards the Quad.

Friends, we are meeting at a time when the world is surrounded by
conflicts and tension.  At such a time, it is important for all of
humanity that the members of the Quad move forward based on shared
democratic values. 

We are not against anybody.  All of us support a rules-based
international order, respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity,
and peaceful resolution of all disputes.  A free, open, inclusive, and
prosperous Indo-Pacific is our shared priority and shared commitment. 

We have together taken several positive and inclusive initiatives in
areas such as health security, critical and emerging technologies,
climate change, and capacity-building. 

Our message is clear: Quad is here to stay — to assist, to partner, and
to complement.

Once again, my warmest greetings to President Biden and all friends
present here.  In 2025, we will be happy to host the Quad Leaders’
Summit in India. 

Thank you.  Thank you very much.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you very much, Prime Minister. 

Now I’d like to hear from my good friend, Prime Minister Kishida.  Over
to you.

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA:  (As interpreted.)  It is a pleasure to get
together with the leaders of the Quad at the alma mater of Joe to
discuss the future of the Indo-Pacific.  May I express my gratitude to
Joe’s friendship for ourselves and for your leadership and hospitality,
which demonstrates your emphasis on the Quad.

During my tenure, I have consistently emphasized, underscored the
efforts by the Quad.  Following the last meeting held in my hometown of
Hiroshima, this meeting, I believe, could not have been better suited
for my last foreign visit as the prime minister. 

The security environment surrounding ourselves are becoming increasingly
severe, and a free and open international order based on the rule of law
is under threat. 

Under this backdrop, it is ever more important for us, the Quad, who
share values such as freedom and democracy, to continue to demonstrate
our firm commitment to our common vision of FOIP, the free and open
Indo-Pacific, to the international community.

In order to realize a FOIP, it is crucial to coordinate with the
regional countries and to materialize our vision by concrete actions.

I look forward to a fruitful discussion today so that we may listen to
the voices of the regional countries, including ASEAN, South Asia, and
the Pacific Islands, and to further promote practical cooperation that
will be a genuine benefit for the region.

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.  (Inaudible) Prime Minister.  (Laughs.) 
(Inaudible.)

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  “Anthony” is fine.  (Laughs.)

Thank you, Mr. President.  And can I thank you for giving us the honor
of hosting us in this wonderful venue where you went to school and for
your very warm welcome here to your home state.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Inaudible.)

PRIME MINISTER ALBANESE:  (Laughs.)  I’m — I’m sure — I’m absolutely
certain that my headmaster would be shocked that I find myself here as
well.  (Laughter.)

So, it is — it is absolutely delightful to be here amongst friends.  And
I thank — I thank you, Mr. President, for hosting us in your — your home
state, your home school, and for giving us an insight into what’s made
you such an extraordinary world leader.

And it’s fantastic as well to be here, of course, with Prime Minister
Kishida.  We met earlier, and we — we certainly wish you well.  And
Prime Minister Modi will be hosting us next year, and I look forward to
that as well.

Unlike some international forums, the — the Quad is not — it doesn’t
have a long history.  That means it’s not defined by tradition, but it
also means it’s not confined by it.  It means that, as it develops, it
can evolve.  And that is, I believe, what is happening.

We represent, in this region, the — the fastest-growing region of the
world in human history.  With that comes enormous opportunity but also
comes some challenges.  Through the Quad, our four countries collaborate
and we coordinate on the issues facing our communities but the region as
a whole. 

Through the Quad, we leverage our significant resources and expertise to
contribute in meaningful ways to dealing with challenges facing
countries in the region, and we ensure that we assert the view that
national sovereignty is important, that security and stability is
something that we strive for, as well as shared prosperity in our
region. 

The Quad is about practical, meaningful outcomes in strategic areas,
ranging from clean energy and dealing with the challenge but also the
opportunity that climate change represents, health security, to critical
and emerging technologies, cyber resilience, infrastructure, and
maritime security, and, of course, counterterrorism as well. 

We’ll always be better off when like-minded countries and our four great
democracies work together.  All of this, the promise in the region, does
depend on continued peace and stability and the wise management of
strategic competition and disputes. 

Partnerships like the Quad are crucial, providing us with an avenue to
discuss shared responsibilities and goals and strengthening the enduring
relationships necessary for lasting stability, which is why we commit
today to continue to work with our Indo-Pacific neighbors, our friends,
and our partners.

So, I think, today, we have some practical initiatives that we’ve been
working on together.  The sum of the four individual parts, when comes —
when it comes together, mean that it’s more effective, the work that we
can do.  And — and I look forward to some practical outcomes in the
tradition that the Quad has — has created.

And it’s wonderful to be here, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you very much.  (Inaudible.)

4:17 P.M. EDT
