---
date: '2024-09-29'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 13:30:37-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-29 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-los-angeles-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political Event | Los Angeles,\_CA"
---
 
JW Marriott Los Angeles L.A. LIVE  
Los Angeles, California

4:37 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, L.A.  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s good to
be home.  (Laughs.)  Thank you all.  Oh, my goodness.  Thank you all. 
(Applause.)

Thank you, everybody.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  (Applause.)

Okay, come on.  We have work to do.  We have work to do.

Please have a seat.  We have — we have work to do.  Thirty-seven days. 
(Applause.)

Thank you, everyone.  Oh, it’s good to be with so many friends, and I’ve
known so many of you my whole career. 

I — I mean, I look around this room, and there are people who have been
with me on this journey every step of the way, and I’m so thankful to
all of you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Truly.

And you who have been providing so much encouragement, I just — I thank
you so very much. 

And I especially want to thank the members of Congress who are here,
including Senator Alex Padilla — (applause), Democratic Caucus Chair
Pete Aguilar.  (Applause.)  And all the state and local leaders who are
here today, I thank you all so much.  (Applause.)  

All right, so let’s get to business.  Let’s get to business. 

Okay, let’s start by level setting.  Okay, let’s level set. 
Thirty-seven days.  (Applause.)  Thirty-seven days. 

And I know who’s here, and so many of us have been involved every four
years.  And every four years we say, “This is the one.”  This here is
the one.  (Applause.)  This is the one.  This is the one. 

This is probably the most important election in our lifetime and
probably one of the most important in the life of our country.  And you
have all heard me say it many times before: Look, this election is — and
I think is increasingly becoming clear, this election is about two very
different visions for our nation.  And we see that contrast every day on
the campaign trail.  Just consider the last two weeks. 

In the last two weeks I was in Georgia to highlight the dangerous
consequences of Trump abortion bans.  In fact, some of them were
highlighted during an event that I did with Oprah Winfrey.  You may have
heard the stories — (applause) — but tragic, tragic, tragic stories: a
mother talking about her daughter who, because of the ban in Georgia,
she ended up dying.  Right?  Tragic stories.

In the last couple of weeks — well, actually, many times I’ve been to
Pennsylvania, most recently in Pittsburgh to lay out my vision for our
economy.  And then, just a couple days ago, I was in Arizona to present
my plan for what we need to do to strengthen our border. 

Meanwhile, Donald Trump —

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thirty-seven days.  (Laughter and applause.)

But from him, we’ve seen the same old show.  We just see the same old,
tired show from the same old, tired playbook that we have heard for
years with no plan on how he would address the needs of the American
people. 

And that is why I am convinced that — as I travel around our country and
meet folks from every walk of life, I am convinced and they seem to be
convinced that it is time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It is time to
turn the page on what we’ve been getting from that side.  And I think
America is ready to chart a new way forward and ready for a new
generation of leadership that is optimistic about what we can do
together — (applause) — what we can do together.

And I think that’s why Democrats and Republicans and independents are
supporting our campaign, because they want a president who works for all
the American people.  (Applause.)

And you all know me.  My entire career has been about fighting for the
people.  (Applause.)  When I was a young prosecutor in Oakland, as a —
as courtroom lawyer, as the elected district attorney of San Francisco,
I stood up for women and children against predators who abused them.  As
attorney general of California for two terms, I defended communities
that were being poisoned by polluters and Big Oil.  I stood up for
veterans and students being scammed by for-profit colleges — (applause)
— for workers who were being cheated out of the wages they were due, for
seniors who were facing elder abuse.

And many of you were actually with me and — and supported me in those
fights.  And together, then, we have always stood for what we understand
to be important about dignity, about fairness, about equality, about
doing the right thing.  And together again, then, we stand fighting for
our future.

And as Americans planned for that future, one of the biggest issues —
you hear it on the evening news — one of the biggest priorities,
frankly, is about our economy. 

And so, we will build together what I call and have named an
“opportunity economy.”  (Applause.)  We will do so as a new generation
of leadership.  With a sense of optimism, we will tap into the ambition
and the aspirations and the dreams of the American people.  (Applause.) 
An opportunity economy where everyone can compete and has a real chance
to succeed; where middle-class families have security and stability; and
all Americans, regardless of who they are, where they start, can build
wealth for themselves and their children. 

I will bring together labor, small businesses, founders, and innovators
and major companies — (applause) — because, as I said in Pittsburgh last
week, I am, yes, both a devout public servant and I am a capitalist. 
(Applause.)  I believe an active partnership between government and the
private sector is one of the most effective ways to fully unlock
economic opportunity.  (Applause.)

I also believe that unions help build the middle class and that —
(applause) — every worker should have the right to join a union. 

I believe that to build a strong economy, we must also engage those who
create most of the jobs in America. 

I have also pledged that building a strong middle class will be a
defining goal of my presidency — (applause) — because we know that when
America’s middle class is strong, America is strong.  (Applause.)

And to support the middle class, one of the first things we must do is
lower costs.  Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a
middle-class tax break, including $6,000 for new parents during the
first year of a child’s life — (applause) — because the vast majority of
parents have a natural desire to parent their children well.  They want
for everything for their children but don’t always necessarily have the
resources to achieve that goal.  And I was raised to believe that the
children of the community are the children of the community, and we have
a collective responsibility to support everything we can to ensure they
are nurtured and well taken care of.  (Applause.)

And we will also go after the biggest drivers of costs for the middle
class, including housing, grocery prices, and prescription drugs, and we
will work to bring those costs down.  (Applause.)

To build an opportunity economy, we need to invest in American
innovation and entrepreneurship, including by making it easier to start
a new business.  (Applause.)  So, as president, I will make the start-up
deduction 10 times richer and raise it from $5,000 to $50,000. 
(Applause.)  Because here’s the deal.  In 2024, there is nary a small
business who can actually get started on only $5,000. 

And if we’re going to talk about building the next generation of
leadership, we’ve got to be current about the problems that people are
facing and deal with them. 

We also must increase, and I will continue to work on increasing, access
to capital for small businesses that want to expand.  (Applause.) 

And as a proud daughter of California — (applause) — I know the power of
American innovation.  And so, as president, I will ensure that we lead
the world in the industries of the future and that America wins the
competition for the 21st century.

Included in that, we will invest in biomanufacturing and aerospace,
expand clean energy innovation and manufacturing, and invest in the
factory towns and workers who built our country and have long been
overlooked.  (Applause.) 

And we must make sure that good-paying jobs are available to all
Americans, not just those with college degrees.  (Applause.)  And let us
recognize the value of additional paths such as apprenticeships and
technical programs.  (Applause.) 

And so, it is my pledge: As president, I will eliminate degree
requirements for half a million federal jobs — (applause) — because I
understand that requiring a certain degree, a college degree, does not
necessarily speak to a job candidate’s skill and experience. 
(Applause.)  And we must honor and actually value the skill of the job
and the skill required to do the job.  And so, when we are doing that —
and I do that with federal jobs — I’m going to look at all of you in the
private sector and say, “I challenge you to make a similar commitment.”

And Donald Trump has a different plan.  (Laughter.)

You know, I’ve said this before, and you may have heard me say it, but
in many ways, Donald Trump is an unserious man, but the consequences of
putting him back in the White House are extremely serious — extremely
serious.  (Applause.)

Just look at Project 2025, which — I mean, google it if you have some
time or don’t have anything else to do.  (Laughter.)  But I would urge
you to know what’s in it, and I’ll talk a little bit about it. 

And, by the way, for those of you who are familiar with Project 2025,
can you believe they put that thing in writing?  (Laughter.)  I mean,
they put it in writing, they published it, they actually bound it, and
star- — and handed it out.  (Laughter.)  But it’s detailed and it’s
dangerous. 

Donald Trump intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.  He wants to
impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” because it — he’s — what he’s
talking about is a 20 percent tax on everyday basic necessities, which
will cost, as economists have measured — (sound system stops working) —
there we go — (laughter and applause) — which will cost the average
family nearly $4,000 a year.

The top economists in our country, many of them, have reviewed our plans
and compared them.  Goldman Sachs says my plan would grow our economy
and his plan would shrink it.  Sixteen Nobel Prize-winning economists
say he would reignite inflation.  Moody’s assessed he would ignite a
recession by the middle of next year. 

And on top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to end the Affordable
Care Act. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Some of you may have seen the debate.  (Laughter
and applause.)  Yeah.  So, I’m trying to get another one — trying to get
another debate — trying, but — trying to get that other debate, but
we’ll see.  (Laughter.) 

But — but you’ll remember: What he said at the debate was he has — on
the Affordable Care Act, remember what he said?  He has “concepts of a
plan.”  Concepts.  (Laughter.)  And, again, yes, we understandably laugh
at that, but think about the seriousness of the consequence. 

So, basically, he’s going to threaten the health insurance of 45 million
Americans based on a concept, which would mean taking us back to when
insurance companies could deny people health coverage for preexisting
conditions.  Remember what that was like?  Children with asthma. 
Someone who survived breast cancer.  A — a grandparent with diabetes. 

So, look, as I say everywhere I go — and I am traveling our country — I
say, and — and the crowds are pretty big.  (Applause.)  And — (laughs) —
and so, so what I say and — and people repeat, everywhere I go: We are
not —

AUDIENCE:  Not going back!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — going back.

We are not going back, because ours is truly a fight for the future.

And it is a fight for freedom, like the freedom to vote, the freedom to
be safe from gun violence — (applause) — the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride — (applause) — and the freedom of a woman to
make decisions about her own body and not have her government tell her
what to do.  (Applause.)  So much is at stake.

And to all the leaders who are here, help me to remind folks — many
remember, but it’s important for everyone to know — how we got here.

On that point, Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United
States Supreme Court — the Court of Thurgood and RBG — selected them to
overturn the protections of Roe v. Wade, and they did as he intended. 

And now, in more than 20 states in our country, there are Trump abortion
bans, many with no exceptions even for rape or incest, which means that
they’re basically telling a survivor of a crime of a violation to their
body that they have no right to make a decision about what happens to
their body next.  That is immoral.  It’s immoral.  (Applause.)

But that being one of the many examples of why elections matter. 
Elections matter.  (Applause.)

And I’m going to tell you, when Congress passes a bill to restore
reproductive freedom — (applause) — as president of the United States, I
will proudly sign it into law — (applause) — will proudly sign it into
law.

So, so much is on the line in this election.  So much is on the line. 
And this is not 2016 or 2020.  It’s different for many reasons, but a
very important reason among them is what the Supreme Court did just a
few months ago.  The Supreme Court basically told the former president
that he is effectively immune no matter what he does in the White
House. 

Now let’s put this in context.  This is a man who has openly vowed to be
a dictator on day one; who has talked about — even recently — how he
would weaponize the Department of Justice against his political enemies;
and has called for, quote, the “termination” of the Constitution of the
United States.  Just imagine Donald Trump with no guardrails.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s a felon!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, the courts are going to take care of that
piece.  (Laughter and applause.) 

We’ll take care of November.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  We’ll take care of
November. 

But all of this is to say that we are here together because we know the
stakes.  And we are here together because we love our country.  We love
our country.  (Applause.)  And I do believe it is one of the highest
forms of patriotism to fight for the ideals of our country — (applause)
— and to fight to realize the promise of America — the promise of
America. 

So, the election is in 37 days, and early voting and vote by mail has
already started in some states, including Michigan, North Carolina, and
Wisconsin.  (Applause.)  So — so the election is pretty much here. 

And let me be clear, we are going to win. (Applause.)   We

are going to win.  We are going to win.  (Applause.)  Yes, we will. 
Yes, we will.  Yes, we will.

And — and we also have our work cut out for us, okay?  This race is as
close as it could be.  This race is as close as it could be.  And we are
the underdog, friends.  We are the underdog, and I’m running like the
underdog.  We are the underdog.

And our campaign, with all of your help and support, is doing the work
we need to do on the airwaves, on voter education.  I know many people
here have been do- — phone banking — (applause) — and thank you.  And —
and we’re doing this work together in every county of every battleground
state.

And here’s what we’re finding: The more people hear about our plans, the
more they rally around our campaign. 

So, we, I know, are here together because we are all prepared to leave
it all on the field.  And your support is absolutely critical to the
work we have in front of us. 

The leaders in this room have done so much already, and I’m going to ask
you for a little more.  (Laughter.)  Here’s what I’m going to ask you:
You are each — you are all part of very large networks — I know who’s
here — and you’re trusted and you are opinion leaders.  Well, I didn’t
mean the television networks, but, yeah, that too I guess.  (Laughs.) 
But networks of — of organizations and folks. 

And so, I ask you this, in addition to everything you’ve done: Please do
activate your networks and tell your friends and your neighbors about
what is at stake.  Let them know why you support this campaign, why you
have taken so much time out of your busy lives to be here.  And let them
know that we need their help in the next 37 days.  Let them know. 

And for you, join our team in battleground states and help folks
register folks to vote and get them out to the polls.  Let’s sign up and
sign folks up to make more phone calls.  And let’s remind them that this
is a fight for our freedom and our future. 

And I’ve been sharing with some friends, also, here’s how I think about
our campaign: We know the stakes.  We’re prepared to work hard.  And our
highest imperative, which we will achieve, is to win.  And let’s think
about our campaign in the next 37 days also in the context of the power
that we have to build community and to build coalitions. 

You know, there’s been so much about these last several years and — yes,
and it’s why people want to turn the page, but these forces that have
been trying to divide us and have people point fingers at each other —
you know, these forces that would — they’re so wrongheaded and suggest
that the measure of the strength of a leader is based on who you beat
down instead of what we know: The real measure of the strength of a
leader is based on who you lift up.  (Applause.)

So, let’s continue to do what we know is also about strengthening our
country, our neighborhoods, our communities every step of the way over
these next many days. 

And — and let’s remember, we — we stand on the shoulders of folks who,
for generations, have fought for freedom and fought for our rights and
liberties.  (Applause.)  And — and now the baton is in our hands.  Now
the baton is in our hands. 

So, I’ll close by saying what I say at every rally, which is this: We
know what we stand for, and that’s why we know what to fight for.  And
when we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  We win.  (Applause.)

God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Thank you all.  (Applause.)

END                 5:04 P.M. PDT
