---
date: '2024-09-16'
modified_time: 2024-09-16 18:27:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-16 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/16/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-assessing-progress-on-the-us-economy/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard Assessing Progress on the\
  \ US\_Economy"
---
 
*Council on Foreign Relations, New York, New York*  
   
*As Prepared for Delivery*  

I appreciate the kind invitation to join you for this discussion of the
US economy.

**The Decline in Inflation amid an Expansion**

Today, we are at an important turning point. Inflation is coming back
down close to normal levels, and it is important to safeguard the
important labor market progress we have made.

A few years ago, many were convinced that the combination of a large
decline in inflation with a sustained expansion that we are seeing today
couldn’t happen. They predicted inflation could only be brought back
down at the cost of considerable dislocation in the labor market. They
predicted a major slowdown would be required to bring inflation down.

Instead, inflation has come back down close to its level just before the
pandemic, while we have maintained the lowest average unemployment of
any administration in over 50 years, and real GDP has grown by 2.9
percent per year on average. December 2020 was the last month in which
US employment declined; since then, employment has expanded for 43
months in a row. Consumers have remained resilient, small business
creation has reached record highs, and incomes have risen by more than
prices for median American households.

In short, the US economy achieved better unemployment and growth
outcomes than predicted 2 years ago, while inflation came down in line
with forecasts, as shown in Figure 1. The fact that inflation came down
while employment continued to expand provides good evidence that the
inflation surge was associated with several overlapping shocks
associated with the pandemic and Russia’s invasion of Ukraine that
dissipated over time.

In addition, the US has seen a stronger recovery than comparable
countries, while inflation rose and fell in a similar pattern across
countries, as shown in Figure 2. The fact that comparable countries
experienced the same surge in inflation, while the recovery was stronger
in the US, suggests that government policy differences mattered. While
we must continue our work to lower costs, Administration policies to
protect balance sheets and support small businesses, families, workers,
and communities played an important role in supporting the broad-based
recovery in the US, and early investments in fixing supply chains helped
ease shortages and price pressures, along with ongoing supply-side
investments.

**The Shocks That Caused Inflation to Surge**

As the inflation surge got underway, there was an important debate over
whether it was primarily attributable to overall excess demand or to
shocks that would dissipate over time. This had important implications
for the stance of government policy.

In 2022, I highlighted three sets of shocks: shocks to supply chains and
commodities; shifts in the ability of workers to participate in the
labor force; and changes in the composition of demand. It now seems
clear that these shocks played an outsized role in the inflation surge.

*Supply Chains and Commodities Disruptions*

Shipping bottlenecks and production stoppages constrained the supplies
of key inputs like semiconductors and consumer products like autos,
appliances, and electronics. The resulting inflation was exacerbated
when Russia’s invasion of Ukraine sent global food and energy prices
soaring.

At the sectoral level, it is now clear that price increases were
concentrated in the sectors that had lower or even negative output
growth between 2021 and 2023. This is what we’d expect to find if supply
shocks, rather than overall excess demand, were the major driver of
inflation. And this is corroborated at the aggregate level, where supply
chain disruptions spiked and then moved back down to pre-pandemic
levels, and inflation followed the same pattern with a lag, as we can
see in Figure 3.

As inflation rose, many argued that the surge in inflation was caused by
excessive growth, but we saw the opposite. Inflation skyrocketed in 2022
as growth and productivity went negative following the Russia
commodities price surge. And inflation fell during 2023 and 2024, when
growth and productivity took off.

*Shift from Services to Goods*

Inflation was exacerbated by a shift in demand away from services
sectors to the goods sectors that were experiencing severe supply
constraints. Due to the pandemic, people went out to eat less and bought
more kitchen appliances, they relied on transportation services less and
bought cars, and they went out to gyms less and bought exercise
equipment. In response, prices rose rapidly for those goods where supply
struggled to catch up. And the price of services did not fall to
compensate for the surge in goods prices, so the overall rate of
inflation rose. Later, as the share of spending on services moved back
up towards pre-pandemic levels, the prices of services rose as the
supply of services took time to respond, especially since capacity had
contracted in areas like flights, hotels, and restaurants.

Housing saw a large shift in demand that put strains on existing supply.
The jump in people working from home shifted demand to larger homes and
changed the geography of many cities. Some estimates suggest that
pandemic shifts account for more than half of the housing inflation we
observed.

*Labor Supply Shifts*

Labor supply also saw large shifts over this period. There was an
immediate drop in labor supply during the lockdown period, as workers
went home and some retired early, and the subsequent waves of the
pandemic kept labor market participation at lower levels.

In light of the highest quit rates on record, some commentators labeled
this shift a “Great Resignation.” But ultimately we saw a “Great
Rebound” with the highest hires rates on record, as a wave of people
switched jobs to better, more productive ones. Many others started new
businesses, and we have now seen a record 19 million new business
applications. This reallocation actually led to improvements in incomes
and balance sheets for many Americans relative to pre-pandemic levels,
even after accounting for inflation.

**Policy  
**  
The choices by workers and small businesses to pursue new opportunities
brings us to the important role of government policy. The President and
Vice President never wavered in their determination to support the
recovery, fix supply chains and shortages, and support investments that
will create opportunity for the future. Policy actions jumpstarted a
broad-based recovery that lifted small businesses, working families, and
the middle class, while making critical investments in the future.

First, the Administration took decisive action to support families,
workers, businesses, and communities through the severe pandemic-related
and geopolitical shocks. Support for the recovery helped to prevent the
labor market scarring that can hurt workers throughout their careers. It
enabled small businesses to reopen and start up in record numbers. It
supported families and childcare to enable parents to get back to work.
It helped bolster household and small business balance sheets, instead
of saddling them with unmanageable debts due to circumstances beyond
their control, which would have held the economy back.

Second, the President made a clear commitment to respect the
independence of the Federal Reserve in fighting inflation. This was an
important contrast to his predecessor, who repeatedly criticized Federal
Reserve monetary policy during the previous administration.

Third, the Administration mounted a comprehensive effort to address
price pressures by fixing supply chains, addressing commodities price
spikes, and taking on affordability challenges for working families.

Gas prices at the pump are lower today than they were before Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine sent gas prices soaring. This did not happen by
accident. The Administration’s use of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
helped stabilize global energy markets while also earning a return for
taxpayers; domestic oil production is strong; and we have made historic
investments in the clean energy transition that will help diminish US
reliance on volatile global energy markets over time.

We launched the Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force and worked with
business and labor leaders to fix supply chains and unclog our ports,
trucking networks, and shipping lines, making sure packages arrived in
time for the holidays. We passed ocean shipping reform legislation and
helped to reduce shipping costs for American manufacturers, farmers, and
consumers. The number of ships waiting in the Port of Los Angeles has
fallen from a peak of over 100 back down to pre-pandemic levels. We are
investing in the long-term resilience of our supply chains, making a
generational investment in infrastructure that will make it more cost
effective for businesses to get goods to market and serve their
customers.

The President and Vice President secured critical investment laws that
are positioning America to be a global leader in the clean energy
transition and in semiconductors and technologies such as AI, while
creating good jobs and strong pathways to the middle class here in
America. And these investments were paid for by improving tax fairness
and by reducing spending on a bipartisan basis through the enactment of
the Fiscal Responsibility Act.

The President and Vice President are working to address longstanding
affordability challenges that have for too long limited economic
security and mobility for middle-class and working families. They
secured lower health insurance premiums for millions of Americans. And
they passed historic legislation to cap the cost of insulin and out of
pocket drug costs and negotiate prices on key prescription drugs for
seniors, while also lowering the deficits.

We must continue to work together to tackle longstanding affordability
challenges for middle-class families. We know that America needs more
housing to address housing affordability challenges. That’s why it is
critical to move forward on an ambitious plan to bring housing costs
down by building millions of new affordable homes and providing
incentives for states and localities to remove outdated obstacles to
building.

It’s also essential we continue to enable more workers to participate in
the labor force and to make it easier and more affordable to raise a
family. We know that investing in children improves both their
well-being and their future employment opportunities, and supporting
child care expands access to better employment opportunities, especially
for parents of young children. That is why it is critical to move
forward on expanding the Child Tax Credit and ensuring childcare is
affordable and accessible.

This is very different from an approach that would weaken our economy by
undermining the independence of the Federal Reserve and the rule of law,
add trillions to the debt, and impose what amounts to a sales tax of
$4,000 on middle-class families.

**Conclusion**

Americans have been through a lot of hardship as a result of the
pandemic. Together with American workers, businesses, and families, we
have made important progress. With inflation coming back down close to
normal levels, the focus now must be on safeguarding the important labor
market progress we have made. And it is critical to continue our work
together to address affordability challenges and create more
opportunities for working families and the middle class.  
   
**Figures**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-105524" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1210px) 100vw, 1210px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png 1210w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=415,615 415w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=768,1139 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=856,1270 856w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=1035,1536 1035w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=216,320 216w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=431,640 431w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=863,1280 863w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/image.png?resize=573,850 573w"
width="1210" height="1795" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://mcusercontent.com/c97630621baff8c44fe607661/images/f9155e8c-9673-447e-d7ac-aafadc04f72d.png"
decoding="async" />
</figure>

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-105567" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1980px) 100vw, 1980px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png 1980w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=615,461 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=768,576 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=1270,953 1270w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=1536,1152 1536w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=427,320 427w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=853,640 853w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=1707,1280 1707w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/figure3_web_final.png?resize=1038,779 1038w"
width="1980" height="1485" />
</figure>

\###
