---
date: '2024-09-18'
published_time: 2024-09-18 15:46:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/18/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-congressional-hispanic-caucus-institutes-47th-annual-leadership-conference/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute\u2019\
  s 47th Annual Leadership\_Conference"
---
 
Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center  
Washington, D.C.

12:48 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon,
everyone.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.) Good afternoon.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat. 
Please have a seat.

Oh, it’s good to see so many friends.

AUDIENCE:  We love you!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, I love you back.  (Applause.)

 I want to recognize Chair Barragán — where are you? — my dear friend,
fellow Californian.  I want to thank you for all that you do —
(applause) — and all that you have done.

CHCI Chair Espaillat, thank you for all that you are.  He — you know, I
— he spent — both of them have spent time with me at my house, and we’ve
— we’ve shared a lot of good stories together and — and many meals
together.  And I just want to personally thank them both, because they
really, as you know, are extraordinary people and extraordinary leaders
and they do so much on behalf of so many.  So, thank you both for your
leadership and for hosting me this afternoon.

And to all the incredible leaders here, it is an honor to be with you
again.

And to everyone, happy Hispanic Heritage Month — (applause) — which, in
my book, is every month of the year.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.) 

So, this is a room of long-standing friends.  And many of you know my
background.  My mother arrived in the United States when she was 19
years old by herself.  And I spoke about it recently, actually.  You
know, my mother — I was the eldest child.  And as the eldest child,
those of us who are, you know you see a lot of things in terms of what
your parents go through. 

And I would often see how my mother was treated.  She was a
five-foot-tall brown woman with an accent.  And I would see how the
world would sometimes treat her.

I’m going to tell you something, and this where I come from.  My mother
never lost her cool.  She never defined her sense of dignity based on
how others treated her.  She was a proud woman.  She was a hardworking
woman.  She had two goals in her life: to raise her two daughters — my
sister Maya and me — and to end breast cancer.  She was a breast cancer
researcher. 

And growing up, our mother taught us certain fundamental values: the
importance of hard work; the power of community; and the responsibility
that we have to not complain about anything, much less injustice. 
Right?  Because “why are you complaining about it,” she would say.  “Do
something about it.”  And that’s how I was raised: Do something about
it.

And those values have guided me my entire career, from, as you heard,
being a young courtroom prosecutor in Oakland, California — (applause). 

 AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Bay Area! 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Wh- — Bay Area.  (Laughter.)  106.1 KMEL. 
(Laughs.)  (Applause.)  That was our local radio station for hip-hop. 
(Laughter.)

But doing that work — you know, part of the background on why I became a
prosecutor was actually when I was in high school, I learned that my
best friend was being abused — being molested by her stepfather.  And
when I learned about it, I told her she had to come and live with us. 
And I called my mother, and my mother said, “Of course she does.”  And
she did.

And so, I decided I wanted to start a career and do the work of — in
part, just doing the work of making sure that we protect the most
vulnerable.

And so, I started my career as a courtroom prosecutor and took on those
who would be predators against the most vulnerable.

As attorney general of California, I took on the big banks and delivered
$20 billion for homeowners who were middle-class families who faced
foreclosure because of predatory lending practices.  I stood up for
veterans and students who were being scammed by the big for-profit
colleges, knowing the — and many of whom were — had an immigrant
background and were just simply

trying to — to do the best they could to invest in themselves and their
family for their future and — and the subject of — of awful scams.

 I have stood up, in my career, for workers who were being cheated out
of the wages they were due and for seniors who have faced elder abuse. 

 And I say all that to say: When I stand here before you today, this is
not just something that I decided to do but really is about a lifelong
career that has been about fighting for the people — for the people.

And for years, I have been proud to fight alongside the members and the
leaders of this incredible caucus — (applause) — in almost all of that
work.  And the work we have done together has been about so much I just
talked about.  It has been about defending workers’ rights.  It has been
about expanding health care for more Americans, including DREAMers. 
(Applause.)  It has been about forgiving billions of dollars in student
loan debt, including for many of the folks that we know — friends,
relatives — who, again, have been burdened by that heavy debt and just
needed to be seen — teachers, firefighters, nurses. 

 The work we have done together has been to create the National Museum
of the American Latino and — (applause) — and, of course, last year, I
was proud to be with a lot of the leaders here in Houston for the CHC On
the Road tour.  (Applause.)

 So, I say that to say that, CHC, our work together has always been
guided by shared values and by a shared vision.  However, at this
moment, at this moment, we are confronting two different — very — very
different — visions for our nation: one focused on the past; the other,
ours, focused on the future.  

We fight for a future for affordable health care, affordable childcare,
and paid leave.  We fight for a future where we build what I call an
“opportunity economy,” understanding that the people of our country, the
people we know, have extraordinary ambition and aspirations and dreams
of what they can be, what they can do, are prepared to do the hard work
and put that hard work in, but don’t necessarily always have access to
the opportunities to achieve and realize those goals.

 So, I see an America where everyone has an opportunity to own a home,
to build wealth, to start a business. 

 I believe in a future — we, together, believe in a future where we
lower the cost of living for America’s families so that people have an
opportunity not just to get by but to get ahead. 

 And so, with the work we have done together and going forward, we will
continue to lower the cost of groceries, for example, by taking on
something that I think is very important to deal with, which is price
gouging on behalf of big corporations.  (Applause.)

 You know, I’ve — I’ve seen that happen before.  Many of you who — who
have — and are coming from states where y- — we’ve seen extreme weather
conditions — in California, wildfires, and other parts of the country —
or even in the pandemic, where people are desperate because of these
kinds of emergencies, desperate for support.  And then some, you know,
corporation — and it’s very few of them that do this — but then jack up
prices to make it more difficult for desperate people to just get by. 
We need to take that on.

We need to lower the cost of housing.  We don’t have enough housing in
our country.  The supply is too low, and it’s too expensive both for
renters and for folks who want to buy a home.  So, we will build
together millions of new homes and give first-time homebuyers $25,000 in
down payment assistance.  (Applause.) 

Because, look, people just want to get their foot in the door.  I — my
mother worked hard.  She saved up.  It wasn’t until I was a teenager
that she was able to buy our first home.

And the American dream is elusive for far too many people increasingly. 
And that’s why it is part of my perspective that’s let’s just do the
work of giving first-time homebuyers a $25,000 down payment assistance. 
(Applause.)  Let them get their foot in the door.

We need to lower the cost of health care and continue to take on Big
Pharma and cast the — cap the cost of prescription medications, yes, for
our seniors, which we have done together, but for all Americans. 
Because when we look at drugs like insulin, everyone here knows — first
of all, Latinos are 70 percent more likely to be diagnosed with
diabetes.  And with the support of the CHC, we were able to cap the cost
of insulin at $35 a month for our seniors.  (Applause.)

In fact, recently, I was in Nevada.  I’m — I’m in these streets.  Let me
tell — I’m everywhere.  (Laughter.)  But I was recently in Nevada, and a
woman came up to me with tears in her eyes, and she showed me the
receipts for her mother’s insulin.  And it used — she show- — and I was
— she showed me many papers, and I said, “Tell me what these are.”  And
she said, “Well, these are the receipts, and I want you to see where it
used to cost us hundreds if not a thousand dollars a month, but no
more.” 

The work we are doing together, the very purpose of CHC and all of the
leaders here includes have a real impact on real people.  And I have the
blessing of being able to travel our country and see it every day.  It’s
extraordinary work that is happening because of the leaders here.

We, because of our work together, have finally given Medicare the power
to negotiate lower drug prices with Big Pharma. 

And understand, if my opponent, Donald Trump, wins, his allies in
Congress intend to end Medicare and end Medicare’s negotiating power. 
As they remind us again this week, they are essentially saying — check
this out, because if — because, you know, you have to ask why, right? 
So, why would you want to end Medicare’s negotiating power against Big
Pharma?  And essentially, they’re saying that it’s not fair to Big
Pharma.  (Laughs.)  That’s essentially what they’re saying.

But I’ll tell you what’s not fair.  What’s not fair is that our seniors
for too long have had to cut pills in half because they cannot afford
their full medication.  (Applause.)  That’s not fair.  It’s not fair
that our seniors have had to choose between filling their prescriptions
and putting food in their refrigerator or paying their rent.  That’s not
fair. 

And that’s why we will continue to do our work together, including fight
Project 2025, an agenda that would cut Medicare and increase the cost of
health care in our country.  (Applause.)  Because we stand with the
people and on the side of the people. 

We will cut taxes for working families, including restoring and
expanding the Child Tax Credit.  (Applause.)  Because we know this is
the kind of work that must happen if we are to be true to our values and
be true to understanding that — that parents, in particular young
parents, need that support.  We — when we — when we extended the Child
Tax Credit, cut child poverty by 50 percent — by half.  Think about what
that meant for so many families.

 The vast majority of parents have a desire to raise their children
well.  They love their children but don’t necessarily have the resources
to do everything their child needs.  I grew up understanding the
children of the community are the children of the community, and we
should all have a vested interest in ensuring that children can go —
grow up with the resources that they need to achieve their God-given
potential.

 So, I know where I come from.  And we have to always put — and I know
CHC agrees with this, and this is part of our collective life’s work —
we have to put the middle class first; we have to put working families
first, understanding their dreams and their desires and their ambitions
deserve to be invested in and it will benefit everyone.  (Applause.)

And together, CHC, we must also reform our broken immigration system —
(applause) — and protect our DREAMers and understand we can do both —
create an earned pathway to citizenship and ensure our border is
secure.  We can do both and we must do both.  (Applause.)

 And while we fight to move our nation forward to a brighter future,
Donald Trump and his extremist allies will keep trying to pull us
backward.  We all remember what they did to tear apart families.  And
now they have pledged to carry out the largest deportation — a mass
deportation — in American history.  

 Imagine what that would look like and what that would be.  How is that
going to happen?  Massive raids?  Massive detention camps?  What are
they talking about?

 They also will give billions of dollars of tax cuts to billionaires and
corporations — massive tax cuts; pardon January 6th perpetrators who
attacked our Capitol, not far from here.  They would cut Social Security
and Medicare.  They intend to end the Affordable Care Act and threaten
the health care of more than 5 million Latinos in our country.  All
based on — I’m sure many of you saw the debate — (applause) — so, on
that point about the Affordable Care Act — all based on “concepts of a
plan.”  (Laughter and applause.)  “Concepts.”  “Concepts.”

 Their Project 2025 agenda would pull our nation backward.  But we are
not going back.  We are not going back.  (Applause.)  We are not going
back. 

Instead, together, we will chart a new way forward because ours is a
fight for the future.  And it is a fight for freedom — the freedom to
vote, the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to live
without fear of bigotry and hate, the freedom to love who you love
openly and with pride, and the freedom of a woman to make decisions
about her own body — (applause) — and not have her government telling
her what to do.  (Applause.)  

And understand, on that last point, how we got here.  Everyone here
knows.  Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United States
Supreme Court with the intention that they would do just what they did,
which is to overturn the protections of Roe v. Wade.  And now, in more
than 20 states, we have a Trump abortion ban, which criminalized health
care providers — in one state, providing prison for life.  
  
You guys may have heard the story — many here — about the stories about
— the horrendous most recent story is about what happened in Georgia.  
  
 Many of these Trump abortions bans that make no exception for rape or
incest, it’s immoral.  It’s immoral.  
  
 And today, 40 percent of Latinas in America live in a state with a
Trump abortion ban. 

 So, imagine if she is a working woman — understand that the majority of
women who seek abortion care are mothers — understand what that means
for her.  So, she’s got to now travel to another state.  God help her
that she has some extra money to pay for that plane ticket.  She’s got
to figure out what to do with her kids.  God help her if she has
affordable childcare.  Imagine what that means.  
  
She has to leave her home to go to a airport, stand in a TSA line —
like, think about this.  You know, everybody here is — is — you’re
policy leaders.  I always say to my team, especially the young people I
mentor, on any public policy, you have to ask, “How is this going to
affect a real person?”  Ask how it would affect a real people.  Go
through the details.  
  
 So, she’s got to stand in a TSA line to get on a plane, sitting next to
a perfect stranger, going to a city where she’s never been, to go and
receive a medical procedure.  She’s going to have to get right back to
the airport, because she — got to get back to those kids.  And it’s not
like her best friend can go with her, because the best friend is
probably taking care of the kids.  All because these people have decided
they’re in a better position to tell her what’s in her best interest
than she is to know.  
      
 It’s just simply wrong.  
  
And I think we all know one does not have to abandon their faith or
deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling a
woman what to do.  If she chooses — (applause) — if she chooses, she
will talk with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam, but not the
government telling her what to do.  
  
 And I pledge to you, when CHC helps pass a law to restore reproductive
freedoms, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into
law.  (Applause.)  Proudly.  Proudly. 

 So, friends, we have some work to do — in fact, a lot of hard work
ahead of us.  But we like hard work.  Hard work is good work.  Hard work
is joyful work, I say.  And I truly believe that America is ready to
turn the page on the politics of division and hate. 

And to do it, our nation is counting on the leaders here, your power,
your activism.  And so, I thank you in advance for your work to register
people to vote and get people to the polls.  Each of us has a job to
do.  
  
As we celebrate this month, we know we stand on broad shoulders of
people before us who have passed us now the baton — those heroes who
fought for freedom who have now passed the baton onto us.  
  
     And the bottom line is: We know what we stand for, so we know what
to fight for.  And when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win.  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  
  
     God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                1:08 P.M. EDT
