---
date: '2024-09-22'
modified_time: 2024-09-24 13:23:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-22 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-new-york-ny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political Event | New York,\_NY"
---
 
Cipriani Wall Street  
New York, New York

3:38 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon.  Hi,
everyone.  (Applause.) 

Good afternoon.  Thank you all.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

Okay.  We have work to do.  We have work to do.  (Laughs.)  Please have
a seat, everyone. 

Oh, it’s so good to see so many friends.  Thank you all, and thank you
for all you have done to be so supportive.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you. 

And thank you for all that you have done and for taking the time to be
here on this Sunday afternoon.  It means so much.  And we have a lot of
work to do, but there’s a lot of work that’s already happened thanks to
all of you.  So, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank
you, thank you.

 And this is a room full of incredible leaders, including, of course,
our governor of New York, Kathy Hochul — (applause); Leader Schumer, who
has been an extraordinary partner to the president and me — (applause);
members of Congress, including Representative Goldman.  (Applause.)  And
to all the dear friends and long-standing partners here today, I thank
you.  I thank you. 

All right.  Let’s level set.  Everybody get — just get comfortable. 
(Laughs.)  Let’s level set.  We have 44 days — 44 days.  And every four
years — because a lot of us have been in rooms like this every four
years, if not more frequently — and we say, every four years, “This is
the one.”  Well, this here is the one.  This is the one.  (Applause.) 
This is the one. 

This is probably the most important election of our lifetime and
probably one of the most important in the lifetime of our nation.  And
this election really is about two very different visions for our nation,
a contrast that I think became very clear in the recent debate. 
(Applause.) 

And, by the way, I think we should have another debate.  (Applause.)  I
just accepted an invitation to debate in October, which my opponent
seems to be looking for an excuse to avoid.  But he should accept.  In
all seriousness, he should accept, because I feel very strongly that we
owe it to the American people and to the voters to meet once more before
Election Day and continue the conversation from that first debate. 
(Applause.) 

And in that debate, you’ll remember, I talked about my plans to bring
down the cost of living, to invest in America’s small businesses, to
protect reproductive freedom, and keep our nation safe.  (Applause.) 
But that’s not what we heard from Donald Trump.  Instead, it was the
same old show; the same old, tired playbook that we’ve heard for years,
with no plan for how he would address the needs of the American people. 

Well, it’s time to turn the page.  (Applause.)  It’s time to turn the
page.  And America is ready to chart a new way forward, ready for a new
generation of leadership that is optimistic — optimistic about what we
can do together.  (Applause.)  

And I do believe that is why Democrats and Republicans and independents
are supporting our campaign, because they want a president who works for
all the American people, and that is the kind of president I pledge to
you that I will be. 

I have, my entire career, fought for the people.  As a young courtroom
prosecutor in Oakland, California, I stood up for women and children
against predators who abused them.  As attorney general of California, I
defended communities that were being poisoned by polluters and Big Oil. 
I stood up for veterans and students being scammed by big for-profit
colleges, for workers who were being cheated out of the wages they were
due, for seniors facing elder abuse. 

And as president, I will fight on behalf of all Americans.  And I know
that, together, we can and we must build a brighter future for our
nation, a future where we build what I called an “opportunity economy” —
an economy where everyone can compete and everyone has a real chance to
succeed; where middle-class families have security and stability; and
all Americans, regardless of who they are or where they start, can build
wealth for themselves and their children. 

To build that opportunity economy, I will bring together labor, small
business, founders, and innovators in major companies.  We will partner
together to invest in America’s competitiveness, to invest in America’s
future.  We will encourage innovative technologies like AI and digital
assets while protecting consumers and investors.  We will create a
stable business environment with consistent and transparent rules of the
road.  We will invest in semiconductors, clean energy, and other
industries of the future.  And we will cut needless bureaucracy and
unnecessary red tape, all of which will create jobs, drive broad-based
economic growth, and cement America’s leadership throughout the world. 
(Applause.)  

The way I see it, this is motivated and designed in large part knowing
that the vast majority of Americans don’t want to just be able to get
by.  They want to get ahead.  They want to get ahead.  They want to be
able to own a home, build wealth, start a business. 

And so, I’ll tell you a little bit more about some specific plans I have
— and, again, in contrast to my opponent, who offers very little. 
(Laughter.) 

So, for example, I’ll tell you I love our small businesses.  I love
small businesses.  (Applause.)  I really do.  And maybe it’s because,
growing up — and my sister Maya is here — (applause) — you know, when we
were growing up — she’s somewhere, usually in the back of the room. 
There she is. 

Well, when we were growing up, we lived in an apartment above a
childcare center, and that childcare center was owned by Mrs. Shelton,
who lived two doors down from us.  And Mrs. Shelton helped my mother
raise us.  When my mother worked long days and worked on the weekends,
Mrs. Shelton helped raise us to the point that Maya and I have always
called Mrs. Shelton our “second mother.” 

Well, Mrs. Shelton was a small-business owner, and I will tell you that
I learned from childhood the character of a small-business owner.  She
was a matriarch of the community.  She mentored.  She hired locally. 
She was part of the civic fabric.  And in addition, then, to being a
business leader, she was a civic leader. 

 And when I travel our country — and I have been traveling our country a
lot recently, but — but for the last four years, I meet our
small-business owners, and they are literally — and I think we would all
know this — small businesses are the backbone of America’s economy. 
They really are.  (Applause.)

So, my plan includes giving a $50,000 tax deduction to start up small
businesses.  (Applause.)  Because here’s the deal.  Right now, the tax
deduction for start-ups is $5,000.  Nobody can start a small business on
that.  If we really mean that we want to fuel the innovation, if we want
to reward the ambition, we got to do better. 

We also need to build more housing in America.  (Applause.)  And so,
when I referred earlier to part of how I think about things, it includes
cutting the red tape.  And on the issue of building more housing,
working with the private sector so that, by the end of my first term, we
can build 3 million new homes.  (Applause.)  

Part of my plan includes lowering the cost of living for America’s
middle-class families.  Because look, I grew up a middle-class kid, and
I will never forget where I came from.  And I have a plan, then, to
bring down costs on everything from health care to groceries, because
it’s a real impediment to people’s ability to get ahead, and we’ve got
to bring down those costs. 

Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a tax cut,
including $6,000 during the first year of a child’s life.  (Applause.) 
Because, look, new parents, wherever they are, whoever they are, have a
natural desire to parent their children well but not always the
resources that are necessary to do that.  And it is in our collective
benefit to be able to help them, especially when you’re talking about
such a fundamental phase of their child’s development. 

So, that $6,000, that’s going to include giving them support to buy a
car seat, to buy a crib, to just take care of those basic necessities at
a critical time. 

All of that to say: Donald Trump has a very different plan based on a
very different vision of who we are and the needs of the American
people.  And I’ve said this before, and I’ll say it again: In many ways,
Donald Trump is an unserious man, but the consequences of putting him
back in the White House are extremely serious — extremely serious. 
(Applause.)

Look, for example, at Project 2025.  And, you know, honestly, I just
have to keep saying this.  I can’t believe they put that thing in
writing.  (Laughter.)  I mean, they didn’t just put it in writing.  They
— they bound it and — and handed it out.  And, you know, if you can’t
sleep one night, google it. 

Because — because here’s the thing.  It is a detailed and dangerous
blueprint for what he will do if elected president again.  He intends to
cut Social Security and Medicare; to repeal our climate investments and
send thousands of good-paying clean energy jobs overseas; and he wants
to impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” a 20 percent tax on everyday
basic necessities, which will cost the average American family an
additional $4,000 a year. 

And top economists have reviewed our plans.  Goldman Sachs says my plan
would grow our economy and that his plan would shrink it.  Sixteen Nobel
Prize-winning economists have said he would reignite inflation.  Moody’s
assessed he would ignite a recession by the middle of next year. 

On top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to end the Affordable Care
Act.  And as he said in the debate, he has — I’m going to quote now —
(laughter) — “concepts of a plan.”  (Laughter and applause.)  “Concepts”
to replace it. 

In all seriousness, think about this.  So, he’s going to threaten the
health insurance of 45 million people based on a concept.  Serious
consequences we’re talking about. 

And if he were to do that, it would take us back to when insurance
companies had the power to deny people with preexisting conditions. 
Remember what that was like — for so many people in our country what
that meant, not having access to the health care they need? 

So, I will say, then, what I say everywhere I go and when I’m in those
rooms — those very big rooms with a lot of people — yeah — (laughter and
applause).  I couldn’t help myself.

But what I say there and — and folks will repeat: We are not going
back.  (Applause.)  We are not going back.  We are not going back. 
Because, as much of anything, our fight is a fight for the future.  Our
fight is a fight for the future. 

I was saying to some folks I was talking with earlier: We’re not
fighting against something; we’re fighting for something.  And ours is a
fight for the future.  (Applause.) 

And ours is a fight for freedom — (applause) — because you all know —
and as I travel the country it becomes increasingly clear to me — there
is a full-on attack afoot against hard-fought, hard-won, fundamental
freedoms and rights, like the freedom to vote. 

The — in Georgia — right? — passed a law that basically makes it illegal
to give people food and water for standing in line to vote.  Think about
that.  The hypocrisy abounds.  Whatever happened to “love thy neighbor”?

Attacks on the freedom to be safe from gun violence, the freedom to
breathe clean air and drink clean water, the freedom to love who you
love openly and with pride.  (Applause.)  

And on that point, y- — many will remember: I was one of the first
electeds in the country — it was Valentine’s weekend of 2004 — to
perform same-sex marriages.  Twenty — (applause).  So, this last
February, we just celebrated the 20th anniversary of that. 

But think about this.  Think about this.  It pains my heart when I think
about that and think about something like in Florida and a “Don’t Say
Gay” law and what that means, because, if you think about it, among the
people directly impacted are teachers.  And think about that young
teacher who is probably in their 20s who is afraid to put up a
photograph of themselves and their partner for fear they could be
fired.  For doing what job?  God’s work — teaching other people’s
children. 

So, this is real, what we’re looking at, in terms of these attacks on
fundamental freedoms and rights.  And, of course, front of mind for so
many is the freedom of a woman to make decisions about her own body and
not have her government tell her what to do.  (Applause.)

And on that point, let’s always remember and remind folks of how we got
here.  Donald Trump hand-selected three members of the United States
Supreme Court — the court of Thurgood and RBG — with the intention that
they would overturn the protections of Roe v. Wade, and they did as he
intended. 

And now more than 20 states have a Trump abortion ban, many with no
exceptions even for rape and incest, which is immoral.  (Applause.)  It
is immoral to tell a survivor of a crime of violence to their body, of
violation of their body, that they don’t have the right to make a
decision about what happens to their body next.  It’s immoral.

And as I travel the country, most people agree: One does not have to
abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government
should not be telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  Not
the government. 

Elections matter.  Elections matter.

And I’ll tell you, when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive
freedom, as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into
law.  (Applause.)  Proudly sign it into law. 

So, so much is at stake and on the line in this election.  And this is
not 2016 or 2020.  It’s not ‘16 or ‘20, because — for many reasons,
including what happened a couple of months ago when the Supreme Court —
the United States Supreme Court basically told the former president that
he is effectively immune for whatever he does when he’s in the White
House. 

Now, think about that.  So, at least before that ruling, there was the
appearance or the threat of consequence, but now there is essentially
explicit authority to do whatever he wants. 

And let’s put this ruling, then — this decision in context.  This is a
man who has vowed that he will be a dictator on day one.  He has said he
would weaponize the Department of Justice against his political
enemies.  He has called for, and I’m going to quote, the “termination”
of the Constitution of the United States.  So, just imagine Donald Trump
with no guardrails. 

So, all this to say: Forty-four days.  And we’re all here together, and
you all have taken the time out of your busy lives, because we know what
is at stake.  And we are all here together because we love our country. 
(Applause.)  We love our country.  We love our country. 

And I do believe that it is the highest form of patriotism to fight for
the ideals of our country and to fight for us to realize the promise of
America. 

So, 44 days.  And early voting has already started in some states.  So,
essentially, the election is here, right?  And this race — and I cannot
emphasize this enough — this race is as close as it could be.  It’s as
close as it could be.  This is a margin-of-error race.  I know we’ve got
a lot of enthusiasm and excitement about all that is possible.  This is
a margin-of-error race.

And I’m running — and we are running — as the underdog in this race. 
Our campaign is doing the work we need to do on the airwaves, on voter
education in every county of every battleground state.  And we are
leading in many ways in terms of what we are committed to doing to build
up that grassroots and community-based leadership.  And in the process
of all of that, we are leaving it all on the field. 

And your support, as you know, which is why you’ve been so generous —
your support is absolutely critical to the work we have in front of us. 
The leaders in this room have done so much already, and I’m going to ask
for a bit more.  (Laughter.) 

So, here’s what I’m asking for.  The leaders here are part of large
networks.  Everyone here is part of many large networks in which you are
an opinion leader.  I need you to activate those networks — to tell your
friends, your colleagues, your neighbors about the stakes.  Tell them
how close this race is, and let them know why you support our campaign. 

And let them know we need their help also in the next 44 days.  And we
need their help to please join our team in battleground states and help
folks register to vote and get them to the polls; to sign up to make
phone calls, to do that kind of work that really is so fundamentally
important that’s about that human interaction that I think so many
people are really craving to remind us that we’re all in this together. 

And I’ll say this.  In this campaign, let’s also be intentional about
building community and building coalitions and bringing folks together,
because I do believe that the work we are doing right now — yes, our
first imperative is to win, but it is also to build — to build community
and coalitions and to remind people that the vast majority of us have so
much more in common than what separates us.  I think there’s a hunger
for that right now in our country.  (Applause.)

So, all that to say: This is a fight for our freedom and our future, and
the baton is in our hands.  It’s in our hands.  (Applause.) 

And so, I’ll end by saying what I say at every rally.

When we fight —

AUDIENCE:  We win!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win. 

God bless you.  God bless the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Thank you, all.  Thank you, all.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

END                 4:03 P.M. EDT
