---
date: '2024-09-21'
modified_time: 2024-09-21 13:44:51-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-21 13:44:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/21/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-celebration-for-the-opening-of-the-peoples-house-a-white-house-experience/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Celebration\
  \ for the Opening of \u201CThe People\u2019s House: A White\_House Experience\u201D"
---
 
The South Lawn

Thank you, Fig. You inspire young people to get excited about their
education, especially in STEM. We’re lucky to have you guiding the
future of the White House Historical Association.

And I’m glad to see so many Association board members with us. I know
you all have had a packed schedule these past few days. Your commitment
to this project warms my heart. Thank you.

Earlier, we heard from the Suitland High School Choir. We appreciate you
sharing your voices with us today.

And thank you, Emma, JD, and Jonas, for leading us in the Pledge of
Allegiance!

We’ve also had the Armed Forces Color Guard presenting the colors, and
the President’s Own Marine Band playing the beautiful music we’ve heard
this afternoon. Joe and I are so grateful to you and your families for
your service to our nation.

And it’s great to see so many kids on the South Lawn. The project we’re
celebrating today is for you.    

Welcome, everyone, to the White House!

Doorway by doorway, moment by moment, every piece of the White House is
cloaked in history—whether it’s in the Cabinet Room where President
Kennedy deliberated over the Cuban Missile Crisis, or the East Room
where President Theodore Roosevelt once held a wrestling match.

Kids roller skated in the room where we host heads of state, and nearby,
in the Red Room, First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt held her own press
conferences back when women were excluded from the President’s press
briefings.

Some guests at the White House have the chance to step inside these
rooms—in fact, around 3,000 people come through these halls every day.
But the reality is that many people never get that opportunity.

 

Even fewer get to walk through the Rose Garden and the Oval Office. And
almost no one gets to go behind the scenes to hear from the Chief Floral
Designer or glimpse the upper floor of the residence.

Until now.

Starting Monday, an immersive learning center will be open to all.

“The People’s House: A White House Experience” will bring new
generations closer to the home behind me, sparking greater curiosity for
civics education and our democracy.

Teachers know the best way to learn is by involving all of the
senses—and lingering in the little details that stand out to you.

Right across the street, people will be able to interact and experience
how our government works. 

That makes this new space a powerful kind of classroom. Because when
people learn more about our democracy, they will be more inspired to
participate in it.

At 1700 Pennsylvania Avenue, in an exact replica of the Oval Office, you
can feel the gravity of sitting behind the President’s Resolute desk.
You can join the intense deliberations of a Cabinet meeting. And you can
get swept away by the 360-degree enchantment of a State Dinner.

Along the way, you’ll meet people who have lived and worked here across
centuries—from Cabinet Secretaries advising the President in times of
war, to the chefs, ushers, and florists who work together to arrange the
most intricate details of American diplomacy.

Students will imagine themselves as public servants through interactive
technology, and teachers will have dedicated spaces to bring their
lesson plans to life.

Stewart, you’ve put your whole heart and soul into “The People’s
House”—and frankly, I’m not sure when you found the time to sleep! Month
after month, you guided this project with careful precision and
breathtaking speed.

I’ve been a part of the process from when it was just an idea, to the
final touches—and I can’t wait for everyone to see it.

So, let’s get started. In just a moment, a group of students will load
onto a bus to experience this incredible, immersive space. 

I know it will encourage them to embrace the wonder of White House
history, and inspire them to shape our nation’s future.

Thank you, and please enjoy the celebration!

\###
