---
date: '2024-09-27'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 13:37:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-27 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-event-douglas-az/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign Event | Douglas,\_AZ"
---
 
Cochise College Douglas Campus  
Douglas, Arizona

5:08 P.M. MST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Hi, everyone.  Hi.  Good
afternoon.  (Applause.) 

Can we please applaud Theresa and her extraordinary courage?  Please,
can we applaud her extraordinary courage?  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you, thank you, thank you. 

Please have a seat, everyone.  Thank you.  It’s good to be back in
Arizona.  (Applause.)  It is good to be back in Arizona. 

Thank you all.  Thank you so very much.  (Applause.)

AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.   
      
     AUDIENCE:  Kamala!  Kamala!  Kamala!

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  Thank you.  I
appreciate — thank you so very much.

I — I just want to, for a moment, speak about Theresa.  We — we had some
time together backstage.  And, you know, I think that in moments of
crisis, such as the fentanyl crisis, there are people who, through their
suffering and their pain, rise with courage in such a selfless way to be
a voice for others with the anticipation and the hope and the hard work
of hoping that their story will be the reason other people don’t have
that story. 

And you sharing your story about Jacob and your advocacy on why we have
to stop this scourge is so incredibly important.  And, again, I applaud
Theresa, and I know we all do.  (Applause.)  And our need to stop this
issue is one of the reasons that we are all here together today. 

I also want to thank the extraordinary elected officials who are here.

Senator Mark Kelly, who came with me.  (Applause.)   He had — and his
extraordinary wife, Gabby Giffords, traveled with me from Washington,
D.C. to be here.  And Senator Kelly has been talking with me for quite
some time about the importance of this visit.  And so, I thank you in
front of all of our friends for your work.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.

Attorney General Kris Mayes, who just tore up the floor up. 
(Applause.)  She is, you know, one of — well, I’m going to talk a bit
about it in a minute, but some of the work that — that I have done in my
career as attorney general and watching her do the work that she has
done as attorney general really does emphasize the importance of having
the right leader at the right time in the right place, and that’s who
she is.  (Applause.)

Mayor Huish, I thank you for the warm welcome.  We’ve spent some time
together.  You’ve shared with me the needs of your community. 
(Applause.)  And I thank you for your leadership as well.

And to all the elected and community leaders here today, thank you for
taking the time out of your busy lives to be here this afternoon. 

Before I begin, I do want to say a few words about Hurricane Helene.  I
spoke this morning with our FEMA Administrator Criswell, and President
Biden and I, of course, will continue to monitor the situation
closely.   
  
We have mobilized more than 1,500 federal personnel to support those
communities that have been impacted.  We have food, water, and
generators that are ready for deployment, and — (applause) — we are
working to restore power for — for millions of people who currently are
experiencing outages. 

And I just want to stress — and for the — the press that is here, to
those who are watching — the storm continues to be dangerous and deadly,
and lives have been lost, and the risk of flooding still remains high. 
So, I continue to urge everyone to please continue to follow guidance
from your local officials until we get past this moment.  So, thank you
all.

And — and now I’ll speak about, in particular, the people who are here
today and why we are gathered here together today. 

So, Arizona, I think you all know, and this is why you are here, there
are consequential issues at stake in this election, and one is the
security of our border.   
  
The United States is a sovereign nation, and I believe we have a duty to
set rules at our border and to enforce them, and I take that
responsibility very seriously. 

We are also a nation of immigrants.  The United States has been enriched
by generations of people who have come from every corner of the world to
contribute to our country and to become part of the American story, and
so we must reform our immigration system to ensure that it works in an
orderly way, that it is humane, and that it makes our country stronger. 
(Applause.)

So, I’ve just come from visiting the border and the port of entry in
Douglas.  I spoke with dedicated agents from Border Patrol and Customs
officers who every day see the overflow of commercial traffic through
the port.  These men and women who work there and at other places along
our southern border help keep our nation secure, and they need more
resources to do their jobs, which is why we have and are in the process
of investing half a billion dollars to modernize and expand the port of
entry here in Douglas — (applause) — and why last December I helped
raise the rate of overtime pay for border agents — (applause) — and also
why I strongly supported the comprehensive border security bill written
last year — written last year, as you know, by a bipartisan group of
senators, including one of the most conservative members of the United
States Congress. 

That bill would have hired 1,500 more border agents and officers.  It
would have paid for 100 inspection machines to detect fentanyl that is
killing tens of thousands of Americans every year.  It would have
allowed us to more quickly and effectively remove those who come here
illegally.  And it would have increased the number of immigration judges
and asylum officers.   
  
 It was the strongest border security bill we have seen in decades.  It
was endorsed by the Border Patrol union, and it should be in effect
today, producing results in real time right now for our country. 
(Applause.)

But Donald Trump tanked it.  He picked up the phone and called some
friends in Congress and said, “Stop the bill.”  Because, you see, he
prefers to run on a problem instead of fixing a problem.  (Applause.) 
And the American people deserve a president who cares more about border
security than playing political games and their personal political
future.  (Applause.)

And so, even though Donald Trump tried to sabotage the border security
bill, it is my pledge to you that as president of the United States, I
will bring it back up and proudly sign it into law.  (Applause.)

And let me say, the issue of border security is not a new issue to me. 
I was attorney general of a border state for two terms.  I saw the
violence and chaos that transnational criminal organizations cause and
the heartbreak and loss from the spread of their illicit drugs.   
  
I walked through tunnels that traffickers used to smuggle contraband
into the United States.  I’ve seen tunnels with walls as smooth as the
walls of your living room, complete with lighting and air conditioning,
making very clear that it is about an enterprise that is making a whole
lot of money in the trafficking of guns, drugs, and human beings. 

And my knowledge on how they work comes from the fact that I have
prosecuted transnational criminal organizations who traffic in guns,
drugs and human beings.   
  
My team and I broke up a heroin trafficking ring in the Bay Area with
ties to Mexican cartels.  We took down a gang working with the Sinaloa
Cartel to traffic methamphetamine into the United States.  We seized
millions of dollars’ worth of cocaine from the Guadalajara cortel —
Cartel and broke up a drun- — a drug trafficking operation, including
pill mills and so-called recovery centers that were pushing opioids with
deadly results. 

As attorney general of California, it was 10 years ago that I brought a
bipartisan group of American attorneys general and led that group to
travel to Mexico City to meet with Mexican attorneys general to address
this issue and, in particular, to increase intelligence sharing on gang
activity.  All of which allowed us to prosecute more human traffickers. 

And I started, as attorney general, the first comprehensive report in
the state of California analyzing transnational criminal organizations
and the threats they pose to public safety and to the economy. 

So, stopping transnational criminal organizations and strengthening our
border is not new to me, and it is a long-standing priority of mine.  I
have done that work, and I will continue to treat it as a priority when
I am elected president of the United States.  (Applause.)

And it is my pledge to you, understanding how solutions get formed, that
I will reach across the aisle and I will embrace commonsense approaches
and new technologies to get the job done, because I know transnational
gangs coming across the border, trafficking in guns, drugs, and human
beings, could care less who somebody voted for in the last election. 
(Applause.)  They could care less. 

They’ve got one goal in mind, and it is therefore critically important
that anybody who calls themselves a leader would work with other leaders
for commonsense solutions, understanding the pain and the suffering that
Americans are experiencing if we don’t work together to fix these
problems. 

And look, I — transnational gangs, one of the things I know about them,
they are always innovating.  So, to disrupt them, we must do the same,
and that means, again, working together in real time, grounded on
finding commonsense approaches, not just about some rhetoric at a rally
but actually doing the work of fixing a problem.  (Applause.)

And as president, I won’t only bring back the border security bill that
Donald Trump tanked; I will do more to secure our border.   
  
To reduce illegal border crossings, I will take further action to keep
the border closed between ports of entry.  Those who cross our borders
unlawfully will be apprehended and removed and barred from reentering
for five years.  We will pursue more severe criminal charges against
repeat violators.  And if someone does not make an asylum request at a
legal point of entry and instead crosses our border unlawfully, they
will be barred from receiving asylum.

While we understand that many people are desperate to migrate to the
United States, our system must be orderly and secure, and that is my
goal.  (Applause.)  And that is my goal. 

Securing our border also means addressing the flow of fentanyl into our
communities.  Fentanyl is a scourge on our country.  The nature of it as
a drug is such that it is highly addictive and it is highly lethal, so
much so that using it one time only can be fatal.  I have met far too
many families, parents, loved ones who have lost a family member, a
child to fentanyl, and their grief is heartbreaking.

And the devastation caused by fentanyl is being felt from rural
communities to big cities.  It’s impacting communities across our
country, regardless of where they are geographically, politically, or
any other demographic you cl- — you choose to talk about.  It’s a
scourge in our country, and we have to take it seriously.  And as
president, I will make it a top priority to disrupt the flow of fentanyl
coming into the United States.  (Applause.)

And I know everyone here understands that most of the fentanyl in
America comes from two cartels based in Mexico.  Most often, they are
smuggling it through vehicles at legal ports of entry, like the one I
visited today. 

The fact is, border officers don’t have enough resources and are only
able to search a fraction of the vehicles that pass through their
checkpoints.  This is unacceptable.  They need the resources to do their
jobs.  And as we could have done with that border security bill, I will
surge support to law enforcement agencies on the front lines — more
personnel, more training, and more technology, including 100 new
inspection systems that can detect fentanyl hidden in vehicles.  And we
will make sure that our ports of entry, including airports and seaports,
have additional state-of-the-art technology to detect fentanyl and the
chemical tools used to make it. 

I will also double the resources for the Department of Justice to
extradite and prosecute transnational criminal organizations and the
cartels.  (Applause.)  Yes.   
  
I will ensure that we target the entire global fentanyl supply chain,
because we must materially and sustainably disrupt the flow of illicit
fentanyl coming into our country. 

My approach takes into account also that the precursor chemicals used to
make fentanyl are by and large made in China and then shipped to Mexican
cartels and trafficked right here into the United States.   
  
Our administration demanded that China crack down on the companies that
make those chemicals, and it has started to happen, but they need to do
more.  And as president, I will hold them to their commitment to
significantly reduce the flow of precursor chemicals coming from China. 
(Applause.)  Yeah.

And all of this to say, we must tackle this issue from every angle,
because our highest charge must be to protect the lives of our people. 
It must be to understand the pain and to have the courage to know that
the solutions are at hand if we focus on fixing a problem instead of
running on a problem.  (Applause.)

And on this issue, writ large, we must ensure that our country remains
strong and competitive, which includes fixing our broken immigration
system.  (Applause.) 

And let me be clear, I reject the false choice — I reject the false
choice that suggests we must either choose between securing our border
or creating a system of immigration that is safe, orderly, and humane. 
We can and we must do both.  (Applause.)  We must do both.

And we need clear, legal pathways for people seeking to come into our
country — (applause) — and we must make our current system work better. 

For example, it can take years for asylum claims to be decided.  Well,
this is a problem we can solve, including by hiring more asylum officers
and expanding processing centers in people’s home countries. 
(Applause.)  And as president, I will work with Congress to create, at
long last, a pathway to citizenship for hardworking immigrants who have
been here for years — (applause) — for years and deserve to have a
system that works. 

I also have in mind our DREAMers.  I have met — (applause) — I have met
with so many of our DREAMers throughout my career.  They who have grown
up in the United States, were educated here, pay taxes here, serve in
our military, and contribute to our communities every day.  They are
American in every way, but still, they do not have an earned pathway to
citizenship.  And this problem has gone unsolved, at this point now, for
decades.

The same goes for farm workers who ensure that we have food on our
tables — (applause) — and who sustain our agricultural industry, and
they, too, have been in legal limbo for years because politicians have
refused to come together to fix our broken immigration system. 

Well, as president, I will put politics aside to fix our immigration
system and find solutions — solutions to problems which have persisted
for far too long.  (Applause.)  For far too long, we have all known this
is not working as it can and as it should.

And so, as I said at the beginning, these issues are highly
consequential for our nation, and the contrast in this election is
clear.  It is a choice between commonsense solutions and the same old
political games.

In the four years that Donald Trump was president, he did nothing to fix
our broken immigration system.  He did not solve the shortage of
immigration judges.  He did not solve the shortage of border agents.  He
did not create lawful pathways into our nation.  He did nothing to
address an outdated asylum system and did not work with other
governments in our hemisphere to deal with what clearly is also a
regional challenge.  (Applause.)

As overdoses went up during his presidency, he fought to slash funding
for the fight against fentanyl.  And what did he do instead?  Well,
let’s talk about that.  He separated families.  He ripped toddlers out
of their mother’s arms, put children in cages, and tried to end
protections for DREAMers. 

He made the challenges at the border worse.  And he is still — and he is
still fanning the flames of fear and division. 

And let me be clear, that is not the work of a leader.  That is not the
work of a leader, and that is, in fact, I think we all believe, an
abdication of leadership.  (Applause.)

And so, on behalf of all across our nation who want to see these
problems solved, I say we cannot accept Donald Trump’s failure to lead. 
We should not permit scapegoating instead of solutions.

And let’s see what’s happening.  Let’s not permit scapegoating instead
of solutions or rhetoric instead of results. 

As your president, I will protect our nation’s sovereignty, secure our
border, and work to fix our broken — broken system of immigration, and I
will partner with Democrats, Republicans and independents to do it. 
(Applause.) 

Arizona, it is time for us to turn the page on the ugly battles that
have characterized our politics, and it is time to move forward together
to achieve real solutions that make our country stronger. 

And I know we can get this done.  I know we have the will.  I know we
have the courage.  I know the solutions are at hand, and I know we are
ready.  (Applause.) 

And so, with all of that, I say, thank you.   
  
May God bless you.  And may God bless the United States of America. 
(Applause.)  Thank you all. 

                        END                5:33 P.M. MST
