---
date: '2024-09-28'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 12:41:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-28 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/09/28/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-political-event-san-francisco-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Political Event | San Francisco,\_CA"
---
 
Palace of Fine Arts Theatre  
San Francisco, California

3:16 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon!  (Applause.)  Oh, good afternoon,
everyone.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  
  
Oh, it’s good to be home!  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Oh, it’s good to be
home. 

Thank you all.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank
you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Okay.  Come on.  We have work to do.  Everybody, sit down.  (Laughs.)  
  
     Oh, my goodness.  Oh, it really is good to be home and to see so
many friends.  My goodness.  I have known, I mean, most of the people
here my entire career.  You all are such a big part of my journey, every
step of the way.  (Applause.)  Oh, goodness.   Thank you.  And always
providing encouragement and support.  I thank you all so very much.

And I especially want to thank our current and future member of
Congress, Lateefah Simon — (applause) — where is she? — who is going to
follow in the great footsteps of an extraordinary national and
international leader, our own Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi. 
(Applause.)  There she is. 

And to all the incredible state and local leaders who are here today,
all the leaders who are here, I thank you so, so very much.  It is truly
good to be home.   
  
So, all right, we know how to get to work, so let us level set: 38
days.  (Applause.)  Thirty-eight days.  And a lot of us have been doing
this for a while.  And every four years we say, “This is the one.” 
Well, this here is the one.  (Applause.)  This is the one.

This is probably the most important election of our lifetime and one of
the most important elections in the lifetime of our nation. 
(Applause.)  
  
And as many of you have heard me say, in this cycle, I do believe that
this election is about two very different visions for our nation, and we
see that contrast every day on the campaign trail.   
  
Consider, for example, the last two weeks.  I’ve been to Georgia in the
last — I’ve been many, many times, but in the last two weeks to
highlight the dangerous consequences of Trump abortion bans.  And some
of you may have heard the most recent stories coming out of Georgia.

I recently did an event with Oprah Winfrey where a — a mother talked
about the death of her daughter because of the abortion ban in
Georgia.  
  
I traveled to Pennsylvania to lay out my vision for our economy and talk
about what I know that we here in California understand to be so much
opportunity and we have so much optimism about what we have yet to do,
and that being the thing that fuels us in terms of knowing how we can
strengthen our economy.   
  
I was recently in Arizona — just yesterday, actually — (laughter) — long
days — (laughs) — (applause) — long days — to present my plan for how we
strengthen the border.  
  
Meanwhile, from Donald Trump, it’s been the same old, tired show, the
same tired playbook we have heard for years with no plan for how he
would address the needs of the American people.  And that is why I am
convinced — and the people I meet across America, I do believe, are
convinced — that it is time to turn the page.  It is time to turn the
page.  (Applause.)

America is ready to chart a new way forward.  America is ready for a new
generation of leadership that is optimistic about what we can do
together.  And I do believe that is why Democrats and Republicans and
independents are supporting our campaign, because they want a president
who works for all the American people.  (Applause.)  
  
And I have had the blessing and good fortune to work with a lot of
people who are here.  And you know me; we have worked together for
years.  My entire career, I have fought for the people, whether it was
at the beginning of my career as a courtroom prosecutor in Oakland and
then elected district attorney of San Francisco — (applause) — where I
stood up for women and children against predators who abused them. 

As attorney general of California, I defended communities that were
being poisoned by polluters and Big Oil.  I stood up for veterans and
students being scammed by big for-profit colleges, for workers who were
being cheated out of the wages they were due, for seniors who have faced
elder abuse.   
  
Many of you were with me during those fights.  And so, together, we
stand again in a fight for our future.  And we fight for a future where,
for example, we can build what I call an “opportunity economy” —
(applause) — where everyone can compete and has a real chance to
succeed; where middle-class families have security and stability, and
all Americans, regardless of who they are or where they start, can build
wealth for themselves and their children.   
  
To build that opportunity economy, I will bring together labor with
small businesses and founders and innovators and major companies,
because, as I said this week in Pittsburgh, I am both a devout public
servant and a capitalist.  
  
I believe — (applause) — and I believe unions helped build the middle
class and that every worker should have a right to join a union. 
(Applause.)  
  
I believe in active partnership between government and the private
sector, and that it is one of the most effective ways to fully unlock
economic opportunity.   
  
And I believe that to build a strong economy, we must engage those who
create most of the jobs in America.   
  
I have also pledged that building a strong middle class will be a
defining goal of my presidency — (applause) — because we here know that
when the middle class of America is strong, America is strong. 
(Applause.)   
  
And to support the middle class, the first thing we must do is lower
costs.  Under my plan, more than 100 million Americans will get a
middle-class tax break, which includes a $6,000 tax credit — a child tax
credit for new parents during the first year of a child’s life to help
them buy a crib or a car seat during that most fundamental period of
their child’s development — (applause) — because we know the vast
majority of parents have a desire to parent their children well but not
always the resources to do it.   
  
And I know the folks here who also understand that our approach is
always going to be that the children of the community are the children
of the community.  (Applause.)  
  
We will go after the biggest drivers of costs for the middle class,
including housing, grocery prices, and prescription drugs to bring those
costs down.  (Applause.) 

And to build an opportunity economy, we need to invest in American
innovation and entrepreneurship, including by making it easier to start
a new business.  (Applause.)  And we have a whole lot of folks who are
start-ups, who are small businesses who are here who understand exactly
what I’m talking about and why it is important.  (Applause.)  
  
So, part of my plan is, as president, I will make the startup deduction
10 times richer and raise it from $5,000 to $50,000.  (Applause.) 
Because what we all know is, in 2024, it is nearly impossible that
anyone would be able to start up a small business with just a $5,000 tax
deduction.   
  
My intention is to increase access to capital for small businesses that
want to expand, understanding that when they have access to the
resources that can feed their natural ambition, their hard-work ethic,
their — their desire and dream to actually create, innovate, and
strengthen their community, we should give them that access,
understanding not everybody was handed $400 million on a silver platter
and then filed for bankruptcy six times.  (Applause.)  
  
And as a proud daughter of California, I know the power — (applause) — I
know the power of American innovation.  And as president, I will ensure
that we lead the world, then, in every way, including in the industries
of the future, and that America wins the competition for the 21st
century.   
  
And so, we will be intentional about investing in biomanufacturing and
aerospace; remain dominant in AI, quantum computing, blockchain, digital
assets, and other emerging technologies; expand clean energy innovation
and manufacturing — (applause); and invest — and invest in factory towns
and workers — workers who help build our country and deserve to be seen
— (applause) — and deserve the resources to build the next generation of
our economy.  
  
And let’s make sure that this work, then, is about not only investing in
what we can do to build but investing in workers.  That is a big part of
how I think about all this. 

And so — (applause) — I say these things to give you a few examples of a
very different perspective that we bring to what we can do building the
future of America and my opponent.   
  
Because you see, and I think everyone here knows, Donald Trump has a
very different plan.  And in many ways, he is an unserious man.  He is. 
(Applause.)  He is an unserious man.  However, the consequences of
putting him back in the White House are extremely serious — extremely
serious.  (Applause.)  
  
Look, for example, at Project 2025.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  By the way, Nancy, sometimes I think about this: I
can’t believe they put that thing in writing.  (Laughter.)  I mean, they
not only put it in writing, they published it.  They bound it, published
it, and passed it out.  (Laughter.)  Google it.  (Laughter.)  Because
what you’re going to find is that there’s a whole agenda that my
opponent, the former president, has.  
  
He intends to cut Social Security and Medicare.  Now understand what
that means.  Understand how many seniors in our country have as their
only income their Social Security benefits.  Understand what that would
mean — Medicare, what that does to give people dignity in terms of
making the prescription medication a doctor has required they take to
alleviate their pain, to make that affordable.  
  
And he wants to impose what I call a “Trump sales tax,” a 20 percent tax
on everyday basic necessities, which economists have analyzed and have
determined it will cost the average family nearly $4,000 more per
year.   
  
And top economists have reviewed both of our plans and compared them. 
Goldman Sachs says my plan would grow our economy and his plan would
shrink it.  Sixteen Nobel Prize-winning economists say he would reignite
inflation.  And Moody’s has assessed he would ignite a recession by the
middle of next year. 

And on top of all of this, Donald Trump intends to end the Affordable
Care Act.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
      
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And some of you may have watched the debate.  And
so — (applause) — I’m trying to get another one, by the way.  I’m trying
to get another debate.  I really am.  (Laughs.)  Trying.  
  
But on the issue of the Affordable Care Act — back to the — the
consequences that are at stake.  At the debate, he said — about getting
— trying to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, he said — well, he has
“concepts of a plan” to replace it.  
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Concepts.”  “Concepts of a plan.”   
  
So, again, the serious nature of this is as follows: He’s going to
threaten the health insurance of 45 million people in our country based
on a concept — based on a concept — which would take us back to a time
when insurance companies could deny people with preexisting conditions. 
You remember what that was like for so many people?  A child with
asthma.  A survivor of breast cancer.  A grandparent with diabetes.  The
consequences are brutally serious.   
  
And as I say, then, everywhere I go — and I’m traveling our country — as
I say everywhere, and often the rallies, which are quite a nice size —
(laughter and applause) — what I say and they repeat back is “We are not
going back.”  (Applause.)   
We are not going back.  We are not going back.   
  
Because truly, ours is a fight for the future, and it is a fight for
freedom, like the freedom to vote, the freedom to be safe from gun
violence — (applause) — the freedom to love who you love openly and with
pride — (applause) — and the freedom of a woman to make decisions about
her own body and not have her government tell her what to do. 
(Applause.)  
  
And on that point, let’s remind folks of how we got here.  Donald Trump
hand-selected three members of the United States Supreme Court with the
intention that they would undo the protections of Roe v. Wade, and they
did as he intended.  And now, in more than 20 states in our country,
there are Trump abortion bans. 

One in three women lives in a state with a — a Trump abortion ban, many
with no exceptions even for rape and incest, which is immoral to tell a
survivor — (applause) — of a crime, a — a violation of her body that she
has no right to decide what happens to her body next.  It’s immoral.   
  
 So, all of that to say, elections matter.  Elections matter. 
(Applause.)  And when Congress passes a bill to restore reproductive
freedom as president of the United States, I will proudly sign it into
law.  (Applause.)  I will proudly sign it into law.  Proudly.

  
Thirty-eight days.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  Thirty-eight days.   
  
So — so, what we know, which is why we’re all here together, is so much
is on the line in this election.  And let us also remember this is not
2016 and it is not 2020 for many reasons, including because a few months
ago, the United States Supreme Court basically told the former president
that he is and would be effectively immune from anything he did in the
White House.   
  
     AUDIENCE:  Booo —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  But think about what this is.  Think — but think
about — think about this. 

So, whereas before, at least, there was some threat of accountability
and consequence, and now there is essentially an explicit — explicit —
direction that there will be no consequence.   
  
Let’s put this in context.  This is a man who has vowed he would be a
dictator on day one.  He said he would weaponize the Department of
Justice against his political enemies.  He has called for, I quote, “the
termination of the Constitution of the United States.”  Just imagine
Donald Trump with no guardrails.   
  
All of this is at stake, and that is why we are here together.  And we
are here together because we love our country.  We love our country.  We
love our country.  (Applause.)  And I do believe — I believe it is the
highest form of patriotism to fight, then, for the ideals of our country
and fight to realize the promise of America.  And that’s what this is
about.   
  
Election Day is in 38 days.  And early voting and vote by mail have
already started in some states, including Michigan, North Carolina, and
Wisconsin.  So, the election is kind of here.  Okay?  And I’ll share
with the friends some notes from the field.   
  
This race is as close as it could possibly be.  Okay?  This race is as
close as it could possibly be.  This is a margin-of-error race.  I know
there is a lot of enthusiasm, and we see what is possible.  This is a
margin-of-error race.  And we are the underdog, and I am running like
the underdog, because I do believe we are the underdog in this race. 
Okay?  And our campaign is doing the work we need to do on the airwaves
and voter education in — in every county of every battleground state. 
And the more that people hear about our plans, the more they rally
around our campaign.   
  
So, we are leaving it all on the field.  And your support and what you
have done today and every day leading up and, I know, what you’re going
to do over the next 38 days is absolutely critical to all we have
achieved so far and all we will achieve.   
  
The leaders in this room have done so much already, and — (laughter) —
I’m going to ask for a little bit more.  (Applause.)  Which is this —
which is this — which is this: You are all part of — each one of you are
part of large networks.  And I ask you, then, to activate those networks
and tell your friends and your colleagues and your neighbors about
what’s at stake.  Tell them why you took the time to be here today and
what’s at stake for you.   
  
Reach out to people you know.  Talk to strangers at the grocery store. 
It’s okay.  They’ll be fine.  They’ll like you.  (Laughter.)    
  
But I think that in these last many years, there’s something that’s been
happening where people have been made to feel that they might be alone,
and — and people are desperate for connections.  I was saying to some of
the friends, in this campaign, our highest imperative is we must win. 
There’s no question.  But what I really would like is, in the process of
winning, that we be intentional about building community and building
coalitions.  Let’s do that.  Let’s do that.  (Applause.)  
  
Let’s remind people that in spite of these forces that are trying to
divide us as a nation, in spite of these forces that would have us
pointing fingers at each other, let’s remind people that the vast
majority of us have so much more in common than what separates us. 
That’s our power and that’s our strength.  (Applause.)  
  
And so, that’s what I — I ask of you to do more.  And let them know also
how close this race is and how they can make a difference.  And tell
them we need their help also in the next 38 days.  And — and to everyone
here, I just thank you so much.   
  
For anyone who wants, join our team in battleground states.  Help people
in terms of what we’re doing to register folks to vote and getting them
to the polls.  What you can do — even from home, anywhere you want, in
your car, wherever — to — to make phone calls and sign folks up, that’s
making a difference.  We’ve got a whole effort coming out of California
where people are making calls to battleground states.  It’s really make
a di- — making a difference.   
      
And please remind people, ultimately, that this fight is for our freedom
and for our future.  And, you know, folks, generations before us have
fought for all of this stuff, and the baton is now in our hands.  The
baton is now in our hands.  (Applause.)  
      
     And so, as I say at every rally, when we fight —  
  
     AUDIENCE:  We win!  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — we win.  (Applause.)  
  
God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  God bless
you.  (Applause.)  
  
     We will win!  We will win!  (Applause.)  
  
                                 END                3:41 P.M. PDT
