---
date: '2024-08-29'
modified_time: 2024-08-28 15:31:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-29 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-deliver-more-projects-more-quickly-accelerates-federal-permitting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes Action to Deliver More\
  \ Projects More Quickly, Accelerates Federal\_Permitting"
---
 
President Biden has been clear that the government can and must deliver
more projects, more quickly. Through his Investing in America Agenda, he
is delivering on that promise by accelerating project reviews while
protecting communities and our environment.

To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has deployed more than [$560
billion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/) in federal investments for
over 68,000 projects across the nation, and the President has taken
action to accelerate these projects by devoting long overdue resources
to permitting and environmental reviews.

The Biden-Harris Administration has taken historic steps to accelerate
and improve the federal permitting process so that Americans across the
country can benefit from the promise of the Investing in America agenda
– including [lowering energy
costs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/lowering-costs/) for families and
creating [hundreds of
thousands](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/15/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-new-clean-energy-jobs/)
of good-paying and union jobs. The Administration has taken a
three-prong approach. First, investing $1 billion through the Inflation
Reduction Act funds to hire experts and invest in new technologies to
expedite reviews. Second, passing the first reforms to modernize the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for the first time in 50 years
and finalizing the [Bipartisan Permitting Reform Implementation
Rule](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/30/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-reforms-to-modernize-environmental-reviews-accelerate-americas-clean-energy-future-simplify-the-process-to-rebuild-our-nations-infrastructure/)
to accelerate the federal environmental review process. And third, using
executive authorities, wherever possible, to improve permitting and
environmental review processes.

**Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing two new actions
that will help build more projects, more quickly.**

-   The Bureau of Land Management is announcing a roadmap to support
    expanded **solar energy production** by making renewable energy
    siting and permitting on America’s public lands more efficient. This
    action will help expedite reviews of solar projects by steering them
    to areas with high solar potential and low wildlife and land
    conflicts, and ease burdens on solar developers. The Bureau of Land
    Management will make over 31 million acres of public lands across
    eleven western states available for solar development, helping to
    deliver clean power to millions of homes.

<!-- -->

-   The Environmental Protection Agency is announcing the conditional
    approval of a new rule which will allow for new offsets to create
    clean air credits in Maricopa County. Companies with vehicle fleets
    can now generate credits by replacing or retrofitting diesel-burning
    vehicles with electric vehicles. Manufacturers or other new emitters
    can then purchase those credits to balance out their future
    emissions. This will allow the county, which is now a center of
    semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S., to continue to build
    **semiconductor** fabs essential to our nation’s future and ensure
    that residents continue to have clean air.

**<u>Delivering Results</u>**

The Administration’s actions to reform federal permitting have already
delivered real results. New data from the White House Council on
Environmental Quality (CEQ) and federal agencies demonstrates that the
Biden-Harris Administration is **delivering more projects, more
quickly** while being responsible stewards of the environment and
protecting communities.

The Biden-Harris Administration **<u>has cut 6 months off the median
time</u>** it takes for agencies to complete environmental impact
statements, the most comprehensive form of environmental review,
representing 16% in time savings compared to the previous Administration
and we are continuing to make more improvements.

Data indicates that there are similar results across a number of key
sectors:

-   Clean Energy & Transmission: The Department of Energy has **cut
    environmental review timelines by half** for environmental impact
    statements compared to the prior Administration. In addition, DOE
    has completed **15% more environmental reviews** compared to the
    previous Administration.  In addition, the Department of Energy has
    started implementing the [Coordinated Interagency Authorization and
    Permits](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/coordinated-interagency-transmission-authorizations-and-permits-program)
    (CITAP) program which is expected to cut review times in half for
    transmission projects.
-   Transportation: The Department of Transportation (DOT) has cut the
    average time it takes to complete an environmental assessment **by
    more than one third**. DOT has also completed **20% more** reviews
    compared to the prior Administration for projects requiring
    environmental assessments or environmental impact statements.
-   Offshore wind: Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the Department
    of the Interior’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management has completed
    environmental reviews for **the nation’s first 10 commercial-scale
    offshore wind projects**; before President Biden took office there
    were zero complete. Because of the Administration’s progress on
    permitting the nation’s first offshore wind projects and leasing new
    areas, the total U.S. offshore wind project pipeline now exceeds 80
    gigawatts, enough to power more than 26 million homes if fully
    developed.
-   Onshore renewable energy**:** Under the Biden-Harris Administration,
    the Department of the Interior has **permitted more than twice as
    many clean energy projects** **on public lands** than it did under
    the prior Administration. Together, these projects are expected to
    help power more than 12 million homes across the country.
-   Broadband: Across the federal government, agencies are **processing
    more than twice as many permits** for high-speed internet projects
    on federal lands and property as they did under the prior
    Administration. NTIA has established and adopted a total of 36 new
    categorical exclusions to streamline processes, including for
    historic preservation and threatened and endangered species
    compliance for broadband.

Additionally, for projects with minimal environmental impacts, the
Biden-Harris Administration has expanded use of the **<u>fastest form of
environmental review</u>** – categorical exclusions. Since the start of
the Administration, over 15 federal agencies have developed, expanded,
or adopted 125 categorical exclusions for projects with insignificant
environmental impact in key sectors such as EV charging, broadband,
semiconductor manufacturing, clean energy, and transmission. This
includes new categorical exclusions adopted using [new permitting
efficiencies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/09/19/biden-harris-administration-announces-first-actions-under-new-permitting-efficiencies-to-accelerate-american-manufacturing-and-clean-energy-future/)
passed by Congress in the Fiscal Responsibility Act.  

Federal agencies are using categorical exclusions to review the vast
majority of project decisions, including 99% of federal highway
decisions. This is an increase from the last time similar data was
analyzed by the Government Accountability Office (GAO), which found that
just 96% of Federal Highway Administration projects were processed by
categorical exclusions. Other agencies are also utilizing categorical
exclusions for the vast majority of projects including 99% of Department
of Energy decisions, and 98% of National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) projects decisions.

**<u>New Executive Actions to Accelerate Permitting</u>**

The Biden-Harris Administration has taken a number of steps in recent
weeks to improve federal permitting processes to help advance projects
critical to the President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda.

**Streamlining Historic Preservation Reviews:** Earlier this month, the
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP) proposed a [Program
Comment](https://www.achp.gov/news/achp-announces-draft-program-comment-accessible-climate-resilient-connected-communities)
to accelerate historic preservation reviews for millions of clean
energy, transportation, housing, and building projects over the next two
decades. This action builds on steps that ACHP
[announced](https://www.achp.gov/news/achp-announces-program-comment-amendment-support-president-bidens-broadband-initiative)
earlier this year to accelerate historic preservation reviews for
broadband projects.

**Accelerating Transmission Projects:** The Biden-Harris Administration
has started to implement the new Coordinated Interagency Transmission
Authorizations and Permits (CITAP) program which will help accelerate
permitting for transmission projects to bring reviews down to a two-year
timeline – twice as fast as the historical average of four years. A
recent study of 33 projects found that had CITAP been in place from 2010
through 2020, it could have saved the equivalent of approximately 66
years in federal permitting time. The Department of Energy (DOE)
recently [opened the portal](https://citap.gov/) for transmission
developers and project sponsors to apply for the CITAP program. In
addition, the Department of Energy recently
[announced](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/TSED) $371 million for 20
projects across 16 states to accelerate the siting and permitting of
high-voltage interstate transmission projects and support community
infrastructure projects.

**Expanding Categorial Exclusions:** In recent weeks, the U.S. Forest
Service adopted 10 categorical exclusions that will accelerate its
review of broadband projects. Data from the U.S. Forest Service
indicates that these categorical exclusions will help streamline reviews
for 100 broadband projects by 2027, thereby saving over $24 million in
staff time per year and lead to a total reduction of over 20 years in
processing time. In April the Bureau of Land Management adopted
categorical exclusions to accelerate review of geothermal projects. And,
earlier this month, the Department of Transportation announced a new
categorical exclusion to help expedite reviews of projects dedicated to
fixing older, leak-prone natural gas pipelines.

**Modernizing NEPA Technology:** Last month CEQ released new
recommendations for using technology to modernize environmental reviews.
In a [new
report](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/07/17/ceq-releases-recommendations-on-digital-tools-to-modernize-environmental-reviews-increase-transparency-and-accessibility-of-federal-permitting/)
to Congress CEQ evaluates permitting processes, include an analysis of
16 different agency technology tools and initiatives being advanced to
improve the environmental review and permitting process.

\###
