---
date: '2024-08-01'
published_time: 2024-08-01 17:19:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/01/joint-fact-sheet-second-u-s-singapore-critical-and-emerging-technology-dialogue/
tags: statements-releases
title: "JOINT FACT SHEET: Second U.S.-Singapore Critical and Emerging Technology\_\
  Dialogue"
---
 
Today, U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, U.S. National Security
Advisor Jake Sullivan, Singapore Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Vivian
Balakrishnan, and Singapore Minister for Digital Development and
Information Josephine Teo chaired the second U.S.-Singapore Critical and
Emerging Technology (CET) Dialogue in Singapore. Building on the
inaugural U.S.-Singapore CET Dialogue held in Washington. D.C. in
October 2023, Singapore and the United States reaffirmed our commitment
to building trusted, open, accessible, and secure technology ecosystems
to promote responsible innovation, inclusive and sustainable economic
growth, and a rules-based international order.

During the Dialogue, the co-chairs noted the substantial progress made
in deepening linkages and collaboration across our business, scientific,
and national security communities. They reviewed our ongoing areas of
cooperation and discussed ways to further bridge our innovation
ecosystems to deliver a brighter future for the U.S. and Singaporean
peoples as well as our partners in ASEAN and across the Indo-Pacific
region. This includes making progress to negotiate and concludean
Agreement on Science and Technology Cooperation between Singapore and
the United States to strengthen scientific and technological
capabilities and promote scientific and technological cooperation in
areas of mutual benefit for peaceful purposes.

The co-chairs welcomed the substantive steps forward that both sides
have taken – as friends and strategic partners – in advancing
cooperation in the six main areas under the Dialogue as follows:

**<u>Artificial Intelligence (AI)</u>**

-   Expanding the mapping of the U.S. Department of Commerce’s National
    Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and Singapore Infocomm
    Media Development Authority (IMDA)’s respective governance and risk
    management frameworks to include generative AI.

<!-- -->

-   Collaborating on testing and evaluation between NIST and IMDA, such
    as exploring the alignment of red-teaming guidelines and benchmarks.

<!-- -->

-   Cooperating to support the development of international standards,
    frameworks, best practices, and guidelines for AI at international
    standards developing bodies such as the International Organization
    for Standardization that promote interoperability, resilience,
    safety and security, and public good.

<!-- -->

-   Welcoming cooperation between the United States’ and Singapore’s AI
    Safety Institutes to advance the science of AI safety. Our AI
    scientists will meet in September 2024 to exchange insights and
    identify concrete projects on AI testing and evaluation, as well as
    safe and secure AI model development. This cooperation will be a
    crucial linkage in an emerging international network of AI Safety
    Institutes and other government-supported scientific institutions.
    The United States and Singapore will work together to support the
    forthcoming convening of the international network of AI Safety
    Institutes.

<!-- -->

-   Exploring research collaboration between the National Science
    Foundation (NSF) and AI Singapore (AISG) through grant calls on
    responsible AI.

<!-- -->

-   Supporting the inclusive and sustainable development of AI through a
    capacity-building program under the U.S.-Singapore Third Country
    Training Program for officials from Southeast Asia.

<!-- -->

-   Convening an NSF-funded workshop in Singapore to facilitate
    discussions on enhancing collaboration in responsible AI research
    between the United States and South and Southeast Asian partners.

**<u>Digital Economy and Data Governance</u>**

-   Continuing to support trusted flows of data to promote participation
    in the Global Cross-Border Privacy Rules (CBPR) Forum and the Global
    Cooperation Arrangement for Privacy Enforcement network of privacy
    enforcement authorities. We welcome the addition of the United
    Kingdom, Mauritius, and the Dubai International Financial Centre as
    Associates and look forward to the launch of the Global CBPR and
    Global Privacy Recognition for Processors Systems.

<!-- -->

-   Continue joint efforts to build capacity to support data free flow
    with trust globally, including through workshops for policymakers
    and regulators from third countries.

<!-- -->

-   Enhancing trusted flows of data through technology, through
    cooperation between NIST and IMDA to increase adoption, advance
    standardization and the maturity of privacy-enhancing technologies
    (PETs).  NIST and IMDA plan to collaborate on a joint challenge,
    which will include addressing emerging areas such as PETs for AI.

<!-- -->

-   Concluding a bilateral [Digital Economic Cooperation
    Roadmap](https://sg.usembassy.gov/u-s-singapore-digital-economic-cooperation-roadmap/)
    that identifies shared principles and opportunities for cooperation
    in priority areas, including emerging technologies, data governance
    and the Global CBPR Forum, trusted environment, digital connectivity
    and infrastructure, trade facilitation for micro, small, and medium
    enterprises, and workforce development. The Roadmap is a foundation
    for further collaboration on the digital economy to jointly deliver
    tangible benefits for our businesses, workers, and societies.

**<u>Biotechnology</u>**

-   Welcoming the signing of the June 2024 Memorandum of Understanding
    (MOU) between Singapore’s Agency for Science, Technology, and
    Research (A\*STAR) and the U.S. Department of Energy’s Joint Genome
    Institute (JGI) which will strengthen collaboration between both
    organisations in microbial genomics and natural product research.
    The United States and Singapore also look forward to the
    implementation of the MOU, under which A\*STAR and JGI expect to
    collaborate through mutual visits, the exchange of publicly
    available information and researchers, as well as training and
    planning for future joint research. 

<!-- -->

-   Organizing joint U.S.-Singapore workshops to convene science and
    economic agency representatives to share priorities, ongoing work,
    and joint research and development initiatives in biotechnology –
    including potential innovation bridges between U.S. and Singaporean
    biotechnology ecosystems, as well as relevant biosecurity
    considerations where appropriate.

<!-- -->

-   Working toward launching a joint roundtable to identify potential
    cooperation in the development, implementation and mutual
    recognition of internationally accepted standards in relevant
    biotechnology and biomanufacturing areas.

<!-- -->

-   Exploring collaboration between the U.S. National Science Foundation
    and Singapore via the NSF-funded network of BioFoundries and Global
    Centers on workforce and innovation.

**<u>Critical Infrastructure and Technology Supply Chains</u>**

-   Welcoming joint engagements on connectivity technologies such as 5G,
    Open Radio Access Network (RAN), and future generation
    communications networks. 

<!-- -->

-   Exploring collaboration between the State Department and IMDA to
    promote secure 5G networks and foster enabling environments for
    innovative approaches such as Open RAN, including developing a list
    of priority countries for Open RAN technical assistance and
    contributing to the Asia Open RAN Academy.

<!-- -->

-   Advancing collaboration and coordination on secure, resilient
    undersea cables for ASEAN member states and Pacific Island
    countries.  

<!-- -->

-   Promoting cooperation in mutually beneficial smart cities
    initiatives through visits and exchanges to facilitate information
    sharing, collaboration on new smart city initiatives through the
    Smart City Project Pairing Pilot, and through technical training
    under the U.S.-ASEAN Smart Cities Partnership.

<!-- -->

-   Committing to deepen collaboration on semiconductors under the
    U.S.-Singapore Partnership for Growth and Innovation (PGI), in areas
    such as human capital development, R&D and innovation for
    next-generation integrated circuits, and supply chain collaboration
    for semiconductor and semiconductor equipment manufacturing. These
    efforts will be led by the DOC’s CHIPS Program Office, and the CHIPS
    Research and Development Office, and on the U.S. side, and by the
    Economic Development Board, A\*STAR, and Enterprise Singapore on the
    Singapore side.

**<u>Defense Innovation</u>**

-   Concluding an MOU for Defense Innovation Cooperation, signed between
    the Department of Defense (DoD) and the Ministry of Defense (MINDEF)
    in May 2024. The MOU enhances bilateral cooperation to adopt and
    scale commercial technologies that solve shared operational
    challenges faced by both militaries in supporting common strategic
    objectives.

<!-- -->

-   Announcing joint challenges for priority collaboration areas such as
    maritime security and counter uncrewed-aircraft systems.

**<u>Quantum Information Science and Technology</u>**

-   Continuing cooperation and exchanges on quantum safe migration,
    including on post quantum cryptography developments,
    standardization, and migration to support our common vision to
    secure our digital ecosystem and quantum-safe nations.

<!-- -->

-   Exploring collaboration on mutually beneficial areas such as the
    inventorization and migration of cryptographic assets, crypto
    agility, and the security assurance of quantum safe products as well
    as investments in our respective national quantum safe and
    information sciences initiatives.

<!-- -->

-   Expanding industry and research collaborations as well as talent
    exchanges in quantum communications, computing and sensing through
    our respective national-level quantum programs. 

<!-- -->

-   Welcoming the early-2025 arrival in Singapore of a U.S. Embassy
    Science Fellow from the NSF focused on quantum information science
    and technology.

The United States and Singapore look forward to holding the next CET
Dialogue in the United States in 2025, co-chaired by the National
Security Council, Department of State, and Singapore’s Ministry of
Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Digital Development and Information. We
will continue to deepen collaboration in CET across bilateral, regional,
and international fora to propel our strategic partnership into the
future to deliver a more prosperous, secure and brighter future for our
peoples and for the Indo-Pacific region and beyond, underpinned by our
shared commitment to excellence and respect for international law,
sovereignty and the peaceful resolution of disputes.

\###
