---
date: '2024-08-26'
published_time: 2024-08-26 18:44:27-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/26/statement-from-president-biden-on-russias-aerial-assault-on-ukraines-energy-grid/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden on Russia\u2019s Aerial Assault on Ukraine\u2019\
  s Energy\_Grid"
---
 
Earlier today, Russia launched waves of missiles and drones against
Ukrainian cities and energy infrastructure. Ukrainian officials report
that this outrageous attack resulted in the deaths of Ukrainian
civilians and targeted more than two dozen critical energy sites. I
condemn, in the strongest possible terms, Russia’s continued war against
Ukraine and its efforts to plunge the Ukrainian people into darkness.
Let me be clear: Russia will never succeed in Ukraine, and the spirit of
the Ukrainian people will never be broken. 

The United States will continue to lead a coalition of more than 50
countries in support of Ukraine. This coalition is providing Ukraine
with critically needed military equipment, including air defense systems
and interceptors. As I announced at the NATO Summit in July, the United
States and our allies have provided Ukraine with the equipment for five
additional strategic air defense systems, and I have re-prioritized U.S.
air defense exports so they are sent to Ukraine first. The United States
also is surging energy equipment to Ukraine to repair its systems and
strengthen the resilience of Ukraine’s energy grid.

  
As I told President Zelenskyy on August 23, U.S. support for Ukraine is
unshakable. Since February 2022, the people of Ukraine have courageously
defended against Russia’s invasion, retaking more than half the
territory Russian forces seized in the initial days of the war. Ukraine
remains a free, sovereign and independent nation, and Ukrainian forces
are fighting every day to defend their homeland and their freedom. The
United States will stand with the people of Ukraine until they prevail.

\###
