---
date: '2024-08-13'
modified_time: 2024-08-13 14:57:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-13 14:57:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/13/readout-of-the-white-house-faith-leaders-convening-on-climate-clean-energy-and-environmental-justice/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the White\_House Faith Leaders Convening on Climate, Clean Energy,\
  \ and Environmental\_Justice"
---
 
Today, the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) held a
White House Faith Leaders Convening on Climate, Clean Energy, and
Environmental Justice. The event gathered faith leaders and
representatives of faith-based organizations from across the country for
the first time to discuss opportunities to benefit from and further
engage their communities on President Biden’s climate, clean energy, and
environmental justice agenda, including through the use of [Direct
Pay](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/directpay/) – a novel
provision provided through the Inflation Reduction Act that enables
tax-exempt entities, including houses of worship, to benefit from
federal clean energy tax incentives.

The event recognized faith leaders for their unique ability to connect
their communities with the information, resources, and support needed to
create a more equitable and just clean energy future. This convening
highlighted how meaningful community engagement with faith leaders and
organizations can advance the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to
build the nation’s clean energy economy. This includes through Direct
Pay and programs covered under the President’s [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-delivers-environmental-justice-with-cleaner-air-clean-water-and-healthier-communities/),
which sets a goal that 40% of the overall benefits of certain federal
climate, clean energy, and other investments flow to disadvantaged
communities that are marginalized by underinvestment and overburdened by
pollution.

Biden-Harris Administration officials participating included the Chair
of the White House Council on Environmental Quality Brenda Mallory,
Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy John
Podesta, Assistant to the President and White House National Climate
Advisor Ali Zaidi, Director of the Office of Faith-Based and
Neighborhood Partnerships Melissa Rogers, Senior Advisor for States and
Implementation Ryan Whalen, and Senior Advisor for Inflation Reduction
Act Implementation at the U.S. Department of the Treasury Ronnie Newman.
Groundswell CEO Michelle Moore, Interfaith Power and Light Southern
California Director Bekah Estrada, RE-volv Executive Director Andreas
Karelas, St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church Senior Warden Maggie Chappen,
Community Church Atlanta Reverend Kevin W. Earley, and others
representatives from houses of worship across the country also shared
success stories and best practices for leveraging Direct Pay and other
federal investments.

The Biden-Harris Administration will continue prioritizing partnership
with faith leaders and houses of worship to amplify outreach to
communities as we advance the work to lower energy costs for families,
increase climate resilience, advance environmental justice, and build a
clean energy future.

\###
