---
date: '2024-08-16'
modified_time: 2024-08-15 18:21:29-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-16 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Springfield 1908 Race Riot National\_\
  Monument"
---
 
Today, during the 116<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the Springfield Race
Riot, which occurred August 14-16, 1908, President Biden will sign a
proclamation establishing the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National
Monument in Springfield, Illinois. The new national monument will tell
the story of a horrific attack by a white mob on a Black community that
was representative of the racism, intimidation, and violence that Black
Americans experienced across the country. National outrage at the attack
– which occurred just blocks away from President Abraham Lincoln’s home
– spurred action on civil rights, including the creation of the
organization now known as the NAACP.

By establishing the Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument,
President Biden is recognizing the significance of these events and the
broader history of Black community resilience in the face of violent
oppression. At a time when some are working to rewrite history and erase
painful moments in our past, President Biden and Vice President Harris
are committed to protecting places that help tell a more complete story
of our nation’s history, including by recognizing difficult moments that
have been ignored or obscured for far too long.

The Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument will also showcase the
power of individual Americans who came together across racial lines and
took action in the face of injustice. Following the riot, national
leaders gathered to work together for civil rights, which led to the
creation of the NAACP and helped turn the Springfield 1908 Race Riot’s
legacy from one of tragedy alone to an event that led to enduring
progress and change for communities nationwide.

Today’s designation furthers the Biden-Harris Administration’s
commitment to advancing civil rights and racial justice, including
through President Biden signing the Emmett Till Antilynching Act to
codify lynching as a federal hate crime, establishing the Emmett Till
and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument, and dedicating Juneteenth as a
federal holiday.

**<u>Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument</u>**

The Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument will protect 1.57 acres
of federal land in Springfield, Illinois, and will be managed by the
Department of the Interior’s National Park Service. Through the
historical objects protected at this site, the monument will tell the
story of the violent mob that attacked the Black community in
Springfield and lynched two Black men. The Springfield 1908 Race Riot
was both a tragic event, and it was emblematic of a larger series of
lynchings and racist mob violence that targeted Black communities across
the United States in the 19<sup>th</sup> and early 20<sup>th</sup>
centuries. Between 1882 and 1910, there were 2,503 recorded lynchings of
Black people in the United States.

In August 1908, two Black men – 17-year-old Joe James and 36-year-old
George Richardson –were being held in the Sangamon County Jail in
Springfield based on the claims of white accusers, including one who
later recanted. On Friday, August 14<sup>th</sup>, a crowd of largely
young, white men gathered around the county jail demanding that the two
men be released in order to be lynched. Fearing violence and hoping to
defuse the situation, the county sheriff and a local white business
owner worked together to have James and Richardson moved to a jail in
Bloomington about 60 miles away.

Upon learning of the move, the mob became violent and began looting and
burning Black-owned homes and businesses and attacking residents and
business owners. Violence continued throughout the weekend despite the
efforts of the Governor, state militia, and Black firefighters and
community members to defend the local neighborhoods.

The riot was largely quelled by the morning of Sunday, August
16<sup>th</sup>, but not before two Black men, Scott Burton and William
Donnegan, were brutally lynched. By the end of the weekend, almost three
dozen businesses in the Levee neighborhood – half of them Black-owned
and a majority of the rest Jewish-owned businesses – had been targeted,
looted, and vandalized. In the Badlands neighborhood, dozens more homes
of Black community members and Black-owned businesses were also
destroyed.

Six months after these tragic days, on the centennial of President
Lincoln’s birth and invoking what had happened blocks from the only home
he ever owned, a diverse set of leaders from around the country,
including Ida B. Wells-Barnett, W.E.B. Du Bois, and Mary Church Terrell,
called to create a national organization that could counter racist
policies and fight for equality across the United States. Soon after,
civil rights leaders gathered in person and founded an organization that
would become the NAACP. Since then, the NAACP has become a
transformative and effective civil rights organization, playing key
roles in successful lawsuits to challenge discrimination and
segregation, including *Brown v. Board of Education*, and advocating to
end racial injustice across America.

The Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument will be the second
national monument President Biden has designated using his authority
under the Antiquities Act that commemorates and preserves a place
significant to civil rights history. This action builds on President
Biden’s leadership in also establishing or expanding the Blackwell
School National Historic Site, the Amache National Historic Site, and
the Brown v. Board National Historic Park – all units of the National
Park System.

The Springfield 1908 Race Riot National Monument weaves together two
important threads in our nation’s story: the hateful violence targeted
against Black Americans, and the power of dedicated individuals to come
together across racial lines to transform shock and grief into hope and
action. Over the coming years, the National Park Service will work with
the local community and organizations to plan for interpretation,
commemoration, and visitor experiences associated with the new park
site, which includes the charred foundations of five former homes that
were never rebuilt. Just blocks from the Lincoln Home National
Historical Site, the new national monument will help tell a fuller and
more complete history about the tragedy that occurred in Springfield and
the work of civil rights leaders to organize and create lasting change.

The new national monument is part of the National Park Service’s
[African American Civil Rights
Network](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/civilrights/discover-the-network.htm),
which highlights sites of historic importance to the Civil Rights
Movement. It also joins [an extensive
network](https://www.nps.gov/subjects/civilrights/parks.htm) of park
sites dedicated to commemorating historic places integral to civil
rights and equality, such as the Manzanar National Historic Site in
California, the Tuskegee Airmen National Historical Park in Alabama, the
Stonewall National Monument in New York, and the Belmont-Paul Women’s
Equality National Monument in Washington, D.C.

**<u>Background on Antiquities Act Designations</u>**

President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties have used this authority to protect natural
and historic features in America, including the Grand Canyon, the Statue
of Liberty, the Birmingham Civil Rights National Monument, the Pullman
National Monument, and the César E. Chávez National Monument.

The 1908 Springfield Race Riot National Monument will be President
Biden’s eleventh use of the Antiquities Act and his second new national
monument commemorating a site of significance to the Civil Rights
Movement, following the creation of the Emmett Till and Mamie
Till-Mobley National Monument in Mississippi and Illinois last year.

\###
