---
date: '2024-08-28'
modified_time: 2024-08-28 08:38:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-28 08:38:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/28/readout-of-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivans-meeting-with-chinese-communist-party-politburo-member-director-of-the-office-of-the-foreign-affairs-commission-and-foreign-minister-wang-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan\u2019s meeting with Chinese\
  \ Communist Party Politburo Member, Director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs\
  \ Commission, and Foreign Minister Wang\_Yi"
---
 
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan met on August 27-28 with Chinese
Communist Party Politburo Member, Director of the Office of the Foreign
Affairs Commission, and Foreign Minister Wang Yi outside Beijing, China.
 This meeting was part of ongoing efforts to maintain channels of
communication and responsibly manage the relationship between the United
States and the People’s Republic of China (PRC), as discussed by
President Biden and President Xi at the November 2023 Woodside Summit.  

The two sides held candid, substantive, and constructive discussions on
a range of bilateral, regional, and global issues.  They discussed
progress and next steps on implementation of the Woodside Summit
commitments, including counternarcotics, military-to-military
communications, and AI safety and risk.  Both sides welcomed ongoing
efforts to maintain open lines of communication, including planning for
a leader-level call in the coming weeks.  They noted the importance of
regular, ongoing military-to-military communications and planned to hold
a theater commander telephone call in the near future.  Mr. Sullivan and
Director Wang discussed next steps to reduce the flow of illicit
synthetic drugs, continue repatriation of undocumented migrants, and law
enforcement cooperation.  They underscored the importance of concrete
steps to tackle the climate crisis and welcomed further discussions
during Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy
John Podesta’s upcoming travel to China. 

Mr. Sullivan emphasized that the United States will continue to take
necessary actions to prevent advanced U.S. technologies from being used
to undermine our national security, without unduly limiting trade or
investment.  He also raised continued concerns about the PRC’s unfair
trade policies and non-market economic practices.  Mr. Sullivan
reiterated that it remains a top priority to resolve the cases of
American citizens who are wrongfully detained or subject to exit bans in
China.  He also underscored the long-standing U.S. commitment to
universal human rights and fundamental freedoms.

Mr. Sullivan underscored the importance of maintaining peace and
stability across the Taiwan Strait.  He emphasized concerns about the
PRC’s support for Russia’s defense industrial base and its impact on
European and transatlantic security.  Mr. Sullivan reaffirmed the United
States’ commitment to defending its Indo-Pacific allies and expressed
concern about the PRC’s destabilizing actions against lawful Philippine
maritime operations in the South China Sea.  The two sides also
discussed shared concerns about the DPRK, Burma, and the Middle East.

Mr. Sullivan and Director Wang noted the importance of this strategic
channel of communication over the past eighteen months and committed to
maintaining high-level diplomacy and working level consultations on an
ongoing basis.

\###
