---
date: '2024-08-26'
modified_time: 2024-08-25 22:03:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-26 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/26/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-anniversary-of-the-terrorist-attack-outside-kabul-airport/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Anniversary of the Terrorist Attack\
  \ Outside Kabul\_Airport"
---
 
Three years ago, an ISIS suicide bomber launched an attack of deliberate
evil at Abbey Gate outside of Kabul Airport—killing 13 American service
members and more than 100 innocent Afghans. Today, and every day, we
honor our fallen:

Marine Corps Staff Sgt. Darin T. Hoover

Marine Corps Sgt. Johanny Rosario Pichardo

Marine Corps Sgt. Nicole L. Gee

Marine Corps Cpl. Hunter Lopez

Marine Corps Cpl. Daegan W. Page

Marine Corps Cpl. Humberto A. Sanchez

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. David L. Espinoza

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Jared M. Schmitz

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Rylee J. McCollum

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Dylan R. Merola

Marine Corps Lance Cpl. Kareem M. Nikoui

Navy Petty Officer Third Class Maxton W. Soviak

Army Staff Sgt. Ryan C. Knauss

These 13 Americans—and the many more that were wounded—were patriots in
the highest sense. Some were born the year the war in Afghanistan
started. Some were on their second or third tour. But all raised their
hand to serve a cause greater than themselves—risking their own safety
for the safety of their fellow Americans, Allies, and Afghan partners.
They embodied the very best of who we are as a nation: brave, committed,
selfless. And we owe them and their families a sacred debt we will never
be able to fully repay, but will never cease working to fulfill.

We also owe their brothers and sisters-in-arms—who served and sacrificed
for our freedom and future during America’s longest war. 20,744 American
service members were wounded. 2,461 made the ultimate sacrifice. They
were sons and daughters, mothers and fathers, spouses and friends. No
matter how much time passes, the pain of their loss will remain real and
raw. And so will the pride we feel in their service. From the deserts of
Helmand, to the mountains of Kunduz, and everywhere in between—these
women and men worked alongside our Afghan partners to protect our
nation. And deployment after deployment, tour after tour, they dared
all, risked all, and gave all to keep us safe.

Today, our longest war is over. But our commitment to preventing attacks
on our homeland—or our people—never will be. We will continue to disrupt
terrorist activity, wherever we find it. We will continue to deliver
justice to terrorists who plot against America—just as we have over the
last three years with the leader of al-Qaeda and the global leader of
ISIS. And we will do so without deploying thousands of American troops
to ground wars overseas.

Ever since I became Vice President, I carried a card with me every day
that listed the exact number of American service members who were killed
in Iraq and Afghanistan—including Taylor, Johanny, Nicole, Hunter,
Daegan, Humberto, David, Jared, Rylee, Dylan, Kareem, Maxton, and Ryan.
Because we must never forget the immense price that was paid for our
freedom. We must never forget that each beloved service member we lost
was a human being, who left behind entire families and communities. And
together, we must never stop striving to be worthy of their ultimate
sacrifice.

Today, we vow we never will. May God bless each of our fallen heroes.
May God bless all those who served and sacrificed. And may He keep them
and their families close—today and always.

**\###**
