---
date: '2024-08-15'
modified_time: 2024-08-14 19:25:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-15 08:05:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/15/statement-from-vice-president-kamala-harris-on-lower-prescription-drug-prices/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from Vice President Kamala\_Harris on Lower Prescription Drug\_\
  Prices"
---
 
Every American should be able to access the health care they need no
matter their income or wealth. That is why President Biden and I fought
to lower the costs of health care with our Inflation Reduction Act,
transformational legislation that I was proud to cast the tie-breaking
vote on in the Senate. During the two years since President Biden signed
this landmark bill into law, we have cut prescription drug costs, capped
the cost of insulin at $35 a month, and lowered premiums for seniors and
people with disabilities on Medicare – helping millions of families get
the care they deserve.  
  
Today, we are building on our work to lower costs and increase access to
affordable prescription drugs by announcing that the Biden-Harris
Administration has reached agreements with all participating
manufacturers to lower prices for the first 10 drugs selected for the
Medicare price negotiation program – from those that treat cancer to
those that treat diabetes, heart disease, and blood clots. Thanks to our
historic work to allow Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices, millions
of Americans who rely on these drugs will save on their out-of-pocket
costs. While people enrolled in Medicare are expected to save $1.5
billion in 2026 alone, American taxpayers will also save an estimated $6
billion.  
  
Today’s announcement will be lifechanging for so many of our loved ones
across the nation, and we are not stopping here. Additional prescription
drugs will be selected each year as part of our Medicare drug price
negotiation program. This includes up to 15 additional drugs covered
under Medicare Part D for negotiation in 2025, up to an additional 15
Part B and Part D drugs in 2026, and up to 20 drugs every year after
that.  
  
From my time as Attorney General of California and a U.S. Senator, I
have consistently worked to lower the costs of prescription drugs and
fought to protect patients. As Attorney General, I held Big Pharma
accountable for their deceptive and illegal practices. The
record-breaking settlements that I won – for the people – amounted to
more than $7 billion against pharmaceutical companies for their unsafe
and unfair tactics. President Biden and I will never stop fighting for
the health, wellbeing, and financial stability of the American people.

\# \# \#
