---
date: '2024-08-01'
published_time: 2024-08-01 11:32:18-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/01/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-securing-the-release-of-americans-detained-in-russia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Securing the Release of Americans Detained\
  \ in\_Russia"
---
 
Today, three American citizens and one American green-card holder who
were unjustly imprisoned in Russia are finally coming home: Paul Whelan,
Evan Gershkovich, Alsu Kurmasheva, and Vladimir Kara-Murza.

The deal that secured their freedom was a feat of diplomacy. All told,
we’ve negotiated the release of 16 people from Russia—including five
Germans and seven Russian citizens who were political prisoners in their
own country. Some of these women and men have been unjustly held for
years. All have endured unimaginable suffering and uncertainty. Today,
their agony is over.

I am grateful to our Allies who stood with us throughout tough, complex
negotiations to achieve this outcome— including Germany, Poland,
Slovenia, Norway, and Turkey. This is a powerful example of why it’s
vital to have friends in this world whom you can trust and depend upon.
Our alliances make Americans safer.

And let me be clear: I will not stop working until every American
wrongfully detained or held hostage around the world is reunited with
their family. My Administration has now brought home over 70 such
Americans, many of whom were in captivity since before I took office.
Still, too many families are suffering and separated from their loved
ones, and I have no higher priority as President than bringing those
Americans home.

Today, we celebrate the return of Paul, Evan, Alsu, and Vladimir and
rejoice with their families. We remember all those still wrongfully
detained or held hostage around the world. And reaffirm our pledge to
their families: We see you. We are with you. And we will never stop
working to bring your loved ones home where they belong.

\###
