---
date: '2024-08-09'
modified_time: 2024-08-09 13:28:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-09 13:28:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/09/fact-sheet-on-second-anniversary-president-bidens-bipartisan-pact-act-delivers-benefits-to-more-than-1-million-veterans-and-survivors-across-all-50-states-and-u-s-territories/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: On Second Anniversary, President\_Biden\u2019s Bipartisan PACT\
  \ Act Delivers Benefits to More Than 1 Million Veterans and Survivors across all\
  \ 50 States and U.S.\_Territories"
---
 
Two years ago, President Biden signed the landmark bipartisan Sergeant
First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address Comprehensive
Toxics (PACT) Act into law, enacting the most significant expansion of
benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans and their survivors in
more than 30 years.  Named in honor of Sergeant First Class Heath
Robinson, a decorated combat medic who died from a rare form of lung
cancer, this historic legislation is delivering timely benefits and
services to veterans—across all generations—who have been impacted by
toxic exposures while serving our country.  
  

The Biden-Harris Administration believes our nation has a sacred
obligation to properly prepare and equip the troops we send into harm’s
way – and to care for them and their families when they return home.
That includes making sure we address the visible and invisible injuries
of war. Too often, military service can result in increased health risks
for our veterans, and some injuries and illnesses like asthma, cancer,
and others can take years to manifest. These realities can make it
difficult for veterans and their survivors to establish a direct
connection between their service and disabilities resulting from
military environmental exposures such as burn pits – a necessary step to
ensuring they receive the benefits they earned. The PACT Act eliminates
these barriers and ensures veterans get the care and services they
deserve. For survivors of veterans who died from a toxic related
illness, the PACT Act provides a pathway to benefits including monthly
stipends, access to home loans and education benefits as well. Surviving
veteran spouses with children could qualify for over $2,000 per month
and funding toward college tuition.  
  
Thanks to the PACT Act the Biden-Harris Administration has helped
veterans in [every state and
territory](https://department.va.gov/pactdata/wp-content/uploads/sites/18/2024/08/VA_PACTActDashboard_AnniversaryIssue_080924_Final_508.pdf)
receive the services and care they deserve by:

**Delivering benefits to veterans and their survivors**: Since enactment
of the PACT Act, VA has delivered new PACT Act related disability
benefits to more than 1 million veterans and over 10,000 survivors of
veterans who died of a toxic related illness. This amounts to more than
$6.8 billion in earned PACT Act related benefits over the past two
years. In total, VA has processed over 1.5 million PACT Act claims since
August 10, 2022. Thanks in part to the PACT Act, VA is delivering
benefits to veterans and their survivors at the fastest rate in history,
processing more than 2 million total claims (both PACT and non-PACT Act
combined) thus far in 2024 – an all-time record.

**Delivering health care to veterans:** Since Aug. 10, 2022, 739,421
veterans have enrolled in VA health care — a 33% increase over the
previous two-year period. This includes more than 333,767 enrollees from
the PACT Act population (Vietnam, Gulf War, and Post-9/11 veterans).
This health care enrollment was made possible by the Biden-Harris
administration to accelerate health care eligibility under the PACT Act,
eliminating a phase-in period that would have prevented veterans from
enrolling in VA care for several years.

**Screening veterans for toxic exposures**: Nearly 5.7 million veterans
have received free screenings for toxic exposures from VA under the PACT
Act – a critical step in catching and treating potentially
life-threatening health conditions as early as possible.  
 

**Prioritizing veterans with cancer**: As a part of President Biden’s
Cancer Moonshot, VA has prioritized claims processing for veterans with
cancer – delivering over $744 million in PACT Act benefits to veterans
with cancer. VA also prioritizes claims for veterans with terminal
illnesses and veterans experiencing homelessness.  
  

**Lowering burden of proof to help toxic exposed veterans**. Nearly
16,000 veterans who supported operations in Afghanistan between 2001 and
2005 were stationed at Karshi-Khanabad (K2) in Uzbekistan where several
[contaminants that could lead to health
problems](https://www.publichealth.va.gov/docs/exposures/K2_Contaminants.pdf)
were present in either the air, water, soil, or soil gas. VA plans to
take steps to consider veterans who served in Uzbekistan as Persian Gulf
Veterans so that any veteran who served at K2 and who experience
undiagnosed illness and medically unexplained chronic multi-symptom
illnesses can get the benefits they deserve. VA will also create new
training materials for claims processors and examiners on the hazards
identified at K2. These steps are intended to help lessen the burden on
veterans who were stationed at K2 so that they can receive disability
benefits. Additionally, because K2 Veterans are eligible for VA health
care and benefits under the PACT act, VA is also reaching out to all
veterans who served at K2 to encourage them to apply for health care and
benefits today.  

**Releasing a new federal interagency strategy to address military toxic
exposures and veteran health.** The Office of Science and Technology
released a [bold
plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/08-2024-OSTP-TERWG-Report.pdf)
that aims to provide the evidence for new exposure-related illnesses to
enable veterans to get the health care and benefits they need and
deserve. This will be achieved through coordinated interagency efforts
to: understand toxic exposures during military service; establish the
link between these toxic exposures and veteran illnesses; and identify
tools and approaches to reduce toxic exposures and improve health
screening for these exposure-related illnesses.

**Sharpening research tools to drive continued improvements to veteran
care.** This month, VA launched a new streamlined Burn Pit Registry. The
registry includes non-personally identifiable data on more than 4.7
million veterans and Service members which will drive research, advances
in treatment efficacy, and policies to identify potential conditions for
presumptive status under the PACT Act. The new registry will streamline
reporting for veterans who are willing to share data, drastically
increasing VA’s ability to pursue research-backed solutions in service
of America’s veterans.

**Protecting veterans, service members, and their families from
predatory actors and fraud.** In 2023, veterans, Service members, and
their families reported [$477M in losses to
fraud](https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/ftc_gov/pdf/CSN-Annual-Data-Book-2023.pdf).
Last November, President Biden
[announced](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/10/fact-sheet-to-mark-veterans-day-biden-harris-administration-highlights-historic-care-benefits-new-actions-to-support-veterans-and-their-families/)
the Veteran, Service member, and Family-Fraud Evasion (VSAFE) Task Force
to better protect veterans and their families against scams and fraud.
Over the last year, the Task Force has worked to implement a “no wrong
door” approach for veterans and Service members to access reporting
tools and resources to combat fraud. Today, VSAFE is releasing several
resources to support veterans, Service members, and their families when
they experience fraud, scams, and predatory practices, including: 

-   **Launching a centralized website for support and reporting:**
    [***VSAFE.gov***](https://vsafe.gov/) is a fraud prevention,
    response, and reporting information hub. Information from across
    federal agencies can be accessed in one place, making it easy for
    veterans, Service members, and their families to find out more about
    different kinds of fraud, to get assistance, and to report.
-   **Opening a centralized call line for veteran and Service member
    complaints**: VSAFE established a single shared call line,
    ***833-38V-SAFE***,to aid in the “no wrong door” approach. Veterans,
    Service members, and their families and survivors can call one
    single number to get help with fraud, scam, and predatory practice
    related concerns. Depending on the kind of issue facing the caller,
    callers will be routed to the correct federal agency to address
    their specific concerns.
-   **Creating common call center training materials to ensure that
    veterans and Service members are routed to the relevant agency no
    matter which federal agency they initially call:** Even if
    individuals don’t utilize the centralized call line, all VSAFE
    agency fraud call centers have been trained to connect callers to
    the best agency to handle their report and get help. These
    coordinated responses are guided by joint reference materials
    utilized by agency representatives. This will cut down on any
    confusion, and get veterans, Service members, and their family
    members routed to the best support as effectively and efficiently as
    possible.
-   **Formalizing partnerships to improve enforcement.** VSAFE agencies
    are formalizing their partnerships both outside of and within the
    federal government. Recently, the Federal Communications Commission
    (FCC) leveraged these partnerships to issue a [cease-and-desist
    letter](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DA-24-467A1.pdf)
    against a voice service provider for transmitting illegal debt
    consolidation robocalls. The calls appeared to be a subset of a much
    broader campaign of similar debt consolidation robocalls, reaching
    an estimated number of over 78 million calls during a period of only
    3 months. Thanks to this effort, veterans, Service members, and
    their families, will no longer be receiving these unwanted and
    unlawful calls.

These historic efforts to address military toxic exposures build on the
Biden-Harris Administration’s recent work to support our nation’s
veterans:

-   **Ending veteran homelessness**. No one should be homeless in this
    country, especially not those who served it. Last year, VA found
    permanent housing for over 46,000 veterans, expanded access to
    health care and legal assistance for homeless veterans and helped
    more than 145,000 veterans and their families retain their homes or
    otherwise avoid foreclosure. Yesterday, [HUD expanded access to the
    HUD
    VASH](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_202)
    program for veterans with service-connected disability benefits.  
-   **Securing jobs for our veterans**. Roughly 200,000 Service members
    transition from the military each year and the Biden-Harris
    Administration is committed to providing them and their spouses the
    support they need to find good paying jobs. This includes helping
    connect veterans and their spouses to registered apprentice programs
    where they can transfer the skills they learned in the military.
    Last week, DOL-VETS released [a new guide
    to](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/VETS/files/Federal-resource-listing-cyber-careers-fact-sheet.pdf)
    connect veterans to good paying Cyber jobs.
-   **Increasing VA’s capacity to serve veterans**: Thanks to new PACT
    Act authorities, VA has been able to [expand its
    workforce](https://news.va.gov/120386/va-releases-new-workforce-dashboard/)
    in order to serve veterans as quickly and effectively as possible.
    In total, both the Veterans Health Administration and the Veterans
    Benefits administration have achieved their highest growth rates in
    20 years.
-   **Removing barriers to mental health care**. Thanks to the
    President’s leadership, VA has removed all cost-sharing for the
    first three behavioral health visits for veterans enrolled in VA
    health care, helping to ensure that all those in need can get the
    care they deserve. This builds on VA’s new policy allowing eligible
    veterans and certain former Service members in acute suicidal crisis
    to go to any VA or non-VA health care facility for no-cost emergency
    health care. Over 60,000 veterans and Service members have used this
    benefit since it launched in 2023. VA is doing everything it can,
    including expanding mental health screenings, increasing access to
    legal and financial support, and hiring more mental health
    professionals, to help veterans get the help they need. For veterans
    and family members who may be experiencing a crisis, the Veterans
    Crisis Line is available 24/7 by dialing 988 and then pressing 1.
-   **Supporting veterans and caregivers**. Last year, President Biden
    signed an Executive Order directing the VA to cut red tape and give
    veterans who need assistance at home more flexibility to pick their
    own caregivers. As part of those actions, VA also launched a pilot
    program, known as the Virtual Psychotherapy Program for Caregivers,
    to provide mental health counseling services to family caregivers
    caring for our nation’s heroes. The program successfully completed
    its pilot phase and is now a permanent program. Since October 2023,
    the program has provided over 4,937 psychotherapy sessions to family
    caregivers. And, last year, President Biden signed an Executive
    Order calling for the most comprehensive set of administrative
    actions in our nation’s history to support the economic security of
    military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors.

If you are a veteran, visit [www.va.gov/PACT](http://www.va.gov/PACT) or
go to your local VA hospital to see if you are eligible for PACT Act
benefits and services.  
  
For a state-by-state breakdown of PACT Act data, click
[here.](https://department.va.gov/pactdata/wp-content/uploads/sites/18/2024/08/VA_PACTActDashboard_AnniversaryIssue_080924_Final_508.pdf)

\###
