---
date: '2024-08-12'
modified_time: 2024-08-13 09:05:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-12 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-new-effort-to-crack-down-on-everyday-headaches-and-hassles-that-waste-americans-time-and-money/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches New Effort to Crack\
  \ Down on Everyday Headaches and Hassles That Waste Americans\u2019 Time and\_Money"
---
 
*New actions will take on corporate tricks and scams like excessive
paperwork, long wait times, and more that pad the profits of big
business at the expense of everyday Americans’ time and money.*

Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris are launching “Time Is
Money,” a new governmentwide effort to crack down on all the ways that
corporations—through excessive paperwork, hold times, and general
aggravation—add unnecessary headaches and hassles to people’s days and
degrade their quality of life.

Americans are tired of being played for suckers, and President Biden and
Vice President Harris are committed to addressing the pain points they
face in their everyday lives. The Administration is already cracking
down on [junk
fees](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-is-taking-action-to-lower-costs-for-families-and-fight-corporate-rip-offs/)—those
hidden costs and surcharges in everything from travel to banking
services—that hit people in their pocketbooks. Now the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking on the corporate practice of giving people the
run around, wasting their precious time and money.

Americans know these practices well: it’s being forced to wait on hold
just to get the refund we’re owed; the hoops and hurdles to cancel a gym
membership or subscription; the unnecessary complications of dealing
with health insurance companies; the requirements to do in-person or by
mail what could easily be done with a couple of clicks online; and
confusing, lengthy, or manipulative forms that take unnecessary time and
effort.

These hassles don’t just happen by accident. Companies often
deliberately design their business processes to be time-consuming or
otherwise burdensome for consumers, in order to deter them from getting
a rebate or refund they are due or canceling a subscription or
membership they no longer want—all with the goal of maximizing profits.

In addition to robbing hardworking families of their valuable time and
adding frustration to our daily lives, these hassles cost us money.
When, after endless hours on hold or piles of incomprehensible
paperwork, we give up pursuing a service, rebate or refund we’re due, we
take a hit to our pocketbooks, and companies profit

Today and in the coming months, the Biden-Harris Administration will
take wide-ranging action to crack down on these unfair practices and
save Americans time and money. Key actions include:

-   **Making it easier to cancel subscriptions and memberships.**
    Businesses often trick consumers into paying for subscriptions—on
    everything from gym memberships to newspapers to cosmetics—that they
    no longer want or didn’t sign up for in the first place. Consumers
    shouldn’t have to navigate a maze just to cancel unwanted
    subscriptions and recurring payments. The Federal Trade Commission
    (FTC) has proposed a rule that, if finalized as proposed, would
    require companies to make it as easy to cancel a subscription or
    service as it was to sign up for one. The agency is currently
    reviewing public comments about its proposal. And today, the Federal
    Communications Commission (FCC) is initiating an inquiry into
    whether to extend similar requirements to companies in the
    communications industry.

<!-- -->

-   **Ending airline runarounds by requiring automatic cash refunds.**
    The Department of Transportation’s (DOT) new automatic refunds rule
    requires airlines to pay you back the airfare when your flight is
    canceled or significantly changed for any reason, and you are not
    offered, or choose not to accept, alternatives such as rebooking.
    This rule prevents airlines from switching up their policies to make
    it hard to get your money back when they don’t deliver and requires
    them to tell you when you’re owed a refund. DOT’s rule also puts an
    end to airline runarounds by requiring refunds to be automatic,
    prompt, in the original form of payment, and for the full amount
    paid. No more jumping through hoops or getting stuck with expiring
    flight credits.

<!-- -->

-   **Allowing you to submit health claims online.** Health coverage can
    be full of headaches and hassles, as many plans and insurance
    companies make it unnecessarily difficult to access information or
    send in claims. For example, many of the largest plans still require
    some customers to print out and either scan or physically mail
    health claims forms, and people seeking help can encounter
    inaccurate or confusing websites, extended wait times, or narrow
    call center hours that force them to step away from work to talk to
    an agent. Today, Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
    Secretary Becerra and Department of Labor (DOL) Acting Secretary Su
    are [calling on health insurance companies and group health
    plans](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/08/12/letter-to-health-insurance-ceos.html)
    to take concrete actions to save people time and money when
    interacting with their health coverage, and in the coming months
    will identify additional opportunities to improve consumers’
    interactions with the health care system. In addition, the Office of
    Personnel Management plans to require Federal Employees Health
    Benefits and Postal Service Health Benefits plans, covering eight
    million Americans, to make it easier to submit out of network claims
    online, provide clear information about what health plan providers
    are in-network, and make it easier to find information on how to
    appeal claim denials.

<!-- -->

-   **Cracking down on customer service “doom loops.”** Too often
    customers seeking assistance from a real person are instead sent
    through a maze of menu options and automated recordings, wasting
    their time and failing to get the support they need. In a recent
    survey, respondents said that being forced to listen to long
    messages before being permitted to speak to a live representative
    was their top customer service complaint. To tackle these “doom
    loops,” the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) will
    initiate a rulemaking process that would require companies under its
    jurisdiction to let customers talk to a human by pressing a single
    button. The FCC will launch an inquiry into considering similar
    requirements for phone, broadband, and cable companies.  HHS and DOL
    will similarly [call on health plan
    providers](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/08/12/letter-to-health-insurance-ceos.html)
    to make it easier to talk to a customer service agent.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensuring accountability for companies that provide bad service.**
    People shopping for products or services should be able to rely on
    customer reviews to assess which companies will provide streamlined
    service and not waste their time. The FTC has proposed a rule that,
    if finalized as proposed, would stop marketers from using illicit
    review and endorsement practices such as using fake reviews,
    suppressing honest negative reviews, and paying for positive
    reviews, which deceive consumers looking for real feedback on a
    product or service and undercut honest businesses.

<!-- -->

-   **Taking on the limitations and shortcomings of customer service
    chatbots.** While chatbots can be useful for answering basic
    questions, they often have limited ability to solve more complex
    problems and disputes. Instead, chatbots frequently provide
    inaccurate information and give the run-around to customers seeking
    a real person. The CFPB is planning to issue rules or guidance to
    crack down on ineffective and time-wasting chatbots used by banks
    and other financial institutions in lieu of customer service. The
    CFPB will identify when the use of automated chatbots or automated
    artificial intelligence voice recordings is unlawful, including in
    situations in which customers believe they are speaking with a human
    being.

<!-- -->

-   **Helping streamline parent communication with schools.**  Between
    communicating with teachers, viewing school policies, completing
    forms and permission slips, and more, school processes, platforms,
    and paperwork can sometimes be a hassle for families that already
    have a lot on their plates. The Department of Education will issue
    new guidance to schools on how they can help make these processes
    less time-consuming for parents to handle, and to build effective
    family engagement through two-way communications. This will include
    new resources for schools to address time-wasting technology and
    offer more streamlined processes for engaging and communicating with
    parents.

**What else should we take on? The White House is calling for Americans
to share their ideas for how federal action can give them their time
back. Interested parties can [submit their ideas and comments at this
portal,](https://touchpoints.app.cloud.gov/touchpoints/1bf8d080/submit)
and may consider the following principles:**

-   Companies should make it as easy to do things that you want to do as
    it is to do things they want to do.
    -   It should be as easy cancel a subscription or membership as it
        is to enroll.

    <!-- -->

    -   It should be as easy to obtain rebates and refunds as it was to
        purchase, with no needlessly cumbersome paperwork.

    <!-- -->

    -   Refunds and rebates should be paid as quickly as companies take
        funds from your credit card or bank account.
-   Americans should be able receive customer service on their terms and
    their own time without significant hassle or hardship.
    -   If you want to talk to a human, you should be able to talk to a
        human at convenient times and without interminable waits.

    <!-- -->

    -   If you prefer to interact electronically – such as by text,
        email, or online portal – there should be simple and easily
        identified ways to do so securely.

    <!-- -->

    -   Technology – such as chatbots – should be used to enhance
        customer service with speedy response times, not used to shirk
        on basic responsibilities, such as receiving a refund.
-   Americans should not be subject to confusing, manipulative, or
    deceptive practices online.
    -   If you want to understand what you must do to obtain a good or
        service, the requirements should be clear and transparent.

    <!-- -->

    -   You should not be subject to hidden fees or to requirements that
        are obscured through confusing language and small print.

Time Is Money builds on landmark efforts by the Biden-Harris
Administration to improve customer service for people accessing
government programs and services. In December 2021 the President signed
an Executive Order, [*Transforming Federal Customer Experience and
Service Delivery to Rebuild Trust in
Government*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/fact-sheet-putting-the-public-first-improving-customer-experience-and-service-delivery-for-the-american-people/),
directing federal agencies to streamline services and simplify customer
experiences.

Already, agencies are making progress: the State Department launched a
public beta to [renew  your passport
online](https://travel.state.gov/content/travel/en/passports/have-passport/renew-online.html);
all 50 states have been invited to offer the Internal Revenue Service’s
Direct File tool, an easy, secure, and—most importantly—free way for
Americans to file their federal taxes; HHS has taken steps to allow more
than [5 million Americans to automatically renew their health
coverage](https://www.usds.gov/projects/healthcare-renewals) without
filling out paperwork, saving over 2 million hours in estimated
processing time; and the Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
[announced](https://www.dhs.gov/news/2023/05/30/dhs-improves-customer-experience-simplifying-services-used-public)
that it has reduced the amount of time the public spends accessing DHS
services per year by 21 million hours in fiscal year 2023, and is
targeting reduction of 10 million more hours per year in fiscal year
2024. For more examples of progress and to learn more information about
how agencies across the federal government are improving customer
experience and reducing burden, visit
[performance.gov/cx](https://www.performance.gov/cx/) and the [Burden
Reduction Initiative
website](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/information-regulatory-affairs/burden-reduction-initiative/).

\###
