---
date: '2024-08-13'
modified_time: 2024-08-13 09:39:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-13 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-by-cutting-red-tape-to-build-more-housing/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Takes New Actions to Lower Housing\
  \ Costs by Cutting Red Tape to Build More\_Housing"
---
 
*Actions include reforms to save developers time and money on federal
projects and funds to encourage state and local governments to reduce
barriers to affordable housing*

Since launching its all-of-government [Housing Supply Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/16/president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-ease-the-burden-of-housing-costs/),
the Biden-Harris Administration has been committed to using every
available tool to build more housing and lower costs. President Biden
and Vice President Harris have put building more homes at the center of
their economic agenda because rents are lower and homes are more
affordable when we build more housing. After decades of under-investment
in housing, we are finally seeing progress under President Biden and
Vice President Harris: more units are under construction than at any
time in over 50 years, and the rate of new housing starts is up 17
percent compared to the last Administration. The [Biden-Harris Housing
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-housing-costs-boosts-supply-and-expands-access-to-affordable-housing/)
would build over 2 million new homes to further increase supply and
lower housing costs for Americans.

Building rental units and homes faster means lower costs for consumers:
not only will more units get to the market faster, but increasing the
speed of construction lowers building costs. The President and Vice
President have been laser-focused on lowering housing costs for renters
and homeowners alike.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing major new actions
to build on that progress and further implement its Housing Supply
Action Plan:

**Making funding available to help communities break down barriers to
housing.** The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) is
[announcing the availability of $100
million](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_205)
through its landmark [Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO
Housing)](https://www.hud.gov/program_offices/comm_planning/pro_housing)
program, which provides grants to communities to identify and remove
barriers to affordable housing production and preservation. Grantees may
use awards to further develop, evaluate, and implement housing policy
plans, improve housing strategies, and facilitate affordable housing
production and preservation. In June, Vice President Harris announced
the [first-ever
grantees](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/26/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-first-of-its-kind-funding-to-lower-housing-costs-by-reducing-barriers-to-building-more-homes/)
of the program, which provided $85 million to more than 20 cities and
states with funding to identify and overcome barriers to building more
affordable housing.

**Providing interest rate predictability to spur housing development.**
The Department of the Treasury and HUD are [announcing a major
improvement to the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) Multifamily Risk Sharing
Program](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_204)
that would provide greater interest rate predictability for state and
local housing finance agencies that finance housing projects through the
FFB. This program already dramatically reduces costs for state and local
housing finance agencies by allowing them to borrow funds at just above
the rate at which the US government borrows. This new action will expand
the reach of the Risk Sharing program, especially for new construction
projects, by providing housing finance agencies with greater certainty
about the interest rate that they will face after the construction
period ends, making more housing developments financially viable.
Treasury and HUD indefinitely extended the Risk Sharing Program earlier
this year, after the previous Administration allowed it to lapse. The
program has already supported more than 16,000 units since restarting in
2021 and is expected to help create or preserve tens-of-thousands of
units over the next decade.

**Streamlining requirements for transit-oriented development projects.**
The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) is announcing new guidance
to streamline and clarify requirements for closing DOT loans for
residential development near transit, including
commercial-to-residential conversions. [New guidance
FAQs](https://www.transportation.gov/buildamerica/TOD/faqs) , issued by
the Build America Bureau, clarify that Transportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act (TIFIA) and Railroad Rehabilitation and
Improvement Financing (RRIF) loans used for conversion projects may be
eligible for a categorical exclusion under the National Environmental
Policy Act (NEPA) that would exempt applicable projects from more
detailed environmental analysis and save time and money, as long as
those projects do not expand the footprint of the building being
converted or modify other facilities. The guidance further clarifies
that TIFIA loans can be used to refinance existing debt as part of
building conversion or expansion projects, and clarifies that TIFIA and
RRIF loans can serve as permanent, take-out financing for construction
loans consistent with statutory requirements, as long as federal
requirements are met. When DOT first announced these loan programs could
be used to finance housing near transit, the estimated time between
final Letter of Interest and the loan close was up to 18 months. With
these changes, that time can now be under a year as long as all other
statutory requirements are met. The FAQs also feature additional
information on federal requirements, borrower eligibility, market
studies, and the Bureau’s underwriting process, including typical terms
and conditions for TIFIA and RRIF loans. On August 27, the Bureau will
host an [introductory
webinar](https://usdot.zoomgov.com/webinar/register/WN_IEtI5PJVTYmZWBlrUW0ACw)
on the credit review process for TOD loans. These efforts build on
federal actions to make commercial to residential projects financially
viable. Last fall, the White House released a [Commercial to Residential
Federal Resources
Guidebook](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Commercial-to-Residential-Conversions-Guidebook.pdf)
with over 20 federal programs across six federal agencies that can be
used to support zero emissions climate-resilient conversions.

**Accelerating historic preservation reviews for federal housing
projects.** The Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (ACHP)
[proposed](https://www.achp.gov/news/achp-announces-draft-program-comment-accessible-climate-resilient-connected-communities)
a new tool that would accelerate historic preservation reviews for
millions of federally-funded, licensed, or owned housing units across
the country. Section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act
requires that federal agencies take into account how any proposed
actions will affect historic properties and seek ways to avoid,
minimize, or mitigate any adverse effects as a result of the project. If
finalized, the tool would exempt several activities, including interior
repairs and most installation of rooftop solar panels, from further
Section 106 review, and significantly reduce the review process for
applicable projects, which would lower development costs and more
efficiently deliver affordable, accessible, energy-efficient, and
hazard-free housing to people who need it. In the same program comment,
ACHP will also be accelerating historic preservation reviews for
activities related to climate-friendly transportation and climate-smart
buildings, creating accessible, climate-resilient, and connected
communities.

**Challenging communities to use Section 108 to build housing.** HUD is
launching a Legacy Challenge — encouraging communities that directly
receive Community Development Block Grants to leverage low-cost, low
interest loans for transformative housing investments. Up to $250
million in loan financing will be made available through the Section 108
Loan Guarantee Program for adaptive reuse, commercial-to-residential
conversions, rehabilitation of existing housing, housing enabling
infrastructure such as water and sewer line installation or upgrades,
and revolving loan pools to support local development. For communities
that express interest by November 1, 2024, HUD will offer additional
flexibilities for these loans including certain repayment flexibilities
and waivers to streamline program requirements. HUD will invite
applicants to participate in a technical assistance cohort and provide
tools to support application development.

**Enabling more housing types to be built under the HUD Code.** HUD
anticipates finalizing a rule to update its Manufactured Home
Construction and Safety Standards. Manufactured housing provides an
essential path to increasing overall housing supply and offers
significant savings over site-built housing. The HUD Code creates
economies of scale for manufacturers, resulting in significantly
lower costs for buyers. In addition to making changes that will increase
the quality, energy efficiency, and resilience of manufactured homes,
the new rule, if finalized, would enable duplexes, triplexes, and
fourplexes to be built under the HUD Code for the first time, extending
the cost-saving benefits of manufactured housing to denser urban
and suburban infill contexts.

**Expediting housing permitting**. The [Council of Economic Advisers
analyzed](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/08/13/reforming-permitting-requirements-to-lower-the-cost-of-building-new-housing-and-increase-housing-affordability/)
the importance of state and local government actions to permit and
approve new developments more quickly, including examples from HUD’s PRO
Housing grants. Permitting requirements contribute to the nationwide
housing shortage, leading many would-be deals to not be financially
viable or be scaled down, and driving up the cost of housing. Reforms to
streamline permitting processes can lead to more housing being built
more quickly, which will lower housing costs.

Today’s actions build on dozens of executive actions taken by the
Biden-Harris Administration to improve the federal programs to support
the construction and preservation of affordable housing. As part of the
Housing Supply Action Plan, the Administration simplified the process to
use [American Rescue Plan State and Local Fiscal Recovery
Funds](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/07/biden-harris-administration-announces-progress-in-implementing-its-housing-supply-action-plan/)
for housing, facilitating nearly $20 billion committed for housing
projects, including over $7.5 billion to construct, preserve, or
stabilize tens of thousands of units; improved signature federal supply
programs like the Low Income Housing Tax Credit and HOME Investment
Partnerships program; made it easier to repurpose suitable federal land
for affordable housing, while calling on state and local governments to
do the same with land they own; launched a new effort to promote the
conversion of underutilized commercial property into housing, including
housing near transit; and made hundreds of billions of dollars available
through the Inflation Reduction Act to cut energy costs and emissions in
housing through energy efficiency, electrification, clean energy and
climate resiliency.

\###
