---
date: '2024-08-01'
modified_time: 2024-08-01 20:00:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-01 20:00:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/01/readout-of-the-u-s-prc-bilateral-counternarcotics-working-group-senior-official-meeting/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the U.S.-PRC Bilateral Counternarcotics Working Group Senior Official\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
On July 31, the United States and the People’s Republic of China held a
senior official meeting as part of the Counternarcotics Working Group in
Washington, DC.  Launched in January 2024 following President Biden and
President Xi’s decision to resume bilateral cooperation on
counternarcotics, the U.S.-PRC Counternarcotics Working Group is a key
mechanism for coordinating bilateral efforts to counter the global
manufacturing and trafficking of illicit synthetic drugs, including
fentanyl. 

Senior officials from both countries reviewed progress in bilateral
counternarcotics efforts, including recent arrests, and discussed next
steps in furthering cooperation on this critical effort.  Discussions
focused on ways to strengthen coordination on law enforcement actions;
disrupt the illicit financing of transnational criminal organization
networks; accelerate the scheduling of synthetic drugs and precursor
chemicals; address the illicit diversion of precursor chemicals;
exchange information on emerging threats; and advance progress in
multilateral fora.  

Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Jennifer Daskal gave remarks at the senior official meeting, which was
co-chaired by White House National Security Council Senior Director for
China Sarah Beran and Senior Director for Counterterrorism and
Transnational Crime Tiffany Eppelheimer.  The interagency PRC delegation
was led by Director General of the Narcotics Control Bureau of the PRC
Ministry of Public Security Wei Xiaojun and included representatives
from the PRC Ministry of Public Security, Ministry of Commerce, and
General Administration of Customs.  Meetings also included
representatives from the Department of Justice, including the Drug
Enforcement Administration; the Department of Homeland Security,
including U.S. Customs and Border Protection and Homeland Security
Investigations; the Department of the Treasury; the U.S. Postal
Inspection Service; the Department of State; and the White House Office
of National Drug Control Policy. 

\###
