---
date: '2024-08-27'
modified_time: 2024-08-27 22:21:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-27 20:13:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/27/fact-sheet-following-through-on-the-u-s-pacific-islands-partnership-53rd-pacific-islands-forum-pif-leaders-meeting-in-nukualofa-tonga-august-26-30-2024/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Following Through on the U.S.-Pacific Islands Partnership 53rd\
  \ Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) Leaders Meeting in Nuku\u2019Alofa, Tonga August 26-30,\_\
  2024"
---
 
Since coming into office, the Biden-Harris administration has worked
tirelessly to broaden and deepen its engagement with Pacific island
countries as a priority of U.S. foreign policy. As a Pacific nation, the
United States has a clear and abiding interest in partnering with its
Pacific neighbors to advance a shared agenda: addressing the climate
crisis, maintaining peaceful waterways and upholding freedom of
navigation, promoting development and economic growth, and deepening
people-to-people ties. The United States has and will continue to
advance our shared priorities in a careful, consultative manner that
centers the Pacific Islands Forum as the region’s institution of choice,
including at the 53<sup>rd</sup> Pacific Island Forum Leaders Meeting
taking place in Tonga this week. And we will seek to engage other
friends of the Pacific through groupings like the Partners in the Blue
Pacific and the Quad to ensure engagement with the region is conducted
in a way that best meets Pacific needs, as identified in guiding
documents like the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent and the
Boe Declaration.

Over the last three and a half years, the Biden-Harris administration
has hosted two historic Pacific Islands Forum Summits at the White
House; opened three new embassies in Solomon Islands, Tonga, and
Vanuatu; released the first ever U.S.-Pacific Partnership Strategy; and
announced plans, working with Congress, to provide over $8 billion in
new funding for the Pacific Islands. The United States recognized Cook
Islands and Niue as sovereign and independent states and established
diplomatic relationships with them; expanded USAID offices in Papua New
Guinea and Fiji; returned the Peace Corps to Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, and
Vanuatu; and increased the availability of U.S. consular services to
enable easier travel. We have surged Coast Guard resources to help
Pacific island countries safeguard their maritime territories against
illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing; launched National Guard
State Partnership Programs with Samoa and Papua New Guinea; and tended
to tens of thousands of medical patients during missions by the hospital
ship USNS Mercy. And we have worked to uplift the economies of the
Pacific by launching a $50 million microfinance facility for micro-,
small, and medium-sized enterprises (MSMEs); co-hosting a Pacific
Banking Forum with Australia; investing in secure and resilient internet
infrastructure throughout the region; and recruiting a delegation of
U.S. companies to explore business opportunities at a seminar in Suva.

Our commitment to the Pacific is steadfast and future-oriented. The
long-term investments we are making in our presence and our partnerships
in this region are evidence of our intent to build lasting relationships
with our Pacific partners, which we will accomplish with
whole-of-government, bipartisan support. And we will continue to center
our engagement on Pacific-identified needs, via new programs,
initiatives, and funding like those laid out below. Highlights of these,
subject to Congressional requirements, include: providing an additional
$20 million toward the development of the PIF’s Pacific Resilience
Facility; identifying four Pacific institutions to receive up to $50
million from our MSME microfinancing facility; opening a consular window
to provide in-person visa services at our Embassy in Tonga; holding a
trade promotion and capacity building seminar in the region; and
launching a new five**–**year program to boost Pacific island countries’
access to climate finance.

**<u>Enhancing Pacific Islands’ Climate Resilience</u>**

There is no greater challenge facing the Pacific Islands in the
21<sup>st</sup> century than the threat posed by climate change. It is
critical that the world, particularly all major economies, accelerate
cuts in greenhouse gas emissions on a trajectory consistent with keeping
1.5 degrees within reach.  Recognizing that climate impacts like
sea-level rise are already underway, we must also advance adaptation
efforts. The United States has heard the calls from Pacific leaders and
the Pacific Islands Forum Secretariat to support adaptation and
resilience for local populations, and is proud to support Pacific-led
initiatives, including the Pacific Resilience Facility.

-   **Additional Support for the Pacific Resilience Facility (PRF): **
    The Department of State, pending Congressional notification and
    completion of domestic procedures, intends to provide an additional
    $20 million to the PIF’s Pacific Resilience Facility to support the
    facility’s development of its core operational procedures and
    project preparation for an initial set of facility grants.

<!-- -->

-   **Tuvalu Coastal Adaptation Project:** The Department of State
    intends to provide $2.65 million for the Tuvalu Coastal Adaptation
    Project to support a land reclamation project that will increase the
    nation’s land area by 21 hectares with support from Taiwan,
    Australia, and New Zealand.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerating Climate Finance for a More Resilient Climate
    Future:**  USAID is launching two new complementary climate finance
    activities that will work hand in hand to bolster the region’s
    climate resilience.  The first is Climate Ready 2.0, a new five-year
    effort to partner with Pacific island countries and regional
    institutions to improve access to and management of climate finance
    from a variety of sources (e.g., multi-donor trust funds, bilateral
    donors, philanthropies, and the private sector) needed to fund their
    adaptation priorities and solutions.  This new activity will build
    on years of successful collaboration with local partners and the
    private sector, which has helped Pacific island countries mobilize
    over half a billion dollars from international climate funds.  The
    second is a new line of effort through the USAID Climate Finance
    Development Accelerator to catalyze new partnerships with the
    private sector and identify finance to scale up successful local
    solutions and approaches in Fiji and Papua New Guinea.  It will also
    strengthen the capacity of Pacific civil society organizations to
    improve climate resilience through community-driven projects.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening Disaster Preparedness:** USAID is providing over
    $3.6 million to bolster local, provincial, and national disaster
    preparedness throughout the Pacific region. This funding will
    support a new partnership with the Pacific Community (SPC) to
    enhance emergency management systems and coordination, extend
    USAID’s long-standing partnership with the World Food Program to
    strengthen logistics and the Emergency Telecommunications Cluster,
    and expand humanitarian partners’ efforts to train emergency
    responders. USAID’s three-pronged approach—to enhance emergency
    response systems, improve disaster preparedness, and strengthen
    first-responder capabilities—promotes self-reliance, enabling
    partner countries to lessen the impacts of natural hazards and
    respond more effectively to disasters.

<!-- -->

-   **Launching the Pacific Vision for Adapted Crops and Soils
    (PACS)**:  The Department of State, working with Congress, and
    Australia each plan to provide $1.3 million to launch PACS to build
    a more climate-resilient food system in Pacific island countries, in
    partnership with the Pacific Community and New Zealand.  An
    expansion of the U.S.-catalyzed global Vision for Adapted Crops and
    Soils (VACS) movement, PACS will support Pacific efforts like the
    Unlocking Blue Pacific Prosperity (UBPP) initiative to increase
    targeted investments in diverse, nutritious, and climate-adapted
    crops grown in healthy soils and sustainably managed landscapes.

<!-- -->

-   **Climate-Smart Agriculture:** Working with Congress, USAID intends
    to provide $2 million to support a new initiative with other
    partners to support climate-smart agriculture in the Pacific and
    increase the availability of nutritious, safe, and affordable foods.
    USAID will also seek partnerships with key regional institutions and
    initiatives like UBPP as well as private-sector stakeholders to
    leverage their expertise and resources to promote supply chain
    diversification.

<!-- -->

-   **Partnership with the Philippines to Enhance Pacific Disaster
    Readiness**:  USAID is supporting a collaborative humanitarian
    learning initiative through the International Organization for
    Migration that promotes engagement between disaster response
    authorities in the Philippines and select Pacific island countries
    to share best practices, strategies, and identify and address gaps
    in disaster preparedness and response. 

<!-- -->

-   **Peace Corps Climate Adaptation and Resilience**: Peace Corps Tonga
    has received their initial cohort of Climate Adaptation and
    Resilience Volunteers, who will be working with Village Emergency
    Management Committees and other local leaders to support adaptation,
    resilience, and Disaster Risk Reduction activities. In addition,
    Peace Corps Samoa is designing another Climate Adaptation and
    Resilience project in collaboration with Samoa’s Ministry of Natural
    Resources and Environment, with the first cohort of Volunteers
    projected to arrive in July 2025.

<!-- -->

-   **Vanuatu Weather Forecasting and Early Warning System
    Modernization:** A United States Trade Development Agency (USTDA)
    grant of over $1.6 million for the Vanuatu Meteorology and
    Geohazards Department is funding technical assistance and a pilot
    project to support the modernization of early warning systems and
    weather forecasting capabilities in Vanuatu.  The activity will
    assess the economic and technical feasibility of deploying an
    innovative weather intelligence platform to support climate
    adaptation, disaster preparedness, and modernization of weather
    forecasting services.  

**<u>Advancing the U.S.-Pacific Partnership</u>**

The strength of our continued engagement in the Pacific Islands is
undergirded by the dynamism of our growing official diplomatic presence
in the region and the depth of our development cooperation across the
region.

-   **Embassy opening:** A new U.S. Embassy in Port Vila opened on July
    19, in a ceremony presided over by U.S. Ambassador Yastishock and
    ni-Vanuatu Deputy Prime Minister Seremaiah. 

<!-- -->

-   **Return of the Peace Corps to Vanuatu:** Peace Corps Volunteers
    returned to Vanuatu in July, following the rehabilitation of a Peace
    Corps-supported Intensive Care Unit in Vanuatu’s main hospital.

<!-- -->

-   **Provision of In-Country Visa Services in Tonga:** U.S. Embassy
    Nuku’alofa recently constructed the first formal U.S. consular
    window in the Kingdom of Tonga.  This window will significantly
    reduce the costs to Tongans associated with applying for U.S. visas,
    and the two-way travel enabled by these services will foster the
    growing relationship between our countries and enrich the connection
    between Tongan-Americans and their families in Tonga.

<!-- -->

-   **Palau Hospital Feasibility Study:** The United States is committed
    to supporting the development of resilient and secure infrastructure
    to address the priority needs of our Pacific Island partners,
    including in the healthcare sector.  Following a scoping mission to
    Palau this past July, the Department of State and the USTDA, working
    with Congress, are exploring support for a feasibility study to
    examine options for a new hospital in Palau this fall.

<!-- -->

-   **Tuvalu Domestic Biogas Systems Project: ** The Department of State
    plans to provide $1 million for the expansion of the Pacific
    Community’s (SPC) biogas project in Tuvalu to increase access to
    clean and renewable domestic energy sources with support from
    Taiwan.

<!-- -->

-   **Papua New Guinea Drone Healthcare Distribution Center Feasibility
    Study and Pilot Project:** The USTDA grant to Applus+ PNG Ltd. will
    evaluate the technical feasibility of establishing a drone delivery
    service and related centers to distribute pharmaceuticals and other
    medical supplies to remote areas of Papua New Guinea. The study will
    be carried out by Zipline International Inc. (San Francisco, CA),
    the designer, manufacturer, and operator of unmanned aerial
    vehicle/drone distribution centers in seven countries. If the study
    indicates project viability, Zipline intends todevelop a pilot
    distribution and drone launch center in Papua New Guinea.

<!-- -->

-   **New Ambassador Self-Help Small Grants Program: ** USAID and the
    Department of State are working together to set up a five-year
    Ambassador’s Self-Help Small Grants Program that will provide
    targeted funding for small-scale projects and increase the
    flexibility of U.S. funding resources across the Pacific. The
    program will support community-led initiatives, filling a gap by
    providing more accessible resources for small projects that address
    local needs. The first application window opened on August 15 for
    projects focused on climate adaptation.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing a Democratic and Resilient Blue Pacific Continent**: 
    USAID, working with Congress, plans to invest more than $4.5 million
    in new development assistance to foster good governance, support
    free and fair elections, elevate women’s political participation,
    and enhance climate resilience, including catalyzing finance. This
    funding will expand ongoing activities like Promoting Just, Engaged,
    Civic-minded and Transparent (PROJECT) Governance as well as support
    new activities. In addition, USAID is working with the Pacific
    Islands Forum Secretariat (PIFS) to provide funding to support the
    inclusion of civil society and non-state actors as a part of the
    Implementation Plan for the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific
    Continent. 

<!-- -->

-   **Removal of Storm-Damaged Fuel Tanks in Niue**: The Department of
    State is committed to working with Congress on plans to provide
    funding for the removal of the storm-damaged fuel tanks in Niue.
    Removing the fuel tanks will kickstart opportunities for broader
    redevelopment of the Alofi wharf and provide a platform to build
    deeper cooperation on international port and maritime security.

<!-- -->

-   **New Office Space to Support USAID’s Expanding Presence:** USAID is
    securing larger office space in Fiji and Papua New Guinea to
    accommodate a growing staff presence.  USAID is currently operating
    from U.S. Embassy Suva and U.S. Embassy Port Moresby, which has
    limited space.  This is a significant step in deepening USAID’s
    long-term investment and partnerships in the Pacific. The new office
    spaces will allow for USAID to build lasting relationships with
    Pacific governments, civil society, the private sector, and
    communities, prioritize locally-hired expertise, and implement more
    effective and informed development programs.

<!-- -->

-   **Pacific Quality Infrastructure Principles:** The U.S. government
    is proud to announce U.S. endorsement of the PIF’s Pacific Quality
    Infrastructure Principles, which aim to improve the integrity of
    decision-making for infrastructure investments to maximize positive
    impacts in the Pacific. The principles aim to ensure that
    infrastructure financing and development generates local employment
    and benefits, integrates social and environmental considerations,
    strengthens climate resilience, and is economically efficient.

**<u>Deepening People-to-People Links Between the United States and
Pacific Islands</u>**

We continue to look for new and innovative ways to foster the vital
connections formed between the American people and the people in the
Pacific Islands. Our exchange programs, university partnerships, and
sports diplomacy initiatives have kindled new friendships across
cultures, and our ongoing “7 for 70” initiative to establish seven new
sister cities pairings between U.S. and Pacific island cities saw its
first official partnership signed between Rarotonga and Honolulu in June
and three new letters of intent signed in June and July.

-   **Youth Ambassadors Program in EAP:** Beginning in 2025, the State
    Department’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs (ECA) will
    launch the Youth Ambassadors Program for the East Asia and the
    Pacific region, which will include bringing approximately seven
    secondary school students (ages 15-17) and one adult mentor from
    Pacific island countries to the United States for a month-long
    program. The participants will stay with American host families and
    examine civic education, leadership development, respect for
    diversity, and community engagement. Upon their return home,
    participants will design and implement projects that serve their
    communities, using skills and knowledge from the exchange.

<!-- -->

-   **Academy of Women Entrepreneurs: ** The Academy of Women
    Entrepreneurs (AWE) gives enterprising women the knowledge,
    networks, and access they need to launch and grow successful
    businesses. The Department of State is funding a robust slate of AWE
    cohorts throughout the Pacific Islands. Approximately 400 women will
    participate in the program in 2024 and 2025, including expanded
    program offerings in Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Fiji, Samoa,
    the Cook Islands, French Polynesia, and cohorts for Pacific Islands
    diasporas in New Zealand. This expansion of the program is a
    significant increase in our investment in the people of the Pacific
    Islands.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding USAID’s Minority Serving Institutions Partnerships
    Initiative to the Pacific: ** USAID signed a MOU with the University
    of Guam to diversify USAID’s strategic partnerships and programing
    approach in the Pacific Islands. This marks the seventh such MOU
    under [USAID’s Minority Serving Institutions Partnerships
    Initiative](https://www.usaid.gov/partnership-opportunities/universities/minority-serving-institutions#:~:text=The%20USAID%20MSI%20Program%20provides,experience%20of%20MSIs%20within%20USAID),
    the first in the Pacific region, and the first with an Asian
    American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Serving Institution.
    The partnership willharness University of Guam’s extensive research
    capacity, including on climate and water, as well as geographical
    and cultural expertise, to contribute to the development and
    sustainability of several islands across the Pacific. This MOU also
    strengthens ties with U.S. territories and celebrates the importance
    of improving access and opportunities for all U.S. citizens, not
    just those in the continental United States. In the coming months,
    USAID and University of Guam partners will collaboratively determine
    the activities that will advance the shared goals of the MOU.

<!-- -->

-   **Student Exchange and University Partnerships:** In October 2024,
    the U.S.-Pacific Institute for Rising Leaders Fellowship, announced
    by the White House at the first-ever U.S.-Pacific Island Country
    Summit in September 2022, will bring the second cohort of the
    Fellowship from Pacific island countries and territories to the
    Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) in
    Washington for a three-week program focusing on strengthening
    leadership, decision-making, and communication skills. The first
    cohort of the Fellowship visited Washington D.C. and New York in
    October 2023 and engaged with academic experts and senior U.S.
    policymakers to explore some of the most pressing issues in the
    Pacific region, with a focus on maritime topics, public health, and
    climate resilience. In addition, in June 2024, the PNG University of
    Technology and Charleston Southern University signed a MOU to
    promote exchanges and cooperation, and the University of Papua New
    Guinea and California State University, Long Beach committed to sign
    an MOU to promote further cooperation.**  **

<!-- -->

-   **Global STEM Development Scholarship Program:** In 2024, the
    Department of State’s Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs
    launched the Global STEM Development Scholarship Program, which will
    support exchanges for approximately 10 exchange visitors from
    Pacific island countries. Visitors will participate in STEM
    research, training, and teaching, with a focus on mitigating and
    combatting climate change. 

<!-- -->

-   **Preserving Cultural Heritage:**  The Department of State will
    support a pilot phase of the Australian Museum’s Pasifika Tauhi
    project to develop a network of collaboration among museums in 15
    Pacific nations and in the United States, Australia, and New
    Zealand.  The project seeks to build capacity for cultural
    preservation and recovery due to the effects of climate change on
    cultural heritage in the Pacific.  The pilot phase involves Vanuatu,
    Solomon Islands, and Tonga as well as scoping to establish this
    museum-to-museum network.

**<u>Upholding Pacific-Centered Peace and Security</u>**

For decades, the United States has worked with Pacific Island partners
to promote peace, stability, and security across the breadth of the
region through support to those partners’ defense and police services.
Calling on the unique capabilities of the U.S. military and federal law
enforcement offices, we have enhanced the capacity and capability of
Pacific island countries’ governments to uphold their domestic laws and
counter illegal fishing, narcotics trafficking, and organized crime
within their jurisdictions. We work with Pacific island countries’
governments and through regional organizations, including the Pacific
Islands Chiefs of Police, to deliver appropriate trainings and equipment
to confront the security issues that people in the Pacific Islands care
most about, including the security implications of climate change.

-   **Supporting Pacific Resilience through Defense Operational
    Resilience International Cooperation:** The U.S. Department of
    Defense is committed to supporting the resilience of our Pacific
    partners. The Defense Operational Resilience International
    Cooperation (DORIC) pilot program is an enabling program for the
    U.S. Department of Defense to support defense-related environmental
    and operational energy engagements with partner national security
    forces.

To date, the DORIC pilot program has enabled engagement with partners
primarily through field trainings and exercises, studies and
assessments, classroom education and workshops, and a variety of data
tools surveying wide-ranging resilience hazards. For instance,
Indo-Pacific Command’s annual Indo-Pacific Environmental Security Forum,
which most recently took place in Fiji and focused on national
resilience and humanitarian assistance through environmental security,
will be supported by DORIC in FY2025. Other upcoming activities
include: 

•          U.S. Indo-Pacific Command plans to provide diver training and
equipment to the Tuvalu Police Force to respond to underwater unexploded
ordnance threats through specialized scuba diver trainings and equipment
provisions within the next year. 

•          U.S. Indo-Pacific Command plans to host a field exercise,
training, and workshop for marine oil spills, clean-up, and response
with Pacific partners within the next year.

-   **Strengthening the Rule of Law:** The United States intends to
    provide, working with Congress, $3 million to strengthen the justice
    sector, support good governance, and promote resilience to
    corruption across the Pacific Islands. To support the region’s
    formal commitment to anti-corruption, the Teieniwa Vision Pasifika
    (TVP) would deploy a U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) Office of
    Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance and Training (OPDAT)
    Resident Legal Advisor to embed with the Pacific Islands Law
    Officers Network (PILON) Secretariat. With funding from the
    Department of State’s Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
    Enforcement Affairs (INL), this experienced U.S. federal prosecutor
    intends to work with Pacific island countries to deliver justice
    sector workshops, legislative reform guidance, and case-based
    mentoring of justice sector actors across the Pacific Islands. TVP
    will also utilize DOJ subject matter experts to engage in rapid
    response, short-term technical assistance activities designed to
    enhance the specific capabilities and skills of prosecutors, judges,
    and other justice sector stakeholders in the Pacific Islands.

<!-- -->

-   **Nurturing Future Leaders in the Security Sector:** Working with
    Congress, the United States intends to launch a $3.5 million, State
    Department INL-funded Pacific Partners’ Leadership in Security
    (PPLS) Fellowship, which would work with the Pacific Islands Forum
    Secretariat (PIFS) over three years to bring mid- to executive-level
    criminal justice and civilian security professionals annually from
    the Pacific Islands for leadership development at the Daniel K.
    Inouye Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies (APCSS) in Honolulu
    in support of the PIFS’ regional security priorities. Their
    fellowship would culminate in a Washington, D.C. capstone program of
    professional immersion and exchange facilitated by the Center for
    Strategic and International Studies (CSIS).

<!-- -->

-   **National Security Policy Development in the Pacific Islands:
    Sustaining Progress in an Evolving Security Context**: Consistent
    with Boe Declaration and 2050 Strategy for a Blue Pacific
    Continentpriorities, a workshop focused on strengthening
    implementation and improvement of national security policy
    arrangements, funded by the Department of State’s Bureau of
    Political-Military Affairs and collaboratively developed by the
    Pacific Islands Forum and Daniel K. Inouye Asia Pacific Center for
    Security Studies, will be held  November 17-20, 2024, in Suva, Fiji.

**<u>Economy, Trade and Investment</u>**

The United States is committed to working with Pacific island countries’
governments, likeminded partners, and the private sector to empower and
support Pacific economic resilience by enhancing international
investment in the region, encouraging environments conducive to business
growth, and create new opportunities for Pacific businesses.

-   **Delivering on the Economic Assistance Agreement related to the
    South Pacific Tuna Treaty**: The Department of State is working with
    Congress to provide the first $60 million under the new 10-year,
    $600 million agreement to promote economic development in the
    Pacific Islands and support fisheries management, development, and
    sustainability.

<!-- -->

-   **Continuing to Expand DFC’s Investment**: The U.S. International
    Development Finance Corporation (DFC) remains committed to advancing
    private sector investment opportunities in the Pacific Islands.
    Since launching the up to $50 million Microfinance Facility for
    MSMEs across the Pacific Islands during the US-PIF Summit in 2023,
    DFC and USAID have identified four target institutions to receive a
    combination of debt and guarantee products to advance climate
    resilience and women’s economic empowerment across the region.
     Additionally, DFC, in partnership with USAID and the Australia
    Infrastructure Finance Facility for the Pacific (AIFFP), hopes to
    announce a new private sector investment in the fishery sector in
    the Republic of the Marshall Islands in the coming months.

<!-- -->

-   **Building Pacific Island Trade and Investment Capacities:** The
    Department of State and Department of Commerce, in coordination with
    the PIF and key U.S. government agencies, plan to provide $450,000
    in fundingto hold a trade promotion and capacity building seminar in
    the region to help Pacific island countries’ trade and economic
    development officials attract high-quality foreign direct investment
    into their economies and strengthen their commercial and regulatory
    environments to make their economies more competitive in global
    markets.

<!-- -->

-   **Advisory services to support the Papua New Guinea Ministry of
    Petroleum:** The Department of State and USAID will work with
    Congress to provide up to $1.4 million for technical assistance and
    advisory services to support the government of Papua New Guinea’s
    navigation of the ongoing fuel crisis. With funding from State’s
    Transaction Advisory Fund (TAF), State and USAID will provide
    financial modeling and valuations of Puma’s energy assets; advise on
    potential financial structures; and provide technical assistance
    related to the impact of Papua New Guinea’s foreign exchange and
    debt situation on future acquisitions.  Additional technical
    assistance and advisory services focused on attracting high-quality
    commercial and energy investments as well as helping the Department
    of Petroleum and Energy convert to a Statutory Authority will deploy
    in early 2025, supporting Papua New Guinea’s long-term energy
    security and needs.

<!-- -->

-   **Digital Connectivity: ** To enhance digital connectivity and
    support secure, sustainable, and resilient telecommunications
    infrastructure investment in the Pacific Islands, the United States
    is supporting undersea cable connectivity in the Pacific along with
    Australia, New Zealand, Taiwan, and Japan. The initiative has now
    grown to $90 million in donor supported funding. 

<!-- -->

-   **Aviation Connectivity:**  Commercial air connectivity is vital to
    the members of the Pacific Islands Forum, their people, and their
    economies. To promote better commercial air connectivity and
    facilitate increased passenger and cargo flights between, among, and
    beyond the United States and the Pacific region, the United States –
    led by the Department of State, in consultation with the Departments
    of Transportation and Commerce – welcomes more members from the PIF
    to become Open Skies partners through bilateral or existing
    multilateral air transport agreements. Currently, 8 of 18 PIF
    members (Kiribati, Nauru, Niue, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon
    Islands, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu) have either an outdated or no
    agreement with the United States.  The United States recently
    finalized negotiations on an Open Skies Agreement with Fiji and is
    in negotiations with Samoa to finalize another Open Skies Agreement
    soon.  Following the PIF Leaders Meeting, an interagency team is
    prepared to conduct additional outreach to interested partners to
    initiate further discussions and possible future negotiations.

**Aviation Safety**: To advance aviation safety and ensure the
sustainability of crucial infrastructure in the Pacific Islands, the
Department of Transportation’s Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)
will support the Pacific Aviation Safety Office (PASO)—a member of the
Council of Regional Organizations of the Pacific (CROP) and backed by
the PIF. The goal is to strengthen PASO to become an Enhanced Regional
Safety and Security Oversight Organization, in line with International
Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) recommendations. To achieve this, the
FAA, with MITRE, will conduct a Needs and Analysis Action Plan to
evaluate PASO’s current technical and organizational capabilities, with
the study expected to be.

\###
