---
date: '2024-08-06'
modified_time: 2024-08-12 16:03:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-08-06 16:00:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/06/readout-of-white-house-convenings-of-philanthropies-on-place-based-economic-development-workforce-development-and-career-pathways/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convenings of Philanthropies on Place-Based Economic\
  \ Development, Workforce Development, and Career\_Pathways"
---
 
On Tuesday, August 6, senior Biden-Harris Administration officials
convened philanthropic organizations and stakeholders who are key
collaborators in the Administration’s historic Investing in America
agenda, which is mobilizing historic private sector investment across
the country. National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard, Domestic Policy
Advisor Neera Tanden, Director of Policy for the First Lady Mala Adiga,
Assistant Secretary of Education Amy Loyd, and Assistant Secretary of
Labor José Javier Rodríguez discussed the importance of philanthropic
organizations to advancing place-based programs in communities across
the United States and unveiled the Administration’s [seven
priorities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Biden-Harris-Administration-Career-Pathways-and-Workforce-Development-Priorities-August-2024.pdf)
for expanding career pathways and high-quality job training programs.

The Biden-Harris Administration’s place-based economic agenda is
supporting [economic
comebacks](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Brainard-Comeback-Communities-Memo-2024.07.09.pdf)
in communities too often left out of economic opportunities. For
example, a [recent
piece](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/new-recompete-awards-seek-to-jump-start-economic-renewal-from-rust-belt-to-rural-places/)
from the Brookings Institution finds the Recompete Pilot Program may
jump-start economic renewal in the Rust Bult and rural regions. Senior
Administration officials and philanthropic organizations to discussed
ways to support communities that stand to benefit from the Biden-Harris
economic agenda. Panelists discussed flagship place-based economic
development policies, the impact on hardworking families across
distressed areas, and the role philanthropy can play in advancing the
initial progress made. For example, under the Administration’s [Rural
Partners Network](https://www.rural.gov/) program, four public-private
partnerships were announced at the event with the TLL Temple Foundation,
Winthrop-Rockefeller Foundation, Appalachia Funders Network, and the
Delta Philanthropy Forum to create new economic opportunities in rural
areas by addressing barriers to accessing federal programs.

Participants also discussed concrete voluntary actions that would expand
high-quality career pathways and workforce development efforts that
ensure every American has access to good-paying jobs. As the
Biden-Harris Investing in America agenda creates millions of new jobs in
industries of the future, the Administration has made record investments
in Registered Apprenticeships, free community colleges programs, and
career and technical education programs. First Lady Jill Biden has led
efforts to spotlight these programs, including launching Workforce Hubs
across the country to expand pathways to good-paying jobs. Participants
discussed ways that interested philanthropic organizations can advance
the Administration’s
[seven](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/Biden-Harris-Administration-Career-Pathways-and-Workforce-Development-Priorities-August-2024.pdf)
priorities for high-impact workforce development strategies for students
and workers.

\###
