---
date: '2023-12-20'
modified_time: 2023-12-20 16:06:14-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-20 16:06:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/20/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-venezuela-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on\_Venezuela"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:06 A.M. EST

MODERATOR: Good morning. Thank you for joining on such short notice.
This call is going to be held under an embargo. That embargo will be
when we notify you that the Americans in question have been transferred
to the U.S. government.

This call is on background, attributable to senior administration
officials.

For your all’s awareness but not for reporting, joining us on today’s
call is \[senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\], and \[senior administration official\].

Before we get started, I want to heavily caveat this — that events are
still underway today, and things on the ground may change yet here.
We’re going to keep you all apprised as that happens. But for the
moment, everything that we’re speaking to is speculative, and that will
be reflected in our speakers’ remarks today.

So, with that, I’ll hand it over to \[senior administration official\]
to speak a little bit to the agreement that we’ve reached.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great, thanks. Thanks, everybody, for
joining today on such short notice. I wanted to share the good news with
everybody that we have reached an agreement to secure the release of six
Americans who have been wrongfully detained in Venezuela, which means
that all of the Americans wrongfully detained in Venezuela, as well as
four other Americans, will soon be released. And we expect that they
will be very soon on their way home to their families and friends and
hope to be very soon in a position to share the news with their
families.

This is the result of many, many months of negotiations, regular
consultations with the President, an extensive amount of work involving
our senior leadership involving Jake Sullivan and Jon Finer, and has
culminated in what we think is a very positive outcome.

As part of this arrangement, Leonard Francis, who is also known as “Fat
Leonard,” will be extradited from Venezuela \[arrested and returned to
the United States\] and will be on a plane, hopefully very soon, on his
way back to a federal detention facility.

For those of you who are not familiar with Leonard Francis’s case, he
oversaw one of the most brazen bribery conspiracies in the U.S. Navy’s
history from 2004 until his arrest until 2013. It was a long-running
conspiracy to bribe U.S. Navy officials and employees and other federal
employees who were public officials.

Francis pled guilty. As part of his guilty plea, he admitted that he
required his Navy contacts to use their influence to benefit his company
by steering contracts to it, by scheduling and directing Navy ships to
various ports favored by the company, and by advocating for and
advancing the company’s interests with the Navy with respect to the
ships’ husbandry issues, and also admitted that he bribed “scores” of
U.S. Navy officials with tens of millions of dollars in fraud and
millions of dollars in bribes and gifts, including cash, prostitutes,
and luxury travel, things like Cuban cigars, Kobe beef, and Spanish
suckling pig.

While he was pending sentencing on house arrest, he cut off his ankle
tracking bracelet and fled to Venezuela, where he was arrested and has
been detained as he was about to board a plane to Florida. And his
return to the United States will now assure that he is held fully
accountable for his crimes as well as for his attempts to escape from
justice.

As I said, this is the culmination of extraordinary efforts and
perseverance across the U.S. government for many, many months to bring
these 10 Americans home on top of the 9 wrongfully detained Americans —
detainees — Americans that were returned last year. Six of these
Americans have been detained — designated as wrongfully detained. They
will be provided health care and a range of support upon return to the
United States.

And as I said, this is part of our President, President Biden’s strong
prioritization of the safe return of all Americans been held hostage —
held hostage and wrongfully detained abroad.

This administration is proud to have brought home American hostages and
wrongfully — wrongful detainees from Afghanistan, Burma, Haiti, Russia,
Venezuela, West Africa, and other parts of the world.

And we have worked diligently through various complications and continue
to make this a high priority for the Americans who do remain detained in
the other places in the world, including the hostages in Gaza.

In order to make this exchange, the President had to make the extremely
difficult decision to offer something that the Venezuelan counterparts
have actively sought, and he made the decision to grant clemency to Alex
Saab, who is pending trial for money laundering, and allow his return to
Venezuela in what was essentially an exchange of 10 Americans and a
fugitive from justice for one person returned to Venezuela.

The consequences of this difficult decision will be to reunite parents
with their children and grandchildren; children with their parents,
family, and friends; and to ensure that one of the most notorious
fugitives from justice, Fat Leonard, is returned and held to account for
his crimes.

I am going to turn this over to \[senior administration official\] now,
who will talk a little bit more about how this also fits in with a
broader set of efforts to encourage Venezuela to hold competitive
elections and to push for the restoration of democracy in Venezuela.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Great. Thank you. I want to — in
addition to what my colleague said, I wanted to also highlight that as a
part of the actions that are going to take place today —

Actually, first, let me start by just, I think, kind of just
underscoring that, I think as our moderator did, that this process
remains extremely complex, fragile, and could still hit unanticipated
hurdles.

I wanted to note that in addition to the wrongfully detained Americans,
the representatives of Nicolás Maduro have also agreed to release 20
Venezuelan prisoners as well as the release of Roberto Abdul from
Súmate, and then three individuals that — Venezuelan individuals that
had arrest warrants issued for them. Those will — they will be actually
released this morning.

As the previous speaker mentioned, the outcomes of today are the result
of several months of negotiations, active internal deliberations, and
regular consultation with the President, who’s been apprised of every
step of this process since the direct negotiations with representatives
from Venezuela started in May.

I think all the decisions, as we said, really would only have been
possible thanks to the President’s commitment to the safety and
wellbeing of Americans.

I also wanted to note specifically that National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan oversaw the negotiations; from the beginning of the
administration has made clear that the United States would calibrate
sanctions on Venezuela on the basis of concrete outcomes from the
negotiations.

Since May, Jake and the Secretary of State, as well, have made — have
held regular strategy meetings on Venezuela and personally engaged with
partners in the region, with Europe, and the Middle East, in support of
elections in Venezuela and the liberation of Americans.

Specifically also, in the run-up to the Essequibo referendum on November
\[December\] 3rd and the days following, Jake Sullivan engaged with
President Irfaan Ali of Guyana and had numerous calls with Brazilian
National Security Advisor Celso Amorim and other regional counterparts
in order to avoid or discourage military confrontation between Venezuela
and Guyana, to underscore the need for diplomacy and dialogue to address
those border tensions.

Similarly, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer’s visit
to Bogotá in April for a meeting hosted — of the international community
on Venezuela, that was hosted by Colombia, laid the groundwork for the
direct negotiations between the United States and representatives of
Nicolás Maduro by laying out the U.S. policy toward Venezuela and
successfully expanding the international consensus in favor of
competitive and inclusive elections. Since 2021, Jon has chaired active
deputy discussions on Venezuela and provided instructions in real-time
to the U.S. negotiating team.

Now, how does this fit in the context of our overall U.S. policy toward
Venezuela? I think it’s key here to underscore that even though there
have been a bump in the road, pursuing an approach where we are engaging
directly with representatives of Nicolás Maduro but also engaging
actively in consulting with members of the Venezuelan opposition, the
Unitary Platform, and including presidential candidate Maria Corina
Machado, as well as our active engagement with Congress, has really been
what has allowed us to make breakthroughs not just in the signing of the
Barbados agreement in October, but the release of Americans, the
continued release of Venezuelan prisoners.

And it is something that demonstrates the results of dialogue, and it
opens the doors for us to continue to engage in dialogue so that when
Venezuela holds elections next year, that they’re competitive and
inclusive and that it will allow Venezuelans to really determine the
future of their country.

I think this established, I think, a solid foundation for us to build
upon and to continue the dialogue in the months ahead.

I will leave it there and turn it over to my other colleague. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks very much. The events of today
really reflect the President and Secretary Blinken’s unwavering
commitment to secure the release of wrongfully detained Americans around
the world and to seek a path forward for a better, more democratic
future for the people of Venezuela.

Secretary Blinken has focused our efforts on close coordination with the
Unitary Platform of Venezuela, with democratic forces within Venezuela,
as well as leveraging our relationships around the world to make sure
that we’re in the best position to achieve those goals. We’ve leveraged
facilitation by Qatar, as well as other partners, to reach this point
that we’ve arrived at today.

I would just agree that this remains a fragile moment. We believe that
all of the pieces are moving in the right direction at this moment, but
literally pieces are in movement right now.

We hope that if we are able to successfully complete the actions hoped
for today, then we will be well placed to see a more democratic path in
Venezuela.

There remains much work to be done and much coordination with all forces
within Venezuela to achieve competitive elections in 2024. Like, giving
the Venezuelan people the possibility of a more prosperous, democratic,
stable nation is important for the wellbeing of our region, and it’s
something that we’re focused on.

But again, today, we are very, very happy and proud that months of long
work are coming to fruition to allow Americans to be reunited with their
families, as well as Venezuelan prisoners to be reunited with their
friends and families in Venezuela.

And I’ll just leave it there. Thank you.

MODERATOR: And with that, we’ll open it up to questions. We’re going to
go to Jorge with the VOA first.

Q Hi, good morning. Thank you so much for this. I have a question just
for clarification. How many Americans and how many Venezuelans are going
to be released in total? And if I may have the question that I didn’t
have.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: As a result of this deal,  
there will be 10 Americans coming home today, assuming, you know, as one
said, that this is — this is still in process — but assuming that things
go as we’re hoping, there’ll be 10 Americans coming home today, along
with Fat Leonard. And the Venezuelans will be releasing 20 political
prisoners, and they will also be releasing Mr. Abdul as well, who’s been
detained for the past —

Q Perfect. So, my question is: How do you explain that Alex will be
released if he has not even been convicted yet? Does the administration
fear that you’re sending a signal that the White House is giving orders
to the DOJ?

And second, did Maduro agree to let Maria Corina Machado run in the
elections? That was part of the negotiations?

Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’ll take the first question. So, to be
clear, the White House does not interfere with the Department of Justice
investigations. This was an exercise of the President’s authority to
grant clemency. And as I said earlier, the President made what was a
difficult choice, but the right choice, to grant clemency for Mr. Saab
in exchange for the release of 10 Americans, 6 of whom have been
wrongfully detained, and also to get the return of Fat Leonard, who is a
fugitive from justice, so that he can be held accountable for his
heinous activities.

MODERATOR: Next, we’re going to go Louise Radnofsky with the Wall Street
Journal.

Q Recognizing the embargo on this call, could you clarify for us who
these six wrongfully detained Americans are and the names of the other
four who are also being released today, please?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Hey, Louise. I’m going to take that one.
We’re not going to clarify just yet the names of the six. We want to
make sure that our family notifications are underway before we do
clarify with a group this large. I just don’t want there to be a
scenario in which the first word that they hear about this is from a
reporter.

So, respectfully, we’ll follow up a little later this morning with that
information.

Q Understood.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Trevor Honeycutt with Reuters.

Q Hey, good morning. Thanks for doing the call, and thanks for taking
the question. Could you talk, first of all, a little bit about why the
President decided to reverse his original thinking around Alex Saab,
that case?

And then, could you also talk a little bit more in detail about the role
that Qatar played here? Did they broker this deal? How would you frame
that? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So I don’t — so I’m not sure that it’s —
so, as I said, the President — there’s been no reversal of decisions
here. The President made a decision based on what’s been presented to
him after months of discussions at the highest levels with meaningful
engagements, ongoing engagement by Jake Sullivan and Jon Finer in
consultation with the President, and made the decision to do what is
concededly a difficult decision but is resulting in the release, as I
said, of 10 Americans — 6 wrongfully detained — and the return of a
wanted fugitive from justice for one of the most brazen corruption
scandals — cases involving the U.S. military in our history. And the
President made the decision that this was the right thing to do.

Q And on Qatar?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Qatar has been an important partner for
the United States across a whole host of streams, as you’ve undoubtedly
seen.

But I would say, with regard to the process in Venezuela, for months
they facilitated conversations between Maduro authorities and U.S.
officials, aimed at clearing a path toward a competitive election in
2024 and the return of wrongfully detained Americans. They have
continued to offer their good offices when called upon, and we’re quite
grateful for those efforts.

MODERATOR: Next, we’re going to go to Jennifer Jacobs with Bloomberg.

Q Thanks. So, can you clarify — you said that the U.S. is releasing Alex
Saab. Are there other Venezuelans being released as well?

And also, I had another question about sanctions relief. Can you talk a
little bit about what the next steps are on sanctions relief? Are you
considering specifically individual sanctions relief or any changes in
the rewards program?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, so I’ll take this. So, on the
Venezuelan side, the commitment had been for Venezuela to release 20
prisoners. They’re also releasing Roberto Abdul, who is a — was a member
of Súmate, and also was somebody who was involved in the running of the
opposition primary on October 22nd.

There also — there were three arrest warrants that were issued for three
Venezuelans. Those are going to be suspended. So, in total, we’re
talking about 24 Venezuelans that are going to be a part of this.

And I would underscore that — to give you some insights — you know, in
addition to the commitment to the release of wrongfully detained
Americans, the President’s National Security Advisor insisted that the
release of the 20 Venezuelan prisoners and that the release of Abdul and
the suspension of the arrest warrants take place to ensure that
Venezuela was back in alignment with the Barbados agreement.

So I think, all in, you’re talking about over 30 people that are
actually — they’re going to be home with their families, or back in the
United States, or are going to be out of prison.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: And just to be clear, I just want to
make sure that there’s total clarity that the only person that the
United States is releasing is Alex Saab. The release of the Venezuelans
is — are Venezuelan releases of Venezuelans in Venezuelan custody.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: That’s correct.

And in terms of sanctions relief, I want to underscore that at no point
have we talked about sanctions relief or oil and gas relief in exchange
for wrongfully detained Americans. It has not — never been a part of the
discussion.

When we’ve looked at sanctions relief, it has been in the context of the
negotiations that are ongoing with members of the Unitary Platform and
representatives of Nicolás Maduro. We will return to those conversations
after this.

Right now, what we’re thinking about is, you know, Maria Corina Machado
was able to present her appeal to the supreme tribunal for
consideration. You know, our expectation is that that decision will be
done promptly. And, you know, we’re going to be looking at — in
coordination with the Unitary Platform.

As the talks continue, we will continue to consider sanctions relief. As
I mentioned, we’ve been very clear that the U.S. will calibrate our
sanctions on the basis of concrete outcomes between Venezuelan parties.
And our policy consistently has been to support a negotiated outcome
that leads to competitive and inclusive elections. And that is the
course that — that is the U.S. policy, and that’s the course that we
will continue.

Thanks.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Margaret Brennan with CBS.

Q Hi there. Thanks. So just to clarify, sanctions remain suspended, the
ones that were waived earlier this fall?

And then, is Nicolás Maduro still facing charges in the United States? I
know the Trump administration had rolled out charges back in 2020.
What’s the status of that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Nicolás Maduro is still facing pending
charges in the United States. That remains in place.

And the sanctions relief has not shifted. As one said earlier, there was
relief provided in response to the agreement that was announced between
the Maduro regime and the opposition parties, and those — that relief
remains in place. And we (inaudible) consistent with continued progress
towards competitive elections.

MODERATOR: And our last question is going to go to Eric Tucker with the
AP.

Q Thank you so much for doing this. I really appreciate it. I have what
I hope are just two quick questions. One is, if I recall correctly after
a prior prisoner (inaudible), there were a series of subsequent
detentions and arrests of Americans (inaudible) in Venezuela. So I’m
wondering, this time around, what steps the U.S. can take to ensure that
this does not incentivize future hostage taking.

And lastly, the 20 Venezuelans who are being released, just wanted to
clarify whether that’s a new commitment or the one that was made two
months ago as part of the Barbados agreement. Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So we have — as part of the discussions,
the administration has made abundantly clear the expectation that
additional Americans are not detained, and has secured commitments along
those lines. Obviously, we need to see how things play out in practice.
We continue to warn Americans not to travel to Venezuela. And we
obviously will take appropriate actions if Venezuelans fail to abide by
their commitment not to detain further Americans and — are committed to
protect against the (inaudible) — (audio drops).

MODERATOR: Folks, \[senior administration official\] is  
traveling on Air Force One right now, so I think we may be losing her.

\[Senior administration official\], do you want to address the second
part of that question?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Sure. Can you repeat that?

Q Oh, sure. I was just not sure whether the 20 prisoners are a new
commitment or part of the Barbados agreement.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah, so this is part of the agreement
that was made between the Unitary Platform and representatives of
Nicolás Maduro and going into the October signing of the Barbados
agreement. So this brings us back in line with Barbados.

But also, I think there’s — as a part of ongoing conversations, they
obviously are looking for the release of all of the Venezuelan prisoners
currently in custody, underscoring the importance that competitive,
inclusive elections really are not possible if there is fear of
arbitrary detention.

But again, these are going to be parts of the ongoing conversations
between the Venezuelan authorities, and our approach is going to be to
be supportive of concrete outcomes in those talks.

MODERATOR: All right, that concludes our call, just in the nick of time
for a potential gaggle here to start on the plane. We’ll let you all go.

Thank you all, and we’ll be back in touch about the embargo lift time.

10:34 A.M. EST
