---
date: '2023-12-19'
modified_time: 2023-12-19 17:56:41-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-19 17:56:40-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-34/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
2:04 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey.  Good afternoon, everybody.  The holidays are
upon us.   
  
All right.  So, today Department of Transportation Secretary Pete
Buttigieg and FAA Administrator Mike Whitaker held a press conference at
Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport to preview what travelers can
expect when flying this holiday season.   
  
While we don’t control the weather, obviously, and that we — that can
have significant impacts on air travel — right? — we saw record travel
demand during Thanksgiving, with cancellation at less than half of a
percent — or half a percent.   
  
Cancellation rates are currently the lowest they’ve been since 2016. 
And ahead of holiday travel this week, we are keeping a close eye on the
weather and have been pushing airlines to prepare for significant travel
demand.   
  
We will continue to hold airlines accountable and — protecting
consumers. 

Just yesterday, as you all saw, the Department of Transportation
announced that Southwest will pay $750 million in passenger relief and
penalties for last year’s holiday travel meltdown.  That includes a $140
million penalty — the largest ever.  And it also includes over $600
million in refunds and reimbursements for passengers that have already
been paid.   
  
We also — requiring that Southwest reserve $90 million to compensate
future passengers whose flights are affected by a control — controllable
cancellation and delays.   
  
These historic steps send our message to airlines loud and clear: If you
fail to take care of your passengers, you will be held accountable.   
  
And as you all know, the Admiral is here today to discuss actions that
we are taking with our partners to combat threats posed by the Houthis
in the Red Sea.  
  
With that, Admiral.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon.  As Karine said, I think
you know, earlier this month, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
announced that the United States would rally the international community
to address the increasing threat posed by Houthi attacks on shipping in
the Red Sea.  
  
Yesterday, less than two weeks since Jake was right here at this podium,
the Department of Defense announced Operation Prosperity Guardian and
the formation of an international coalition of countries to counter
these threats.   
  
Now ships and aircraft from multiple nations are and will continue to
join the United States in conducting maritime surveillance and taking
defensive action as appropriate to protect commercial ships from the
threat posed by the Houthis.   
  
This operation is an important new multinational security initiative
under the umbrella of combined maritime forces and the leadership of its
Task Force 153.  And 153 is focused on the Red Sea specifically.  
  
From the beginning, we’ve said that this is an international challenge;
it requires collective and international action.  And we’ve been able to
bring together now a number of partners, including the United Kingdom,
Bahrain, Canada, France, Italy, Ne- — the Netherlands, Norway,
Seychelles, Spain, and even more to address this challenge together.   
  
Also today, in a related fashion, the United States and the world’s
largest flag states for commercial vessels transiting the Red Sea also
issued a joint statement condemning, in the strongest terms, the threats
and the acts by the Houthis.   
  
This joint statement has 44 signatories, including NATO, the entire EU
and G7, as well as Australia, Canada, Bahamas, Malta, New Zealand,
Singapore, and Yemen.   
  
Secretary Austin also convened in the region a meeting with ministers,
chiefs of defense, senior representatives from 43 countries, as well as
the European Union and NATO to discuss what we’re doing in response to
this increased threat.    
  
Now, I think it’s important to put it a little bit in perspective: Some
six countries border the Red Sea.  The Red Sea is a conduit for 10 to 15
percent of all global trade, 8 percent of global grain trade, and 12
percent of global seaborne oil trade.  Of this total Red Sea trade,
Greek-, Chinese-, Japanese-, and German-owned vessels make up 40 to 50
percent of transits.   
  
All that underscores the dependence that these economies have around the
world on the strategic trade.   
  
But bottom line is: These attacks have to stop.  They need to stop. 
They’re unacceptable.  The United States and our allies and our partners
will do what we have to do to counter these threats and to protect these
ships.   
  
And, with that, we can take some questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Chris.  
  
Q    Has the administration thought about redesignating the Houthis as a
terrorist organization?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, we’re actually conducting a review right now on
whether that’s the right course forward.  We’ve talked about that.  No
decision is made right now.   
  
Q    And when do you expect a decision on that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have a timeline for you, but we are reviewing that —
that designation as we speak.   
  
Q    And one more question.  There are some unnamed countries that are
currently involved in the Red Sea initiative.  Can you say more about
why those countries don’t want to be named?  And is it a sign that, you
know, countries don’t want to be seen standing with the United States at
this moment, you know, in the region?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There are some nations that have agreed to participate and
to be a part of this, but they get to decide — they’re sovereign nations
— they get to decide how public they want that to be.  And I’ll leave it
up to them to be able to describe it one way or another since — because
not all want to become public.  I doubt you’re going to get much — much
more out of them.   
  
Q    And lastly, I mean, given the countries want to be unnamed while
participating in this U.S. initiative.  Are — is the U.S. — is the
administration concerned about the United States’ isolation on the world
stage when it comes to the conflict in the Middle East — also given the
Security Council vote that’s coming up as well?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I mean — well, I won’t get ahead of this vote that’s coming
up here.  We’re still working through the modalities of that.   
  
But I mean — I mean, 44 signatories on this joint statement?  Several
nations now willing to join us publicly in this and others that that are
willing to participate in this maritime coalition?  It’s hard to look at
these things — these things which the United States has driven forward —
and say that we’re somehow isolated on the world stage.   
  
In fact, I think what this shows is our convening power and how much
American leadership matters on the world stage.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ed.  
  
Q    Thank you, Admiral and Karine.  We’ve seen attacks on commercial
ships involving one or two drones in the Red Sea, but the USS Carney
took down 14 at one time over the weekend.  Do we have any sense of what
the Houthis were targeting?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  In the broad scope, Ed, as I mentioned in the opening
statement — and the whole purpose of this maritime task force is that
they’re targeting commercial shipping.  I mean, heck, they’ve even said
publicly —  
  
Q    But usually, it’s one or two.  Fourteen at one time, (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They have largely focused their targeting on commercial
ships.  But, you know, we haven’t seen any specific targeting or
intention to target naval vessels.  
  
But you can’t — you know, when a commanding officer is looking at
something coming in — a drone or missile — I mean, he or she has to make
some, oftentimes, split-second decisions about perceiving what the
threat is and — and taking them down.  So, it can’t — you can’t rule it
out specifically.   
  
But when you’re talking about these 14 drones, I mean, it’s not unlike —
it’s not unlike them to launch multiple at a time.  And it’s difficult
to know — when you’re knocking them out of the air, difficult to know
exactly what their intended target was.  
  
In general — and this is why we set up this task force — it is clear
that the Houthis are at the very least conducting a concerted effort to
go after merchant shipping in the Red Sea.  
  
Q    So, it wasn’t — so, it was definitely shipping they were after, not
maybe a place?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, Ed, you can’t be perfectly predictive.  You can
detect what the point of origin is, you can detect what it is that’s
being fired, you can gene- — get a sense of trajectory, altitude, speed
and make — and make a determination about the perceived threat to your
ship or other ships.   
  
I can’t rule out that there weren’t terrestrial targets that might have
been at play here.  But again, in general, what we’re seeing
consistently from the Houthis are attempts to target merchant shipping
in the Red Sea.  And I would just — it’s backed up by their own
statements about what they’re trying to do.   
  
Q    Real quick on an unrelated matter.  There are early reports that
two Americans have been released in Venezuela.  Do you have any comment
or confirmation of that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I can’t confirm those reports.  I would just tell you that
President Biden takes very, very seriously our obligations to get
wrongfully detained Americans home wherever they are overseas.  And we
work those issues very closely every single day.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mary.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The Houthis have made it pretty clear they don’t care
about this multinational task force.  They don’t care how many ships we
park out there; it’s not going to deter them.  So, is this really going
to do the trick?  Are you seeing any signs that this is actually going
to deter them?  Or is it time to consider taking military action?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, now, it just started, didn’t it?  And — and there’s
going to be a whole lot of hardware in the Red Sea now — naval hardware
— not just from the United States but other ships — other ships from
other nations — to counter these threats.  So, let’s see where it
goes.   
  
I mean, it’s up — up and running now.  We hope it gets stronger and is —
is — we’re able to add additional countries and additional capabilities
to it.   
  
I’m certainly not going to telegraph any punches one way or the
other.   
  
I’ll say this, though: As I said in my opening statement, the attacks
are unacceptable.  We have national security interests at play in the
region.  There are international security interests at play in the
region, including to — the threat to shipping.  
  
We take those responsibilities seriously.  We’re going to continue to do
what we can to protect them.   
  
Q    So — so, when they say, “Even if America succeeds in mobilizing the
entire world, our operations will not stop” unless the genocide in Gaza
stops, you think that they will actually change their mind because of
this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think that’s a great question for the Houthis.  What I can
tell you is, we’re not going to stop protecting our national security
interest in the region.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nandita.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Can you talk specifically about why Saudi Arabia and
the UAE are not part of this multi-country coalition?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would let every nation who is a member, whether they want
it acknowledged or not, speak for themselves.  
  
Q    Does the U.S. want them and other Arab countries to participate?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It is a coalition of the willing, and each nation has to
decide for itself whether it’s going to participate and under what
circumstances.  We respect that.  The whole idea here is protecting
sovereign — sovereign assets and sovereign rights.  And that’s what
we’re doing here.   
  
Q    Have the Saudis and the UAE had any conversations with the U.S.
telling them they will participate if the U.S. backs a ceasefire?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to go through diplomatic conversations and
details one way or another.  Both countries are significant partners of
the United States on a range of issues across the region.   
  
Again, they should speak to their — their level of participation.  
  
Q    And I have one on Herzog’s comments about them being ready for
another humanitarian pause in Gaza so hostages can be recovered.  As far
as you can tell, how many more American hostages remain held by Hamas? 
And does the Herzog comment suggest a pause (inaudible)?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As far as we can tell — and I’ll caveat this — caveat this,
as I have many times, that our knowledge is not perfect — but we think
there’s still about 8 Americans that are still being held hostage with
some 140 total that we believe Hamas and other groups hold.   
  
I don’t have an update for you on the progress of talks to try to get
another humanitarian pause in place so that we can get hostages out.  We
continue to work this literally by the hour.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Pope Francis suggested that Israel is using
terrorism tactic after two Christian Palestinian women were shot dead by
the sniper in a Gaza church.  Also, there is disturbing images emerging
again of hundreds of people being rounded — rounded up by the Israeli
army and including a testimony by them saying that they’re not connected
to Hamas.   
  
Do you raise these things with the Israelis?  And can you consider them
as serious incidents?  Because, obviously, to round up hundreds of men
means that a commander — a sitting commander has to take the decision.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  In the aggregate, we have and will continue to have
conversations with our Israeli counterparts about — about abiding by the
— the law of armed conflict about humane treatment of — of detainees and
fighters that are taken off the battlefield.   
  
They understand those responsibilities.  But, yes, we continue to raise
that with them.  And as I said yesterday, we have specifically asked
questions about this shooting at the church.   
  
Q    Okay.  One more question.  A major news — Israeli newspaper,
Yedioth Ahronoth, headline is: “How John Kirby became one of
<s>Israeli</s> \[Israel’s\] leading spokespeople.”   
  
Is that okay with you to being portrayed as a spokesperson for a foreign
country, even if this country is an ally of yours?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m a spokesperson for the National Security Council and for
President Biden on national security issues.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Gabe.  
  
Q    Admiral, is the U.S. seeking China’s help in deterring these
attacks?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, every nation has to decide for itself, Gabe, to what
degree it wants to counter the Houthi attacks.  And I think where China
could be helpful, quite frankly, is more with the influence that we know
they have in Tehran, the conversations that they can have with the
Supreme Leader.  
  
And we have in the past and we continue to encourage the Chinese to use
that influence, use those conversations to lean on the Supreme Leader
and Iran to stop their support for the Houthis.   
  
Q    And speaking of Tehran, has the U.S.’s assessment of Iran’s direct
involvement or any direct involvement in any of these attacks changed
—  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What I can —  
  
Q    — in the last couple weeks?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  All I can tell you is what I’ve said before.  I mean, they
are certainly providing the means, the tools, the capabilities, the
weapons through which the Houthis are conducting these attacks.  
  
The Houthis may be pulling the trigger, but, as I’ve said, Iran is
giving them the guns.   
  
Q    And one last question, Admiral.  We’re about to hit a milestone of
20,000 Palestinians killed according to the Hamas-run health ministry. 
I know the President before said that he didn’t always trust those
numbers.  But does the U.S. believe that we’re about to hit that
milestone: 20,000 Palestinians killed?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It — difficult to have great fingertip-feel on the exact
figures.  That said, we know that many, many thousands of innocent
people in Israel and in Gaza have been killed and/or wounded by the
conflict.  And we don’t want to see this — we don’t want to see conflict
go on one more day.  And it could end today if Hamas would surrender
those responsible, get rid of the hostages — release the hostages, sorry
— and — and immediately lay down their arms.  That — that’s what needs
to happen here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kevin.  
  
Q    I know you said a minute ago that you didn’t want to get ahead of
the Security Council vote.  Does that mean the U.S. is still determining
how it will vote on this resolution?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re still working through the modalities of the
resolution.  That’s where I’ll leave it.  
  
Q    Can you say broadly what the U.S. hopes to accomplish at the U.N.
through this resolution?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I don’t want to get ahead of a resolution that hasn’t
been voted on yet, Kevin.  We’re still working through the modalities of
that.   
  
It’s important for us that the — that the rest of the world understand
what’s at stake here and — and what Hamas did on the 7th of October and
how Israel has a right to defend itself against those threats.  
  
Q    Okay.  And you — you talked a minute ago about the support that the
U.S. has seen from its allies, in terms of the Red Sea.  At the same
time, over the weekend, we heard the UK and Germany come out in support
of this — what they called a “sustainable ceasefire.”  That’s similar
language to what we’ve heard from Canada, Australia, New Zealand.  We’ve
heard France call for an “immediate and durable” ceasefire. 

The President is someone who came into office talking about restoring
alliances, the importance of being on the same page as our global
partners.  Is he at all concerned that there’s a risk that the U.S.
seems out of step on this particular issue with some of its closest
allies?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  As a matter of fact, as I said, I mean, across the
board, we’re seeing how important American leadership is on the world
stage here. 

Every nation can speak for itself.  But — but France and — and the
United Kingdom are terrific close allies and friends.  That’s not going
to change.   
  
And, as I’ve said before — again, I can’t speak to the nuances and what
they’ve said.  What we’ve said is we don’t support a permanent ceasefire
at this time.  It would simply validate what Hamas did on the 7th of
October.  It would leave them in power in Gaza, which is unacceptable to
us and to our Israeli friends.  And, of course, it would give them a
much longer timeline to prepare and plan additional attacks.   
  
We do support smaller, more localized, more targeted humanitarian pauses
to get hostages out and to get more aid in.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Just a couple more.  Go ahead, Janne.  Janne. 

Q    Oh, tha- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Please.  
  
Q    Thank you — thank you, Karine.  I couldn’t hear you. 

I have two questions.  North Korea Kim Jong Un’s recently series of
ballistic missile launches and the meeting with Russia, China, and North
Korea’s foreign ministers — how do you view all of these?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have seen a — a growing desire by Russia and China,
certainly, but to some degree including North Korea, to increase and
improve their — their communications with one another. 

These are three nation-states which brishl- — bristle at the rules-based
order that the United States and our allies and partners have helped
stabilize here and put in place since the — since the end of the Cold
War. 

We still believe that that rules-based order matters and that there are
certain nations that would like to — to act in ways inimical to that
order.  
  
That’s why the President has, for his part, worked to shore up our
alliances and partnerships in the Indo-Pacific to a degree that’s —
we’ve not seen at all in — in so many recent years and to improve and
deepen our security cooperation with the Republic of Korea and with
Japan.   
  
I mean, Jake was just out there in Seoul, as you know, talking to his
counterparts in both countries.  So, we’re comfortable that we’re moving
that process forward.  
  
Q    One more quick.  Kim Jong — I’m sorry.  Kim Jong Un criticized the
United States and South Korea, Japan missile warning information
sharing.  And Kim Jong Un threatened to attack the United States with
nuclear weapons if Washington decided the wrong direction.  How would
you react to this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into a hypothetical, Janne.  You and I
have talked about this a gabillion times.  We take our responsibility
seriously to our allies, Japan and the Republic of Korea.   
  
We recognize the growing threat that Kim Jong Un and his regime present
to the region.  And that’s why, as I said, we’re doing everything we can
to revitalize those alliances and partnerships.  We’ve added military
capabilities to the region, including intelligence-collection
capabilities.  And that’s not going to change.  
  
Look, we — we’ve said before: We’re — we’d be willing to sit down with —
with Kim Jong Un without preconditions to start to talk about the
denuclearization of the Peninsula.  That remains the case today.  He
hasn’t been — been able or willing to take us up on that offer.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Ken.  
  
Q    John, it’s been a few days since Putin said Russia wants to reach
an agreement on the return of my colleague Evan Gershkovich as well as
Paul Whelan.  Has that led to any uptick in the number of calls,
conversations between the administration and Russia?  And is there any
updated outlook from the administration on whether their — their release
may be secured in the next few weeks or in the near term?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, with the caveat that I won’t talk about the specifics
of negotiations lest I say something here publicly that could put them
at risk, we have made a serious proposal for Evan and Paul recently,
which was rebuffed by — by the Russians.  Regardless of what Mr. Putin
says — just isn’t true — they actually did rebuff it.   
  
And we — we haven’t given up.  We haven’t stopped working on it.  And I
can tell you that we are working very, very hard to see if there’s
another avenue that we can approach, another option that we can pursue
that can maybe get both of those men home with their families where they
belong.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Cristina, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Admiral, the President’s support for Israel,
the position on Israel seems to be losing him support among — among
Americans as well.  Could it be a messaging problem that they just don’t
understand the importance of supporting Israel?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I can’t speak for every American citizen.  I can tell
you just a couple of things.  The President doesn’t make national
security decisions based on polls; he makes them based on principles. 
And there are some core principles that are at stake here — of course,
Israel’s right to exist as a nation and to defend their — their citizens
against attacks like what happened on the 7th of October.   
  
He knows that there are strong feelings on all sides here.  And he
appreciates that; he respects that.  And — and our team has been in
touch with communities all over the country about — about those
feelings, about those concerns.  And we — we do take that seriously.   
  
And that’s why, in addition to making sure that we can help Israel
defend itself, we are also leading the world in terms of trying to make
life better for the people of Gaza right now.  We are — we are the ones
— the country that has really led the effort to get additional
humanitarian assistance in.  
  
Now, obviously, we have partners helping us.  But, I mean, it’s the
United States really pushing and convening those discussions to get
humanitarian assistance in.  And we continue to talk to our Israeli
counterparts — as Secretary Austin did yesterday, as Jake did a few days
ago in Tel Aviv — to be more careful, more cautious, more deliberate in
the way that they are pursuing their military operations, particularly
as they now gravitate more to the South.  
  
And they have been receptive to those messages.  And as I’ve said many
times, they have taken some actions to be more careful.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anita.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  We’ve heard various proposals for international
trusteeship in post-war Gaza, including one from former Prime Minister
Ehud Olmert, who suggested — let me say this carefully — an
international (inaudible) —  
  
(A reporter sneezes.)  
  
Q    — drawn from NATO countries —  
  
Q    Bless you.  
  
Q    — and overseen by the U.N.  How do you feel about that?  How does
the White House feel about that?  Or would you like — would you rather
see trusteeship under, you know, Arab missions?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think we’re at the stage right now where we can
endorse one particular option or another.  What we believe, as I’ve said
before, is that whatever post-conflict Gaza looks like, it can’t look
like it did on the 6th of October with Hamas in control.   
  
We do believe that the Palestinian Authority can and should have a role
here.  But we also believe that the Palestinian Authority has some work
to do in terms of revamping and revitalizing its — its own structures,
its own organization, its own leadership approaches so that it can be
credibly involved in — in governance post-conflict.  
  
Q    Do you have a preference for whose auspices they should do that
under?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, we’re still working our way through the modalities of
what that can look like.  But we do believe that the Palestinian
Authority can and should have a significant role in terms of what
governance looks like in Gaza post-conflict.  
  
Q    And on this naval mission, how does the White House see the scope
of it and how do you keep this from metastasizing into a larger, wider
conflict?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It — it’s going to be scaled to the threat.  And right now,
there’s an increasing threat by the Houthis in terms of drones and
missile attacks on commercial shipping.   
  
So, again, we’re grateful for the countries that have signed up to
support this.  We’ll see — you know, it’s just now getting started.  So,
it’s too soon for me to say that — what its trajectory is going to be,
whether it’s going to get much bigger or need to get much smaller or
where it’s going to — or how its operations are going to be conducted.  
  
But this is something that international navies know how to do and know
how to work together to — to counter.  So, we’ll — we’ll see where it
goes.   
  
But it is an important body of water, an international waterway for
global commerce, and we have to — all of us, not just United States —
all of us have to take that responsibility seriously and keep that free
flow of navigation.  
  
Q    John, good afternoon.  Shipping companies, including Maersk, are
rerouting.  They’re not going anywhere near the Red Sea, as you know. 
How much do you anticipate that could interrupt the global supply
chain?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s hard to say right now.  These companies obviously have
to make their own decisions based on the safety and security of their
vessels and their crews, and we respect that.  But I think it’s just too
soon to know what kind of impact it’s actually going to have on the
global economy.   
  
That’s why, quite frankly — because we’re trying to get ahead of the
problem set here — that’s why we’re standing up this coalition and
trying to flesh it out and be able to counter these threats so that
transit through the Red Sea can be safer and more secure than it is
right now.  
  
Q    All right.  One more.  If a drone is coming at a merchant vessel,
can Operation Prosperity Guardian protect that vessel from being
struck?  Is that even possible?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Can — is your question can we shoot down a drone that’s
headed towards a com- —  
  
Q    They’re not — they’re not going to be — the convoys are spread out
far apart, right?  They’re not going to be escorting them very close —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  So, two —  
  
Q    — close by.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  — two things.  Number one, yes, and we have.  We’ve already
disrupted threats to commercial ships that we’ve been able to detect or
— or — and engage them in flight.  So, the first answer is yes.  
  
Secondly — and I know I got to get going here, but —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  This isn’t about — you shouldn’t think about this in terms
of World War Two aggregating of fleets.  I mean, these — these vessels
will be operating as one unit as part of a task force.  But they will be
placed in the Red Sea as appropriate to the presence of commercial
vessels and as appropriate to the threat coming out of Yemen.  
  
And so, the great thing about ships is they move around, and — and
they’ll move around as appropriate.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On the Ukraine funding.  You said yesterday, the — the
White House hopes to send one more aid package to Ukraine before the end
of the year.  But at that point, the U.S. will have used up the
remaining funds to replenish the stockpiles.  
  
Should Ukraine plan for that to be the last package, then, before the
end of this year?  Or is there any way to shift funding so that there
could be something else if Congress doesn’t act?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have one more security assistance package available to us
before the end of this year before we run out of replenishment authority
to replenish the stocks and the inventories on DOD shelves.  That’s why
it’s so critical that Congress act on that supplemental funding.   
  
Q    Could you tap into stockpiles and replenish later if Congress were
to come through with the funding in January?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As — as our OMB director, Shalanda Young, said, there’s no
magic pot of money here.  I mean, that’s why we need this supplemental. 
That’s why we need this funding to support Ukraine going forward.  And
like I said, we’ve got — we’ve got one more crack at this here before
the end of the year before that replenishment authority runs out.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Two more.  James and then Jalil.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you very much.  And I have two quick yes-or-nos and
then one more substantive question.   
  
First, on the Israel-Hamas conflict, has President Biden, through any
means, conveyed to the Israeli government that a failure by that
government to adhere to the prescriptions for the conduct and phasing of
the war that U.S. officials have proffered to the Israeli government
would be met with a withdrawal by the United States government of any of
the money, weapons, or intelligence that we have been providing?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The President has been crystal clear on this, James.  We’re
going to continue to support Israel as they continue to fight against a
violent and viable threat by Hamas.  
  
Q    Second yes-or-no question.  Is President Biden committed to getting
Lieutenant Alkonis home to his family before Christmas?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think as — I want to be careful here I don’t get too much
into what is still a legal process.  So, I think, to be safe, I’m going
to refer you to the Justice Department on this particular case.  
  
Q    On the Ukraine conflict, I want to revisit the concerns that you
have expressed from the podium about a burgeoning and active defense
partnership between the DPRK and Russia.  You’ve declassified satellite
imagery and intelligence purporting to show that North Korea has, since
the Ukraine conflict began, been supplying direct lethal materiel to the
Kremlin.   
  
I wonder if, given the degree to which the DPRK is a client state of
China — and federal estimates suggest that the DPRK receives more than
90 percent of its imports from China — whether it’s really appropriate
to speak of the DPRK having any kind of bilateral relationship with
Russia, rather, would it be more appropriate for us to say that this
provision of direct lethal materiel by the DP- — DPRK to Russia is
something which enjoys the blessing of the Chinese and, indeed, couldn’t
occur without it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Two things I’d say.  One is, as deeply concerned as we are
by the DPRK’s actions on a range of fronts, they are a sovereign
nation.  They make sovereign decisions of their own.   
  
Number two, we — we have not seen any indication that the — the People’s
Republic of China have acted to directly provide lethal military
capabilities to Russia.  I think that’s how I’d answer that.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Very, very quickly —  
  
Q    Thank you very mu- —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — because the Admiral —  
  
Q    Thank you very much.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — actually has to go.  
  
Q    I’ll combine both the questions together.  One: Last week, 21
Pakistani soldiers were killed by the weapons that were left in
Afghanistan.  Was — were those weapons left there or — was that a
mistake, or was it left intentionally?  And, second, Pakistan army chief
is here.  He met several officials.  Any expectations for Pakistan in
future —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  A- —  
  
Q    Any expectations for Pakistan to play some different kind of roles
in coming days?  Pakistani army chief is here.  He met several —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would refer you to the Defense Department on those
discussions.  Obviously, Pakistan remains a key partner in the region. 
They continue to face a viable terrorism threat across that border.  I’m
sure that our Defense Department colleagues will have more to say on
that.   
  
I don’t — I haven’t seen the reporting on these to — to verify what
you’ve said about weapons left in Afghanistan participat- — or being
used to —  
  
Q    So, the 21 soldiers that were killed in Pakistan, the weapons that
the Taliban used were the weapons that the U.S. left in Afghanistan —

MR. KIRBY:  Okay —

Q    — the goggles, the guns —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I haven’t seen those reports.  But let me remind you —
please, take the opportunity to remind you: We didn’t just leave a bunch
of weapons in Afghanistan.  This is a fallacy.  This is a farce. 

What we did over the course of our 20 years in Afghanistan — of course,
with congressional approval and consultations — was armed and helped
equip the Afghan National Security Forces.   
  
Now — and as we have said time and time again, that as the Taliban made
advances, those Afghan National Security Forces, many of them decided
not to fight but yet to lay down their arms and leave.  But the — the
arms that you’re talking about — and, again, I can’t verify these
specific reports — belong to the Afghan National Security Forces.   
  
That what wa- — what was — that’s what was left behind — not that the
United States just walked away and abandoned a bunch of weapons in a
pile in Afghanistan.  That’s just not — simply not historically
accurate.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, everybody.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks.  Thanks, Admiral.   
  
Chris.  
  
Q    Question on the new immigration law in Texas.  Does the White House
have any — the White House have any thoughts on that law?  And there
appears to be some litigation that’s starting over the law as well. 
What is your response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is an extreme law that will not and
does not make the communities in Texas safer.  It just doesn’t.  And I
think to add to that is that it is very much in line with what
Republicans — many Republicans like to do or tend to do, which is dema-
— de- — demonize immigrants and also dehumanize immigrants.  This is
part of this.   
  
And so, this is not who we are as a country.  This is not who we should
be as a country.  Communities should not — should not be individually
targeted and put in- — into harm’s way.  And this is what we’re
seeing.   
  
Again, you know, this is something that Governor Abbott has done over
and over again.  There are plenty of examples that I’ve listed out from
here before — whether it’s le- — whether it’s leaving migrants in the
side of the road in the middle of winter, installed razor — razor —
razor wire near the border making it more dangerous for Border Patrol to
do their jobs, and placed <s>bios</s> \[buoys\] in — in the river making
it harder for Border Patrol to do their jobs as well.   
  
So, this is certainly extreme, as we see it.  And it is incredibly
unfortunate.  But this is what we see from particular Republicans trying
to dehumanize a group of people who are coming here or some of them
trying to migrate here.  And — and they’re putting them in harm’s way. 
They’re putting them in harm’s way.  
  
Q    And can you just talk to negotiations of the supplemental? 
Obviously, migration/immigration is an important part of that.  Where —
where are we at at that at this point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has been very clear that he
wants to make sure that we come to a bipartisan agreement on — on this
issue and that border security obviously is important, and we need to —
to figure this out in a bipartisan way.   
  
And so, he’s encouraged by the discussions that we’ve been seeing. 
There is progress that is happening.  And the President also believes
that we need to — we need to fix immigration.  Right?  This was why, on
his first day in office, he put forth a comprehensive immigration
legislation.   
  
And he take — he took this very seriously.  And that’s why he put
forward a supplemental plan — right? — that had — that had part of it as
adding, certainly, more — more — more law enforcement to the border —
right? — making sure that we’re taking additional actions.  That’s why
he put forth that supplemental — that emergency supplemental.   
  
So, this — he thinks it’s really — it’s really important.  We think that
we’re headed in the right direction.  We are encouraged by the
discussions that are happening on the Hill.  And so, we want to make
sure we get to a bipartisan agreement on this.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    On the Texas immigration law.  The ACLU has already filed a
lawsuit.  Does the President support the government also taking legal
action here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Department of Justice, they’re going to decide
whether they’re going to file a lawsuit here.  Certainly, I’m not going
to get ahead of that.   
  
Q    In 2012, the — the court upheld — the Supreme Court upheld —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — the rule that the federal government, not individual states, you
know, have the authority to decide who gets into the country.  But this
is now obviously a more conservative Court.   
  
I mean, are you concerned that the position may now be changed, that a
conservative Court could use this to revisit that landmark case?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I can’t speak to the conservative
Court.  You said it in your question to me, which is like the federal
court — not individual state — are — is in charge of determining how and
when to remove noncit- — noncitizens for violating immigration laws. 
That is who — where that sits, and that’s where that belongs.   
  
And, look, the — the — as you just stated, in 2012, it happened, and it
was struck down.  Right?  The Court struck that down.  
  
As far as what’s going to happen next, the DOJ — the Department of
Justice — certainly is going to make that decision.  I’m not going to
get ahead of it.   
  
But there is precedent.  It was struck down.  I can’t speak for this
current Court.   
  
But what I can say is and what I said at the top when I was asked this
question by Chris is that the law is incredibly extreme.  And it does
not make — it does not make communities in Texas safer.  It just does
not. 

It dehumanizes, which is what Republicans tend to do — certain
Republicans tend to do is dehumanize immigrants and de- — and — and also
demonize them.  And that’s what we’re seeing here.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Quick question on the U.S. Steel acquisition. 
Several lawmakers, including John Fetterman, have come out now against
the — the U.S. Steel acquisition by Japan’s Nippon Steel.  I’m just
wondering how the White House views this proposed deal.  And do you have
any concerns around market consolidation or national security?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, given the — this could potentially be a regulatory
review, I’m not going to speak to any specifics of this transaction. 
So, I’m going to be very careful.   
  
But what I can do is speak about it more broadly.  And one of the things
that I — that I can share that the President believes is that
Steelworkers’ commitment to protecting American manufacturing that
supports family-sustaining union jobs — that is something that the
President supports.  That is something that the President certainly
shares with Steelworkers.   
  
But I’m going to be super mindful and certainly not comment on the
review.   
  
And I’ll also say that, you know, the President is committed to
competition because he knows competition means lower costs for consumers
and higher wages for workers.  That’s incredibly important.  
  
But going to be really careful on not saying too much, again, because
this might be under regulatory review.  
  
Q    And just a quick one on the Vice President’s abortion tour.  I
mean, she’s starting the tour in Wisconsin in January.  Is this tour
primarily going to focus on battleground states?  And also wanted to
know if the President, at any point, will be joining her.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the — there — your last question first.  I don’t
have any plans or announcement to make at this time on — on the
President’s plans but certainly will have more to come.   
  
As to the — the Vice President and where she’s going to be going,
there’ll be, certainly, more to share.  I’ll share a couple of things
more broadly.  As you just stated, she’s going to kick off a nationwide
reproductive freedoms tour to continue fighting back against extreme
attacks on reproductive care. 

She will hit the road in states across the country, bring together
thousands of people, and discuss the harm caused by extreme abortion
bans while sharing stories of those who have been impacted.   
  
The tour, as reported, is going to — it’s going to be kicked off at an
event in Wisconsin on January 22nd, which is — as I’m sure you all are
following, is the 51st anniversary of Roe v. Wade.   
  
And since Roe v. Wade was overturned, Republican elected officials have
imposed dangerous abortion bans that put the health of women in
jeopardy, as we’ve seen — we’ve heard stories over and over again —
forced women to travel out of state for care, and threatened to
criminalize doctors.   
  
So, the President and the Vice President are — are going to continue to
show their fight to protect women’s right to make a decision on their
own healthcare.   
  
And — and that decision, as we all know, is incredibly difficult.  Those
types of healthcare decisions that women have to make is incredibly
difficult.  And it should be something that they decide along with their
family and their doctors.  We should not — it should not be decided by
politicians.  
  
Go ahead, Kevin.  
  
Q    Hundreds of Jewish facilities reported receiving false bomb threats
over the weekend.  The FBI has said that they appear coordinated and
could have originated outside of the United States.  Has the President
been briefed on these threats?  Can we expect to hear from him at any
point on them?  And what is the White House’s current understanding of
where this could have come from?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Kevin, thanks for the question.  I think it’s
important, obviously, for Americans in the Jewish community to hear
directly from us about this.  
  
We are closely tracking hundreds of emailed bomb threats to Jewish
synagogues, schools, and other institutions over the weekend.  Local and
federal law enforcement are investigating each and every one of them.   
  
The President has been very clear, and I have said this many times right
here at this podium: Antisemitism, threats of — threats of intimidation
or violence of any kind is unacceptable, it is dangerous, and it — there
is no place of that type of threat or any threats of violence in
America.  
  
The President and the entire administration are committed — we are
committed to doing everything possible to ensure the safety of religious
communities.   
  
Anything specific about these threats, as — as I mentioned, certainly
looking at each one of them — I would have to refer you to the FBI or
the local government.  
  
Q    But was the President briefed specifically on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is aware of these threats.  And,
obviously, we will do everything that we can to — to ensure that — that
communities — the Jewish community, specifically, as — as were — as
these threats are being targeted at — feel safe — religious communities,
more broadly, obviously, feel safe.  And so, this is — certainly, this
type of an- — this antisemitism and hate is unacceptable.  And we will
continue to be loud and clear about that.   
  
Q    And — and can we expect to hear from the President on that?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to share specifically about
the President making an announcement or speaking to this directly.  The
FBI, obviously, is on top of this, working with local government.  
  
We are — we have been very clear and steadfast and — about this, about
the type of hate that we’re seeing against the Jewish community.  And
we’ve spoken out against hate on — on any community.  And we have said
there’s no place in America for any type of violence.  And certainly,
people should — should feel safe to be able to — to be able to be in —
in a synagogue, or any religious community should be safe.  
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Given the President’s strong Catholic faith, what
was his reaction to yesterday’s announcement by the Vatican that priests
can now bla- — can now bless same-sex unions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: The President, along with many
Catholics around the world, welcomed the declaration from the Vatican,
done with the approval of Pope Francis, that allows for the blessing of
same-sex couples. 

And certainly, anything specific, we would have to refer you to the
Church.  But obviously, we welcome this step — the step — this step in
the Church ministry to the LGBT people — to LGBQ people.  
  
Go ahead, Em- — Emily.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I have two questions, but they’re tied together. 
With the holidays coming up, which members of the Biden family will be
spending Christmas with the President and the First Lady? 

And then, I noticed today when the President arrived on Marine One that
Hunter Biden and his son, Beau, were also on the helicopter with them. 
The White House provides to the public a list of staffers who travel
with the President.  Why don’t they provide a list of the family members
that travel with the President on these government-funded —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I have to double-check to see if that is
indeed correct.  Because I did ask about that.  So, let me just
double-check.   
  
Look, I’ll say this more broadly: Obviously, you’ve seen the President
with his family these past couple of days.  And I think you know why. 
They were — they were — they were observing a very somber anniversary
for them.  And so — so, I’m not going to add anything more to that. 

But this was a — obviously, a somber moment in the — in the family.  And
so, they were, certainly, together to — you know, to — to acknowledge
and take part in that anniversary.  So, we just want to be really
sensitive to that and make that very, very clear. 

And don’t have anything to add about the family.  Obviously, the
President is very close to his family.  As it relates to the holidays,
he spends, obviously, every holiday with his family — mostly every
holiday with his family.  I just don’t have a list of names to share
with you at this time.   
  
Go ahead, J.J.   
  
Q    I have a question about Apple.  But just a follow-up on Nandita’s
question about U.S. Steel.  You said something about regulatory review
potential for that.  So, it sounds like there’s some expectation of —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Potentially.  
  
Q    — a CFIUS review —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    Is that what you mean?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not — just not going to get into —  
  
Q    You can’t clarify which —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not.  
  
Q    — you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s potential for regulatory review.  This is a
transaction, as you know.  So, I’m just going to be super, super mindful
and just — I just want to be careful.   
  
Q    Okay.  But the President has been briefed on the sale of U.S.
Steel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is aware.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on Apple — on the ruling that some Apple Watches
violate another company’s patent.  Apple is going to have to pull some
of these models from the shelves.  And there’s some questions about
whether the Biden administration will intervene.  Can you say if — if
there is some consideration about vetoing this ban by the International
Trade Commission?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re tracking this case and the December 25th
deadline.  As you know, USTR has — has the President’s delegated
authority to make these determinations and Ambassador Tai is, obviously,
carefully considering all of the factors in this case.  So, I don’t want
to get ahead of which — what — any decisions that may come out of — out
of U — USTR.  But she has — certainly has the authority to -­- to
decide.   
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    On immigration again.  You said the President is encouraged by the
ongoing talks.  Has he had any direct engagement with the bipartisan
negotiating team?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any readout for you at this time,
Ed.  But what I can say is the President certainly has been in touch —
regular touch with congressional members.  You know, this — he has
relationships with some of them, having been the former vice president,
obviously, a former senator.  Just don’t have anything to read out on
specific conversations.  So, he’s been in touch with folks on the
Hill.  
  
Q    There has been criticism from the left and the right that the White
House could have gotten involved on this specific issue of border
security and immigration sooner, and not as actively as it has in the
last 10 days.  What’s the response of the White House to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the — as far as timing and engagement —
look, the President has taken this very seriously.  You’ve heard me say
this over and over and over again — ad nauseam probably.  On the first
day of this administration, almost three years ago, the President put
forth a comprehensive immigration proposal.  That’s how serious he — he
took it.   
  
And three years, Congress did not act.  They did not act on this.  And
so, you know — and now, here we are.  The President put forth an
emergency supplemental, obviously, proposal to deal not just with — not
just with Ukraine and Israel but obviously the border as well.  And
they’ve just let — let this process languish for three years.  Three
years.   
  
And so — and the Republicans, you know, they completely got in the way —
opposed the record funding that we have asked for.  If anything, they
asked for cuts — cuts of 2,000 Border Patrol.  They’ve done everything
that they can to get in the way of the President actually wanting to —
to address this issue that we’re seeing at — at the border.   
  
So, this is something that — his first legislation — first piece of
legislation was dealing with the broken system that we’re seeing in the
immigration system.  
  
Q    I think the criticism is less about the last three years and more
about the last two months — that since that emergency supplemental was
submitted, there was virtually no conversation between the White House
and Congress about moving it — but more specifically about that aspect
of it — the border security aspect — until word came about week, week
and a half ago now that the White House is willing to play ball on
changes to asylum and other things.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m not going to get to the specific of what’s
being discussed here.  I’m just not going to negotiate from — from the
podium, obviously.   
  
But I take — I — you know, I take offense, and I think the President
does too, on saying that we haven’t taken this seriously.  When you put
your first piece of legislation is on immigration to fix the broken
system, that is taking it very seriously.  When you put out an emergency
supplemental, which we put out weeks ago, that has the border — funding
for the border, we take that very seriously.    
  
And then, you have Congress — they put forth H.R. 2.  They put — they
continue to get in the way — Republicans, to be more clear — on actually
do- — doing what the President is asking for: getting some record
funding, making sure the law enforcement — CBP at the border have what
they need to deal with what’s going on at the border.   
  
And so, he’s taken it seriously.  Almost three years — almost three
years that we put forward this comprehensive piece of legislation on
immigration — again, on a system that has been broken for decades — for
decades.   
  
Go ahead, Gabe.  
  
Q    Karine, does the White House regret linking border funding and
Ukraine aid?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  This is emergency funding.  This is
much-needed funding.  Let’s not forget: This is a president — what —
what he’s asking for is about — is dealing with America’s national
security as well, what he believes is important as a leader.   
  
So, these things are in — he put — he put it forward because they’re
important, they’re emergency needs.  And so, the President is — is
always going to do what’s best for the American people but also our
national security.   
  
Q    And, Karine, as this debate over money plays out in Washington,
over the weekend in Chicago, a five-year-old boy who was living in a
migrant shelter died.  His name was Jean Carlos Martinez.  What does —
what would the White House say to his family?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s devastating.  A child dying — anyone dying is
devastating — devastating.  As someone who is a mom, myself, that is —
when you hear stories like that, it is heart-wrenching.  And I know that
the President feels the same way.   
  
This is why we have taken this very seriously from day one, when it
comes to dealing with a broken immigration system.  This is why the
first piece of legislation that the — that the President put forth was
on immigration and doing everything that we can in a comprehensive way
to deal with it.   
  
Our hearts go out to the young — this little boy’s family.  I can’t even
imagine what they’re going through.  I don’t want to imagine what
they’re going through.  But our hearts go to them — out to them.   
  
Q    Some of the local officials in Chicago have gone so far as to blame
the Texas governor for busing migrants into Chicago and have said that
that policy has led to situations like this one with a young boy.  Does
that — does the White House share that view?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to go into specific cases from
here.  We’ve always been very clear, and I — you heard me at the — at
the top, the first question that I got — that we believe that Governor
Abbott’s policies and his political stunts are not safe.  They’re not
safe for the Texas communities and our — our CBP, our law enforcement on
the ground who are trying to do their work.  They put them at — in
harm’s way.  And they — well, they dehumanize — dehumanize and demonize
immigrants.  That’s what — that’s what his political stunts do.   
  
Certainly not going to get into every specific case.  But we’ve been
very clear that they actually — what he’s doing doesn’t actually help.  
  
AIDE:  Karine, you have time for one or two more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I saw that Katie Porter — Congresswoman Katie Porter has shifted
her position and recently called for a ceasefire.  Is there a concern
that Democratic members of Congress, most of them who have been standing
with President Biden’s stance on this, are moving away from what the
White House has said?  Is that a concern that the White House has?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has been very clear.  You’ve heard
Admiral — Admiral Kirby.  You’ve heard from Jake Sullivan.  You’ve heard
from Secretary Austin, who is now in the region.  And we’ve been very
clear that we do not believe a ceasefire at this time or ceasefire is
going to — is — is the right way to go.  We believe in humanitarian
pauses — right? — in order to make sure that we get humanitarian aid and
get hostages — hostages out and home to their families.   
  
And that’s what we’ve been pushing for.  That’s what we’ve been talking
to regional partners about.  And, you know, in our minds, Hamas is a
terrorist organization.  It’s not even in our minds.  That is a fact. 
And in order — if we do a ceasefire, it does not — it does not take away
the harm that Israel is going to be in.   
  
And so, that’s kind of where we’ve been, and we’ve been pretty clear
about that.   
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Will the White House announce Hunter Biden’s
presence on Marine One moving forward?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something that we’ve never done.  That — this
is the family.  The family gets to travel with — with the President, and
— and that’s been the case with every other president.  And so, it’s not
something that we have done or — or we would be doing moving forward.  
  
Q    The reason I ask is just the legal trouble he’s facing, if leaving
him off the list would appear to sound like an effort to conceal him. 
And I guess the question that it begs is: Why does the President think
it’s appropriate that taxpayer dollars should be used to fly him around
when he’s been indicted and just defied a congressional subpoena?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would refer you to Hunter’s personal
representatives as it relates to any questions about the legal affairs. 
But as you know — as you know, as it relates to the past couple of days,
as I just stated to your colleague, is that, you know, the President and
their family were — obviously, it was a somber — a somber anniversary
that they were recognizing.  And so, you could imagine what that is like
for them.   
  
And — and I’ll say, lastly, and I’ve said this many times before, the
President and the First Lady love their son very, very much.  But as it
relates to anything in regards to his legal affairs, I would have to
certainly refer you to his representatives.  I just don’t have anything
else to add on that.  
  
Q    And real quickly, on Bidenomics.  You know, the White House is
trying to sell this Bidenomics message heading into the election year. 
But we have a new Fox poll, and it shows that nearly half of voters — 46
percent — say the administration’s policies have hurt them.  And voters
don’t see the economy getting any better.  They’re twice as likely to
see it getting worse next year.  Why is that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  And we’ve talked about this many
times, right?  The last few years have been challenging for the American
people.  We know that.  Coming out of the pandemic, when the President
walked into this administration, the economy was in a tailspin.  It
was.   
  
And so, the President did everything that he can to make sure that we
get this economy back on track.  And we understand — we understand that
Americans, you know, feel like things are still unaffordable.  We get
that.  And that is something that the President has said himself very
recently.  
  
And that’s why he’s going to continue.  When it comes to — that’s why
the Inflation Reduction Act is so important.  Matter of fact, no
Republican voted on that act.  If anything, they’re trying to repeal
some really important provisions that deals with lowering the
prescription drugs — right? — that deals with lowering healthcare; that
deals with lowering energy cost.  
  
And so, that is something that the President signed.  And only Democrats
voted for it.  No Republicans did.  And it’s going to help the American
people.   
  
And so, there are — you know, there are historical actions that this
President has taken that has shown — the data shows that the economy is
in a better place.  But I understand — we understand that Americans
don’t feel it right now.  That’s why we’re going to continue to talk
about junk fees, making sure that that is something that we deal with —
right? — making sure that we’re beating Big Pharma and lowering drug
costs for Americans.  
  
So, there are ways that we’re going to continue to make sure that the
number one thing, when it comes to Bidenomics, that the President deals
with — lowering costs — we’re going to put that front and center.   
  
Matter of fact, the President is going to be in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
tomorrow.  You’ll hear directly from him.  He’ll talk about Bi- —
Bidenomics.  He’ll talk about how small businesses is at the pillar of
Bidenomics and how important it is.  We have seen record — record
application — more than 14 million applications for people wanting to
start a small business.  And that is because Bidenomics is indeed
working.  
  
Thanks, everybody.  
  
2:59 P.M. EST
