---
date: '2023-12-15'
modified_time: 2023-12-15 17:57:35-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-15 17:57:34-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/15/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications\
  \ John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:13 P.M. EST

MR. KIRBY: Hey, guys. It wouldn’t be a Kirby gaggle if it started on
time, so I do apologize for that, particularly on a Friday afternoon.

Real quickly, I think you may have been tracking this, but I do want to
raise it, that yesterday, during his meetings in Israel, Jake welcomed
Prime Minister Netanyahu’s decision to open up the Kerem Shalom crossing
for inspections. And he, of course, urged them to quickly make it
available for the direct entry of trucks.

Before he left Israel today, Jake got the news by the government of
Israel that they had made the decision to, in fact, open up Kerem Shalom
for direct delivery of humanitarian assistance to the Palestinian people
in Gaza.

So this is a significant step forward. We’re very, very grateful for
this decision. I think it’s going to make a big difference in the lives
and livelihoods of people that are still suffering and in need of food,
water, medicine, and fuel. And it’s, of course, something we asked the
Israelis to do. We’re glad that they have moved in that direction.

And again, I’ll leave it there.

MODERATOR: Great. Thank you so much. We’ll go to Aamer from AP for the
first question.

Q Hey, John, is Jake Sullivan headed elsewhere in the region this
weekend, or coming back to Washington?

And then, secondly, the White House briefer yesterday said one
possibility being pondered for security in Gaza is bringing back
Palestinian Security Forces that had been driven out from their jobs by
Gaza — I’m sorry, from Gaza by Hamas, after the takeover nearly 20 years
ago. I’m just wondering: How would that work, when the PA seems to have
little support among the population, and Israel and — what the Israelis
are saying is that they want an open-ended security presence once the
war ends? Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Aamer. On Jake’s travel, I don’t have additional
stops to speak to at this time.

On your second question, I think, look, this all gets wrapped up into
what we’re trying to do in terms of looking at post-governance — or
post-conflict governance in Gaza. We don’t have the answers to your
questions, as valid as they are.

What we are trying to do is work with the range of our partners in the
region, which obviously includes Israel but certainly the Palestinian
Authority. One of the things that Jake talked about with Mahmoud Abbas
was, in fact, governance possibilities.

So we don’t know exactly what security services will look like for the
people of Gaza post-conflict, but it is absolutely valid — it’s a valid
question to ask. We’re asking those questions ourselves. We’re working
with partners to see what this can look like.

As we’ve said in the past — and Secretary Blinken is much more eloquent
than me — whatever post-conflict Gaza looks like, it can’t look like it
did on the 6th of October, with Hamas in control. And it has to be more
representative of the aspirations of the Palestinian people. And, you
know, that sounds like a throwaway line. It’s not. Because one of their
aspirations is to live in peace and have stability and have security and
a measure of safety. And so, the security component of this very much
has to be wrapped up and baked into it. We just aren’t there yet. There
aren’t any final answers.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next, we’ll go to Steve Holland with Reuters.

Q John, did Jake ask President Abbas if he’d be willing to take over
Gaza if his organization has the strength to take over Gaza at some
point in the future?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I don’t want to get into the specific details of the
conversation. And obviously, I wasn’t in the room when they had that
conversation.

All I can tell you, Steve, is that they absolutely talked about
post-conflict Gaza and governance issues and, as it was in the readout,
talking about a revamped and a revitalized Palestinian Authority that
has the responsibility and accountability for how the future of the
Palestinian people is managed and how we’re looking after, again, their
aspirations.

So, a broad range — a broad discussion about the Palestinian Authority’s
role, what it should be, what it can be, but also what needs to be done
to get the Palestinian Authority in a position where it is seen as more
credible, more authentic, and more accountable.

Q And the idea of Israel scaling back its high-intensity operations in
Gaza, when do you want and expect that to happen?

MR. KIRBY: Well, as Jake said himself, I mean, we’re not dictating terms
to the Israelis. We did talk to them about what they’re thinking in
terms of transitioning from high-intensity to what we would consider
lower-intensity military operations.

Look, we agree with the Israelis that this conflict could go on for
months. But what Jake talked to them is about the importance of thinking
about transitioning to a different phase here, where it’s — where the
operations are more targeted, more precise, more surgical, really, in
scope and scale. What that looks like on the calendar and how that
transition is made is really going to be up to our Israeli counterparts
to decide and to speak to.

Q Thank you.

MR. KIRBY: Yes, sir.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next, we’ll go to Gabe from NBC.

Q Hi there, John. In talking about a targeted, more  
precise assault, the IDF just mistakenly — it just said it mistakenly
killed three hostages. What’s the U.S.’s reaction to that? And how can
the U.S. continue to say that Israel is trying to minimize civilian
casualties here?

MR. KIRBY: Gabe, it’s heartbreaking, it’s tragic, this news coming out
of Gaza today about these hostages being killed in the conduct of a
raid.

I want to be careful here not to speak to too many specifics because we
don’t have perfect visibility on exactly how this operation unfolded and
how this tragic mistake was made. But obviously, this is not an outcome
that anybody wanted to see.

And, you know, the Prime Minister, Prime Minister Netanyahu, of course
also conveyed very similar sentiments about the gravity of the loss here
and how unbearable it is.

I think the Israelis will certainly take a look at this, and I’m sure
they will do the forensics to try to figure out how they got — how this
happened. It’s certainly the way we would approach a situation like this
too; we’d want to know as many answers as we could.

So I want to — you know, to your second question, I don’t think that,
you know, we can necessarily make some sort of broad judgment about the
specific circumstances here and what that says about the ability for
them to be more surgical and more precise.

I would add that, you know, when they went into north Gaza, they went in
with a much smaller footprint, and they were able to conduct
smaller-scale, smaller-unit operations than what they had originally
planned to do. And we’ll let them — again, we’ll let them do the
forensics here and try to figure out what happened.

But right now — just one more second, and then I promise I’ll shut up.
Right now, we’re mourning with the families that are getting the worst
possible news a family can get. And I think we need to keep them
foremost in mind.

Q And, John, one more quick follow-up. Has the President spoken with
Prime Minister Netanyahu directly about the killing of these three
hostages?

MR. KIRBY: He has not had a conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu
about this incident. He has been briefed by his national security team
about it.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next, we’ll go to Felicia with FT.

Q Hi, John. Thank you. I’m wondering if you have any response to global
shipping companies like Maersk halting travel through the Red Sea. And
has there been any progress on the task force Jake and others have
mentioned you’re looking into setting up?

MR. KIRBY: I would let these companies speak for themselves, Felicia.
They have to weigh the balance of risk and benefit of the transit of
their ships all around the world.

Certainly, again, without speaking for Maersk, commercial traffic,
transit in the Red Sea is more dangerous now than it was before because
of these Houthi attacks on commercial shipping. That is why, to your
second question, why we are working so hard to bolster and strengthen
the existing combined maritime forces that were already established in
the region.

And I think we’ll have more to say about the specifics on that in coming
days. I don’t have an update for you now, but I think we’ll have more to
say, specifically about that maritime task force here, in certain days.

I would just add, finally, again: We continue to condemn in the
strongest terms the threats and the acts that the Houthis are
demonstrating here in terms of disrupting international flow of
commerce, to inhibit freedom of navigation in international waters, and
of course, to endanger the safety of the ships and the crews that are
onboard these ships. It’s absolutely unacceptable.

And we’re going to continue to work, again, as I said, with a range of
partners to do what we can to make more safe and more secure that free
flow of commerce through a vital checkpoint and a vital body of
international water.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next, we’ll go to Chris with Al Jazeera.

Q Thanks very much. Thanks, John. You may have seen the news that one of
our photographers from Al Jazeera was killed today by the Israelis.
Allegedly, eyewitnesses said it was a drone attack. You told our
colleague back in October: I know that you had seen no evidence — zero
evidence that journalists were being targeted in Gaza. I’m wondering if
you still maintain that. And also, if you do, what would constitute
evidence for you personally?

MR. KIRBY: So, first, I would just add that our deepest sympathies and
condolences go out to the family and the loved ones and the colleagues
and the co-workers of Samer Abu Daka — and I hope I pronounced that
right — and to all those at your network, at Al Jazeera, and journalists
around the world who are mourning this loss.

We know it’s a heavy loss indeed. And we’re grateful that he and your
colleagues are still out there covering this war. Journalists need to be
able to have the freedom to cover conflicts around the world — to cover
anything, but certainly cover conflicts. And it’s never acceptable to
deliberately target them as they do such vital, dangerous, dangerous
work. And that’s a principle that we’re going to continue to abide by
and to continue to make clear.

I don’t know all the details about his tragic killing, so I’m not in a
position to say that the operation which killed him was of a certain
flavor or not.

I will tell you that, again, we stay in touch with our Israeli
counterparts every day. We still don’t have any indications that they
are deliberately targeting journalists. And that’s where I’d have to
leave it.

Again, we don’t know all the details of this particular strike, but we
haven’t seen any indications that they are, as a matter of course and
policy, or even operational doctrine, deliberately going after
journalists trying to cover this war.

Q What would constitute evidence for you?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I mean, I think we’d have to — we’d have to have more
specific knowledge than we do right now about the purpose of the strike,
the origin of the strike, the targeting process, the selection process,
the decision to weaponeer. I mean, we’d have to know a lot more about
the circumstances here before we would be able to make a call.

I want to stress that we’re, as I’ve said many times before — in an
ongoing, dynamic conflict such as this, we are not going to make
ourselves judge and jury over every single airstrike and every single
kinetic event that happens on the battlefield. We will, however,
continue to talk, as Jake has been doing in the region in the last
couple of days, and as I’m sure that Secretary Austin when he gets to
the region will do, to continue to talk to our Israeli counterparts,
particularly those in the Defense Forces, about being precise, careful,
cautious, targeted, and, again, mindful of the burden of making sure
that they don’t kill innocent civilians, and certainly that category
includes journalists.

And once again, I just want to offer our deepest condolences to Al
Jazeera, to — and to the family and loved ones of Samer Abu Daka, who
was on the ground doing necessary, important work for not only, you
know, your viewers, but to people all around the world. So, again, our
deepest condolences.

MODERATOR: Next, we’ll go to Selina with ABC.

Q Thanks, John. You talked about this transition from high-intensity to
low-intensity operations. Are the Israelis and the Americans on the same
page about timeline? And what’s been the reaction to the Israelis when
it comes to this transition?

MR. KIRBY: I think the farthest I’m willing to go on this question,
Selina, is to say that Jake felt like he was able to have some
constructive conversations in Israel with our counterparts about the
importance of this transition. The idea of transitioning into different
phases is certainly a common practice among militaries as they conduct
operations of this kind.

And Jake was grateful for the time that they afforded him, the thinking
that they provided, their plans and intentions. And I think there’s a
general agreement that a transition to lower-intensity operations
obviously is going to be an important next step here.

But I won’t get into the details of what that’s going to look like, what
the parameters are, what the conditions are that must be met to get
there, or any sense of timeline by the Israelis. That would be
completely inappropriate for me to do.

But Jake did, as he has been doing literally since the beginning of
this, which is asking the tough questions, asking to — asking the
Israelis to get a better sense of the degree to which they are thinking
ahead of themselves and doing the kind of planning and doing the kind of
— the questioning of their own assumptions as they begin to think about
a transition here.

Q The Biden administration has said the U.S. expects every country
receiving its military assistance to use it in full compliance with
international humanitarian law, the laws of war; Israel is no exception.

When you have the President himself accusing Israel of indiscriminate
bombing, why not put conditions on military aid to Israel? Is that now
being put into consideration?

MR. KIRBY: I think I’ve dealt with this question now for a couple of
days running, and I really don’t have any additional context to provide.

It is correct that all foreign military assistance, whether it’s direct
assistance or through foreign military sales, comes with the expectation
that those materials are going to be used in an appropriate way against
appropriate targets. That’s not going to change; hasn’t changed and
won’t change. And we’ll continue to, again, talk to our Israeli
counterparts to urge them to be, again, as precise and careful as
possible. You heard Jake talk about this while we were over there.

The President believes that the approach that we’ve been taking has
produced results, has produced outcomes. We know that the Israelis are
receptive to those messages about reduction of civilian harm. And as I
have said innumerable times over the last few days — and I won’t go
through all the examples again; you can go back and look at my
transcripts — they have actually taken some steps. We’re going to
continue to talk to them about additional steps that they can take.

MODERATOR: And apologies, everyone — Kirby has a hard out in just a
minute, but I think we can do one final question if we’re quick.

Aurelia from AFP, we’ll turn it to you for the final one.

Q Yeah, hi, thank you. A question about the West Bank. A number of
Western nations today, and the European Union, issued a statement urging
Israel to take concrete steps against violence by Israeli settlers. Is
there a particular reason why the United States didn’t join this call?

And more generally, the pressure this administration is putting on the
Israeli government to calm things down in the West Bank doesn’t seem to
work. So is there a plan to increase this pressure?

MR. KIRBY: Well, you’re talking about an EU statement, yeah?

Q Yeah, EU and other nations, but mostly EU nations. Yeah.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah, look, we have been crystal clear about our concerns
over what’s going on in the West Bank. I mean, my goodness, the
President raised it many weeks ago in his press conference in the Rose
Garden with his Australian counterpart. And we’ve been talking about it
publicly, and certainly we’ve been talking about it privately with our
Israeli counterparts, including during Jake’s trip since.

So we’ve been very clear about our concerns over West Bank violence
caused by settlers on the Palestinians. It’s unacceptable. It has to
stop. And as I said from the podium the other day, I mean, it’s another
reason why, or another potential reason why you could see escalation and
widening of this conflict that we don’t want to see. And I would note
that the State Department also added on bans, visa bans, to settlers
that are involved in this violence.

So I got to tell you, I mean, we’ve been out there on this. We’ve been
clear, we’ve been consistent for many weeks now.

MODERATOR: And apologies, everyone, we just have to end it here because
Kirby has a hard out.

Thank you, everyone, for joining the gaggle. And we’ll talk to you soon.
Feel free to follow up via email if you have any questions.

MR. KIRBY: Once again, I’m sorry that I was late getting to this. I do
apologize. The day got a little bit out ahead of me. And, you know,
we’ll look to be talking to you guys early in the week, on Monday, in
some form or fashion.

3:33 P.M. EST
