---
date: '2023-12-21'
published_time: 2023-12-21 18:42:09-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/21/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-35/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
1:43 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Apologies for the very long two minute there, guys. We
had some technical difficulties, so I apologize.

So, we are aware of the terrible shooting that took place at Charles
University in Prague, claiming the lives of at least 15 people and
injuring dozens more.

The President and the First Lady are praying for the families who lost
loved ones and everyone else who has been affected by this senseless act
of violence.

On behalf of the United States, we send our condolences and also wish
the survivors of this tragic event a speedy recovery.

Federal authorities are in — in touch with Czech authorities as they
investigate this incident, and we stand ready to provide additional
support as needed.

As we close out the year, we wanted to take a look back at the progress
made since President Biden and Vice President Harris took office.

So, from day one, our administration has taken on historic challenges,
and almost three years in, we have a record of delivering for the
American people.

President Biden vowed to lower prescription drug costs for seniors and
families, and he is delivering on that promise. Thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act, which every single Republican member of Congress voted
against, we’re taking on Big Pharma. And here’s a couple of things that
has allowed us to do: It has allowed us to cap the cost of insulin at 35
bucks for seniors, allow Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug
prices for the first time ever, and save 15 million Americans an average
of 800 bucks per year on their health insurance.

Despite never-ending attacks from Republican officials, more Americans
are covered by quality, affordable health insurance than ever before,
including 7 million more Americans enrolled through the Affordable Care
Act.

Now, the ab- — the President and the Vice President have also taken
executive actions to fight back against state abortion bans that put the
health of women in jeopardy, force women to travel out of state for
care, and threaten to criminalize doctors.

Onto the economy for a second. Over 14 million jobs have been created
under President Biden. That’s every job lost in the pandemic plus almost
15 \[5\] million more jobs.

And Americans have filed a record 15 million applications to start new
businesses. That’s helping wages and wealth rise — both are now higher
than before the pandemic.

We’re also cracking down on price gouging by banning hidden junk fees in
airline tickets, credit cards, banking, healthcare, and apartment
rentals. That work is saving Americans billions — billions of dollars
each year.

And when it comes to our climate, the Biden-Harris administration
continues to lead and deliver on the most ambitious climate agenda in
history, including securing a historic agreement at the COP28 to
transition away from fossil fuels and triple renewal \[renewable\]
energy globally by 2030; launching the American Climate Corps to
mobilize a new, diverse generation of clean energy, con- — conservation,
resilience, and workers; taking bold action to cut emissions across the
economy, including strong standards to reduce methane pollution from oil
and gas operation.

This historic agenda is unleashing a manufacturing and clean energy boom
with over $600 billion in private sector investments since the President
took office.

President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue building on this
pres- — on — on this progress that we’ve made the first two years in the
years ahead. And that is how we see our progress has been over the last
two years under the Biden-Harris admini- — administration.

And now, as you all know, we are joined again by Admiral John Kirby, who
is here to take a few questions on Israel, the — and the deal to — to
bring home wrongfully detained Americans from Venezuela, and the
President’s call with President AMLO that he had earlier today.

And with that, Admiral.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Karine. Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY: The President had a chance this morning to speak by phone
with President López Obrador of Mexico. They had a chance to talk about
ongoing efforts to manage the unprecedented migratory flows in the
Western Hemisphere, building on the Los Angeles Declaration for
Migration and Protection that President Biden launched in Los Angeles
back in June of ’22.

The two leaders agreed that additional enforcement actions are urgently
needed so that key ports of entry can be reopened across our shared
border.

President Biden has asked Secretary of State Tony Blinken, Secretary of
Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, and White House Homeland Security
Advisor Liz Sherwood-Randall to travel to Mexico in coming days to meet
with President López Obrador and his team to discuss further actions
that can be taken together to address current border challenges.

And just a quick update, if I could, about humanitarian assistance going
into Gaza. Yesterday, some 120 trucks entered through Kerem Shalom and
more than 71 through Rafah. This brings the total to almost 200 in just
the last 24 hours. And, of course, we’re going to continue to work as
hard as we can to increase that flow through both those border crossings
and then make sure that there are processes in place to get that aid and
assistance to the people who actually need it inside Gaza.

That’s it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Zeke.

Q Thanks, John. The United Nations says one in four civilians in Gaza is
starving. Does the U.S. believe that assessment or — or accept that
assessment of the situation on the ground in Gaza? And who is to blame
for the humanitarian situation on the ground (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY: Well, we’re certainly not — not in a position to dispute
those numbers or that — or that — that assessment. I mean, we certainly
agree that — that there is an immense amount of suffering inside Gaza —
hunger, obviously, but altho- — also health needs as well. And with
winter coming, harsh — harsher weather is going to make it tougher for
people that are not able to shelter.

So, we certainly share the concerns about the humanitarian crisis that’s
going on inside Gaza, which is why every day I come out here and talk to
you about the things we’re doing to alleviate that suffering.

Q And in terms of the responsibility, why are more trucks not getting in
now? Who is saying, “No more trucks”? Is it inspection capacity? The
Israelis say that the U.N. doesn’t have the capacity to deliver the aid
inside Gaza. Where is the bottleneck?

MR. KIRBY: It’s not — it’s not that somebody is saying, “No more
trucks.” We’ve been working closely with our Israeli counterparts to get
that — the — the level up and sustained. And we’ve had days where it was
and days where it wasn’t.

I mean, you have to remember this is also a war zone. It’s an area of
conflict. And that greatly increases the complexity of getting
humanitarian assistance in in a safe, secure manner and, more
critically, making sure, at the end of the pipeline, that it’s getting
to people who are actually in need. And the U.N. is leading efforts on
the ground, as they rightly should, to — to try to see if — about local
distribution.

So, this is a tough — this is a tough problem set, but it doesn’t mean
we’re going to back off of it.

And, again, the — the — you know, the last 24 hours, you had more trucks
going in through Kerem Shalom than you had through Rafah. So, I’m not —
obviously saying there needs to be more, but it’s — it’s a good thing
that Kerem Shalom — you can see the impact that that crossing is having
on getting aid in.

Q And just the bottleneck question. Where is it? Is it the distribution?

MR. KIRBY: It is a — I wish I could tell you there’s, like, one
bottleneck. There’s a bunch of reason- — every day is different. And
every day — some of it’s — some of — some of the — the limits are on the
end of it, where the — the fighting is just making it harder to get
trucks in. Some of it is the inspection regime and making sure that
there’s enough inspectors and that the trucks are adequately looked at
and — and gotten through that process. Some of it is the availability of
— of the assistance itself and the — the trucks themselves.

So, I mean, every day, it’s a little bit different. But we are working
at this really, really hard.

Q And just one — one little quick one on the inspection regime since you
— since you brought that up. We know there’s a Security Council debate
over this new resolution here. And the issue of who is doing the
inspections is a key — key one in that — in that ongoing discussions up
there.

Is the U.S. position that the Israelis must remain part of the
inspection regime of what is going into Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: I — I’m not going to negotiate this language here from this
podium. We’re still actively working with our U.N. partners about —
about the resolution and the — and the language itself.

Israel has had — and understandably so, has had a role in the inspection
regime — a key role, a pivotal role. And we understand and respect that.
And I think I’ll leave it at that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Trevor.

Q So, on — on Israel, I know you’ve said before many times that you’re
trying to push Israel to end this high-intensity effort. There’s —

MR. KIRBY: No, that’s not what we said, but go ahead.

Q Okay. There’s eff- — there’s a request from lawmakers that you do, in
fact, do that. Could you talk a little bit about where that conversation
stands, what Israel has agreed to in terms of moving to lower-intensity
conflict in Gaza? And have they agreed with you on a timetable?

MR. KIRBY: The Israelis say they, too, recognize the need to transition
to a different phase of fighting.

I mean, in any military campaign, Trevor, you’re going to — you’re going
to transition to a different set of objectives. And you’re going to
achieve those different set of objectives through different tactics and
operations. That’s just standard for the conduct of military operations.

They understand. They have said themselves that they realize they’re
going to have to transition from a higher-intensity level of operations,
such as what they’re doing now, to something a bit lower intensity.

They will decide when. They will decide what lower intensity looks like
and what that means.

What we have done — Secretary Austin was just recently in the region, as
well as Secretary Blinken — have talked to them about our lessons
learned in doing those kinds of transitions and what we learn- — what we
did right, what we didn’t do right, what they should be looking for,
what questions they should be asking themselves, as well as asking them
some tough questions.

And certainly, when Jake was there, just in the last few days, had
lengthy discussions with his Israeli counterparts about — and the War
Cabinet — about those questions, answering those tough questions.

So, again, this is — we’re not going to speak for their military
operations. We recognize and they recognize that a transition is — is
not — not only reasonable, but probably the most viable way to continue
this fight. They’ll — they’ll work it out.

Q I guess my question: Do you have a common understanding on what the —
that timetable looks like at this point?

MR. KIRBY: We are not dictating terms and timelines to the Israelis.

We have certainly talked about the importance of moving to
lower-intensity operations. And obviously, we don’t want them to do it
sooner than they think they can do it safely and effectively. But we do
believe — we believe that a transition, you know, in the near future is
the best possible outcome.

Q Point of clarification on the President’s comments yesterday on
Venezuela. He said that there was an agreement with Maduro where Maduro
said he would agree to essentially everything that U.S. had laid out on
election reforms. Does that include having María Machado be represented
as an opposition candidate on the ballot when that election takes place?

MR. KIRBY: I’m going to not get too involved in the diplomatic specific
conversations that we had.

What the President said was that the Maduro regime did agree to certain
electoral proposals to include and were supported by opposition parties.
It’s important that they meet all those commitments. I think I’ll leave
it there.

Q But does that include having her specifically?

MR. KIRBY: I’m going to leave it — I’m going to leave it the way I just
put it.

Q Okay. Just one — one more — just on Mexico. In that conversation, was
there any discussion between the President and AMLO around fentanyl?
There has been some reporting that we’ve done that Mexico has been
essentially inflating its statistics on how many of these fentanyl labs
it’s actually taking down. Is that something that came up?

MR. KIRBY: Well, you know, we’ve talked to the Mexicans routinely about
the flow of fentanyl and other narcotics and trafficking of drugs across
the border. That’s a routine part of our discussions.

The focus today was really about the — the migratory flow and — and the
pressure that’s being put on the southern border.

Q Thanks, I appreciate it. On the border. We’ve talked to CBP officials
who say that they’re resourced at about half — to deal with about half
the volume of encounters that they’re seeing, that smugglers are putting
migrants more and more at risk by dropping them off in more and more
remote locations.

Can you point to one thing the White House is doing right now that is
making an impact on the border, is making an impact with this current
surge?

MR. KIRBY: Well, one of the things that we — well, obviously, it’s a big
part of the supplemental request. And should we get the funding we’re
asking for, it will give us an opportunity to put more Border Patrol
officers out there on the border. It will give us a chance to increase
the asylum court officers and help with that process. And there’s some
physical security measures that are baked into that funding as well.

So, part — part and parcel of the supplemental request was very much
recognizing that more needs to be done on border security, and we’re
willing to keep having that conversation with members of Congress.

I would also add that one of the things that President López Obrador and
the President talked about today was trying to work on getting at the
root causes of migration. We’re seeing record levels of people. More
people are on the move in this hemisphere than — that has been the case
since World War Two.

There’s a lot of factors. And part of that is, of course, dealing with
instability — political and — and domestic instability in the region.

So, the work that we did with Venezuela here — not just to get Americans
back, but to get the Maduro regime to ascribe to certain electoral
reforms — that’s important. That’s important to help get at some of the
root causes of migration.

Q And then on — on Gaza again. It’s the end of the year. I think a lot
of — as you can see in the other questions — Americans are reflecting on
this humanitarian crisis. You know, we’ve seen the estimates that the
death toll reached 20,000. The WHO saying repeatedly that one child is
killed in Gaza every 10 minutes. Can you just reflect a little bit more
on the humanitarian crisis that you’re seeing and how Americans are
supposed to sit with that reality?

MR. KIRBY: Nobody should — nobody can look at the images coming out of
Gaza and not feel and not — not — not feel a — a sense of pain and
anguish for so many innocent people that have been displaced from their
homes, families killed, many wounded, a lot of fear and uncertainty. We
feel that anguish, too, every single day. And that’s why we have worked
— we’re leading the world in terms of getting humanitarian assistance
into Gaza.

What I would ask Americans who are concerned about this as we head into
the holidays to remember is how hard President Biden truly is working.
The whole team is. And, again, we’re leading the world, in many cases,
in terms of alleviating this — this pain and suffering of — of the
people of Gaza.

And — and we’re going to keep — we’re going to keep doing that.

Q But then why are we seeing these Democratic lawmakers — you know,
Tuesday, we saw this letter from, really, moderate Democratic lawmakers
saying that he’s not doing enough, that he should be using even more
levers of power to try to change how military — how — how the Israeli
military is prosecuting this war. I mean, is he out of step with his
party? He’s not the — even Democrats are saying he’s not doing enough.

MR. KIRBY: The President leads on foreign policy issues from a place of
principles and values. That’s the core of every foreign policy approach
he takes. And that is no different here.

And there are multiple principles and values at play here. One is making
sure that Israel can defend itself against Hamas, that October 7th can
never happen again. No nation should have to put up with that. And so,
we’re going to continue to support them in that effort.

Another one is, again, helping the people of Gaza and the Palestinian
people get the humanitarian assistance but also in terms of trying to
get hostages out and getting a pause in place, which actually also
reduces civilian casualties.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. We’re r- — we’re actually running out of
time. Go ahead.

Q On Mexico and the Biden administration officials that are going down.
What exactly are they trying to accomplish with that trip? And is it
related to the talks that have been taking place on Capitol Hill about
border security?

MR. KIRBY: Their visit will really be about getting at the migratory
flows and talking to President López Obrador and his team about what
more we can do together. To the question I got earlier, you know, “What
— what are you doing?” I mean, there’s lots we’re doing, but there’s
probably more we can be doing. And — and in order to do it effectively,
you’ve got to be in full partnership with Mexican authorities.

We have been. There’s been terrific cooperation. We’re proud of that.
And I think we — I think it can be expanded, given the record levels of
migrants that we’re seeing come a- — come across.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Ed.

Q And — sorry, when it comes to — to Gaza, when we saw Vice President
Harris go to Dubai, she had pretty forceful words about the number of
Palestinian deaths. Why did the White House feel that it was important
for her to deliver that message there and at that time?

MR. KIRBY: Well, first of all, it’s a message we’ve been delivering for
quite some time. We don’t want to see any more civilians harmed or
wounded or displaced out of this conflict. The right number of
casualties for civilians is zero. We’ve been very clear about that.

And it was appropriate, since the Vice President was — was in the
region, for her to address that and to address that in full lockstep
with the rest of the national security team about the messages we’ve
been delivering to our partners in the region privately and to — and to
do it publicly.

It was absolutely part and parcel of, again, the principled valued —
principled approach that the President is taking and in accordance with
our values as a country.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Ed.

Q Admiral, the Venezuelan President said when his friend got back to
Venezuela yesterday that Alex Saab had been physically and
psychologically tortured. How does the Biden administration respond to
that?

MR. KIRBY: Well, we can’t verify those reports.

Q Okay. Other U.S. officials have said — have denied that. You’re —
you’re not responding to that.

MR. KIRBY: I know of no indications or — that — that those reports are
valid. I can’t — I can’t verify that.

Q How does this not invite other autocratic leaders around the world to
take Americans hostage in order to get something or someone they want?

MR. KIRBY: This is the perennial question we get. Every single time we —
we get Americans home, we get this question. I would say a couple of
things: Number one, we — we don’t advise Americans to travel to
Venezuela.

And Venezuela is one of those countries where we have a D designation
for. Like, if you go, you know, as you — business or — or pleasure, you
need to realize what the potential detention threat is. And in
Venezuela, that — that threat is high. That’s right there on the
website. If you’re going to travel, go to State.gov. It’s all right
there.

We can’t guarantee that — that if you go against our advice and
warnings, that — that something might happen to you. And there are
regimes, there are leaders around the world that — that make this a
staple, in terms of some of their policy approaches, to — to — to
wrongfully detain Americans and then, you know, try to make deals for
it.

Again, we — you know, that — that’s — that’s been perennial. That’s been
before this administration, and that will be after this administration.
Doesn’t mean that we aren’t going to do everything we can, if you’re
wrongfully detained, to get you home.

And sometimes that means making a tough decision. Sometimes it means
making a decision that makes you kind of have to swallow hard to do it.
This is one of those decisions.

But we got 10 Americans back home. And we got Mr. Leonard, who was
responsible for one of the worst bribery crimes throughout the
Indo-Pacific with the United States Navy — he’s now going to face
justice here in the United States. That’s a good outcome.

And the last thing I’ll say on this is the — while the President is
willing to make these tough decisions, he’s not going to make decisions
that’s — that is antithetical to our national security, our ability to
protect and defend our national interests around — around the world.

Q What would he say to current and former Justice Department officials
who helped arrest and prosecute Viktor Bout and saw him handed over to
Russia, and then helped arrest and were working on prosecuting Alex Saab
and saw him handed over? What’s to say that they’re not working today on
some other case that may end up with that person being returned to their
home county?

MR. KIRBY: He would say to them, as he would say to Americans around the
world: As we make these tough decisions — and they are tough, Ed — he’s
going to do it with our national security interests firmly and foremost
in mind. But he also has an obligation as President of the United States
to look after the safety and security of Americans overseas,
particularly those who have been wrongfully detained.

And so, again, tough decisions — none are black and white and easy calls
to make. But I would also encourage people to ask those families now —
those families that are going to be reunited for the holidays — how they
feel about the decision-making process. I think you’re going to find
that — that they’re pretty grateful for the work that we’ve done and the
leadership that we’ve shown.

Q Since we don’t get to ask him ourselves — we would have last night,
maybe, if he’d stuck around a little while — what would the President
say is his foreign policy achievement of the year?

MR. KIRBY: There’s a lot that we’ve achieved in foreign policy.

And Karine has already made sure that she — that you know that we’re —
we’re running late, and I don’t want to — I don’t want to belabor this.
So, I — this answer could go on for, like, 20 minutes.

But, I mean, from the Indo-Pacific and the Quad and the AUKUS deal to
get Australia nuclear-powered submarine capability; to what we’ve done
with supporting Ukraine, pushing back — they’ve clawed back more than 50
percent of the territory that Russia took in the early months of the
war. You think they — you know, obviously, they did that through courage
and bravery on the field. But they certainly did that with United States
support.

Look at what Israel has been able to do to put pressure on Hamas in the
wake of the worst terrorist attack they’ve — that they’ve ever — that
they’ve ever succumbed to.

I mean, I could go on and on. There — there has been — I think if I had
to bucket it into one thing, the — one of the most important things he’s
done on the foreign policy front is shore up and revitalize our vast
network of alliances and partnerships. No other nation in the world has
that kind of a network at their disposal the way United — the United
States does.

And our leadership on the world stage is stronger because he took the
time to in- — invest in those relationships — many relationships that
had been let lapse by the previous administration.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thanks, John. That letter mentioned earlier from members of Congress —
moderate members of Congress, including Representative Abigail
Spanberger to Seth Moulton, coming from, like, an intelligence, military
perspective here —

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q — in the letter, they said, “We know from personal and often painful
experience that you can’t destroy a terror ideology with military force
alone. And it can, in fact, make things worse.” Does the White House
agree with that assessment?

MR. KIRBY: I have said that many times from this podium that we don’t —
we don’t believe you’re going to be able to wipe out the ideology that
inspires Hamas through military action. I have said it many, many times.

And as Secretary Austin said out at the Reagan Forum, you know, we want
to make sure our Israeli counterparts don’t turn “a tactical victory
into a strategic defeat.”

So, that is not a new notion. And certainly, we agree that that’s a risk
here.

Q And they’re criticizing the President for not taking enough strong
action here on — on how Israel is going about with their military
operations. Have there been any recent conversations with the President
and members of Congress who have been critical and — and want the
President to do more here?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t know of any specific conversations that the President
ha- — has had with members of Congress about this. But I can tell you,
there’s not a day that goes by where we’re not having those
conversations with our Israeli counterparts.

And as I’ve said before, they have been receptive to that message. They
have tailored, they have changed, they have structured military
operations in a way to try to be more cognizant.

Now, that doesn’t mean that more can’t be done or more shouldn’t be done
to limit civilian casualties. Absolutely. But they have made an effort,
and they will continue to make that effort.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Aurelia.

Q Thank you so much. On the U.N. Security Council resolution debate, are
there tensions within the administration on the decision to make here?

And another one. If there is another veto, how concerned are you about
the international image of the United States blocking one resolution
after another while people are dying and starving in Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: Well, let’s not get ahead of ourselves. There isn’t a
resolution to vote on right now. We’re still working with our partners
up there about what that language ought to be.

It’s important to us, of course, that the humanitarian situation in Gaza
gets addressed. We are working harder than any other nation to actually
address those concerns.

So, we certainly would — would agree that that needs to be part and
parcel of the language. But I — again, I don’t want to get ahead of
where we are.

And we are working as a team to — to push forward the President’s
approach and his policies with respect to supporting Israel and to
supporting the Palestinian people. A key to that is still working
towards the promise of a two-state solution.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Josh.

Q There’s a report, John, that the — that the U.S. and the EU are
working together, looking whether seized Russian assets can be used to
help fund Ukraine. Are you able to speak to that specifically or more
broadly to what you will do if you do not get a supplemental? Is — are —
you know, are there, sort of, extraordinary measures that you are
considering as you —

MR. KIRBY: So, we’re kind of — we’re kind of talking about two different
things here. We still need the supplemental request to be able to
support — there’s no magical pot of money, as Shalanda Young said, to
support Ukraine going forward.

I won’t talk to that specific proposal. But I will say, just broadly
speaking, that — that we have talked to many of our allies and partners
about what Russia’s role ought to be post-conflict, in — in terms of the
restructuring, the —  
the recovery inside Ukraine long term. But we aren’t at a point right
now where — you know, where we can address the specific muscle movements
and what that’s going to look like.

But Russia has destroyed an awful lot of infrastructure and killed, you
know, tens of thousands of — of lives in Ukraine. And they should be
held accountable for that long term.

Q So, too soon to say whether you’re looking at seized assets for that
measure?

MR. KIRBY: I would say too soon to say.

Q And can you speak very quickly to where this — the Ven- — the
Venezuelan s- — swap — excuse me — leaves us on the question of
sanctions relief? Is the administration considering further changes to
sanctions that are in place right now?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t —

Q Does this open the door for that?

MR. KIRBY: I don’t have any sanctions announcements to make today.

Q Okay. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Patsy.

Q Thank you, Karine. John, Israel’s defense minister said that as they
transition to the next phase of the operation, some of the local
civilians may be able to return to their homes in North Gaza. I wonder
if you can give an explanation on how that might work when there are
many people who don’t have homes to return to — just kind of give an
idea of what kind of plans the U.S. has to support these Palestinian
civilians.

MR. KIRBY: Well, we certainly welcome those comments. I think that’s an
important sign, to allow people that were displaced from the north to
the south as operations intensified in the north to be able to go back
home or be able to make that crossing back to — to north of Gaza. So,
that’s — that’s — those are welcome comments.

I think we’ll be in touch with our Israeli counterparts about exactly
what that looks like to address your exact concerns. Some of them will
go back and there are no homes to go back to. So, we want to make sure
that they — for those that are going back, that there is — there are
means and availability for them to seek and to have secure shelter.

But, again, we’ll have that conversation with our Israeli counterparts.

Q Just to follow up on Ed’s question. When you argue that the U.S.’s
biggest achievement in foreign policy is shoring up alliances and
networks of partners, how can you argue that and how can you argue U.S.
leadership is stronger when the President is almost singularly isolated
in the U.N. over the issue of Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I think I would take premise with the question that
we’re somehow “singularly isolated.” First of all, we’re still working
with U.N. partners on the language here. So, let’s not get ahead of
where we are in the process.

And I think all you have to do is look at what — what we’ve been able to
do around the world and see that American leadership still matters, that
— that America’s views still matter. And President Biden has literally
been driving that forward since he came into office — again, through a
reliance and a understanding that we can’t do everything alone.

The whole idea behind his foreign policy approach is that we need
friends and partners, that they have capabilities and they have — they
have skillsets that we don’t have in — in every other way and that —
that we work better as a team.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. And then we’ve got to wrap it up.

Q John, can you share just here today, since this may be one of the last
briefings for a while, your assessment of where the status is of
potential talks to secure another hostage deal and a pause in fighting?
A lot of the families have expressed concern that this may get lost a
little bit over the holidays and are worried that every day really
matters here.

MR. KIRBY: It won’t get lost over the holidays. We’re working on it
every single day, almost every hour of every day. Th- — there have been
serious talks and negotiations over trying to get back into another
pause and a hostage exchange.

I won’t go into the details of that, understandably so, but I can tell
you that they are very serious and we are very serious about getting
that back in place.

Q Thanks, Admiral. I wanted to ask you about the — the call between
President Obrador and President Biden this morning.

We understand that the business owners in Northern Mexico are
complaining about these bridges — the railroad bridges being closed and
this is costing about $100 million of losses on an everyday basis.

Is the President of Mexico — Mexico concerned about all of these losses
that are happening at the border? And are they talking about maybe this
strategy to sort of slow down the flow? Because we understand that
migrants are coming in big —

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q — big numbers to that region.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah. I don’t want to speak for President Ló- — López
Obrador. He should speak to his side of the conversation and what his
concerns are.

But I think, broadly speaking, we — we — both presidents shared a
similar concern about the — the increase in migratory flow here in
recent weeks and months. There has been a dramatic increase.

And they did talk in broad terms about what can be done inside Mexico to
slow that process down. And there are some things, like checkpoints on
rail lines and on highways and that kind of thing. And — and the Mexican
Armed Forces’ presence in the south also can be important to that as
well.

But that was broadly speaking, and I think more to the point of why
Secretary Blinken and Liz Sherwood-Randall and Secretary Mayorkas will
be going down there is to see what can be done to sort of flesh those
modalities out a little bit more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And then we’re going to wrap it up.  
Q Thanks, John. More on the AMLO call. You mentioned that part of the
discussion will be about the root causes of migration. It’s something
that other administrations have tried to tackle. It’s something that
this administration has tried to tackle.

Earlier this year, there was a $4 billion announcement. Have those
efforts in this administration made any noticeable difference when you
talk about the spikes that we’ve been seeing?

MR. KIRBY: Noticeable difference —

Q In migration flows.

MR. KIRBY: Well, we’ve obviously, as I just said, in recent weeks and
months now, seen a spike — a significant spike in the migratory flow and
the presence at the border. And that’s one of the reasons why the — the
two leaders thought it was important to talk today. And it’s another
reason why we’re going to be sending down a team here in coming days —
very soon — to — to speak with President López Obrador and his team
about trying to see what we can do to better stem this.

I think, before the recent big surge, you — there was a general decline
in some of the — the migrant flows. Again, not — not perfect. Not saying
that it was down to a level that was comfortable for anybody. But there
had been a decline.

And so, we want to see that — that same effort being — being applied,
again, as a team going forward. And — and we’ll see where that goes. But
we’re working on this really — really hard.

Q How successful would you say the administration’s efforts to stem root
flow, to get to the root causes of migration have been?

MR. KIRBY: We believe that we’ve done a good job working with our
partners in the region to try to get at some of the root causes,
including political instability and crime. There is more that needs to
be done.

And I think it’s important, again, as I said earlier, to keep this in
perspective. You are seeing more people on the move, for a variety of
reasons, across — in this hemisphere than since World War Two. I mean,
it’s a historic level of migration. And there’s a lot of reasons for it.
And we’re not the only country that’s facing this flow.

So, it’s — back to the question about alliances and partnerships, a way
to get at this is to work with neighboring nations to try to get at
these root causes. At the same time, working on our own infor- —
immigration process here in the — in the — policies here in the country
and getting at reform, as well as working on border security. And that’s
why the President asked for $6 billion in the supplemental funding.

Q And very quickly on Gaza.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, we — we (inaudible).

Q Just really quickly on Gaza. Do — do you think that Israel is — how
close do you think Israel is in its mission to destroying Hamas?

MR. KIRBY: That’s a question that you should put —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

MR. KIRBY: — to the IDF.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Arlette. And then we have (inaudible).

Q Paul Whelan says that he’s afraid for his safety after being assaulted
by another inmate late last month. He also says that he’s being targeted
by an official at the prison in retaliation for this official being
admonished. Does the U.S. have any read on this situation? And are there
any viable efforts —

MR. KIRBY: We’re very, very —

Q — or proposals underway to try to get him back?

MR. KIRBY: Very, very troubling reports that — that he would be under
physical threat. I think we all — so, we’re very concerned as we — as we
hear those accounts from — from Paul.

We’ll continue to work hard, through our embassy in Moscow, to make sure
he gets consular access and that we can address these direct concerns
with our — our Russian counterparts.

But that’s — it’s very troubling.

I would tell you, again, that while I don’t have a breakthrough to
announce today, we — we did in recent days put forward a serious
proposal. The Russians rebuffed it, regardless of what Mr. Putin says.
And we’re working hard to see what we can do to get another proposal
that — that might be more successful to get both him and Evan out.

Q And if I could, really fast on the U.N. Security Council vote. What
has President Biden’s engagement been on this, in the negotiations? Has
he been speaking regularly with Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield on
the issue?

MR. KIRBY: He has been in touch with the national security team,
including our team at U.N. headquarters, about how they’re — how they’re
doing this, how we’re approaching this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Last question. Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Admirable \[Admiral\]. Has President Biden seen photos and
videos from the past week of the sea of people crossing into this
country illegally? I understand he’s probably been briefed on it, but
has he seen photos and videos of it actually happening?

MR. KIRBY: I can’t attest to what the — the content is of the material
he gets every day, but he has been kept apprised and briefed, of course,
by — by the domestic and national security teams on this. But what’s in
that content, I mean, I’m not part of those discussions.

Q Some illegal border crossers are being given court dates in 2031. What
are they supposed to do here for seven years?

MR. KIRBY: Again, that’s a better question put to DHS. I’m not in a
position to — to talk about specific cases like that.

The President believes that we’ve got to do better at immigration. And
he’s willing to talk and negotiate with members of Congress about
immigration policy just as well as he is about border security. But I’m
not in a position to talk about the specifics.

Q After someone has lived here for seven years and presumably gotten a
work permit and worked here, if their asy- — asylum claim is denied, are
they really going to be deported? Or is that just a problem for the next
president?

MR. KIRBY: Again, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals about specific
cases. He does believe we need — and he has worked to increase legal
pathways to citizenship. But obviously, illegal pathways, you know, they
— you need to be held to account if you’re trying to come into the
country illegally.

Q But is the President thinking this far down the line? I mean, people
are being given court dates seven years from now. So, is he creating a
big problem for another president to have to figure out —

MR. KIRBY: The President —

Q — if these people are going to be deported after just working, living,
maybe having families here for seven years?

MR. KIRBY: Again, I’m not going to get into hypothetical cases here. On
day one of the administration, the President put to Congress a proposal
for immigration reform. He has said, in recent days, he’s willing to
have a serious discussion with members of Congress about immigration
policy.

So, let’s see where that goes. But he’s taking the issue very, very
seriously.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, everybody.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Admiral.

Q It’s not a hypothetical question. People are being given court dates
in 2031.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Admiral.

MR. KIRBY: Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy holidays.

Go ahead, Zeke.

Q Thank you.

Q Thanks, Karine. Traditionally, the president will hold a year-end
press conference and talk about his record, make the case directly to
the American people, defend some of the policy action he has taken. The
President, since it’s December 21st, doesn’t seem to be doing that this
year. Can you explain why he doesn’t want to defend his record to the
American people and make his case for his record to the American people
directly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I think that anytime the President travels and is
in front of the American people, he does that. He did that in Wisconsin
when he talked about Bidenomics. He talked about small businesses and
how that’s a pillar of Bidenomics and investing in America.

So, you heard him do that directly to the American people.

Look, he does every — we — we make an effort to do a press conference as
often as possible, whether it’s here, at home, or abroad.

As you know, he held a — he held a two-plus-two with President
Zelenskyy, which I think was an incredibly powerful, important moment
for the American people to see what we have been doing to help the brave
people of Ukraine fight against tyranny, fight against the aggression
from Russia. And you saw him do that right alongside President
Zelenskyy.

And so, you know, the President certainly was very engaged with members
of — of the press corps yesterday who traveled with him. He engaged with
them three times: took questions, made a statement — really important
statement about Venezuela and the hostage situation.

And so, this is something that we really make an effort to do. And —
and, you know — and we will continue to do that in 2024: do as many as —
press conference as possible, abroad and at home.

Q I’m sorry, you — could you just ta- — you mentioned that you do as
many as possible.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Is — what’s the President — he has nothing on his public schedule
today. He obviously had a phone call this morning. I’m just wondering if
you can ch- — you know, characterize, like, you know, why — you know,
you can make time on the President’s calendar whenever you want.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, he made time yesterday to talk to the — to the
press yesterday. He did. He talked to them. We made time to make sure
that he gave a statement about what was happening in Venezuela — the
hostage exchange, the swap that you all saw that was very successful. He
made time to do that.

He — he stood in front of the — the press pool in front of m- — in front
of him and made that statement and took some questions. You took — took
a — he did two other gaggles yesterday. So, he certainly engages with
the press. And he’ll continue to do that.

And yesterday, he spoke directly to the American people about
Bidenomics, sell- — really showing what Bidenomics has done, what he’s
done the last two years. And I think that’s important, as well, for the
American people to hear directly from him.

And we will make the effort to do press conferences here, at home, and
abroad as well, just like we did last week with President Zelenskyy.

Q And on a different topic.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q On the situation at the border. John Kirby a few minutes ago said that
the U.S. probably could be doing more to — to deal with the situation
there. What more should the White House be doing? And what more has the
President been doing to address the situation we’ve seen over the last
week or two, especially with this latest surge?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I think one of the things, I think, he — he meant
by that is, when we did the emergency supplemental, the national
security component of that, it had a border security request. Right? And
that — because the President understood that we did need — need to do
more. And that’s why he asked for very important emergency funds to do
just that.

And what you’re seeing, certainly, from the Senate side at this time — I
know they — they d- — have decided to go home — but those conversation
to get border security, to get that bipartisan agreement continues. And
we encourage Congress to get to that as soon as possible, certainly,
when they get back.

So, obviously, we’re having those negotiation conversations to get more
funding because we understand — the President understands that we need
to do more. You know, and as it relates to what we’re seeing — the flow
of migrants that we’re seeing at the border, DHS is maximizing its
enfortme- — enforcement efforts. That is important.

And the thing that is also — you know, is important is the message that
we have to send to — to smugglers. Right? We have to be — be very, very
mindful, because they also put out misinformation. So, we try to be
mindful there as well.

And what we’re seeing here at the border, the migration flow — increased
migration flow, certainly, it — you know, it ebbs and flows. And we’re
at a time of the year where we’re seeing more at the border.

And it’s not unusual. This is an immigration system that has been broken
for decades. And the President has taken this very seriously to try to
do more. That’s why we have the comprehensive immigration policy
legislation that the President put forth on day one.

So, yes, there is more to be done. But we need the help of Congress to
get that done.

Q You’re saying there’s nothing the President can do himself
unilaterally to surge resources down there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, we — I mean, look, we asked for more Border
Patrol, right? And he was able to get 24,000 more Border Patrol folks —
law enforcement folks at the border. That’s unprecedented. We asked for
more. And you got Republicans in Congress who — especially in the House,
who want to cut that. They actually want to do the opposite of what the
President is trying to do.

And so, look, the President has done everything that he can — right? —
on — on his own. There’s — there’s clearly diplomatic conversation
happening with AMLO and other folks — other leaders in the region. We’re
going to continue to have those conversation just to make sure that we —
we deal with the flow.

But we also need funding. We also need funding to deal with border
security, which is what we’re trying to do right now with these
negotiations that are happening with the Senate — with senators right
now.

Go ahead, Trevor.

Q Just to follow up on that. You said the President has done everything
he can on his own on this issue. The letter from House Speaker Johnson
suggested otherwise, that there are specific steps that — that can be
taken. Do you see anything in — in what he suggested that you would be
open to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’ve heard the letter. I have not read the letter.
So, I can’t speak to the letter. They decided to go home, let’s not
forget, before the Senate did and did not participate. Right? They
wanted to push forward R- — H.R.2, which we — as we have said, doesn’t
help the border, actually makes it worse: cuts — cuts cost, cuts law
enforcement. It does not help at all.

And so, look, we are having those conversations with the — doing the
Senate negotiations. And we want to make sure that we come to a
bipartisan agreement. We understand that. We understand, to actually
deal with this issue, we need a bipartisan agreement, which is why the
President put forth a comprehensive immigration plan — legislation, to
be even more clear, on the first day.

And so, I can’t speak to the letter. I have not seen it. I heard about
it when I was coming out, but I cannot speak to what Speaker Johnson has
— has laid out in the letter.

Q And just very specifically in terms of the conversations that Biden
had with the Mexican leader today or in these conversations that are
going to be happening in the coming days, is the Remain in Mexico policy
something that is at all on the table in those discussions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m not going to go into the detail of diplomatic
con- — conversations that the President is having. We’re going to do —

Q You won’t rule it out though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not ruling anything out from here. I’m not going to
negotiate from here. That’s not what I’m going to do or lay out what on
— is on the agenda from here. The conversations continue. Obviously, it
takes diplomatic — diplomatic conversation, like the President is having
with the President of Mexico, to deal with the flow that we’re seeing
coming — coming from — coming into the border.

So, we have to actually have those conversations. That’s what the
President is doing. And he’s cont- — he’s been doing that the last two
years. And that’s what you’re going to see. I’m just not going to get
ahead of that.

Q And then one quick one. The Senate sent back Julie Su’s nomination.
Are you okay with her continuing in an acting capacity in 2024? Or do
you want to force a vote on this issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we believe — and we are going to be very
clear — Julie Su will be renominated of — of Secretary of Labor in the
new year. That is something that we are committed to. And as it relates
to her acting authority, look, because she was confirmed — and you’ve
heard me say this before — by the Senate as Deputy Secretar- — Deputy
Labor Secretary, she is able to continue serving as Acting Labor
Secretary.

So, we are — we are — we she — we see her performance as admirable, and
we think she is doing a great job in that role. And so, we urge Senate
to take action — swift action to confirm her for — to confirm her as
Secretary. Certainly, she will be renom- — renominated. And we are
certainly committed to that.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. Appreciate it. You talked about a supplemental — the
supplemental request to Congress for more funding when it comes to the
border. But we also —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — hear all the time from Republicans that it’s not just about funding.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q They want these policy changes. I understand you don’t want to
negotiate from the podium, but can you tell the American people if
there’s any immigration policy that this White House is willing to talk
about and — and is working on with Republicans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I want to be really careful. As negotiations
happen, we don’t want to do this in the public, right? It does not help
the process.

And so, we want to make sure that those negotiations are happening.
Obviously, we’re a part of those negotiations with — with the — with the
senators.

We think it’s going in the right direction. We want to make sure that we
get to a bipartisan agreement. It’s incredibly important. The President
understands — he understands that we have to fix this immigration
system. It has been broken for decades now. And so, we have to do
everything that we can to fix that system.

And so, we’re going to have those conversation. And you’re right, it’s
not just about funding. It’s also about policy discussions that they’re
having. And so, don’t want to get ahead of it.

And let’s not forget, this is a President that has had these types of
negotiation or been part of these types of — his team certainly have
been part of these types of negotiation — negotiations for some — in
different — obviously, in different — in different subjects and
legislation. So, that has happened for — for the last two — two, almost
three years, and they’ve been successful. So, we’re going to continue to
do that and stay steadfast on that.

Q Just following up on that. Is it fair, then, to say that the White
House thinks there will likely need to be some change to the asylum
system?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into specifics from here, but we
understand that there needs to be a bipartisan agreement, right? And so,
when you have a bipartisan agreement — right? — both sides have to
decide what — what they’ve — how — what they are willing to move forward
with.

I — I just want to be super mindful and let the team that are doing the
negotiations do that — do that themselves. And when they’re ready to
share what’s — what’s — what they’ve decided on, we’ll certainly talk
about that.

Q You started talking about accomplishments from this last year. You
talked about the economy. But in our latest ABC News poll back in
November, by a 10-point margin, Americans still said that they would
trust Republicans on the economy more. So, what is your message to
Americans who just think what you’ve done on the economy is not enough?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we understand what Americans have gone through.
We do. They went through — and you’ve heard me say this many times
before and my other colleagues — coming out of the pandemic was a tough
time, a difficult time for so many Americans. And we understand it’s
going to take some time for them to feel the accomplishments and what
we’ve been able to do in the last three years.

That’s not something I say. That’s something that economists have said,
right? It’s going to take some time.

What we can do is what the President did yesterday, right? He went to
Milwaukee, Wisconsin; talked to — spoke directly to the American people
— the people who live in Wisconsin, people who live in Milwaukee to talk
about what Bidenomics has done.

He actually lifted a very important pillar of Bidenomics, which is small
business. And there’s been 14 million new a- — applications since this
administration started on small business. That’s important. That is
investing in America. Fourteen million jobs created under this
President. We have unemployment under 4 percent. All of those things
matter.

We see inflation is moderating. That’s important.

And so, look, we’re going to continue to talk about it. We understand
that folks — Americans still feel things are unaffordable. That’s
something that the President said recently. And we’re going to do
everything that we can to lower costs.

That’s why we talk about junk fees, right? Whether — and that’s why we
talked — we talk about healthcare and making sure that we’re lowering
prescription drugs. As I said at the top, fighting Big Pharma.

All of these things are important, and we just have to be — continue to
speak to it.

Go ahead.

Q With the Congress being out now and not coming back until the first
week or so after the start of the new year, they’re going to be
confronting a perfect storm of funding battles on Capitol Hill: two
deadlines, supplemental budget requests — on top of that, continuing
resolutions that are expiring.

Is the White House concerned about whether it’s going to get anything
accomplished — in terms of Ukraine funding, for example, and the whole
border security issue — while all of these funding issues are coming up
at the same time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to be really simple and to the
point: These are important priorities for the American people. That’s
what Congress needs to understand. They’re important priorities for the
American people — everything that you just listed. And Congress needs to
take action. They need to take action.

I will leave it to congressional leadership on the calendar and
procedure and how they’re going to move forward. But these are important
actions that American people need.

Go ahead.

Q Does the President plan to invite Speaker Johnson for a one-on-one
meeting in the Oval Office in the new year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to — to lay out on a potential
meeting with the Speaker.

Q Is there a reason that hasn’t happened yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just don’t have anything at this time. I don’t have a
reasoning for it. I just don’t have anything to — to read out.

You — as you’ve known, they’ve spoken before. Our team here, the Office
of Leg Affairs, obviously, and other senior leadership here at the — at
the White House have been in touch with his — if not his team, himself.
And so, that is continuing — certainly a continuing conversation.

We speak to many members of Congress, whether they’re Republican or
Democrat. I just don’t have anything on the President’s schedule about a
meeting.

Q And does the White House have a response to this significant violent
rhetoric that targeted the Colorado Supreme Court justices and Democrats
following that ruling that would kept — that would keep Donald Trump off
the ballot there?

Some of that violent rhetoric has come directly in response to his own
posts on social media. But there were concerns raised about that and
that spreading —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Whose — whose —

Q — on social media.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — post?

Q On violent language and rhetoric in response to that, targeting
specifically the Supreme Court justices in Colorado.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Well, we’ve been always very clear: Any — any
intimidation, any violent rhetoric or violence, we’re certainly going to
denounce that and say it’s inappropriate. And so, we’re going to be
very, very clear: Any form of violence — any form of violence is
inappropriate and obviously dangerous. And that is something that we’re
going to speak out against.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. Does the President have any plans for the third anniversary of
the January 6th attack on the Capitol?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you know, I think the President has done something,
I think, the last two years of his administration on January 6th and
spoken, certainly, to the importance of our democracy. I don’t have
anything to lay out today as to the President’s plan for January 6th.

Go ahead.

AIDE: You have time for a couple more.

Q Thanks. The White House put out a statement about the meeting on
Tuesday with senior administration officials and the CEOs of the
companies that make the RSV vaccine for infants. Last week, the
manufacturers had said they could have an additional 230,000 doses
available in January. With that meeting this week, was there any new
commitment from these companies? Did they say they could produce even
more vaccines in this winter season if that’s needed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we’ve been very clear. We think families
should have access to the RSV vaccine. It is important for families to
have access to that. We’re going to continue to do everything that we
can to make sure that we urge manufacturers — right? — to produce and
release enough RSV vaccines that meet the demand that we’re seeing,
especially at this time.

And so, that work, we’re going to continue. We’re going to have those
conversations. And I — we were — you know, we were glad to see the
manufacturers announce an additional 230,000 vaccines that families
need. And so, we’re going to have — continue to have those conversation.
We want to see more. We want the — the needs to be met at this time.

And so, all I can say is that we’re going to continue to have those
conversation. We want to make sure that ev- — everyone who needs a shot
gets a shot.

Q So, was that meeting this week just to follow up on what they
announced last week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, we have continued conversation with
manufacturers — continued because we know how important it is to meet
the demands that we’re currently seeing, right? So, that is going to be
conversations that are going to continue from not just from this week —
moving forward to make sure that those needs are met. And we have the
vaccines — the RSV vaccinations that families need. It is important.
Families should have access. It is critical for families to have access
to RSV shots.

Go ahead, Josh.

Q Karine, the — the Journal reported today that the U.S. is considering
raising tariffs on Chinese electric vehicles, as well as other kinds of
similar products like batteries and solar panels. Can you give us an
update on that and/or speak to the ongoing review of the China tariffs
and when the President will make a final decision on them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. The administration — this
administration continues to conduct its statutory review of the Section
301 tariffs on Chinese products. This revi- — review, as you know, is
led by USTR in partnership with the interagency partners and
stakeholders.

We are taking a strategic, thoughtful, deliberative approach to a
bilateral economic and trade relationship with China, and that certainly
applies to our review of these tariffs.

I just don’t have any additional updates. But that has certainly been
the path that we’ve taken on this.

Q Is that in, like, weeks, months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Just don’t have a timeline. But that’s the updates that
I can share with you.

Q Okay. And can you speak to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahe- — oh.

Q — earlier this week, there was Conference Board data that — that
showed rising consumer sentiment. You’ve alluded to this in one of your
early —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — earlier statements. Does the White House believe that inflation will
continue going down and that sentiment will continue improving? Or is it
— do you believe it’s too soon to say, “We — we got into trouble, you
know, a year or so ago with transitory this or that”? I just want to be
clear on how you’re viewing this moment here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you know, inf- — inflation fell to the
lowest level in three years. That’s important. Consumer confidence is at
the highest level since — since July and the second-highest level in two
years.

And so, we’re glad to see that Americans are feeling more confident
about the economy. And as you know, I think a year ago or just six
months ago, there was always this talk about recession, recession,
recession, and that is certainly not where we’re head- — not where we’re
heading.

And so, we’ve always said that, you know, we’re at a transition here to
a more stable and steady growth, and that’s kind of where we’re seeing
we’re going. And we’re going to do everything that we can to make sure
that inflation continues to moderate, and I think that’s a good path.
That’s what the American people want to see, and — and, at the same
time, lower costs for Americans, because we know that they — that’s —
that’s important in our — as we talk about Bidenomics and the economy.

Go ahead.

Q So, a quick point of clarification on the Ukraine aid. Is the United
States considering pulling from its own stocks to send to Ukraine
without replenishing them? Or is the aid package that we expect to come
in the next week or so the final one until Congress gives the United
States more authority?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, we’ve been very clear. There’s one more —
one more final — final aid that we can give to Ukraine. And — and —

Q If — if the United States doesn’t replenish its own stocks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, what I can tell you is we’re doing — one of the
reasons why we asked for additional aid is because — because we’re
running out, right? We are running out of aid to support the brave
people of Ukraine.

And we have — what we’ve been able to do — and you’ve heard this from
the Admiral, you’ve heard this from the National Security Advisor — is
we have kind of lessened — like, made tho- — that aid that we’ve
announced the last couple of weeks or last couple of months smaller and
smaller, because we don’t have any more. Like, this is it.

And so, that is where we are. That’s why we asked for emergency funding.
That’s why we asked for that supplemental, because we need to make sure
that Ukraine continues to fight for their democracy. And that’s really
where we are. That is where we are today.

All right.

AIDE: One last one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Last one. Okay.

Go ahead, (inaudible).

Q Thank you. Angola announced today that they’re leaving OPEC. I was
curious if there was an administration response, especially as it
relates to energy prices, and if it was an issue that came up when
Angola’s president met with President Biden three weeks ago.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’re — as you know, we’re not a member of OPEC+,
so you would have to speak directly to the government of Angola.

Q Well, it sounds like Angola is not anymore either. That’s why I was
asking.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I’m just saying we’re not members of — we’re not
mem- — (laughter). Good que- — good point. But we’re not members of
OPEC+. That is not something that I can speak to. You would have —

Q But — so it did come up in conversations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I can’t go beyond what the readout was from that — from
that conversation.

But obviously, we are not members of OPEC+. So, you have to talk to them
about that.

All right. Thanks, guys.

Q Thank you.

Q Karine, do you have a readout of the week ahead and what the President
is up to for holidays?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, we’re going to have something later on for you
today on that, but — as we normally do.

All right.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Do you want to say anything —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What?

Q — Christmassy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, you wanted me to say something Christmassy?

(Cross-talk.)

Q No, no —

Q No, on his plans around the —

Q His plans.

Q What is he doing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh. We’ll — no, we’ll — we’ll have a week ahead.

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ll have a — we’ll have a week ahead. We’ll — we
will. We will share a week ahead.

I thought you wanted something from me. I would say, “Happy holidays.”
(Laughter.) Hope to see —

Q Happy holidays.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy New Year. It’s always good to see you all. Enjoy,
be safe, and enjoy your time with your family. See you next year.

Bye, guys.

2:40 P.M. EST
