---
date: '2023-12-13'
modified_time: 2023-12-13 19:26:31-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-13 19:26:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-33/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:11 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Today, President Biden met with the families of
Americans who were taken hostage by Hamas during the terrorist attacks
in Israel on October 7th.

The President has been personally engaged on this issue and has held
many calls with Prime Minister Netanyahu and the Amir of Qatar, with the
aim of securing the release of the Americans and all hostages held by
Hamas.

Thanks to President Biden’s leadership, the United States has helped
secure the release of over 100 hostages, including four Americans.

Two American citizens, Natalie and Judith Raanan, were released on
October 20th after extensive diploma- — diplomacy by the administration.

After further diplomatic efforts, four-year-old Abigail Mor Edan, whose
parents were killed by Hamas and whose mother was American, was released
on November 26th.

Under the same deal, American citizen Liat Beinin, a high school teacher
and a tour guide for Israel’s Holocaust Museum, was released on November
29th.

But as the President has said himself, we will not stop until we bring
all Americans being held hostage home.

As you all — as you all heard the President say yesterday, the American
people will not walk away from Ukraine in its battle for freedom against
tyranny.

Yet Speaker Johnson has said the House will leave tomorrow without
fixing the border, without funding Israel, without funding urgent needs
in Ukraine.

That would embolden would-be aggressors around the world.

The world is watching what congressional Republicans do. Moscow,
Beijing, and Tehran — they’re all watching.

House Republicans should not go home for the holidays when there is
vital work to do for the security of the United States and the world.

Now, across the country, we’ve seen unprecedented attacks on women’s
freedom to make their own health decisions.

States have imposed dangerous abortion bans that deny women access to
care and threaten to criminalize doctors.

As the President said, this should never happen in America. Period.

Today, the Supreme Court has agreed to review the Fifth Circuit’s
decision on mifepristone, which threatens to undermine the FDA’s
scientific, independent judgment and would reimpose restrictions on
access to medication abortion.

President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue fighting to
defend women’s ability to access reproductive care.

Today, Vice President Harris convened 100 state legislators to announce
our Safer States Initiative to reduce gun violence and save lives.

This is the largest-ever White House convening of state legislators to
discuss key actions to end the epidemic of gun violence.

As a part of today’s convening, the Justice Department introduced two
model laws for safe gun storage and reporting of lost and stolen
firearms.

Both of these measures are proven solutions that will save lives.

Protecting communities from the threat of gun violence requires action
at the federal level, at the state level, and at local level. That’s
what today’s meeting is all about, and that’s what the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention is working on every day.

Yesterday, we learned consumer inflation fell to 3.1 percent last month,
down two thirds from its peak. And today, we learned producer inflation
was flat last month and less than 1 percent over the last year.

Prices are down for eggs, milk, toys, and TVs. Ga- — gas prices are down
by $1.90 from the peak after Putin’s war began. And wages are rising and
hi- — and higher than before the pandemic.

We have more work to do, of course. President Biden is fighting to lower
costs by taking on Big Pharma, strengthening supply chains, and cracking
down on price gouging by banning hidden junk fees.

While he’s fighting to lower costs and grow our economy from the middle
out, congressional Republicans are fighting for the wealthy and big
corporations while trying to cut Social Security, Medicare, and
Medicaid. They don’t have a plan to lower costs. But as you have heard
from this president multiple times over the past two years, he has a
plan to lower costs.

With that, we have Admiral John Kirby here today to give us an update on
the Middle East and any other updates on the foreign policy side.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, Karine.

Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY: Hang on a second. Let me button my jacket.

Q A little propriety, John.

MR. KIRBY: Yep. Yeah. Sorry.

Q It’s the holidays.

MR. KIRBY: (Laughs.) I haven’t eaten that much.

Just on the — to add to what Karine said about the visit at — the
families. I would only add that the President was very grateful for the
time that they afforded him, and he was moved by their stories, by the
love they feel, by the hope that they still harbor.

And he harbors that hope, too. But as Karine rightly noted, he acted on
that.

The other thing that he made sure to do was to promise them that we’re
going to keep them informed every single step of the way. And we’ll do
that.

These are difficult days for these families. But as we all prepare for
the holiday season that is already upon us, we would do well to remember
that for them, there’s going to be an empty chair at the table, there’s
going to be a still and a silence in the room, and there’s going to be
irrepressible ache and worry and fear.

The President understands that. The whole team here understands that.
So, we should all keep them in our thoughts, all of us — as we should so
many others in Israel and in Gaza who have been deeply and irretrievably
affected by the attacks of October 7th.

We can’t forget how this all happened: a series of deadly and devilish
attacks by terrorists that were intent on taking innocent life.

This is a war that Hamas has brought on itself. And while we all want it
to stop because any war is horrific, Hamas has pledged to repeat October
7th again and again and again.

It has pledged to annihilate Is- — Israel and to kill as many Jews as
possible.

It’s still holding over a hundred hostages, including young women that
it refused to re- — release in violation of a deal it negotiated in
Doha.

We know what they have proven capable of doing to young women.

So, while we all want the war to end as soon as possible, to stop the
human suffering, and to establish conditions for an enduring peace —
something that the President and the entire team continues to pursue — a
unilateral ceasefire with a terrorist group like Hamas is not the
answer.

As the President has said, Hamas could release the hostages today, they
could surrender all those responsible for the October 7th attacks and
lay down their arms, and the war would stop immediately. If they really
cared about the Palestinian people the way they claim to, they would do
this.

That they haven’t done it, I think, speaks volumes.

For our part, on the other hand, we are working every day to bring in as
much humanitarian assistance as possible to the people of Gaza and to
reduce civilian harm.

As we speak, our team is working with the U.N. and with the Israelis on
corridors to facilitate the flow of aid and on brief, daily pauses to
allow people to get access to the assistance.

I don’t want to go into those details right now, but Jake Sullivan, who
I know you know, is traveling in the region. He’ll likely have more to
say about this when he’s in Israel tomorrow, as will David Satterfield
and our whole team that are working these issues on the ground.

We have also worked to get the crossing at Kerem Shalom open for
inspections, increasing the throughput of aid, and we have urged the
Israelis to allow aid directly from Israel through Kerem Shalom —
through that crossing into Gaza.

The Prime Minister of Israel has said today that this is likely to move
forward, and that will be another topic of Jake’s meetings.

This would be the first direct entry to aid from Israel into Gaza since
the 7th of October, so it’s not insignificant.

Of course, Jake will also discuss the next phase of the military
campaign and efforts to be more surgical and more precise and to reduce
the harm to civilians.

That is an aim of ours, and the Israelis say it is an aim of theirs, but
it’s the results that count.

The President, yesterday, reflected the reality of global opinion, which
also matters. Our support for Israel is not diminished, but we have had
concerns and we have expressed those concerns about the prosecution of
this military campaign, even while acknowledging that it’s Hamas that
started this and it’s Hamas that is continuing it.

Jake’s visit tomorrow follows the President’s call with Prime Minister
Netanyahu on Friday, where they spoke for over an hour and in some
detail about the coming weeks and what we hope and expect to see.

And I’m not going to get ahead of the conversations that Jake will be
having, but I would like to just say that these are extremely serious
conversations and we hope they’ll be constructive as well.

The pending — I’m almost done. The pending opening of Kerem Shalom is
one example of what’s to come out of them, but there needs to be more.

Jake’s visit will be followed by Secretary Austin’s visit both to Israel
and also to our forces in the region, including in the Red Sea.

And one last note. Today marks the one-year anniversary of President
Biden’s Africa Leaders Summit, which last year convened delegations from
the African Union and 49 African countries to broaden and deepen our
partnership and deliver meaningful outcomes for the people across the
continent.

Over the last year, we’ve made significant progress on the summit
commitments: welcoming the African Union to the G20; clo- — closing more
than 500 trade and investment deals, valued at more than $14 billion;
and elevating our work on infrastructure, digital transformation
initiative, and diaspora engagement.

And this is just the start. We look forward to continuing to build on
these commitments and strengthen our relationships with African partners
and other organizations going forward.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Zeke.

Q Thanks, Admiral. The President, yesterday, as you alluded to those
remarks, he said that Israel was engaged in “indiscriminate bombing” in
Gaza. And that — that that is what had cost — cost Israel international
global support.

Does the President believe, based on those comments, that Israel’s
conduct in this war thus far has been in accordance with international
law?

MR. KIRBY: We have every expectation that — that Israel will do exactly
what they say they’re doing, which is to continue to go after the
terrorist leaders and to do so in a way that minimizes civilian harm. As
I said in my opening statement and as the President said, that’s their
intent. And it’s important that the results match that intent.

Q And so, the President was saying yesterday that the results have not
thus far matched that intent?

MR. KIRBY: He was expressing concerns that — that — that we continue to
see civilian casualties in Gaza and, again, that we want to make sure
that they’re — that, as they work to minimize, that they actually have
those kinds of results, that they are able to minimize civilian
casualties.

Q And so, your colleague at the State Department today said that there
was not a formal U.S. government determination that Israel was engaged
in indiscriminate bombing. Is the President’s comment yesterday — was he
speaking for the U.S. government there? He was obviously speaking to
donors, but is that — is it the U.S. government’s position that Israel
was engaged in indiscriminate bombing in Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: The President was expressing concerns — again, as I said —
about the civilian casualties that we’ve seen. And, again, it’s
reflective of our constant efforts to urge the Israelis to be as precise
and careful as possible.

And, again, we know they’ve stated their intent to reduce civilian
casualties. And they have acted on that. I mean, the way they went into
the — the North in a much smaller force than they had said they were
going to do or were planning to do; by publishing a map online so that
people know where to go; by agreeing to additional, now daily, pauses in
the fighting.

I mean, they are — they are making efforts, and they are taking steps.
But we want to see — of course, we want to see more results in that
regard. That’s what he’s referring to.

Q And then just relatedly, the President, in that — in that same
fundraiser, said that Israel needs to make a “change” to its government.
What exactly did he mean by that? Does he mean Netanyahu has to go?

MR. KIRBY: The President realizes that the — that Israel is a powerful,
vibrant democracy, and any change in the government is going to have to
be determined by the Israeli people.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Thanks. I appreciate it. If the President believes Israel is engaging
in indiscriminate bombing, wouldn’t there be an obligation from the U.S.
to put new conditions on military aid?

MR. KIRBY: Every bit of security assistance we give any other country
always comes with the expectation that the law of armed conflict is
going to be respected and obeyed.

As I said earlier, we’re not going to assess every single airstrike here
from this particular podium. That wouldn’t be appropriate.

The Israelis should speak to their operations, but we have every
expectation — as I said to my previous answer there — that they will act
in accordance with the law of armed conflict and do everything that they
can to match their intent, which is to minimize civilian casualties.

Q But if they’re — if they aren’t, then isn’t there an obligation for
the U.S. to change the way that it’s delivering military aid?

MR. KIRBY: Well, I — that’s a hypothetical that I’m not prepared to
engage in right now.

Q But it’s not hypothetical if he’s saying “indiscriminate bombing.”

MR. KIRBY: That — that’s a hypothetical I’m not going to engage in. We
have expressed our concerns — the President has, publicly and privately
— with the Israelis about the need to reduce civilian casualties, and
we’re going to continue to do that.

I expect you’ll — you’ll see Jake address this too when he’s in the
region.

Q All right. On the hostages, is there a concern that hostages could be
held in tunnels that are potentially being flooded?

MR. KIRBY: Well, some of the hostages have come out and said that they
were held in — in tunnels. So, it’s not beyond the possibility that —
that Hamas could be holding at least some of them in tunnels as they
move them around, which we have to expect that they’ll — they’ll do.

But if you’re asking about the flooding, specifically, I’m not going to
speak for Israeli military operations. They should speak to that.

I would just say that we all need to be remember — we all need to
remember the particular extra difficulty that they have going after a
group like Hamas, which isn’t j- — it’s a terrorist group, but it also
has, sort of, a military structure to it. And they deliberately tunnel
under civilian infrastructure to allow for the movement of their
fighters and to — for storing equipment and things. That adds an extra
burden on the — on the Israelis.

And I would just say, again, without confirming these reports about
flooding, that, as we’ve said before, we recognize their right and
responsibility to go after Hamas, which is posing a particularly
tactically difficult problem for them in — in — by using tunnels, but to
do so in a way that reduces damage to civilian infrastructure above the
ground and certainly reduces any chance of civilian casualties inside
those tunnels, which would include hostages.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nandita.

Q Thanks. Thanks, Karine. Does President Biden want Bibi Netanyahu to
get rid of hardliners in his government?

MR. KIRBY: It — it’s not for us to — to dictate terms to a foreign
sovereign government. Israel is a democracy. And the Israeli people get
to decide what that government looks like. And they did. And we respect
that. That’s what democracy is all about. We’re not dictating terms to
the Israelis one way or the other.

Q What did he mean yesterday when he said he wanted Netanyahu to change?
Was he talking about getting more aid in? And was he talking about more
surgical strikes? Was he talking about hardliners? What was he referring
to?

MR. KIRBY: It’s up to the Israeli people to determine who is going to
represent them and their government.

The President has, of course, been very candid about some of the
concerns that we had about, like, judicial reform in the country and
where the Cabinet was going on certain issues. And he expressed those
concerns as a real friend of Israel — somebody who loves and respects
Israel and has for his whole public life — that we want to see Israel,
whatever they decide to do, to move forward with the broadest consensus
possible. And it’s in that spirit that he’s talking about it.

Q And — and just a quick one on — on Jake’s trip. Is he planning to
visit elsewhere in the region? And what will his message be to the
Israeli War Cabinet in terms of any kind of schedule for the Gaza
conflict?

MR. KIRBY: I — I don’t have any other specific stops to speak to today.
That said, it — it is likely that he will make other stops in the region
and won’t just be — just going to Israel. We’ll have more to say about
that when we can.

And his message — again, I don’t want to get ahead of him. I certainly
wouldn’t want to do that. He’ll have a chance to — to talk publicly
while he’s in the region. But — but, clearly, he’s going to talk to them
about progress on the battlefield, how it’s going. He’s going to talk to
them about reductions in civilian harm. He’s going to talk to them about
trying to get another pause in place so that we can get more hostages
out.

He’s going to talk to them about the need to get humanitarian assistance
— keep that flowing. It has been flowing, even when the pause stopped.
And I think he’ll explore opportunities to see if we can increase that —
again, possibly, hopefully, through Kerem Shalom.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Ed. And then, we’ll jump around (inaudible).

Q Thank you, Admiral. You’re being asked these questions because the
President has a tendency to say things about foreign policy and leave
them hanging and we don’t get to ask him to clarify himself. So,
apologies if this gets pedantic for people listening. But did he
misspeak yesterday when he said that Israel was carrying out
indiscriminate attacks?

MR. KIRBY: You had the opportunity to hear him yesterday on foreign
policy when he stood next to the President of Ukraine. So, I take issue
—

Q Right. But he wasn’t asked about Israel — about — specifically about
this.

MR. KIRBY: I take issue with the premise of that question. But the — the
President speaks for American foreign policy. The President speaks and
has spoken, Ed, about our concerns over civilian casualties in Gaza and
about urging our Israeli counterparts to be more careful and more
deliberate.

Q So, you just said he speaks for foreign policy.

MR. KIRBY: Of course, he does.

Q And he said yesterday —

MR. KIRBY: Of course, he does.

Q — that there were indiscriminate attacks, which, to the rest of the
world, is a war crime. So, why isn’t the United States now saying that
that’s what Israel is carrying out?

MR. KIRBY: The President was speaking to his concerns about — about
making sure we’re seeing the results that Israel has claimed is their
intent, which is to reduce civilian casualties. That’s what he was
talking about.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. John, I’m sorry, it seems that, you know, this
interaction between you and my colleagues — it seems that, to me, the
President is making some pretty clear signals to the Netanyahu
government. But it seems like you’re trying to walk it back. I mean —

MR. KIRBY: No.

Q — I don’t know if that’s correct or not. So, please walk me through
it.

MR. KIRBY: No.

Q Is the military strike, military campaign by Israel — is it surgical
or indiscriminate, according to the administration at this point?

MR. KIRBY: As I’ve said a whole bunch of times since I’ve been up here,
we’re not going to armchair quarterback this from this particular
podium. Let me finish. We’re not going to — we’re not going to
characterize every airstrike. We’re not going to speak for Israel- —
Israeli military operations.

The President was reflecting a concern that we have had for some time
and will continue to have as this military operation proceeds about the
need for reducing civilian harm and being as precise and careful and
deliberate as possible.

Q So, when — when he’s talking about — particularly singling out the
hardliners in Israeli government, what does he mean by that? What signal
is he sending out?

MR. KIRBY: I think I’ve already answered that question. I mean, for many
months now — well before the attacks of October 7th — the President
talked about some of our concerns over some of the reforms that this new
government was pursuing. And he did it out of respect and a true
affection for the Israeli democracy and the Israeli people. And that’s —
that’s the context here.

But, obviously, it’s up to the Israeli people to determine who their
government is, of course.

Q Sure. And just to — just to recap: What I understand from the
President’s remarks on Tuesday is that he seems to be laying out some
sort of clues as to what he sees the vision towards a two-state solution
and what are the necessary stepping stones or the required elements.

And I think, you know, the — a moderate Israeli coalition might be one
of them. Another one seems to me, as I read it, a more empowered
Palestinian Authority. Is my understanding correct? And, if so, what
would the U.S. administration do to support that?

MR. KIRBY: The President doesn’t have to lay out clues about the
two-state solution. He believes in it, and he’s been advocating it now
for many, many years — certainly, since becoming President of the United
States. He still believes that there’s a promise there, a vision there,
a possibility of a two-state solution.

And to do that, to achieve it — and, again, I’m not saying anything he
hasn’t said — in order to get there, you’ve got to have leadership.
You’ve got to have leadership on both sides. And both sides have got to
be willing not only to lead but to compromise and to be willing to come
to the table and move that forward.

Now, he’s also said that — with respect to Gaza, whatever governance in
Gaza looks like, it can’t look like what it did on the — on the 6th of
October with Hamas in charge. It’s got to be representative of the
aspirations of the Palestinian people. And that means it’s going to
require some leadership and some change in the Palestinian Authority.

Q And one last one, I promise. When you say that the U.S. requires
Israel and all other allies to obey requirements of the law of armed
conflict when they’re using U.S. weapons, how can you ensure that when
the administration has bypassed congressional oversight on this, debate
on this, and also internal State Department debate on this?

MR. KIRBY: I’m not sure I understand the premise of the question.

Q Well, you just sent a whole bunch of weapons on — on Saturday without
waiting for Congress, correct?

MR. KIRBY: We have a normal process for pr- — providing aid and
assistance to foreign countries — Ukraine and to Israel — and that’s all
done within the — the normal, standard consultative process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, M.J.

Q Thank you. John, hey. I guess “indiscriminate,” just by definition,
means “without discrimination.” It means “not deliberate,” “not
careful.” I’m just wondering, and I think my colleagues are trying to
get at this: Why insist that the intent is there to minimize civilian
casualties when the President himself said yesterday that Israel is
bombing indiscriminately?

MR. KIRBY: Sometimes in war — and, again, I’m not speaking for the
Israelis. Sometimes in war, your best plans, your best execution of
those plans doesn’t always go the way you want it to go. It doesn’t
always go the way you expect it to go.

We know that from bitter experience in our own military. No matter how
precise and targeted we tried to be in Iraq and Afghanistan, there were
times when we caused civilian casualties as well.

That’s one of the reasons, M.J., that we sent a couple of military
advisors over there — some senior generals who had experience in that
kind of urban warfare — to talk to the Israelis before they moved into
Gaza, to help them learn from our own mistakes.

So, sometimes in war, the best plai- — the best laid plans just doesn’t
— they don’t get executed exactly the way you want and, unfortunately,
civilian casualties result.

Q So, you’re saying they are trying their best —

MR. KIRBY: I am saying, as I’ve —

Q — to minimize civilian casualties, but, in practice, that is not what
you are seeing happen?

MR. KIRBY: I’m saying that there is a clear intent by the Israelis — an
intent that they have admitted to publicly — that they are doing
everything they can to reduce civilian casualties. I am saying and I
have said earlier that we are seeing them act on that intent in positive
ways. And I just went through a couple of details on that.

Airstrikes, for instance, have reduced since they’ve started to move in
more towards the south. They have relied less and less on airstrikes and
more and more on ground troops, which allows you to be more precise.

So, they have taken measures to act on that intent. But as I said in my
opening statement, results really count. And we’re still seeing some
civilian casualties. So, we’re still going to talk to them about doing
everything they can to reduce that.

Q So, you’re saying both things are happening? In some ways, they are
acting on their intent to be more careful, be more deliberate, but on
the other hand, they are still bombing indiscriminately?

MR. KIRBY: We are — they are — we know they have the intent. We know
they’re acting on the intent. Civilian casualties continue to happen.
And, again, we’re going to keep urging them to reduce those.

Q What’s the tipping point for the President that prompted him to make
these remarks and — and warn about Israel losing their national support?

MR. KIRBY: This has been a message we have consistently conveyed to
Israeli counterparts since the early, early days of this conflict —
mostly through private channels, but we have talked publicly about this.

You’ve heard the Vice President talk about it. You’ve heard Secretary
Austin talk about it out at the Reagan Forum. You heard Secretary
Blinken talk about it in his last — now third trip to the region. This
is not a new message.

Q But we haven’t heard the President talk about it. Was there something
specific that prompted him to himself speak out about this?

MR. KIRBY: The President is concerned, as he said he’s concerned, about
the need to reduce civilian casualties. And certainly he’s concerned. As
a friend of Israel, he is concerned about Israel not losing
international support and public opinion for what they’re trying to do.

That — that comes from — that comes from a lot of respect and affection
for Israel and wanting to make sure that — that Israel has the — what
they need to go after Hamas and they have the support that they need to
do that over time.

Q Thank you. I have a question on another subject: the Ukraine aid
negotiations.

MR. KIRBY: Yeah.

Q If the situation is as dire and urgent as the President says, why
hasn’t he invited leadership, Senate leaders to Camp David and said,
“We’re going to stay here until we work something out”?

MR. KIRBY: We have been —

Q It seems like there are a lot of things he could be doing that he
hasn’t done yet.

MR. KIRBY: Well, I — I won’t talk about what we’re doing that you’re —
that you’re not seeing in the media. But our team is staying very, very
closely engaged with members of Congress, both sides of the aisle, as
they continue to pursue these negotiations. And we’ll see where it goes.

Q Is he willing to let Congress adjourn without calling leaders to Camp
David or somewhere like that for negotiations where they don’t leave the
room until they get a deal?

MR. KIRBY: I won’t get ahead of the President’s decision-making on this.

We urge them to act immediately on the supplemental request. It’s that
important.

You just saw us announce yet another security assistance package for
Ukraine here yesterday. There is not too many days left in the year.

Q Yeah, that’s why I’m asking.

MR. KIRBY: And there’s not too many more opportunities to provide
security assistance to Ukraine. So, it’s urgent. And he continues to
urge them to act with that same sense of alacrity on this — on this
supplemental request.

And as he has also said, we’re willing to engage in good-faith
negotiations and to make compromises, because that’s required by both
sides going forward.

Q Well, wait. Do you — does he believe there is more that he can do,
other things that he can try to get a negotiated compromise on this
issue?

MR. KIRBY: The President is working this very hard. The whole team is
working this very hard.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Raquel.

Q Thank you so much, Karine. So, John, going back to the two-state
solution. We’ve seen the President defend this often. But as the main
ally and supporter of Israel, we haven’t seen him offering to mediate
such talks that we know have been halted for almost a decade now. Is the
President offering this in meetings with the two sides to mediate? And
he’s — is he ready to mediate such talks?

MR. KIRBY: Mediate such talks on?

Q On two-state solution.

MR. KIRBY: Well — well, I would tell you, before October 7th, our team
was working very hard on normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia,
which was going to be — we still think there’s hope here — to be a
stepping stone to get closer to a two-state solution. So, we were very
actively engaged in trying to set the parameters and set the conditions
for a two-state solution going forward.

Now, obviously, the events of October 7th have somewhat derailed that —
that opportunity. Everybody is focused, rightly, on what’s going on in —
in Gaza. But that doesn’t mean we’re giving up on that.

Q And another question. Yesterday, the U.N. — U.N. General Assembly
approved a resolution demanding a ceasefire. What else would have to ne-
— happen in Gaza for this administration, for the U.S. to agree with a
ceasefire? How long can the President afford going — support Israel like
that — unconditionally like this?

MR. KIRBY: As we said, we don’t think now is the time for a ceasefire.
And in that resolution, there was no condemnation of what Hamas has —
has done. Not — not any. And no expressed support for Israel’s right to
defend itself, so, of course, we weren’t going to sign up to that.

We don’t believe a ceasefire right now — a general ceasefire — is the
right thing to do, because what it would do is validate what Hamas did
on October 7th. This is basically like saying, “Hey, it’s okay. It’s
okay that you went in there and slaughtered 1,200 people and took a
couple hundred of them hostage.” It would leave them in control of Gaza,
which is unacceptable not only to the Israeli people, but to — but to
President Biden and this team.

We can’t go back to October 6th right now. So, it’s not — not the time
for a ceasefire. We all want to see the war end. And as I said in my
opening statement, it could end today if Hamas would release all the
hostages, lay down their arms, and surrender up those responsible for
the October 7th attacks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Go ahead, Gabe.

Q Admiral, you’ve said repeatedly from that lectern that it is not the
aim of the U.S. government to tell Israel what to do. Wasn’t the
President’s comments yesterday about the government needing to change —
isn’t —

MR. KIRBY: No.

Q — his comments at odds with that?

MR. KIRBY: No, not at all, Gabe. All — all he was doing was expressing,
again, the — what he has expressed to you guys before: concerns about
some of the policies that — that — again, as a friend of Israel, he was
concerned — that the — that the pre-War Cabinet had been exploring. But
he fully respects that this is up to the Israeli people.

Q And has the President lost some of his trust for Prime Minister
Netanyahu over the past few weeks?

MR. KIRBY: They have a longstanding relationship. They’re going to keep
that relationship. They’re going to keep talking.

I think you can expect that they — he’ll be talking to Prime Minister
Netanyahu in the not-too-distant future about what we can do to continue
to support Israel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. We’re running out of time. Go ahead.

Q Thank you. Thanks — thanks, Admiral. After the President’s comments
yesterday talking about Israel losing support, the Israeli foreign
minister said that Israel would continue its war “with or without
international support.” Do you have a response to that?

MR. KIRBY: I’ll let them speak for themselves.

We’re going to continue to support them. And as the President expressed
yesterday, we obviously don’t want to see them lose international
support for what they’re trying to do. They have every right to defend
themselves.

Q And then also, given his comments, does the President believe that a
two-state solution is possible with Netanyahu in charge?

MR. KIRBY: The President still believes that a two-state solution is
possible. It’s a — it’s a vision. He understands that, right now, it can
look a little elusive, given what’s going on in Gaza.

But as I said earlier in — in my other answer to this, it’s going to
require leadership — solid, concerted, transparent leadership on both
sides to make this happen.

Q Just following up on that question. It doesn’t appear right now that
there is Israeli buy-in for a two-state solution. So, can you just walk
through how you get from A to B?

MR. KIRBY: We had — we had been working on A to B before October 7th by
working towards normalization between Israel and Saudi Arabia, which we
saw as a real positive milestone in an effort to try to get closer to a
two-state solution.

We’ve been working, before October 7th, with the Palestinian Authority
to try to get them to explore and to advance certain reforms so that
they can be seen as — as more credible and more authentic as a
leadership capability there. And so we’re going to keep doing that.

Q But if Israel’s leader does not support that outcome, then how do you
resolve this?

MR. KIRBY: I won’t speak for Israeli leaders or their politics. I can
just tell you that the President still believes a two-state solution is
not only possible but necessary, and we’re not going to give up on
working at that.

And even with this Cabinet — before October 7th, even with this Cabinet
and with Prime Minister Netanyahu back in office, we were talking to
them about moving forward on that. And the first big step we were trying
to get to was normalization.

Q And then on Zelenskyy, really quickly. Do you believe that his visit
here moved the needle in any way in terms of freeing up aid? Can you
just speak at all to —

MR. KIRBY: I mean, I think —

Q — anything you saw —

MR. KIRBY: — you’d have to talk to members of Congress about whether —
how much they were persuaded or not. I think the President was very
convincing yesterday in the press conference, standing right next to
President Zelenskyy, about the need for continued support for Ukraine
and what that means not only to Ukraine’s national security but ours as
well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Nadia.

Q Thank you. I want to go back to the President’s comment on
indiscriminate killing. Correct me if I’m wrong, John, but you seem to
give the Israelis more of a benefit of the doubt that your — than your
own President. You said that Israel is acting upon your advice. Can you
give me an example of exactly where they acted upon your advice? In
terms of casualties, civilian casualties are mounting. The attack on the
South is just equally as bad as the attack in the North. So, just give —

MR. KIRBY: I’m happy to repeat it.

Q — give me some examples of (inaudible) —

MR. KIRBY: I — I’m happy to repeat them. I gave them earlier. They have
— they — they moved in — into Northern Gaza on the ground in a way that
was much smaller than they had previously planned to do. And we think
that that was an outgrowth of some of the advice and counsel that we
provided them about urban warfare.

They have reduced the number of airstrikes that they’re — that they’re
conducting right now as they pursue Hamas terrorists in the South.

They have published online maps of places where people can go or not to
go. That’s basically telegraphing your punches, and there’s very few
modern militaries in the world that would do that. I don’t know that we
would do that — to put a map out there and say, “Hey, here’s where you
can go where it’s safe, and here’s where you shouldn’t go because we
might be striking there.”

Those are all good examples.

And I — and I would also add, as I said in my opening statement: Even
when they were operating in the North, they added human- — humanitarian
corridors to allow people to leave. They are now talking about
additional corridors in the South, as well as the possibility of more
daily humanitarian pauses in the fighting so that people can get access
to assistance.

Q With all of this that you mention, the casualty number is the same. So
how could it be translated as all these measures has reduced the number
of civilian casualties?

MR. KIRBY: Because your question was, “Give me some examples.” So, I
gave you some examples.

I think you heard from the President, we’re still concerned that there
remains civilian casualties happening every day. We’re still obviously
concerned about that.

And as I’ve said so many times before, the right number is zero. We
don’t want to see anybody hurt. We don’t want to see anybody, any — any
innocent life taken or wounded by this conflict.

Q But one last question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: In the back.

Q Thank you so much.

Q Just quickly, can I just ask —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q — this question, because —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re going to — we got to wrap it up.

Q Just quickly. You said the phrase “from the river to the sea” has been
so controversial in the U.S. Today, the — the son of the Prime Minister,
Netanyahu’s son, put it on his social media: “from the river to the
sea.” How can you explain that? And he said this is the Israeli flag,
“from the river to the sea.” So, would you condemn what he’s writing?

MR. KIRBY: You’re asking me to speak for the Prime Minister’s son. I’m
not going to do that.

Q No, I’m not asking — I’m not asking you to do that.

MR. KIRBY: I’m not going to do that.

Q I’m not asking you to do that. I’m asking you to comment on this
phrase that should be condemned equally. You said that whoever is using
it is called antisemitic. So, now it’s the Prime Minister’s son who is
using it. Is this antisemitic?

MR. KIRBY: I haven’t seen that happen. I’m not going to speak for the
Prime Minister’s son and his social media account. I think you can
understand why I wouldn’t do that.

But, look — and Karine has talked about this — the — that phrase has a
certain connotation, which is antisemitic. And if you look at that — the
connotation is antisemitic — if you look at it — and I’ve got it here; I
won’t read it to you, but I’ve got the 2017 Hamas manifesto — the one
that’s so-called “softer” than the one they wrote in 1988 — and it
basically says —

Q (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY: — “river to the sea.”

Q I’m talking about what — yes, I know (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We just — we — we’re running out of time. Go ahead, in
the back. Go ahead.

Q Thank you very much. Thank you so much, Karine. I have a question on a
different subject, John.

A significant political change took place in Poland as the new
government of Donald Tusk was sworn in earlier today. What’s the —
what’s President’s reaction to this? What changes, if any, are you
expecting between Poland — in Polish-U.S. relations, especially on
Ukraine?

And, finally, is President Biden going to invite the new prime minister
to the White House? And I’m — I’m not asking about an announcement. I’m
asking about intentions. (Laughter.)

MR. KIRBY: Which is another way of getting an announcement from the
podium. (Laughter.)

Look, Poland is a key NATO Ally, as you know. We have a great
relationship with Poland. And they have been an extraordinary supporter
of Ukraine and of our efforts to help Ukraine.

In — in Poland, we have every expectation that the — that the closeness
of that relationship and the strong alliance and bond between us and
Poland will continue.

And, obviously, I don’t have anything on the schedule to speak to today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right.

MR. KIRBY: Thanks, everybody.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, John. All right. Thanks, John.

I do want to say to the question that was asked about what the President
is doing on the budget and the supplemental — and, look, the President
was very clear yesterday when he said that he wants to work to find a
bipartisan compromise, both in terms of policy and funding, in relation
to the border. And we are encouraged by the cro– — congr- — the progress
being made during yesterday’s meeting on Capitol Hill, obviously.

The President understands that our immigration system is broken. This is
something that has — not just this administration. We’ve seen it in
Republican and Democratic administration as well. And on his — that’s
why, on his first day, he put forward a comprehensive piece of
legislation to deal with immigration reform.

And so, look, the President has asked Congress for resources to take
more action at the border. His supplemental request would allow us to do
a couple of things: hire 1,300 more border agents and 1,000 more law
enforcement officers to go after fentanyl; install more drug detentions
— detention technology at the border; hire more immigration judges and
asylum officers. So, we look forward to continuing those conversations.

And, as you know — you’ve heard me say this multiple times. You’ve —
you’ve heard from our OMB Director. You’ve heard from Jake Sullivan, the
National Security Advisor himself. And we’ve talked about how the Office
of Leg Affairs have had conversations upon conversations for months now
with Congress about this.

So — and also, we’ve said that — and the President said this himself:
He’s been in touch regularly with congressional leaders and — and his
staff, as I just mentioned, on negotiating on his behalf.

So, we are going to focus on that. We’re — we appreciate — again,
encouraged by the progress that’s been made. But we’re certainly not
going to negotiate from the podium.

Go ahead, Zeke.

Q Thanks, Karine. On those negotiations on Capitol Hill, some of the
items up for discussion and the policy changes the President alluded to
would severely curtail asylum in the United States — in some cases,
(inaudible) titling policies beyond where they were under his
predecessor, whose immigration policies he was sharply critical of. And
— and, in some cases, even beyond that. Why is that acceptable for the
President, who was so critical of his predecessor’s immigration
policies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I’m going to be careful. I’m not going to
negotiate from the podium. I’m not going to get into whatever policy
discussions are being — are happening right now.

We are going to — we’re going to be continuing our regular c- —
congress- — conversation with congressional leaders, as we have been
doing for months.

I’m just not going to get into parts of this right now.

We are encouraged by the — the progress that has been made, but we want
to see a bipartisan compromise. We want to see a bipartisan compromise
on this. It’s an important issue. We have said the b- — border security
is an important issue.

I’m just not going to go into piecemeals of what’s been discussed —

Q Is the President willing to sign a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — left in, left out.

Q — piece of legislation that tightens asylum policies tighter than they
were under his predecessor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals from here.
The conversations are happening and the negotiations are happening with
members of our team here and obviously congressional leaders. We’re
encouraged by the progress that’s been made. We understand that we need
to see — and the President understands we have to find a bipartisan
compromise here.

Q And then, just last one from me. The President spent a lot time in
Congress, been around Washington a while. Does he believe that
congressional subpoenas are something that individual citizens can
ignore?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to speak to that –just not.

Q Why not?

Q Why?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Are you — do you want to be more specific on your
question?

Q No, just generally. He is a former senator. He has issued subpoenas in
his career. Does he believe that subpoenas —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just going to —

Q — have to be complied with?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just going to have you speak to the White House
Counsel on this. I’m just not going to speak to that.

Go ahead.

Q Two things. Just days after taking office and shortly after issuing
that legislation that has gone nowhere in Congress regarding immigration
at the border, the President issued an executive order saying he would,
quote, “restore and strengthen our own asylum system, which has been
badly damaged by policies enacted over the last four years that
contravened our values and caused needless human suffering.”

Our reporting, others’ reporting indicates the White House — through
sources in the administration — is open to an authority that would allow
it to suspend asylum processing when there’s a spike in border
crossings. Wouldn’t that be a major policy reversal and revert back to
the previous four years?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to go into sourcing from here. I’m
not going to get into specifics. There are negotiations happening. Not
going to negotiate from the podium. I’m going to let the conversation
happen.

We have to find a bipartisan compromise — that’s what the President
said; that’s what the President believes — in order to deal with this
issue.

And you started off your question asking — or laying out, actually —
that the President did put forth — and you laid that out in your
question — a comprehensive immigration reform plan. And he did that on
day one. And it is going on three years —

Q How many times since day one —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: On three years —

Q — has he spent pushing that bill —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: On three years —

Q — with Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Here’s the thing —

Q Because he has met with them on foreign policy —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right.

Q — on fiscal cliffs —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And we have —

Q — on budget.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And we —

Q And it’s never been about immigration, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I hear you, Ed. And we have regular conversations
with congressional leaders and congressional staff about an array of
issues, including this.

I mean, this is — you cannot send a bigger message to Congress and the
American people when you say your first — when you put out your first
piece of legislation — is on this issue, is on reforming immigration —
right? — is on fixing —

Q Isn’t that message going to land flat when you spend very little
public time, as president, talking about the issue, meeting with
congressional leaders on the issue, specifically —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I disagree.

Q — or doing anything else other than having you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I dis- —

Q — come out here and say —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I disagree.

Q — “We issued a bill on day one”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I disagree. It’s not just issue of bill. Right? Not too
long ago, back in the spring, we put forth policies on trying to make
sure that — because — because Congress didn’t help — on trying to put
forth policies that try to make the immigration system humane — right? —
humane and actually dealing with the issue that we’re seeing at the
border.

We have taken policy actions after policy actions without — without the
help from Congress.

Q You certainly have.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Without — right?

And so, that is — that is being consistent here. And when you put forth
the first piece of — of legislation to be on this issue that has been
broken for decades, I mean, that’s what he did as president. That’s
taking it very, very seriously.

Q Mitch McConnell alluded to something — a conversation he had with the
President last week. I’m not asking you for names, but can you at least
confirm that the President has spoken with lawmakers directly on the
ongoing talks to get the supplemental done?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President has been in regular touch with
congressional leaders on this issue and, obviously, does –so has his
staff.

Q And amid everything else today, did he spend any time watching what
his son had to say outside the Capitol?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple — just a couple of things on that. And I
want to be really clear. Look, as you know, Hunter Biden is a private
citizen. And so, I certainly would refer you to his representatives.

Look, you know, the President was certainly familiar with what his son
was going to say. And I think what you saw was from the heart from his
son. And you’ve heard — you’ve heard me say this; you’ve heard the
President say this: When it comes to the President and the First Lady,
they are proud of him continuing to rebuild his life. They are proud of
their son.

But I do want to say a couple of things here that — that I think I can
touch on, is that the President is also focused on the important work of
the American people. We just went back and forth about what’s happening
at the border and how he wants to make sure that we secure the border,
and the work that he and his team has been doing on negotiating to make
sure that there’s — there’s a bipartisan compromise.

You saw him yesterday stand right next to President Zelenskyy. There
could not have been a more powerful picture with the President of the
United States standing next to President Zelenskyy, who he and the brave
people in Ukraine are fighting — fighting for their democracy. Right?

And this is something that the President has led on — the world on in
making sure that President Zelenskyy and the people of Ukraine have what
they need to beat against tyranny, to fight back against Russia’s
aggression.

And, you know, you heard me at the beginning of this — of this briefing
talking about how he met with hostages who were held by Hamas and how
emotional and impactful that meeting was. That was a two-hour — two-hour
meeting that he had with the fa- — with — with the family members. And
it was important. It was important.

He just convened — right? — a meeting on infrastructure.

So, he’s going to remain focused on making sure that we continue to
deliver for the American people. That’s what the President has done
since day one. And that’s — well, I’ll leave it there.

Go ahead.

Q Is the President okay —

Q Can you give some reporters who did not have a chance to question the
Admiral —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yep, I will. I will.

Q Okay.

Q Thank you, though. Is the President okay with his son defying a
congressional subpoena?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to get into — into specifics on
that. I would have to re- — would have to refer you to the President’s —
not the President, but Hunter’s personal — personal representatives. He
is a private citizen, so I’m just not going to get into it.

Q Can you tell us when the last time the two of them spoke?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I’m also not going to get into private
conversation that the President has with his family. We’ve been pretty
consistent. That’s nothing new. We’re just not going to get into it from
here.

Q Republicans say that they have to take this vote formalizing an
impeachment inquiry because the White House is stonewalling them. What’s
your response to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The White House is stonewalling the — the House
Republicans who are been — who have been — (laughs) — who have been
really pushing — pushing this impeachment without any evidence that —
without — doing this political stunt? I mean, that’s what they’ve been
doing over and over again.

And we have said it; other Republicans have said it. There’s no evidence
here. There’s not.

You know, look, I just said at the top: They’re going to go home
tomorrow. Right? They’re going to go home this week. And what they have
— what have they done?

We need critical aid to Ukraine. Have they gotten that done? We need to
secure the — the border. Have they gotten that done? We need to make
sure we avert a government shutdown in January. Have they even had
conversations to get that done?

And instead, they — they focus on baseless political stunts — baseless
political stunts. That’s what they continue to do. Instead of — they’re
focusing on the President’s family instead of focusing on the American
family. You’ve heard me say that over and over and over again.

And since you say they’re — we’re not — we’re not — well, you’re saying
they’re saying that we’re not compromi- — or — or cooperating. They’ve
gotten 100,000 pages of documents. They’ve interviewed witnesses for 40
hours. And those documents and those witnesses, things that they asked
for, have actually refuted their false allegations over and over and
over and over again.

Instead of doing the work of the American people, they’re doing this.
They’re doing political stunts. And we’ve been very clear about that.

I’m just going to go to the back a little bit. I’ll come back. I’ll come
back.

Go ahead, Rob. I haven’t called you in a while. Go ahead.

Q No, you haven’t. (Laughter.) Thank you very much.

You just said the President was familiar with what his son was going to
say today. Was the President involved in drafting it, discussing it? Did
he offer advice? What did you mean by “familiar”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything else to add. He was familiar. I
don’t have anything else to add.

Q Okay. And you — you were asked what the President — what his stance
was on people who defy congressional subpoenas. In 2021, he was asked
that question specifically and said that he believed the Justice
Department should prosecute them. Is that his — still his position
(inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to add to what you have — what
you just quoted me from the President. I just don’t have anything to
add.

Anybody else? Go ahead, Gerren.

Q Thanks, Karine. As John mentioned in his topper, today is the fir- —
the one-year anniversary since the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, and the
White House put out a wor- — a factsheet listing some of the actions
that have been taken, including high-level engagement, which included
the Vice President. But it did not mention any announcement about the
President’s visit to Africa, which he told leaders he would do. Is that
still a priority for this President, given that there’s only one year
left with this administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, it — it is still very much a priority for this
President. He strongly, strongly wants to go to Africa, has — obviously
has strong desire to go to Africa.

And let me just say, it’s been unprecedented number of — 17 of his
Cabinet members and other principal has traveled to — to the continent
to talk about meaningful exchanges — right? — to talk about how we can
work together.

And so, I don’t have anything to announce at this time. But obviously,
he takes that very seriously. He wants to — he wants to — to — he does
have a strong desire to go to Africa.

But let’s not forget, a year ago, there were 49 — 49 leaders from the
continent here, and it was also an unprecedented summit. And so, we are
way ahead in — in what we said we were going to deliver on in — in those
conversation and the — coming out of that summit.

And so, yes, will he go to Africa? He has a strong desire to do so. We
just don’t have anything to announce at this time.

Q Another question. As the administration continues to work on those
commitments to Africa, it also has been applying a lot of pressure to
Uganda over its anti-homosexuality —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — bill, which includes visa bans, AGOA being restricted.

But as that’s happening, there are other countries that are drafting
similar bills. Do — are — is the White House concerned that this is
going to undermine the momentum of the — this pressure being applied to
Uganda over this bill?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, the President is always concerned on any
type of human rights violation, any type of legislation or — or actions
that’s going to certainly go after underrepresentative
\[underrepresented\], you know, communities. He’s always going to be
very clear about that, always going to have those very straightforward
conversations.

I can’t speak to other countries, right? I don’t have the specifics on
what exactly that they are speaking about or to — changes that they want
to make. But just like we’ve been pretty clear about what Uganda is
doing and spoken very forcefully, we’re going to continue to do that.

Again, the President has — when it comes to human rights, the President
is — has always been very clear, has had those conversation with — with
leaders of — of countries. And he doesn’t — he doesn’t hold back. He
doesn’t hold back.

Go ahead, Zolan.

Q Thank you. So, Senator Durbin today also said that he had been in
contact with the White House and that the White House was vaguely
considering a policy similar to Title 42. Is there — if it’s the
difference between passing aid for Ukraine and not, is there any
scenario where the President would support and the White House would
support these proposals by Republicans that are also backed by Donald
Trump and Stephen Miller?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I really can’t get into hypotheticals from here. I
can’t negotiate from here.

They’re having conversations right now. Don’t want to get ahead of that.
Want to let folks have those conversation.

We know and we understand, the President understands — he has said this
— that we need to come — in order to get this done, there has to be a
bipartisan compromise. We have to find a bipartisan compromise.

I’m just not going to go into —

Q So, his —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — his statement, though, even saying that he’s open to compromise —
that came after Repub- — some of these proposals were outlined. That
came after Republicans said what they wanted here: ex- — nationwide —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hear you.

Q — expedited removal, authority for expulsion. So, even just him —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — saying that he’s open to compromise, does that not mean he’s open to
compromise for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What — what I’m —

Q — policies put forward —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This is a — we have — we have —

Q — by the previous administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This President has signed more bipartisan legislation
that any modern-day president. He has, right? We have see — you have
seen him taking historic action on a few bipartisan issues, right?

Let’s think about the budget deal, right? That was done in a bipartisan
way.

So, it’s not just this. We understand, in order to come up with a
compromise and get things done on behalf of the American people, you
have to find a bipartisan way to do that. And so, that’s what I’m
saying.

I want to be really mindful. There are negotiations literally happening
— literally happening. I’m not going to, from the podium, start saying
what the President is going to accept, not to expect — accept, or get
into hypotheticals. That’s not going to help the process that we’re
trying to deliver on for the American people. I’m —

Q Moving for- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — just not going to get ahead of that.

Q Moving forward, do you expect him — I know it hasn’t happened yet, but
do you expect him to call members to the White House, to call members to
Delaware to discuss this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any — I don’t have anything to add to the
calendar or the schedule about the President inviting anyone here.

What I can say is, and I’ve said this moments ago: The President has had
conversations with congressional leaders and so has his staff, who have
been negotiating on his behalf.

Karen, go ahead.

Oh, no? Oh? Oh. All right. (Laughter.)

Q I mean, I could ask you. I had a question for Kirby. I’d be happy to
ask it to you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, it’s okay.

Jon.

Q No, no, no, I’ll do it.

Q Thanks — thanks a lot, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, go ahead, Jon.

Q Nope, can I — I mean, can I jump back in?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go —

Q You called on me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I was — I was trying to call on people I hadn’t called
yet.

Q Thank —

Q Thank you. I appreciate it. The President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, no, no, I’m trying to keep my word here.

Q Thank you. The President announced the $200 million security
assistance package yesterday for Ukraine from the presidential drawdown.
How many more times does the administration anticipate that they can
turn to that before the end of the year? How much money is left in that
at this point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s a — it’s a really good question. Look, we have
roughly about a billion dollars left in the replenishment authority.

And so, just to give a little bit of — of background on what that is. It
is the process by which the DOD buys new weapons and equipment from
American manufacturers to replace older equipment we are sending Ukraine
— a process that is supporting manufacturing jobs across our country, as
DOD has jumpstarted and expanded production lines to support Ukraine.

So, $1 billion is left.

Approximately 96 percent of replenishment funding has already been used.
And the Department of Defense is preparing to allocate the remaining 4
percent this month.

So, that’s what we’re looking at. And so, once we run out of the
replenishment funds, we will not be able to backfill our own stocks, as
I just laid out at the top, and replace what we send to Ukraine. And
that is what is at stake here.

That is one of the reasons you heard from President Zelenskyy and he
spoke very forcefully with — during with the press conference with the
President. That’s why he went to Congress to have that conversation, the
importance — the importance of having our support so that they can
continue to fight the tyranny that they’re dealing with on — on the
ground.

Q And would you say that the administration has been giving smaller
amounts than you’d like and spacing it out —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve talk —

Q — to make it last longer?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve actually — we’ve actually have said that.

Q Yeah, like —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I believe the —

Q Kirby, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — National Security Advisor has said this. I believe
the Admiral has said this — that that is exactly what we have been doing
because we — the money is running out.

And so, there’s a reason why there’s a supplemental plan — there’s a
reason — a supplemental ask. There’s a reason why we have these
emergency asks — right? — these national security emergency ask, because
it’s an emergency. We need it. We need it because we have to continue to
assist the brave people of Ukraine to fight against the — you know, to
fight for their democracy and against the tyranny that they’re dealing
with that President — President Putin certainly has laid at their feet.

Okay.

Q Karine, right here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Okay, Jon.

Q Thank you so much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I was going to call on you.

Q You were?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Thank you. Thank you very much. Is it likely that any legislation that
gets to the President desks \[President’s desk\] that extends military
funding for Ukraine —

Q (Sneezes.)

Q — includes policy changes, as it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Bless you.

Q Thank you.

Q — relates to immigration, U.S. immigration policy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, negotiations are currently happening. Not going
to get into hypotheticals from here.

Q I’m not asking for specifics. I’m just saying —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know, but your —

Q — is it likely that any policy —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — “Is it likely,” which is —

Q — changes are contained —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — which is —

Q — in the legislation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — which is a hypothetical.

I’m going to let the negotiations happen. I’m not going to get into
specifics from here. I’m going to let the negotiators do — do their —
their work. And once we have — certainly, once there’s something to
share, we will share that.

Q President Zelenskyy spent a full day here in Washington yesterday. He
had that all-senators meeting. He met with the House Speaker. He met
with the President. No minds appear to be changed as a result of all of
the meetings that he had. So, what did he accomplish by coming here to
Washington?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, negotiations are still happening, so we’ll see.

I think — look, this is — look, you’ve — President Zelenskyy has made
multiple trips here before. This is someone who speaks passionately.
He’s the leader of a country that’s at war against Russia, who is — who
invaded their country. He is — I remember listening to him talk about
what they’re going through: the children, the people, the folks who have
lost their lives — who have lost everything. I mean, this is — who else
is it better to hear from directly than President Zelenskyy?

And I think it was an important visit for him to have — to be here. I
think it was incredibly important for him to talk to senators, for him
to talk to House members, for him to stand — like, right here in the
White House, next to President Biden, to make — to answer your questions
and to speak very forcefully and passionately about what’s going on.

Almost two years. Almost two years. Just think about the lives that
they’ve lost. But yet, they’ve fought very bravely — very bravely.

And so, I think it was good that President Zelenskyy — the President was
— was happy to host him here and have a conversation with him. And I
think it was important for him to be here.

Go ahead.

Q Does the White House have a plan to address what is likely going to be
a wave of legislation in the statehouses next year restricting LGBTQ
rights and gender-affirming care? For example, there’s already more than
20 of these kind of bills in Missouri.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, we saw something very similar just last
year — right? — in the last — I would say in the last year — but in the
last state leg- — legislative session, where more than 400 anti-LGBTQ
bills — many — many were anti-trans bills that were introduced. And we
were very forceful — the President was, I was from here — calling that
out.

Of course we’re concerned. Of course we’re concerned when any community
— any community is under attack.

And — and so, you know, what the President is going to continue to do
from here: He’s going to make sure that we — we work to advance equality
for the LGBTQ+ community and protect civil rights, which is something
that he’s done. He has signed executive — executive orders to do that
from the federal — from the fed- — federal agencies to make sure we
protect LGBTQ families. And, you know, he’s going to continue to — to
ask Congress to pass the Equality Act. There — and Department of Justice
certainly has — has worked towards challenging these state laws.

And so, that is something that he’s certainly going to — his
administration are going to continue to fight on behalf of this
community.

So, are we concerned? Absolutely.

And I said 400. There is actually more than 600 state legislation —
state legislation that were — that was filed in the last — in the last
session. So, yeah, that’s concerning. And that’s, sadly, a historic
number, and something that we don’t want to see.

Go ahead.

AIDE: Karine, you have time for one more.

Q Thank you. Thanks, Karine. You said that President Biden was familiar
with what his son was going to say on Capitol Hill. If I called my dad
and said, “I am about to violate a congressional subpoena,” he would
probably say, “Son, you shouldn’t do that.” Was there any attempt by
President Biden to talk Hunter out of it today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’re going to call your dad “Steve”?

Q I call him “Dad” usually. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I don’t have anything else to add. The President
was familiar with what Hunter was going to say today. And, you know —
look, he’s proud of his son. He and the First Lady are proud of his son,
how he’s rebuilding his life back. He’s going to focus on what is needed
on the American people.

Hunter — and I’ve said this many times — is a private citizen. And so,
certainly, I would have to refer you to — to his representatives.

I’m just not going to get into private conversations, because what
you’re asking me is actually a private conversation. I’m just not going
to get into it.

Q Okay. The first briefing since Hunter was indicted again in Los
Angeles. Why doesn’t President Biden just pardon him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President — I’ve been very clear — the President is
not going to pardon his son.

Q And one more about these — this Ukraine money-for-border policy
negotiations. In the last 24 hours, 10,000 illegal border crossings at
the Southwest border. Would you admit that the border policy — the Biden
border policy so far has not worked?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I will say is that we have known for decades — for
decades that the immigration policy is — the immigr- — immigration
system is broken. We’ve said that over and over again. That has been
Republican administration and Democrat administration. That is not
unheard of. That is what we have seen for the past couple of decades.

The Pre- — wait. The President has put forth an immi- — immigration — a
comprehensive immigration policy — legislation on his first day to deal
with this issue. Republicans refuse. They refuse to deal with this
issue. It’s been almost three years since he put forth that — that
legislation.

So, we’re going to do what we can do from here. But we have said: This
is something that needs to be dealt with in a bipartisan way — in a
bipartisan way.

Q About a thousand of these illegal border crossers every day are
getting away to parts unknown in the U.S. Does the President think that
is a national security risk?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Here’s what I will say: You — one of the ways that we
also have to look at this is what congressional Republicans have refused
to do. They have — they refused to support previous requests from the
President.

What they’ve asked to do actually hurts the issue, hurts the problem
that we’re seeing at the border. They said “no” to border agents.
They’ve said “no” to new technology to fight fentanyl. They said “no” to
additional troops. And they voted on eliminating 2,000 Customs and
Border Patrol agents. That is what Republicans have done.

The President is asking to do this in a bipartisan way, to find some
compromise to deal with an issue that has existed — existed for decades
now.

I’m going to take one more question. Go ahead, Jared.

Q Thank you. Has there been, on that issue, any discussion about
separating out, at this point, Ukraine money from the rest of the
security supplemental?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to get into negotiations from here.
I’m going to let the negotiators have the conversations. I’m just not
going to do that from here.

All right, thanks. We’ll see you tomorrow, folks. Bye.

Q Thank you, Karine.

Q Thanks, Karine.

3:13 P.M. EST
