---
date: '2023-12-22'
modified_time: 2023-12-21 23:17:08-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-22 06:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/12/22/background-press-call-on-upcoming-action-to-continue-holding-russia-accountable/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on Upcoming Action to Continue Holding Russia\_Accountable"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(December 21, 2023)

3:05 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  And thanks, everyone, for joining the
call.  As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to senior
administration officials, and it’s embargoed until 6:00 a.m. Eastern on
Friday, December 22nd.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call today we have
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\]. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to our speakers for a few words at the top,
and then we’ll take your questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks.  And thanks to everyone
for joining today’s call.  It’s been almost two years since Russia drove
towards Kyiv in a brutal invasion of Ukraine that threatens the very
foundation of international peace and stability.

From that moment, the United States has taken strong and decisive
actions to impose costs on Russia to hold it accountable for its actions
in Ukraine, while also supporting Ukraine and its people.  That has
included military aid and financial and humanitarian assistance, as you
all know.  And we have also deployed our economic tools to undercut
Russia’s ability to continue its unjust war. 

The core to our strategy is denying Russia access to the international
financial system, ensuring the costs to Russia’s economy continue to
grow over time, and preventing Russia from accessing the equipment,
materials, and technology it needs to fuel its aggression.

As part of this strategy, we have imposed powerful sanctions and export
control measures against thousands of entities and individuals,
including sanctions on multinational procurement networks helping Russia
to acquire key defense-related goods from abroad.  We’ve also sent teams
across the globe to engage directly with foreign governments, companies,
and financial institutions to share information and highlight sanctions
risks.

We’ve been very clear in all of this, along — in all of this that those
who are supplying goods or processing transactions that materially
support Russia’s military industrial base are complicit in Russia’s
brutal violation of Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.

The action that we will take tomorrow is at the direction from President
Biden and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to further step up our
efforts to disrupt Russia’s efforts to expand its military industrial
base.

Tomorrow, President Biden intends to sign a new executive order that
strengthens U.S. sanctions authorities against Russia, with a focus on
financial facilitators for Russia’s war.

This EO is an important step to further disrupt material support for
Russia’s defense industrial base and to obstruct Russia’s efforts to
increase its military capacity.

It’s also steps that we are taking in coordination with partners and
allies.  The G7 leaders statement we secured on December 6th previews
these actions, committing to further curtail Russia’s efforts to use the
international financial system to facilitate expansion of its military
industrial base.  G7 leaders also spoke to a commitment to curtail
Russia’s revenue from other sectors, including non-industrial diamonds.

Before I hand to \[senior administration official\] for more details on
this action, I did want to note that our sanctions on Russia are just
one prong of a broader strategy to support Ukraine against Russia’s
illegal aggression, alongside essential economic, military, and
humanitarian support, which is why it remains essential that Congress
pass supplemental funding for Ukraine. 

Let me turn it over to \[senior administration official\] for more
details on the action we are taking tomorrow.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  And thanks to you
for all the hard work getting this across — getting this done.

We’ve now been doing this in terms of thinking about how to use
sanctions and export controls as tools to go after Russia for more than
two years now.  More than two years ago, we saw Russian troops gathering
on the border of Ukraine.  The President directed the Secretary to think
about what could be done using these tools to hold Russia accountable
while limiting the impact on our allies and partners.  And that
continues to be our objective.

And in doing that, we are seeking to do two things: one, deny Russia
access to the revenues they need to fight this war of choice in Ukraine;
and, two, put sand in the gears of Russia’s war machine and taking apart
their supply chain.

Today’s action and the actions that have been — today’s actions that
we’re describing for the executive order that will be signed tomorrow
speaks to that second objective.

While many of us will be hitting the road soon to see our families or
spend time with loved ones, we know all too well that Ukrainians face
another holiday season of unprovoked war from Russia.

The United States has stood with the Ukrainians since the start of the
brutal war, and we will continue to do so unequivocally.

Over the last two years, as part of the global coalition representing
over half of the world’s GDP, we at Treasury have used our economic
tools to disrupt and degrade Russia’s ability to supply its military and
limit the Kremlin’s resources to wage this war of choice, as I’ve
mentioned.

Our sanctions have had a meaningful impact already.  Since February of
2022, Russia’s military has lost over 13,000 pieces of equipment,
including tanks, UAVs, and missile systems.  It’s now struggling to
rebuild and reconstitute its arsenal because of production constraints,
the lack of workers, and restricted access to foreign components.  Our
goal is to make each one of these things harder.  And the executive
order the President plans to sign will help us do just that.

And Russia is facing increasingly difficult economic pressures as well. 
As the Kremlin’s defense spending rose by almost 75 percent in the first
half of 2023, its energy revenues have dropped by almost 40 percent this
year due to the price cap that was implemented by the United States and
our allies and partners.

Beyond energy exports, Russia is increasingly isolated in global
economic trade while simultaneously facing a brain drain.  Immigration
out of Russia has reached historic highs.  Foreign direct investment has
flipped into negative.

Overall, Russia’s economy is 5 percent smaller than predicted prior to
the war and is far underperforming other oil-exporting countries.

Due to a lack of alternative, Russia has now converted itself into a war
economy.  Manufacturing capacity and the labor force have reoriented to
weapons production and producing things that will be necessary to fight
this war of choice in Ukraine.

This singular wartime focus has weakened the domestic economy.  While
Russia has the resources to maintain its war in the short term, its
leaders face increasingly painful trade-offs that will sacrifice
long-term prospects as under-investments, low productivity growth, and
labor shortages will only deepen.

But beyond that sobering outlook, a more immediate way we know our
economic measures are working is that the Kremlin has spent considerable
time and resources in directing its intelligence services to find ways
to evade the multilateral sanctions and export controls that we have put
in place.  They have created cutouts and front companies using both
witting and unwitting financial intermediaries to circumvent
restrictions and source critical components for the war.

These are items like semiconductors, which of course have been in the
news, but also things Russia needs to convert and power their wartime
economy, such as machine tools, chemical precursors, ball bearings, and
optical systems.

Over the past year, we and our global coalition have exposed and cut off
sanctions evasion networks, sanctioning or listing hundreds of front
companies, middlemen, and Russian companies who are taking actions to
move these types of parts.

The new executive order by the President will simply give us a tool that
will allow us to go after financial institutions that failed to make the
choice to either stop allowing their companies to ship these goods to
Russia’s military industrialized complex or getting out of business with
Russia.

This tool will be the first time that we’re introducing a tool that
allows us to use secondary sanctions to go after financial institutions
during this conflict in order to provide us with a strong tool to
disincentivize the type of behavior that is furthering Russia’s ability
to build weapons of choice that they are using in Ukraine.

Over the course of the last two years, we have spent time talking to
jurisdictions or financial institutions about the importance in making
sure that they do not provide material support to Russia’s economy.  And
with the President’s signing of the executive order, we have a tool that
allows us to hold them accountable.

We look forward to keeping our promise to the Ukrainian people that as
long as Russia continues its invasion of Ukraine, we will continue to
use sanctions and export controls to hold Russia accountable.

With that, I’m happy to join \[senior administration official\] in
taking your questions.

Q    Hi, this is Andrea Shalal with Reuters.  I guess we’re wondering
whether you couldn’t already go after financial facilitators before. 
Can you just explain exactly what this changes and how it gives you new
authorities to go after institutions?  Because, I mean, my understanding
was that you already were, you know, looking at these financial
institutions for aiding and abetting.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  A great question, Andrea.  And I’ll
take it and see if \[senior administration official\] has anything to
add.

What the executive order gives us the ability to do is it gives us a
surgical tool that allows us to go after the financial institutions that
are doing transactions that further Russia’s military industrialized
complex. 

What we’ve seen to date is that our initial set of sanctions and export
controls had a significant impact on Russia’s ability to get access to
the goods and technology they needed to build weapons.  What the Kremlin
then did was order them to go out and to build cutouts and facilitators
that would allow smaller companies to be able to move some of these
goods into Russia.

And what you’ve seen us do is we’ve sanctioned a number of these
companies that we’ve found.  But ultimately, the chokepoint for these
companies and Russia’s ability to continue to try and circumvent our
sanctions is the financial system, because ultimately they need to have
financial transactions in order to move things from a third-party
jurisdiction into Russia.

What this tool allows us to do is to target those institutions and give
them a very stark choice: If you are continuing to ship these types of
goods into Russia, you need to be in a position to make sure that those
goods are not going to Russia’s military industrialized complex, or you
have to stop.  If you don’t take one of those two choices, you’re going
to be subject to the sanctions regime.  And for the first time, we have
a sanctions regime that includes secondary sanctions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  I think \[senior administration
official\] covered it well. 

I think the only thing I would add is — really, very central to our
strategy here — is thinking about how do we take that next step in
disrupting Russia’s attempts to be able to produce the weapons systems,
the industrial goods that it needs to prosecute its war. 

And I think, really, we do see this as a significant step forward by
making very explicitly clear that financial institutions are responsible
for ensuring that they are not becoming the facilitators of the transfer
of the inputs that Russia needs to step up its military industrial base
and increase its capacity to produce the weapons that it is using in
Ukraine.

And I do think that that is a clarification.  It obviously builds on a
huge amount of work that we’ve done, including with partners and allies,
to go after entities in third countries that are shipping these goods,
entities in third countries that are violating or evading our
sanctions.  But it does put a more targeted focus on financial
facilitation, which we think will be, as \[senior administration
official\] said, an important step in slowing down Russia’s efforts to
fuel its war.

Q    Thanks.  Can you guys say if the U.S. is planning to mirror the
sanctions the EU adopted this week?  And then secondly, what’s the start
date?  When do the provisions in this new EO kick in?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, my understanding — and I’ll let
\[senior administration official\] confirm this — is that the President
intends to sign the EO tomorrow, which will also be the time in which
the authority then is given for us to utilize this tool to hold banks
accountable.

And I think the key thing here with this tool is that what we’re trying
to do is go after materials that are key to Russia’s ability to build
weapons of war.  But what we know is that in order for them to get those
materials, they need to use the financial system, which makes the
financial system a potential chokepoint and is the tool that’s targeted
at that chokepoint and making clear to these banks that they need to
take actions to prevent Russia’s military industrialized complex from
getting access to these goods.

What we’re doing here with this executive order — the sanctions package
we’ve already released prior to the 12th package is consistent with what
Europe did with the 12th package and also consistent with the actions
that the UK has taken, all driven by the leaders statement that came out
from the G7 leaders when they met.

Ultimately, we’re increasingly focused on Russia’s ability and
willingness and desire to circumvent the sanctions and export controls
we’ve already put in place.  And we’re each taking actions to try and
prevent that, using the different tools in our toolkit.  We have a very
powerful tool, that the President is now giving us when he signs this
executive order tomorrow, that we plan to use in collaboration and
coordination with our colleagues throughout the government.

But our hope, frankly, is that jurisdictions and financial institutions
will take actions to stop the behavior well before we have to use this
tool.  And the basic reason we believe this is likely to be true is
that, ultimately, for almost any bank in the world, given the choice
between continuing to sell a modest amount of goods to Russia’s military
industrialized complex or being connected to the U.S. financial system,
they’re going to choose being connected to the U.S. financial system,
given that our economy is far bigger and our currency is one used around
the world.  Fundamentally, people are not going to want to take that
risk.

And the message we’re going to send clearly to people is that you either
do the due diligence that you need to, or you put at risk your ability
to have access to our system.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  I think that covered it well. 
Let me just add just a few key things.

First of all, just to confirm that the President does intend to sign
this EO tomorrow.  So the timing of the financial facilitators
provisions that we are describing here will come into effect immediately
upon that signing.

There’s two other elements of the EO and — or really one major other
element which does align with the 12th package, which is the EO will
also give the departments — relevant departments — the ability to take
the steps necessary to implement bans on products that originated in
Russia but were substantially transformed outside of Russia.  So that is
things like the diamonds action that we are taking in concert with the
EU where we’ve already, in the United States, banned the import of
Russian diamonds directly — Russian non-industrial diamonds directly. 
They are now taking the step to ensure that if Russia ships diamonds to
another country for processing, those cannot enter the United States.

So the EO also contains that component which aligns with action in the
EU’s 12th package.

Finally, I would just echo — remind everyone that we have already this
month rolled out a package of over 250 individual targets but aligned
within those same categories of the EU’s 12th package.  So we have, as
is usually our practice, aligned with EU steps.  And it has taken
sanction steps against individuals and entities already this month that
cover many of the same categories and, in some cases, the same targets
as the EU’s 12th package.

So I would say that if you took a step back, we can say, yes, we are
aligning with the 12th package, although some of that we have already
done and some of that will take place through this EO.

Q    Hi, this is Missy Ryan from the Washington Post.  I actually have a
logistical question.  Can you all provide a recording of this call?  I
was disconnected at the beginning.  So I’m just — I missed some of the
material, so I’m hoping that we can get a recording afterwards so we can
cover it properly.

MODERATOR:  Missy, yeah, happy to after this.

Q    Thanks.

Q    Hi, it’s Alan Rappeport from the New York Times.  I want to ask:
Are there American or European financial services firms that have been
in violation or have been facilitating these kinds of transactions
already that will be in violation of these sanctions if they don’t stop?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Not to my knowledge, Alan.  And the
reason for that, frankly, is that many American and European firms don’t
do much business with Russia anymore.

If you all didn’t see it, some of our economists at Treasury put out a
report that demonstrated that, since the war, Russia has had negative
foreign direct investments because companies are pulling out of Russia
and financial institutions are pulling out of Russia.

But what American and European firms do have, though, is they have
correspond- — they’re the correspondent bank for other banks to get
access to the U.S. financial system that are currently doing this type
of business in third countries. 

And what we’re going to be doing over the course of the next several
weeks is working with those U.S. and European banks to inform them about
this EO and tell them about the importance of telling the banks that
they work with that they need to take steps to prevent themselves from
being subject to this executive order, or they’ll have to — or they may
be cut off from their relationship.

So part of our goal in issuing — in using this tool is going to be
getting banks in Europe, in the United States, that have relationships
with banks around the world and other jurisdictions, to help warn them
about the importance of taking steps to prevent themselves from being
used to move goods into Russia that furthers their military
industrialized complex.

Our overall goal here is to put sand in the gears of Russia’s supply
chain, which we think is one of the most effective ways to slow Russia
down. 

But as \[senior administration official\] said early on, we’re one tool
in our overall strategy.  And in order for the Ukrainians to have — to
speed up, frankly, and to go faster, they need our support.  And that’s
going to require Congress to act in terms of providing Ukraine with a
supplemental to give them the resources to continue to have the weapons
to defend themselves and the money to make sure they support their
economy.

So, to your question, I’m not aware of any U.S. or European financial
institutions that fit into that category.  But what we do know is that a
number of the banks in third-country jurisdictions that we have concerns
with have relationships with U.S. and European banks that could be
threatened if they don’t take steps to prevent Russia from getting
access to goods that are used for their military industrialized complex.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You covered this well.  I’ll leave that
one there.

Q    Hey, thanks.  Just one housekeeping question.  Will the President
be making remarks, or this is going to be sort of a paper pushout of the
EO being signed?  And if you do have an approximate time of when it will
be signed.

And then secondly, connected, is there a renewed push to consider
seizing Russian bank assets to help Ukraine pay for the cost of the war?

Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Aamer, I’ll take your first one there.  I’ll be back in
touch on timing and the other details for the rollout after this.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  On your second one, I think we
have been public, and I think you all know that we have been in
discussions with our G7 partners, on what is the best and most
appropriate way to ensure that Russia doesn’t get to choose when it is
it pays back Ukraine for the damage that it’s caused, which, of course,
is international law obligation.  We’re also in really active
discussions about the best ways to engage Russia to cease its illegal
aggression. 

I don’t think we have anything to announce around a change in the U.S.
position on seizing assets, although I think we have been very public
that that is a conversation that we are continuing in the context of
those strategic aims.

\[Senior administration official\], I don’t know if there’s anything
that you wanted to say additionally on this, but just to emphasize, this
is something that we’ve been very clear that we’re in active discussions
with our partners and allies around these issues.  And we do have a
strategic aim of making sure that Russia doesn’t get to choose when and
if it compensates Ukraine for the damage it’s caused.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think you covered that well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think that’s all the time we have for today. 
Thanks, all, for joining.  And thanks again for our speakers for taking
the time.

As a reminder, this call is on background.  All that you heard was
attributable to senior administration officials.  And this is embargoed
until 6:00 a.m. Eastern on Friday, December 22nd.

Thanks, everyone, for joining.

3:28 P.M EST
