---
date: '2023-08-31'
published_time: 2023-08-31 17:36:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/31/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-ongoing-federal-response-efforts-to-hurricane-idalia-and-on-maui-hawaii/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Ongoing Federal Response Efforts to Hurricane\
  \ Idalia and on Maui,\_Hawaii"
---
 
2:08 P.M. EDT  
  
     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I don’t know why I’m paying attention to
these few guys up here, so if every- — but all kidding aside, my — as my
mother would say, “I apologize for my back.”  (Laughter.)  I
apologize.   
  
But, folks, look, yesterday I convened the entire Cabinet for a long
meeting to make sure that we had a whole-of-government response.  Every
single Cabinet agency has some contribution they can make and some
responsibility.  
  
And I’m here at FEMA today.  Just a few minutes ago, I received a call
from your Administrator and — Criswell — and — who is Florida and
helping them recover — at least doing the initial assessment — of that
Category 3 storm that made <s>landfill</s> \[landfall\].  
  
And this morning, I spoke again — we’re — it seems like we — there
should be a direct dial, the two of us — Governor DeSantis and I.  We
spoke again this morning, and I let him know that I approved his major
disaster declaration.  
  
And I also spoke with Governor <s>McMasters</s> \[McMaster\] and — and
with the — for South Carolina’s emergency declaration as well.  And —
and I spoke the day before to the governors of not just Florida and
South Carolina, but of North Carolina as well as Georgia.  
  
And, look, it means we’re making available federal assistance for
Florida survivors, whose homes were damaged or destroyed, by the
declaration that I agreed to.   
  
And we’re helping both Florida and South Carolina with the delivery of
meals, waters, and debri- — debris removal that’s going to help both
states begin their road to recovery and do it immediately.  
  
But before we do anything, I’m here to thank all of you.  And I really
mean this.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  You are making an
incredible contribution.   
  
I mean, it’s — I don’t think — I hope the American people have a sense
of — and it’s hard to understand it because, you know, we usually don’t
— we’re — we’re not this engaged this often.  But this last couple of
years with climate change and — really kicking in, you guys are going 24
hours a day and 365 days a year.  And it seems to just keep piling up.  
  
And I mean it sincerely: I admire — I admire what you do.   
  
I’ve been to almost every one of the areas you’re talking about, that
you’ve had to deal with.  And your sister organ- — your brother and
sister organizations — from the Coast Guard, military — I mean, across
the board, it’s amazing the sacrifices and, I might add, risks — risks
your folks are taking out in the field.  And so, thank you, thank you,
thank you.   
  
It’s important the American people understand it, because we’re in a
situation where, you know, we’re — how can I say it?  There’s still some
deniers out there in terms of whether or not climate change had anything
to do with any of this, and we’re going to need a whole hell of a lot
more money to deal with emergency appropriations, to deal with all
you’re taking care of.  
  
And on behalf of the country, I want to deliver the heartfelt thanks of
— to the emergency personnel in our communities all across the federal
government, including right here — all of you in front of me — FEMA’s
National Response Coordination Center.   
  
And — and those out on Maui, you know, you’ve — it’s just amazing. 
You’ve seen it.  Some of you have been there.  It’s just pure
devastation, that whole part of the island just leveled.  There’s
nothing left. 

And before this week’s storm, we — we pre-deployed 1,500 federal
personnel and Coast Guard throughout the southeast.  Federal search and
rescue teams have been helping people whose homes have been surrounded
and inundated by water.  And FEMA and the Small Business Administration
are on the ground to help residents whose homes and businesses have been
destroyed or damaged. 

And I want to, again, thank you all.  It really, really, really
matters. 

And one more thing: Every American expects FEMA will show up, and when
they — in the middle of a disaster.  And I’m calling on Congress to make
sure you’re able and have the funds to be able to continue to show up
and meet the needs of the American people to deal with immediate crises
that we’re facing right now, as well as the long-term commitments that
we have to make to finish the job in Maui and elsewhere. 

Showing up for the moment to save the lives is critically important, but
that’s — that’s just the beginning.  Just the beginning.  And some of
this is going to take months and years to make sure we restore the —
people to the circumstances they were at before this disaster hit. 

And as I said, you know, and — to the people of Florida and throughout
the southeast, I’m here to make clear that our nation has your back. 
And we are not going to — we’re — we’re not going to walk away.  We’re
not going to give up.  We’re not going to slow down. 

And again, you know, we — we — we’re in a situation where — how can I
say it?  Some of my colleagues — my former colleagues in the Senate and
people I work with every day in the — in the United States Senate think
that this disaster relief money we’re asking to continue to finish the
job so far and have enough money to continue to work to save the
American people’s — their lives, their homes, their well-being, is
somehow — I don’t know — not needed or — I’m not even sure what their
thinking is. 

But we need this money done.  We need this disaster relief request met. 
And we need to do it in September.  We can’t wait. 

But I’ll take a few questions from the press if you have any right now. 
But then I’m going to go talk to these folks.

Q    President Biden, do you have any comment on Overdose Awareness Day?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.  Look, I’ve been dealing with the drug epidemic in
America since I was the chairman of the Judiciary Committee when I was a
U.S. senator.  And it has, in many cases, gotten much worse because of
the nature of the drugs that are being consumed.   
  
And fentanyl is a new and really, really dangerous addition.  More peop-
— more young people — no, not just young people have been dying as a
consequence of ingesting fentanyl.  Sometimes it’s not even known it’s
in the drug they’re taking.   
  
And — and one of the other things I’m — I’ve been asking the Congress
for — there was a need of about $15 billion along the border to be able
to deal with the technology needed to be able to determine whether or
not this — these precursor drugs are making it into — into Mexico or
into the United States and dealing with that.  So there’s more to do
there as well.   
  
Q    Have you spoken to Leader McConnell?  
  
Q    Mr. President, are you concerned about a government shutdown and
how would that affect the work that’s being done here at FEMA?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  It would be a serious, serious problem.  I — I’m hoping
that there’s greater maturity to prevent that from happening than some
think.  
  
Q    Sir, have you spoken to Leader McConnell?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I have.  I spoke to Mitch.  He’s a friend.  And I —
I spoke to him today.  And, you know, he was his old self on the
telephone.   
  
 And having a little understanding of dealing with neurosurgeons and
people and — and one of the leading women on my staff, her husband is a
neurosurgeon as well.  It’s not un- — at all unusual to have the
response that sometimes happens to Mitch when you’ve had a severe
concussion.  It’s part of — it’s part of the recovery.   
  
 And so, I’m confident he’s going to be back to his old self.  
  
 Q    President Biden, do you have any concerns about his ability to do
his job?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No.  
  
Q    Do you have any concerns about his ability —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t.  
  
Q    President Biden, Speaker McCarthy —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Do you want to talk to me about —  
  
Q    Will you give your bank records to Congress, as Speaker McCarthy
requests?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Do you — do you want me — (laughs).  Let’s talk about
why I’m here.   
  
Q    I just have one question about President Xi.  Are you expecting
President Xi to attend the G20 Summit?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is I hope he attends the G Sum- — -20
Summit.  
  
Thank you.  All right.  
  
Q    Will you be going to Florida, sir?  Are you going to Florida?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  By the way, I am going to Florida.  I am going to — I’m
going to Florida Saturday morning. 

END                2:17 P.M. EDT 
