---
date: '2023-08-15'
modified_time: 2023-08-17 10:56:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-15 22:46:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/15/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-an-inflation-reduction-act-anniversary-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at an Inflation Reduction Act Anniversary\_\
  Event"
---
 
Seattle, Washington

12:26 P.M. PDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Cameron, you’re not your dad’s shadow anymore. 
(Laughter.)  You’re standing tall.  You’re standing tall.

Well, good afternoon, everyone.  It’s so good to be back.  Good
afternoon.  (Applause.)

Governor Inslee, thank you for all that you are and all you have done. 
You and I have had so many conversations over the year.  And I will say
that, among those who are leaders in our country — and, by extension, in
the world — on the issue of what we must do with a sense of urgency to
protect, preserve, and love our planet, you are one of the greatest
leaders.  So, it is good to be with you and Trudi.  Thank you, both. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)  And thank you for the warm welcome to
Washington.

I want to thank our Secretary of Energy, Jennifer Granholm.  She is
extraordinary.  She has been traveling the country, and she’s a true
partner to the President and me.

And my dear friend, Senator Maria Cantwell.  Where are you?  There you
are.  Hi.  So, Senator Cantwell and I served together in the United
States Senate, and so I have seen her work close up.  I have seen her in
rooms where there are cameras.  I have seen her in rooms where there are
no cameras.  She’s the same person everywhere.  She is always fighting
for the people, and she is truly one of our nation’s greatest climate
leaders.  And I want to thank you for that.  (Applause.)

And on the most recent work that has happened, and on the detail of her
leadership, she helped she helped pass the CHIPS and Science Act.  And
that, of course, is historic in terms of its investment in climate
innovation.

And these are investments which will — and she always emphasizes this —
it will create jobs and opportunity not only here in Washington but
around the country.

So, thank you, Senator Cantwell, for your leadership, always.  Thank
you, thank you.  (Applause.)

And, Congresswoman Marilyn Strickland, I thank you.

Mayor Bruce Harrell, thank you for — for meeting me on the tarmac and
for your leadership and friendship, always.

And to all the activists, organizers, and young leaders here today, it
is because of you and your partnership and the enthusiasm and the
passion that you bring to this work that President Biden and I are
taking on one of the most urgent issues of our time.  And, of course,
that is the climate crisis.

Every day, around the world, the impact of the climate crisis is stark
and it is vivid.  We are seeing it in real time.

Here, of course, in Washington State, you have endured deadly heatwaves
and devastating wildfires.

And across our nation, we see communities choked by drought, washed out
by flood, and decimated by hurricanes.

And, of course, we are all praying for the people of Maui — far too many
lives lost.  Far too many lives lost, homes lost, businesses lost,
livelihoods lost.

And, of course, we have to recognize and pay spe- — special attention to
the Native Hawaiian community, which has seen some of their most sacred
cultural sites destroyed.

And so, I will say that President Biden and I will continue to do all
that we can to help the people of Hawaii and — both in terms of what
they need now, but what they need in terms of recovery and what they
will need to rebuild.

So, all of that to say: It is clear the clock is not just ticking, it is
banging.

And that is why, one year ago, President Biden and I made the largest
climate investment in America’s history.  (Applause.)

And this work was designed to dramatically expand solar and wind energy
production; to lower energy costs for working families; and to put
millions of electric vehicles on the road, including thousands of
electric school buses so that, of course, our children can have clean
air to breathe.

And it is with these investments that — we are clear — we are creating
millions of good-paying, clean energy jobs; we are rebuilding America’s
manufacturing; and we are driving American innovation, something this
state knows so well.

In total, President Biden and I have committed nearly $1 trillion to
build a thriving, clean energy economy for America.

And I have seen — and — and Cameron mentioned this.  I have seen our
progress firsthand. 

I’ve been traveling our country.  And, for example, in April, I was in
Dalton, Georgia.  And so, Dalton, Georgia, is a factory town about two
hours north of Atlanta, where, for generations, good, stable
manufacturing jobs supported thousands of working families.  But then,
about a decade ago, those jobs started getting shipped overseas.

And for years, of course, politicians have promised to reinvest in
communities like Dalton to rebuild American manufacturing, but they
never delivered.

So, President Biden and I decided that it is time to fix that.  And we
decided to dramatically expand clean energy production and to do it here
in America.  (Applause.)

And so, on the story of Dalton, on this — this year alone, already we
have created 2,500 new solar panel manufacturing jobs that have opened
up in Dalton.  And across the country, we have created more than 175,000
new clean energy jobs.  (Applause.)  Just so far.  More to go.

And this is all to — to do what we know we must do to meet the
challenges of this moment.  But of the challenges, in terms of building
a clean energy economy, we also know that the places where we create
clean energy — like a solar farm in the desert or a wind farm off the
coast — those places are often far away from where people actually live.

And so, thinking about it, to get the energy where it is most needed,
President Biden and I are also building thousands of miles of new,
high-voltage, transmission lines — (applause) — which is making a
difference.

For example, I was recently in rural Arizona to break ground on a
project where 125 miles of high-voltage line will deliver clean
electricity — electricity from wind and solar farms in the Arizona
desert, delivered to people millions of miles away, potentially — well,
certainly thousands of miles away.  (Laughter.)  Bit of a typo there. 
(Laughter.)  But delivered to millions of people — (laughter) — in
faraway places like Phoenix and Los Angeles and San Diego. 

And that electricity will not only be cleaner, it will also be cheaper. 
And so, think about that.  That means more money for working families to
buy groceries, to invest in home repairs, to be able to afford a
vacation from time to time. 

And just think, every year, working families pay thousands of dollars
just to keep the fridge and lights on.  So, think about what this
means. 

And for the President and me, one of our highest priorities, then, has
been to lower energy costs, which is why we designed our climate policy
and plan to give working families tax credits and rebates so they can
afford to install new insulation and new windows — which, of course,
increase energy efficiency and lower energy bills — and so they can
better afford to replace their gas-burning furnace with an electric heat
pump to heat and cool their home, which costs less money to run. 

And we’re doing the same thing for businesses.  We have made billions of
dollars in tax credits available so clean energy upgrades can happen to
businesses, in terms of their buildings. 

And we have made sure these credits are not just available this year —
not only this year, but for years to come, because we know that for
companies like this one — what we know is that when we increase the
demand for solar panels and clean energy technology, we want to make
sure that there is a consistent demand and it is predictable so that
businesses have the confidence to invest in this new approach to doing
work and building our economy.  Consistency is something businesses need
and want, and that is part of the intention of the design of our policy
to give them that. 

In addition, all these investments create jobs — good-paying union
jobs.  (Applause.)  Yep. 

Jobs for workers, like many of those who are here with us today,
including plumbers and pipefitters and members of IBEW and Sheet Metal
Workers and the kind of folk who are just some of the most skilled and
experienced workers in our nation going to work every day to build our
clean energy economy. 

For example, today, Ambrose Bra- — Bradley is with us.  Ambrose, where
are you?  Ambrose is with us.  (Applause.)  Okay.  Ambrose grew up in
Oklahoma.  And after high school, he joined the Air Force and worked as
a mechanic on an F-16 fighter jet. 

When he left the Air Force, Ambrose joined Sheet Metal Workers Local
66.  And today, Ambrose is a foreman fabricating metal for energy
efficient lighting, heating systems, and solar panels.  So, think about
that.  He went from F-16s to solar panels.  Talk about highly skilled. 
Thank you, Ambrose.  (Applause.)  Really. 

So, all of this is to say: Together, we are building a clean energy
economy.  And through all our work, President Biden and I are building
an economy that works for working people.  And that, my friends, is
called Bidenomics.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  And Bidenomics is working. 

Since we took office, President Biden and I have created more than 13
million new jobs, including nearly 400,000 jobs right here in Washington
State.  (Applause.)

Today, unemployment — the unemployment rate is near the lowest it has
been in over half a century.  (Applause.)

Inflation is down, and wages are up. 

And just last week, President Biden and I announced that we are giving
more than a million workers on federal contracts a raise — long overdue
— (applause) — Davis-Bacon — long overdue — because the workers building
our clean energy economy and all workers deserve to be paid fairly —
(applause) — and for the value and the dignity of their work. 

So, I’m going to close with this.  So, in my travels as Vice President,
I have met with hundreds of young climate leaders, among the many
leaders I have met. 

I’ve met with college students in Michigan, climate justice activists in
Miami, Native leaders in Arizona, and high school students in Denver. 

And I will tell you, these young leaders are guiding our nation in our
climate fight.  And as they have told me, their work is driven by their
hope and their determination.  Hope, because they know we still have
time to make a difference.  And their determination is the determination
to correct the course. 

So, let us all share in their conviction, in their hope, in their
determination.  And let us continue to work to build a cleaner,
healthier, and more prosperous future for everyone. 

And let us do so with optimism.  Because while we have more to do, with
your partnership, the President and I have shown just how much we can
accomplish together. 

May God bless you.  And may God bless the United States of America. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.) 

                          END                 12:40 P.M. PDT
