---
date: '2023-08-29'
modified_time: 2023-08-29 17:47:32-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-29 17:47:31-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/29/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-lowering-healthcare-costs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Lowering Healthcare\_Costs"
---
 
East Room

2:18 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.) Good
afternoon.  Please have a seat.  Good afternoon.  It’s a room full of
leaders. 

Well, thank you, everyone, for being here and for all the work that you
have done leading up to today.

I want to thank, of course, our nation’s champion, President Biden, for
your leadership and commitment to lowering costs for working families in
every way. 

And thank you to all of the members of Congress for the work that you
have done and continue to do to help us achieve this type of progress. 

So, we are here today with the firm belief that in the United States of
America, no senior should ever have to choose between whether they are
able to fill a prescription or fill their refrigerator with food.  But
for — (applause) — yes.  Yeah. 

Because we know, for years, far too many of our seniors — millions of
our seniors across the country have struggled to afford their
prescriptions.

And too many of our seniors risked their health as they may have delayed
to refill their prescription or they cut their pills in half to try and
stretch out the length of time that they could take their medication.

So, since we took office, President Biden and I and our administration
has taken historic — historic action to cut the cost of prescription
medication for our seniors. 

We capped the cost of insulin at $35 a month.  (Applause.)  Yes. 

We will cap the total cost of prescription drugs at $2,000 a year. 
(Applause.) 

And we have made vaccines free of charge, which will save seniors
hundreds of dollars every year.  (Applause.)  Yes.

And we finally allowed Medicare to negotiate the price of medications
with Big Pharma companies — (applause) — to the benefit of 65 million
Americans at least.

And as many of you know — we’ve worked together — over the course of my
career, I’ve seen the stakes of this fight firsthand.  When I was
attorney general of California, I met with countless families who were
often quietly suffering because they or a loved one could not afford the
medication they needed and were prescribed.

I investigated drugmakers that tried to stop production of cheaper,
generic versions of their drugs, and we held them accountable.  And we
intervened in the merger of hospitals that could’ve resulted in less
competition or increased cost for their patients.

All that to say: There are many factors that drive up healthcare costs
and make medications more expensive.

And President Biden and I will continue to use every tool at our
disposal to bring these costs down.

And we will hold accountable those who try to put profits ahead of the
health and wellbeing of the American people.  (Applause.)

And together — and together, we will continue to build a nation where
every person, not just the wealthy or well-connected, has the
opportunity to thrive and can live a life of dignity after they retire.

So, that includes, of course, our next speaker.  Please welcome Steven
Hadfield. 

Thank you very much.  (Applause.)

                        END                2:22 P.M. EDT

\###
