---
date: '2023-08-31'
published_time: 2023-08-31 18:33:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/31/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-back-to-school-event-with-educators/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Back-to-School\
  \ Event with\_Educators"
---
 
Verona, WI

\*\*\*

Thank you, Kabby. Your passion for your students shines through in
everything you do.

Thank you, Principal Taylor and Glacier Edge for the warm welcome. 

Mayor Rhodes-Conway, and the other elected leaders joining us, thank you
for taking the time to be here today.

And, Becky and Randi you always show up for your members. And we’re all
so thankful for your leadership and commitment to helping educators
thrive across the country.

I am truly honored to be here with all of you.

You—all of you—make me proud to be a longtime member of the NEA—and an
honorary member of the AFT.

With each new school year, we stand on the precipice of possibility.
Hallways once again overflow with the roar of life—shrieks of excitement
shattering the summer calm—welcoming us to our next chapter.

And as educators it’s hard not to wonder about the students we’re about
to meet: What will help their imaginations soar? Who do they hope to
become? And what will they push us to discover together? 

But for some, those moments have been ripped away.

Last week, on Maui, I spoke with teachers and administrators, counselors
and librarians who had lost so much: loved ones, homes, schools—and
their dreams for the new school year.

But even amid their personal devastation, they were searching for a way
forward for their students.

And as I’ve traveled the country, again and again, I’ve seen educators’
resilience in the face of impossible odds: flooding and fires, violence
and a pandemic. 

But then, that’s who we are as educators, isn’t it?

We chose this path out of love for what we do and who we teach.

And I think that message matters more than ever. Because lately, when I
turn on the TV, I see pundits attacking our public schools and saying
that parents and educators are at odds.

But that’s not what I’ve seen. I’ve visited schools where parents and
educators are working hand in hand to help kids overcome challenges and
make learning better for everyone.

There’s no divide between those who love our students and those who
teach them—because we all do both.

This isn’t just a job that we walk away from at 3:15. When we’re caring
for our own kids, we’re thinking about someone else’s children too.

To answer this call of service is, in itself, an act of hope. Because
this isn’t just a job. It’s a calling. And all of you were called to
this profession for a reason. Because you never give up on the families
you serve. Because you continue to believe that a better world is
possible—and you make that world real, one student at a time. And none
of that could happen without the support of our unions.

I am here today to say that you aren’t in this alone. You have a friend
in the White House—two in fact: Me, and my husband, Joe.

I always knew that Joe would be an education President. Because this
means so much to him. And he’s delivered on his promises: From
addressing the mental health and academic needs of our students… to
signing the bipartisan gun safety bill…to loan forgiveness for public
servants.

And, here in Wisconsin, he is grateful for incredible partners like
Senator Baldwin and Governor Evers.

Tomorrow, as you step back into your classrooms, I hope you remember
that right now, someone out there is standing a little taller because
you helped her find the confidence she needed. Someone is working a
little harder because you pushed him to try. Someone is braver because
you helped her find her courage.

We know there are still challenges ahead. But we do this work because
it’s who we are: We’re optimists. We’re true believers. We’re union
members!

We stand together and we fight for the communities we care about.

Have a great school year. 

Thank you.

\###
