---
date: '2023-08-04'
published_time: 2023-08-04 17:05:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-highlighting-the-impacts-of-bidenomics-and-announcing-increasing-support-for-small-businesses/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Highlighting the Impacts of Bidenomics and\
  \ Announcing Increasing Support for Small\_Businesses"
---
 
*Washington, D.C.*

12:29 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.

AUDIENCE:  Good afternoon.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I was just saying to Monica: I love when she said
“the power of possibilities.”  Isn’t that right?  And, really, the power
behind the power of possibilities is that we, as a community, as a
society, see it and then invest in it.

I had the great joy and the honor and privilege of meeting with some of
the small-business owners who occupy this space,  and I have to tell
you: Their innovation, their enthusiasm, their love of this community —
and, by extension, the country — is really so inspiring.  I love our
small-business owners.  I really do.  (Applause.)  You know?

But I j- — I just have to say, because — many of you may know this, but,
you know, my sister, Maya, and I were raised by our mother, and she
worked long days.  And we had a second mother who lived two doors down,
Ms. Shelton.  And we lived in the apartment above the nursery school
that Ms. Shelton ran. 

She was a small-business owner.  And she was a matriarch of the
community.  She was not only a business leader; she was a civic leader. 
She was part of the cultural fabric of the community, as well as someone
who hired locally, who mentored, and who role-modeled what it means to
be invested and be successful.

And so, this is very personal for me to be here with all of you and to
applaud the work that is being done here.  And I want to thank Monica
again for her introduction and for your leadership.  (Applause.)

And, of course, it is good to be here today with so many incredible
leaders.  I see so many.  I could spend all afternoon mentioning who you
are, but I will not do that in case I overlook anybody in particular. 
But I will say that, in particular, I do want to thank the leaders of
our Commerce Department and — and Deputy Secretary Don Graves and Under
Secretary Don Cravins. 

We’ve been working a lot together over these last couple of years, and
they really are extraordinary.  They’ve been traveling the — the country
and really inspiring so much of the work we have done as an
administration.  So, I thank the two Dons for all that you do. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.

And to the small-business owners and entrepreneurs of America, including
those here today: You are the backbone of our communities and of our
economy.  And you are part of the pride of our nation.

President Biden and I came into office with a plan to grow and
strengthen America’s economy.  We knew that, for far too long, our
economy has not been working for working people.  Entire communities
have been left out and left behind.  Trickle-down economics — well, it
benefitted big corporations and the wealthiest of Americans but not a
lot of regular folks.

So, when President Biden and I took office, we decided to invest in the
working people of America, to create millions of jobs, to rebuild
American manufacturing, to repair our roads and bridges, to replace
every lead pipe in our nation, to connect every home with high-speed
Internet, to expand clean energy production, and to make sure that every
person in America — not just the wealthy or well-connected — have the
opportunity to thrive.   

All that, ladies and gentlemen and everyone else — that is called
“Bidenomics.”  (Applause.)  That is called Bidenomics, and we are very
proud of Bidenomics.

And as today’s jobs numbers make clear: Bidenomics is working.  Last
month, we created 187,000 new jobs.  That means today — yeah, go ahead
and clap.  (Applause.)  I don’t want to step on the applause. 

That means, today, 187,000 more Americans are able to go to work, to
provide for their family and invest in their future. 

Today’s numbers reflect the point that President Biden has made many
times: America’s economy is strong and experiencing  stable and steady
growth. 

In fact, since we took office, we have created more than 13 million new
jobs.  In two and a half years, we have created more jobs — more new
jobs than any other administration has created in four.  (Applause.)

Today, the unemployment rate is near its lowest level in over half a
century.  Wages are up.  Inflation has fallen 12 months in a row.

And recently, some of the nation’s largest financial institutions have
begun to recognize the significant impact of our economic approach. 
Morgan Stanley increased their expectations for economic growth, as did
Bank of America. 

And unlike economic recoveries in the past, this growth is not only
being felt on Wall Street.  But, more importantly, it is being felt on
Main Street, especially by people who start and own small businesses. 

So, just consider: In just our first two years in office, entrepreneurs
have applied to start more new small businesses than in any other
two-year p- — period in history. 

In addition, President Biden and I have invested billions in American
manufacturing.  Now, put this in context: Since most manufacturing
companies are small businesses with fewer than 20 employees, our
investment in America’s manufacturing is also an investment in America’s
small businesses. 

All of this to say: America’s economic future looks bright.  And
President Biden and I will keep fighting to move our nation forward. 
And that includes expanding support and access to capital for
small-business owners. 

So, many of you may know: As Vice President, I have traveled our nation
from rural Louisiana to small towns in New Hampshire to Indian Country
to meet with small-business owners and entrepreneurs. 

And when I sit down and talk with folks, I often will ask them, “Of all
the challenges you, as a small-business owner, as an entrepreneur is —
of all the challenges you face, what is your biggest concern?” 

And almost to a one, the answer they will give me is “access to
capital.”  The — they either want to start a business or they want to
grow a business but don’t have the relationships with the big banks. 

And so, for years, we have worked to expand investment in community
banks.  Because, you see, community banks specialize in providing loans
and financial assistance to small-business owners, in particular, those
in overlooked and underserved communities, including rural communities. 

And as the name suggests, community banks are in the community.  They
understand the needs of the people they serve.  They understand the
capacity and the opportunity, such as the capacity and the opportunity
of this community, that big banks often overlook or just don’t get. 

And so, building on the work that, as you heard, I led as the United
States senator and since taking office, President Biden and I have
invested nearly $12 billion in our community banks. 

And last year, I was so proud to convene consumer banks, investment
firms, technology companies, and philanthropies to launch a
first-of-its-kind public-private partnership in support of our small
businesses.  And what we did is we combined the expertise and the
experience of the private sector with the reach and the capacity that
only government can provide.  And as a result, we have secured billions
of dollars in private sector investment for small businesses. 

In order to expand access to capital, we have to think outside the box,
all of us.  And in particular, we feel a sense of responsibility to find
innovative ways to support our entrepreneurs and our small-business
owners, including to fund community banks, to build public-private
partnerships, and to do what we are doing today, which is to invest in
small-business accelerators. 

So, small-business accelerators are organizations that, in addition to
capital, provide advice and support to entrepreneurs.  Because not — you
know, most of us, in fact, didn’t grow up necessarily having parents or
others in our direct community that — that understood all of these
business principles and understood high finance.  But it’s not that
folks don’t have a good idea or the ambition and the aspiration to do
things but just don’t have access to the information. 

So, basically, a small-business accelerator is a one-stop shop for small
businesses to succeed.  And they provide everything from mentorship to
management courses to assistance filling out business taxes. 

And so, today, I am proud to announce that we will invest $125 million
in 43 small-business accelerators.  (Applause.)  And they have been
chosen because they are the ones that are — and have a track record of
supporting entrepreneurs in underserved communities and helping them to
innovate and to hire and to grow. 

And nearly all of these accelerators that we have funded are represented
here today.  And because of these additional resources, these
accelerators will be able to extend capital and support to thousands
more entrepreneurs and startups to take full advantage of the
investments we have made in our nation over the past two years. 

And so, consider: Since taking office, President Biden and I have
invested about a trillion dollars — a trillion dollars to build a clean
enemy — energy economy.  A trillion dollars to build and grow a new
economy, a clean energy economy. 

Think what this means if folks who have the great ideas have access to
the information to participate in that and to be in the pipeline of the
innovators who are doing this work every day to build back up our
country. 

Today’s investment in small-business accelerators will help connect
entrepreneurs and small-business owners with the support and the
guidance they need to break into the clean energy economy. 

For example, this investment could allow, let’s say, a college student
from Thomasville, Georgia, to connect with a mentor to help launch her
clean energy startup and apply for clean energy tax credits. 

It could allow, let’s say, a mother of two in Tempe, Arizona, who has a
business plan to install solar panels, but she needs the technical
support to learn how to turn that plan into a reality and meet the
increasing demand for solar energy. 

That’s where these accelerators come into play, to help connect that
desire, that ambition, that great idea with the resources that are
available to actually do that important, innovative work. 

This investment, for example, could allow a veteran who owns a auto
repair shop in Milwaukee to access the capital he needs to buy equipment
to repair electric vehicles. 

I’ve visited with some of these innovative small businesses.  And, you
know, it was interesting.  I met with one young innovator who was
talking about how he was setting up this company to actually work on
electric vehicles and electric batteries.  And I said, “Well, tell me
about the people who are working with you.”  And he said, “Well, they
are — we — we refer to them as technicians.”  I said, “You mean
mechanics?”  (Laughs.) 

That’s what we’re talking about.  We’re talking about skills that exist
but what we’re doing to upgrade those skills to meet the demands of new
economies. 

And so, through this investment and our whole Invest in America
strategy, President Biden and I are working to make sure that
small-business owners and entrepreneurs have every type of support they
need to grow.  Because as Bidenomics continues to demonstrate: When we
invest in the dreams, the ambitions of small-business owners and
entrepreneurs, it creates opportunity and prosperity for us all. 

Thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God bless America.  Thank
you.  (Applause.) 

                               END                 12:44 P.M. EDT
