---
date: '2023-08-28'
published_time: 2023-08-28 18:46:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/28/remarks-by-president-biden-and-vice-president-harris-before-a-meeting-with-the-organizers-of-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-march-on-washington-and-members-of-the-king-family/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Vice President Harris Before a Meeting with\
  \ the Organizers of the 60th Anniversary of the March on Washington and Members\
  \ of the King\_Family"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

3:01 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Kamala and I wanted to convene this incredible group of
civil rights leaders for a simple reason: to thank them; and to tell
them what they tell us — we know we got a lot more work to do; and also
remind them that what they do matters more than I think they even
appreciate how — just how consequential it is.

You know, I’ll be speaking about it more this evening, and I’m going to
be talking — I’ll be speaking in a longer fora.  But the bottom line is
that a lot is happening around the things you wouldn’t think would be
happening today on the anniversary of the 60 years of the — of the
March.

I’ve spoken with the governor and the mayor and Black community leaders
in Jacksonville, Florida.  The sheriff, who’s an African American.  I
spent a significant amount of time speaking to everyone, including the
governor of Florida.

And as I’ve said to the country, we can’t let hate prevail.  And it’s on
the rise.  It’s not — not diminishing.

Silence, I believe — as we’ve all said many times — silence is
complicity.  We’re not going to remain silent.

And so, we have to act against this hate-fueled violence and this — all
that’s happening. 

And, by the way, almost five years to the day that five young Blacks
were killed in Jacksonville — I think it was earlier — at the — at a gun
— not a gun shop — a store there doing kids toys. 

And — but, you know, we have to speak out that there is a whole group of
extreme people trying to erase history — trying to walk away from — I
mean, the idea that we’re sitting here — I never thought that I’d be
president, let alone be president and having the discussion on why books
are being banned in American schools.

And — and, you know, as an administration, we’re going to continue the
march forward — jobs and freedom that we have worked so hard for — this
group has worked harder than anybody for.

And we’re going to get it done.  So, I want to thank the group for their
leadership and their partnership.  And I want to turn this over to the
Vice President for a few minutes, and then we’ll get moving.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. President.  Our country was founded
on many noble principles, including “*E pluribus unum*,” “Out of many,
one.”  And to live up to those ideals, I think, at this moment in time,
requires moral clarity on behalf of every American about what is at
stake right now.

The vast majority of us have so much more in common than what separates
us.  Yet, there are those who are intentionally trying to divide us as a
nation.  And I believe each of us has a duty — a duty to not allow
factions to sever our unity.  Our diversity is our strength, and our
unity is our power as a nation.

And I do believe that we must be guided by knowing that we have so much
more in common than what separates us.  We must be committed to building
communities, building coalitions, understanding that is how we
strengthen ourselves as a nation. 

And the members of the King family are here.  Ambassador Andy Young is
here.  I’m going to, if I may, for the children of Coretta Scott King,
paraphrase something she said, which is that the fight for civil rights,
for justice, for equality must be fought and won with each generation.

We have Yolanda King here, who epitomizes that understanding that it is
incumbent on each of us at this moment in time in our country to stand
for the sake of unity and foundational principles that out of many, we
are one.

Thank you, Mr. President.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.

Q    Mr. President, as we are in this moment of hate, you have laws, you
have policies, you have executive orders.  Mr. President, how to you
prevent this hate?  Is it a hard issue?  And how do you intend to stop
this hate that you just said was must stop, sir? 

THE PRESIDENT:  By talking directly to the American — by talking
directly to the American people, because I think the vast majority of
the American people agree with this table.  But we got — we have to
understand: This is serious. 

I said a little earlier when I came in and sat down: I think this is as
serious a potential turning point for the negative as it was when — the
turning point for the positive when your dad organized that march.  I
really think this is a — this is a critical time.

We have groups — a min- — significant minority — that — but I think they
want to change the direction that we’ve been working on so hard and
making such significant progress on for so long.  And we can’t let it
happen.  We just have to speak to it, is my view. 

Thank you.

Q    Sir, do you plan to travel to Jacksonville?  Have you spoken with
any of the families of the victims?

THE PRESIDENT:  The last — this is the last thing I’ll speak to and I’ll
get this moving.  I’ve spoken to the — I’ve — the authorities in
Jacksonville, and he — I even spoke to the governor as well last night
for some time — all — all folks.

And right now, I was at — I asked for the — whether or not it’s
appropriate for the locale — local people to contact the families.  Two
of them are prepared to be contacted.  One does not want to be
contacted.  I’m letting this just — let things settle because, you know,
everybody deals with profound loss in a different way. 

And it’s important that — I know from experience it’s important to try
to do it in a way that is most helpful and eases the anxiety the most. 
So, I haven’t spoken to them yet.

Thank you. 

3:08 P.M. EDT
