---
date: '2023-08-21'
modified_time: 2023-08-21 21:52:58-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-21 21:52:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/21/remarks-by-president-biden-paying-respects-to-the-lives-lost-in-maui-and-reaffirming-his-commitment-to-supporting-residents/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Paying Respects to the Lives Lost in Maui and\
  \ Reaffirming His Commitment to Supporting\_Residents"
---
 
Lahaina Banyan Tree Park  
Lahaina, Hawaii

12:47 P.M. HST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, hello, people of Maui.  You’ve shown such
absolute, incredible courage, and that’s not hyperbole.  I want you to
know, on behalf of the United States of America and all the nation, the
American people stand with you.   
  
Governor Josh Green, you’ve been incredible.  From the day we’ve spoken
on this, you’ve been way ahead of the curve.  Lieutenant Governor Sylvia
Luke; Brian <s>Schantz</s> \[Schatz\], our senator; Senator Mazie Hir- —
by the way, Mazie, I told my granddaughter, whose name is Maisy as well
— she said, “That’s why I like her.”  (Laughter.)  Anyway.  But her name
is Maisy as well.  
  
And — and Jill To- — Tokuda, Representative Ed Chase, and Mayor
Rick <s>Bassen</s> \[Bissen\].  Rick, when we talked on the phone, I
never — you look like you played in defensive tackle for — I don’t know
who, but somebody good.  But, anyway, I want to thank you for your
leadership in this unimaginable — during this unimaginable travedy —
tragedy.  
  
To my left is the banyan tree beloved by this community for over 150
years here in the former capital of the Kingdom of Hawaii, that has
stood for generations as a sacred spot of exceptional significance.  
  
One of the people who took me under his wing when I first got to the
Senate was Danny Inouye.  He used to talk about — used to talk about the
Kingdom of Hawaii.  He was J- — came from Japan, but it was amazing to
listen to him.  
  
Today, it’s burned, but it’s still standing.  The tree survived for a
reason.  I believe it’s a powerful — a very powerful symbol of what we
can and will do to get through this crisis.  And for this — for as long
as it takes, we’re going to be with you — the whole country will be with
you.   
  
You know, we will be respectful of these sacred grounds and the
traditions that rebuild the way the people of Maui want to build, not
the way others want to build.  We’re going to rebuild the way the people
of Maui want to build.  
  
But, you know, it’s going to be hard.  America’s deadly wildfire —
deadliest wildfire in over a century.   
  
And Jill and I have what’s left of — walked Front Street, what’s left of
it.  We’ve surveyed the damage from the air as well.  The devastation is
overwhelming.  
  
To date, 114 dead.  Hundreds of people are unaccounted for.   
  
I remember when I got the call — my first wife and daughter — I was a
young senator, and I got a call in Washington.  I hadn’t been sworn in
yet.  I wasn’t old enough.  And I was hiring staff in the Capitol in
Teddy Kennedy’s office.  And I got a phone call saying — from my fire
department, and a young first responder kind of panicked and said,
“You’ve got to come home.  There’s been an accident.”   
  
I said, “What happened?”  
  
He said, “Your wife, she — she’s dead.  Come home.  Come home.”  
  
A tractor-trailer had broadsided her and killed her in a car accident
along with my little daughter.  And — and I remember all the way down
from Washington home wondering what a lot of people here are wondering:
What about my two boys?  How are they?  They were in the car.  I never
got a read on that.  Were they going to be all right or badly injured? 
Were they going to make it?  Had they made it?  It wasn’t until I walked
into the emergency room, and I saw that they were there.  
  
The difference between knowing somebody is gone and worrying whether
they’re available to come back are two different things.   
  
You know, and I — I remember one of the people who helped me the most
was Danny Inouye.  He helped bring me back.  So I know the feeling that
— as many of the people in this town, this community, that hollow
feeling you have in your chest like you’re being sucked into a black
hole, wondering, “Will I ever — will I ever get by this?”  
  
You know, it’s one thing to know, but it’s quite another thing to have
to wait, to wonder whether your family members are going to be okay.  
  
Imagine being a parent wondering where your child is — where he is.  I
remember, as I said.  You know, press reports of grandfathers crying for
lost neighbors while trying to be strong for the ones who survived.  Of
a woman distributing clothing to survivors who says she didn’t lose her
home, but she lost her hometown.  
  
But I also want all of you to know the country grieves with you, stands
with you, and we’ll do everything possible to help you recover, rebuild,
and respect culture and traditions when the rebuilding takes place.  
  
My administration has been in constant contact with the governor and
congressional delegation and local leaders.  As soon as I got the
governor — governor’s request, I signed the master — the major disaster
declaration that mobilized the whole-of-government response, which means
whatever you need, you’re going to get.  
  
For example, the Coast Guard and Navy immediately supported maritime
search and rescue operations, while the Army helped fire suppression.  
  
Here’s what — here’s what we’ve been doing since.  First, we focused on
search and rescue, which is still going on.  Right now, there are over
450 search and rescue experts working around the clock.  
  
Second, I’ve identified FEMA’s
Administrator <s>Griswell</s> \[Criswell\] to lean forward, as she
always has done, to help survivors get immediate aid.  FEMA has quickly
provided 5 — 55,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, 5,000 beds, 10,000
blankets. We’re working to help remove the debris, repair roads, and
restore power.  
  
Additionally, my Department of Homeland — of Housing and Urban
Development is working with the state to make sure survivors can move
from emergency shelters into temporary housing to finally have a
permanent place to call home as well.  
  
The Small Business Administration is making low-interest federal
disaster loans available to Hawaiian businesses — many of them you see
here — burned to the ground; homeowners and renters; and nonprofits.  
  
If you need help, you can visit FEMA’s disaster recovery center at Maui
College or go to DisasterAssistance.gov — DisasterAssistance.gov.  
  
Today, I’m appointing Bob Fenton, who’s here — where are you, Bob?  
  
MR. FENTON:  I’m right here, sir.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There he is.  I’m appointing Bob Fenton as our Chief
Federal Response Coordinator for Maui to lead our long-term recovery
work.  He’s one of the nation’s most experienced disaster response and
recovery experts in America, and I’m dict- — I’m directing him to make
sure the community has everything — everything the federal government
can offer to heal and to rebuild as fast as possible.  
  
And we’re focused on what’s next.  That’s rebuilding a long — long-term
— rebuilding for long-term and doing it together to help get us back on
our feet, to rebuild the way we want to rebuild by making sure your
voices are heard, by respecting your traditions, by understanding the
deep history and meaning of this sacred ground and establishing your
community, not to change it — its character, but to reestablish it.  
  
We’re also going to bring the capabilities to help you rebuild so your
critical infrastructure is more resilient in the future.  All this
matters.  
  
Let me close with this.  From stories of grief, we’ve seen so many
stories of hope and heroism, of the aloha spirit.  Every emergency
responder put their lives on the line for — to save others.  
  
Everyday heroes, neighbors helping neighbors, Native Hawaiian leaders
offering solace and strength.   
  
And this banyan tree.  One called it the diamond in the rough of hope. 
Another referred to — “Fire cannot reach its roots” is what he said. 
“Fire cannot reach its roots.”   
  
That’s Maui.  That’s America.  And to the people of Hawaii, we’re with
you for as long as it takes, I promise you.  
  
May God bless all those we’ve lost.  May God find those who we haven’t
determined yet.  And may God bless you all.  And may God protect our
troops.  
  
Now I’m going to — happy to turn this over to the governor, Governor
Green.  
  
12:56 P.M. HST
