---
date: '2023-08-03'
modified_time: 2023-08-03 16:57:03-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-03 16:56:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/03/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-efforts-to-invest-in-high-speed-internet-boost-domestic-manufacturing-and-create-jobs/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Efforts to Invest in High-Speed Internet,\
  \ Boost Domestic Manufacturing, and Create\_Jobs"
---
 
*Sanmina Kenosha Facility  
Pleasant Prairie, Wisconsin*

2:22 P.M. CDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Please have a
seat.  Good afternoon. 

You did it, Renee.  (Laughter.)  We were talking backstage with Ashley,
her daughter.  And I — there — what job does she no- — what job does
your mom not have?  (Laughs.)  She’s wearing a lot of hats.  But the
voice that she has provided, that your family provides about the
importance of this is really critical, because it’s an American story. 
And the work we are doing is to meet the needs of families around the
country, families just like yours.

So, it is good to be back in Wisconsin — hello, everyone; good afternoon
— (applause) — and to be with so many incredible leaders, including, of
course, our Secretary of Commerce, Gina Raimondo.  (Applause.)  She’s
doing a great job and she has been a champion — a true champion of
working people in our country.  And, of course, it is great to be with
my dear friend, the senator, Tammy Baldwin.  (Applause.)  
  
So, Senator Baldwin and I served together in the United States Senate. 
And it was one of my jobs to serve with her.  I have seen your senator
in rooms when the cameras were on and when the cameras are off, and she
is the same person every time.  She is always a voice of reason — a
determined voice, talking about the importance of uplifting, in
particular, working people in our country and the working people of
Wisconsin. 

She is always fighting — fighting for the needs and the dignity and the
resources that folks deserve to have.  So, I thank you, Senator Baldwin,
for your work.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.

And it is, indeed, with her help, all across Wisconsin, that President
Joe Biden and I have been able to create jobs, expand opportunity, and
strengthen American manufacturing.  And so, we are here to discuss our
continuation of that work.  
  
For years — for years — manufacturing was the foundation of the economy
here in Kenosha.  Manufacturing jobs created opportunity and prosperity
and helped generations of working families thrive.  
  
Then, in the 1990s, as a result of global economic trends and, frankly,
short-sighted national economic policy, American manufacturing began to
falter and thousands of good, steady jobs right here in Kenosha were
shipped overseas.  
  
And this is one of many stories of its kind across our country.  
  
All across America, countless communities saw the anchor of their
economy packed up and sent offshore.  
  
In fact, between 1990 and 2010, America lost more than 6 million
manufacturing jobs.  And for years, politicians have promised to bring
those jobs back but not delivered. 

So, President Joe Biden and I decided to run for office because we
believed it was time to fix this and to bring manufacturing jobs back to
places like Kenosha, and to take our work, in particular, across the
country and deliver for what the American family actually needs. 

So, take, for example, our work on high-speed Internet.  As Renee
explained so well, in America in the 21st century, high-speed Internet
is not a luxury.  It is a basic necessity.   
  
And yet, when President Biden and I took office, 800,000 people in
Wisconsin and 30 million people across our country did not have access
to high-speed Internet.  And so, we decided to do something about it.  
  
We invested $65 billion to lower the cost of high-speed Internet plans
and to build thousands of miles of fiber-optic cable so that every
family in America can afford to have access to high-speed Internet.  
  
And when we made this investment, we knew that there would then be an
increased demand for fiber-optic cable and for other products that
connect people to the Internet.  We knew that the demand would
skyrocket.   We knew companies would increase production and hire more
workers.  
  
And whereas in the past, many of those jobs would have been created
overseas, President Biden and I required that the materials and products
used in these projects, from steel  
to electronics to fiber-optic cable, must be made in America by workers
in America.  (Applause.)  
  
And we are determined to create jobs in America and keep jobs in
America, all of which leads us to today.  
  
So, today, I am proud to announce that Nokia, a company based in
Finland, will expand this factory here in Kenosha and hire up to 200 new
employees.  (Applause.)  Yes.  They will build the parts that are needed
to connect people with high-speed Internet.  
  
And let me just tell you: So much of this project is due to the advocacy
of Senator Baldwin.  Truly, truly.  (Applause.)  These “Made in America”
requirements were a priority for her.  And for any of you who know her
personally, when she’s got a priority in mind — (laughs) — you will hear
about it until you do something about it.  And she was focused on
creating jobs in communities like this one.  
  
And understand: All of this is part of a larger strategy.  
  
President Biden and I came into office with a plan to strengthen
America’s economy.  We knew that, for too long, our economy has not
worked for working people.  Entire communities have been left out and
left behind.  Trickle-down economics — well, it benefitted big
corporations and the wealthiest Americans but not regular folks.  
  
So, when President Biden and I took office, we decided to invest in the
working people of America; to create millions of jobs; to rebuild
American manufacturing; to repair our roads and bridges; to expand clean
energy production; to replace every lead pipe in our nation; to connect
every home with high-speed Internet; and to make sure that every person
in America, no matter where they start, has access to opportunity and
the tools that they need to thrive.  
  
All that is called Bidenomics.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s a term we’re very proud of, I must tell you, because Bidenomics is
working.  It’s working.  (Applause.)  Since we took office, we have
created more than 13 million jobs.  That’s more jobs created in two and
a half years than any administration has created in four.   
  
Today, unemployment remains near record lows, inflation has fallen 12
months in a row, wages are up, and small businesses  
are thriving.  
  
In fact, in just our four — first two years, entrepreneurs applied to
start more new small businesses than in any other two-year period in
history.  (Applause.)  
  
And here is an interesting connection between the growth of small
businesses and manufacturing: Many of you may know, over 70 percent of
the manufacturing operations, firms, companies in the United States —
over 70 percent of them employ 20 or fewer people.   
  
A lot of the manufacturing work that we do in America is done by our
small businesses.  And, of course, our small-business leaders are
leaders in business, and they are also civic leaders and community
leaders.  And they hire locally, and they mentor.  And they are part of
not only the economic strength of our nation but part of the fabric of
what makes us who we are.  
  
And so, it is no coincidence that, in the same time, American
manufacturing has grown faster than it has in decades.   
  
And as a result, here in Wisconsin, we have created 140,000 new jobs —
(applause) — including many good-paying union jobs: jobs for the workers
of IBEW who will install EV chargers along I-94, jobs for the laborers
who will upgrade six bridges along John Nolen Drive in Madison —
(applause) — where I once lived, by the way.  I did.  I’ve got some
Wisconsin cred.  (Laughs.)  Jobs for plumbers and pipefitters who will
replace lead pipes all across this state.  (Applause.)  
  
So, Wisconsin, together, we are rebuilding America.  Through Bidenomics,
we are showing that when we invest in workers and families, when we
create jobs and opportunity, when we roll up our sleeves and get to
work, there is no limit to what we can achieve for Kenosha, for
Wisconsin, and for our nation.  
  
God bless you.  And God bless America.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END                       2:33 P.M. CDT

\###
