---
date: '2023-08-02'
published_time: 2023-08-02 15:31:39-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-prime-minister-oyun-erdene-luvsannamsrai-of-mongolia/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Oyun-Erdene Luvsannamsrai\
  \ of\_Mongolia"
---
 
*Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

2:02 P.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Good afternoon, everyone.   
  
Mr. Prime Minister, welcome to the White House.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  Thank you.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  We have been looking forward to your visit.  And
we, of course, have a lot to discuss that is about continuing to
strengthen the relationship between our nations.  
  
Mongolia has been a reliable democracy and friend in the Indo-Pacific
for more than three decades, and the partnership between our countries
has helped to ensure stability and prosperity in the region.  And the
American people have a profound stake in the future of the
Indo-Pacific.  
  
As a proud Pacific power, it is in our vital interest to promote an
Indo-Pacific region that is open, interconnected, prosperous, secure,
and resilient, which is why President Biden and I have each been, since
we have been in office, to the Indo-Pacific three times each.  And as
Vice President, I’m proud that I have met with nearly three dozen
regional leaders, here in Washington and in the region, in bilateral
meetings such as this one and at multilateral summits.   
  
Since we have taken office, the President and I have made it our
intention and focus to reinforce our defense and deterrence commitments
and our security presence in the region.  We have provided an ambitious
and affirmative economic agenda for the region that will deliver growth
for the American people and the people in that region.  And together
with our allies and partners, we have defended international rules and
norms in the region and around the world which underpin our security and
prosperity.  
  
All of this work in the Indo-Pacific is guided by a key priority of the
Biden-Harris administration, which is to strengthen our alliances and
partnerships in the region.   
  
Which brings me to the agenda for our meeting today: which will include,
Mr. Prime Minister, the work that we will continue to do to strengthen
the strategic partnership between the United States and Mongolia; the
work that we will do and continue to do together to work on global
challenges, which, of course, include the climate crisis but also the
importance of upholding democracies and human rights; and, of course,
addressing the threats to international rules-based order.  
  
Today, I am pleased to announce that the next steps in our work together
will be about further expanding our partnership.  In particular, we will
discuss the work that we will do together to strengthen our space
cooperation.  You and I spoke briefly about the beginning of the next
era — and, for you, what that means, in terms of your leadership and
your vision for the future.  And certainly, strengthening our space
cooperation would be a part of that agenda — including, of course, using
our space cooperation to think about how we strengthen the economic
prosperity and development of our nations.  
  
We will also sign an Open Skies Agreement, which will open the door to
direct flights between the United States and Mongolia.   
  
And we will increase support for cultural exchanges, including the — the
work that you are doing in terms of English language education in
Mongolia.   
  
And together, we will also discuss the work we will do to support
Mongolia’s efforts to drive economic-sector and private-sector economic
engagement and investment in your country.  
  
All of this reflects the commitment that the United States has to our
friends in Mongolia and in the region.   
  
And again, I welcome you, Mr. Prime Minister.  And I look forward to our
conversation.  
  
Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  Thank you so much.  
  
Thank you, Vice President Harris, for kind — of your words.  And thank
you for hosting me —  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Of course.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  — and my delegation to the White House.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  So, it’s a great honor to meet you, the
first female vice president in U.S. history.  
  
Our two countries established diplomatic relations — 1987.  Since that
time, our bilateral relationship has grown from strength to strength. 
Mongolia is best known as the birthplace of Genghis Khan and for the
great history of Mongolian Empire and green landscapes and never-ending
blue sky.   
  
In 19- — 1990s, the people of Mongolia voted for democracy and the
market economy.  And we are very proud Americans regard us — an oasis of
democracy for us.  So — and, for us, United States is not only our
strategic third neighbor, but also the guiding North Star on our
democratic journey.   
  
I would like to take this opportunity to thank American people for their
continued support and commitment to democratic reforms, and for the
progress of market economy, and respect for human rights and freedom.   
  
The past 30 years, our democratic journey hasn’t been easy.  But
Mongolia has been and will always be moving forward.   
  
Nelson Mandela once said, “A winner is a dreamer who never gives up.” 
Mongolia will keep dreaming and keep fighting for our democracy, and we
will do everything we can to achieve our goals of Vision 2050 for next
30 years.   
  
I’m looking forward to having very open and constructive talks with Vice
President Harris regarding our strategic partnership, which forge closer
links between our two nations and people.  We will discuss about
high-tech solutions, including space and AI, and share our insights
about global issues, such as climate change and geopolitical issues.   
  
During my visit, I am pleased that Mongolia and U.S. will issue joint
statement strategic third neighbor partnership, and we are going to sign
an economic cooperation roadmap.  These strategic documents will play a
significant role in expanding our trade and economic cooperation and
attracting more investment from the U.S.   
  
Mongolia economy, you know, mainly based on mining sector.  We have
great potential in copper.  Soon, Mongolia will become one of the four
largest copper producers in the world.  Our copper from the Oyu Tolgoi
mine will not — benefit not only Mongolia but also the world because —
and because high-tech solutions is part of our commitment for fight
against climate change.   
  
We also have great potential in non-mining sectors, such as tourism and
creative industries; green energy; agriculture, including cashmere; and
transport and logistics.   
  
I am very glad that U.S. commitment to supporting us and our economic —
diversifying our economy.  Mongolia is landlocked but not
mine-locked.   
  
Mongolia is one of the over 40 landlocked countries in the world.  We
face great challenges in terms of transport and logistics.  We seek your
support raising these issues in the international stage.   
  
We will sign the Open Skies Agreement you mentioned between Mongolia and
U.S.  I am excited that we are going to commence direct flights, our two
countries, Q2 2024.  It’s going to be great opportunity to promote
tourism and trade, business and investment.   
  
We have taken many steps to improve our legal environment and for
investment and private-sector partnership, including constitutional
reforms and digital transformation and fight against corruption.   
  
Mongolia has just legislated for English as (inaudible) foreign language
in secondary education.  There were some challenges; it took more than
20 years to make this decision.   
  
We are confident that it’s significant step to support education for our
next generation.  These achievements can only be sustained through
partnership with longstanding democratic countries, such as the U.S.  
  
In this regard, my government and Google will sign landmark agreement to
promote education and digital transformation in Mongolia next — this
week.  
  
I am pleased to be here on my first official visit to the U.S. as the
prime minister.  I have fond memories of my time studying in the U.S. 
It’s great to be back.  
  
Yesterday, I walked around Georgetown, where I — I used to live in a
dorm.  
  
So — and I look forward to catching up with some of my friends.  Next
time, I hope to visit Cambridge and drop by Harvard Kennedy School.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  (Laughs.)  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  I hope that history will record my visit
this week as the start of a new chapter in our friendship and the
strategic partnership.   
  
Madam Vice President, thank you again for your kind hospitality and look
forward to welcoming you in Mongolia.  Thank you so much.  It’s great
honor for us.  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER LUVSANNAMSRAI:  Thank you.  Thank you so much.

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Thank you.  Welcome.  Thank you.  
  
         END                 2:11 P.M. EDT

\###
