---
date: '2023-08-08'
modified_time: 2023-08-08 19:23:50-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-08 18:05:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-inflation-reduction-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on his Historic Conservation and Climate\_Action"
---
 
Red Butte Airfield  
Williams, Arizona

11:22 A.M. MST

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, thank you. Please have a seat if you have one.
If you don’t have one, you can sit down anyway if you want. (Laughs.)

Well, thank you very, very much. Maya, thank you for the introduction.
When I was your age, to be able to stand up and introduce anybody, let
alone a president, I would have frozen. Thank you. You’re — you’re an
impressive young woman. And I’m going to come down to those waterfalls
pretty soon. (Applause.)

It’s great to be here with Secretary Haaland, our first Native American
Cabinet Secretary, and Brenda Mallory, the Chair of our Council of
Environmental Quality.

And, Governor Hobbs, congratulations and you’re doing a heck of a job.

And — (applause) — and Senator Kyrsten Sinema and Congressman — where is
the Congressman? Is he here? There — we’ve been hanging out since I got
here a little bit. Raúl has been a good friend and done a great deal.
He’s one of the most popular congressmen in the country, I think. Who
have long championed this effort in Congress.

And Congressman Greg Stanton has been a leader in — as well.

And thanks to all the state, county, and local officials who’ve worked
so hard to see this day happen, make it happen. And you — you have.
Believe me, I know you have.

To the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management professionals
here, thank you. Thank you for caring for our public lands, the most
precious thing we have. (Applause.)

And special thanks to Tribal leaders joining us whose ancestors
stewarded these lands since time immemorial. Got to meet most of you
last night. And I’m looking forward to saying hello to you again today.

And a special hello to Jimmy McCain. Where are you, Jimmy? I’m going to
embarrass you. He didn’t know — think he was going to be introduced.
Where is — there you are, Jimmy.

Jimmy — Jimmy’s dad was a dear friend of mine. We were like two brothers
who — we got along together. When we argued, we argued like hell. We
really went at it. But he was a man of — he was a great patriot and a
man of enormous integrity. And, Jimmy, you’re just like your dad:
serving your country in Iraq and Afghanistan, and continuing to serve as
a second lieutenant in the United States Army. Thank you, thank you,
thank you, pal. (Applause.)

And I say this with all sincerity — no one ever doubts that I mean what
I say; sometimes I say all that I mean, though — (laughter) — I think of
your dad all the time, about how much he loved this country and how
optimistic he was — optimistic about our future. So, thank you for being
here, pal, and thank you for your continued service.

America’s natural wonders are our nation’s heart and soul. That’s not
hyperbole; that’s a fact. They unite us. They inspire us. A birthright
we pass down from generation to generation.

And that’s why from day one I’ve taken historic steps to conserve our
natural treasures for all ages.

My first week as president, I signed an executive order establishing our
country’s most ambitious con- — conservation goal ever. I made a
commitment that we will protect 30 percent of all our nation’s lands and
waters — conserve all — 30 percent of all our nation’s lands and waters
by 2030. And we’re on our way. And we’re delivering. (Applause.)

In just my first year in office, we’ve done more — protected more lands
than any — than anyone since the 1960s — John Kennedy’s era: 9 million
acres in Alaska, in Bristol Bay and the Tongass Forest; 225,000 acres in
Minnesota, the Boundary Waters.

We’re working to protect 770,000 square miles in the Pacific Ocean
southwest of Hawaii. A new maritime sanctuary — a network of islands and
reefs almost three times the size of Texas — on track to be among the
largest protected ocean area on the entire planet.

We’ve already restored protections for three national monuments gutted
by the last administration, two not so far from here in Utah: the Grand
Staircase and Bears Ears. (Applause.)

By the way, I’ll never forget: I was standing in Washington, and a
little girl walked up. And I could see her daddy say, “Go up and say
something to the President.” She walked up and she said, “Mr. President,
would you take care of Bears Ears for me?” And I didn’t know what she
meant when she said it: “Would you take care of Bears Ears for me?”
Well, we took of her, and we gave her the signing pen. (Laughter.)

A third of the coast of New England in the Northeast Canyons and
Seamounts.

Look, we’ve designated new national monuments as well: Camp Hale in
Colorado, 50,000 acres; Spirit Mountain in Nevada, 500,000 acres;
Castner Range in Texas, 6,600 acres; and just last month, honoring
Emmett Till and his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley, in Mississippi and in
Illinois. But — (applause) —

And folks, it’s not hyber- — hyperbole to suggest that there is no
national treasure — none that is grander than the Grand Canyon. The
Grand Canyon, one of the Earth’s nine wonders — wonders of the world,
literally. Think of that. You know, it’s amazing. An enduring symbol of
America to the entire world.

The first time I saw the Grand Canyon, years ago, I was a young senator.
As I stood there and looked out, a phrase came to mind. It was
instinctive. I said this must be — this is God’s cathedral. That’s what
it reminded me of. It just is so magnificent. As a matter of fact — I
said nine — it’s one of the seven wonders of the world.

And so, today, I’m proud to use my authority under the Antiquities Act
to protect 1 — almost 1 million acres of public land around Grand Canyon
National Park as a new national monument — (applause) — to help right
the wrongs of the past and conserve this land of ancestral footprints
for all future generations.

Over the years, hundreds of millions of people have traveled to the
Grand Canyon, awed — awed by its ma- — majesty. But fewer are aware of
its full history.

From time immemorial, more than a dozen Tribal nations have lived,
gathered, prayed on these lands. But some 100 years ago, they were
forced out.

That very act of preserving the Grand Canyon as a national park was used
to deny Indigenous people full access to their homelands — to the places
where they hunted, gathered; to precious, sacred ancestral sites.

They fought for decades to be able to return to these lands, to protect
these lands from mining and development, to clear them of contamination,
to preserve their shared legacy  
for future generations.

I made a commitment as president to prioritize respect for the Tribal
sovereignty and self-determination, to honor the solemn promises the
United States made to Tribal nations to fulfill federal trust and treaty
obligations. I’ve pledged to keep using all that available authority —
(applause) — to protect sacred Tribal lands.

My administration has worked alongside Tribal leaders, including many of
you who are here today, to keep that promise.

At a time — at a time when some seek to ban books and bury history,
we’re making it clear that we can’t just choose to learn only what we
want to know. We should learn everything that’s good, bad, and the truth
about who we are as a nation. (Applause.) That’s what great nations do,
and we are the greatest of all nations.

Only with truth comes healing and justice and another step toward
forming a more perfect union.

Folks, our nation’s history is etched in our people and in our lands.

Today’s action is going to protect and preserve that history along with
these high plateaus and deep canyons, majestic red cliffs over 300
million years old — older than the — the oldest dinosaur ever known;
central to the creation stories of so many Tribal people and so many
Tribal nations; fundamental to who we are, to their way of life, to
their most sacred ceremonies. Ancestors are buried here, eternal sources
of reverence and healing.

These lands also support a range of ecosystems and plants from savannas
to sagebrush to ponderosa pine. A haven of hironic \[iconic\] species
like bats, bison, bighorn sheep, and nearly 450 kinds of birds,
including the bald and golden eagles.

They are the historic home of 3,000 cultural sites — cliff houses, cave
paintings — ancient spots that help us understand the history of these
civilizations.

They also are key to building resilience to drought and climate change.
Creeks and streams flowing into the Colorado River, supporting farms and
ranches across the Southwest and bringing clean water to 40 million
Americans.

And by creating this monument, we’re setting aside new spaces for
families to hike, bike, hunt, fish, and camp — growing the tourism
economy that already accounts for 11 percent of all Arizona jobs.

Folks, preserving these lands is good not only for Arizona, but for the
planet. It’s good for the economy. It’s good for the soul of the nation.
And I believe with my core — in my core it’s the right thing to do.

But there is more work ahead to combat the existential threat of climate
change. You know, we’ve seen historic floods, more intense droughts,
wildfires spreading smoky haze, which you could — I could sense today —
thousands of miles. Record temperatures affecting more than 100 million
Americans this summer. Over a hundred — I need not tell you all — over
110 degrees in Phoenix for 31 straight days.

You know, our extreme heat is America’s number one weather-related
killer. Extreme hil- — heat kills more people than floods, hurricanes,
and tornadoes combined. And it’s threatening the farms, the forests, and
the fisheries of — so many families depend on to make a living.

But none of this need be inevitable. From the start of my
administration, we’ve taken an unprecedented action to combat climate
crisis.

Last year, I signed the largest climate bill in the history not only of
the United States, but literally in the history of the world. It’s the
biggest investment in climate conservation and environmental justice
ever anywhere in the history of the world. (Applause.)

And it has many parts. For example, it’ll save working families
thousands of dollars a year if they install rooftop solar or weatherize
their homes and also conserve energy.

And it includes a record $720 million for Native communities to ease the
impact of droughts and rising sea levels to bring clean elec- —
electricity to Tribal homes.

In all, these historic measures will put us on track to cut all American
emissions in half — in half — by 2030, and we’re well on our way.
(Applause.)

It also creates enormous unem- — employment, enormous growth in things
that better people’s lives.

My mom, God love her, had an expression when I lost my family. She said,
“Joey, out of everything bad, something good will come if you look hard
enough for it.” Well, there’s a lot of good that’s going to come from
the sacrifices of dealing with taking on the climate crisis.

Folks, these are investments in our planet, our people, in America
itself: protecting our outdoor treasures, making our nation more
resilient.

But some MAGA extremists in Congress are trying to undo it all. I didn’t
get any help from the guys on the other team. Every single, solitary
person voted against this historic clean energy investment. And now many
of them are trying again to repeal these parts of the bills, but we
won’t let them. There’s too much at stake.

Let me close with this. America’s natural wonders are central to our
heritage and our identity as a nation.

Conserving them not only protects the livelihoods of the people who
depend on them, it preserves key pieces of our history of the full
American story for generations to come.

It unites us through all ages and connects us to something bigger than
ourselves — much bigger than ourselves.

Today marks an historic step in preserving the majesty of this place.
First among American landmarks. Sacred to Tribal Nations. Revered by
every American. It speaks to the soul of our nation. It reminds us of
who we are.

And we can’t — we are the United States of America. And there is nothing
— nothing beyond our capacity when we act together. Nothing. Nothing at
all. (Applause.)

And, folks, God bless you all. May God protects our troops.

Now I want to invite some of our guests on stage — I think they know who
they are — who are supposed to come up — as I sign the proclamation
establishing the Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National
Monument.

Thank you, thank you, thank you. (Applause.)

(The President moves to the signing desk.)

I wonder who is going to be the first one to walk the million acres. The
Secretary says she’s sure many people have done it already.

All right, here we go.

(The proclamation is signed.)

It’s official. (Applause.)

11:37 A.M. MST
