---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-14'
modified_time: 2021-12-14 16:19:06-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-and-treasury-secretary-janet-yellen-in-a-moderated-conversation-at-the-freedmans-bank-forum/
published_time: 2021-12-14 15:30:45-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen in a\
  \ Moderated Conversation at the Freedman\u2019s Bank Forum"
---
 
*Treasury Department  
Washington, D.C*

11:44 A.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon — or good morning.  (Applause.) 
Good morning, everyone.  Please have a seat.  Good morning.  Good
morning, good morning.  
  
It is my great pleasure to be here with Secretary Yellen and with all of
you.  We’re looking forward to a robust and in-depth conversation.  And
Secretary Yellen, I want to thank you for inviting me to share this
after- — or this morning with you to have this very important
discussion.  
  
And to everyone — there are many leaders in this room; it’s a room full
of leaders — I want to thank you for being here today and for joining
us.  
  
You know, earlier this year, I welcomed Mother Viola Fletcher and her
younger brother Mr. Hughes Van Ellis to my Ceremonial Office at the
Executive Office Building.  
  
Mother Fletcher, as many of you know, is 107 years old.  And her younger
brother, Mr. Van Ellis, is 100 years old.  And they both survived the
Tulsa Race Massacre.  
  
Mother Fletcher and Mr. Van Ellis were just children when a white
supremacist mob burned down Black-owned homes and businesses, and
decimated the Greenwood District.  But 100 years later, the memory of
that tragedy — the smoke in the streets, the piles of bodies — was fresh
in their minds, as was the memory of the thriving community that they
lost.  
  
By their account, by every account, the Greenwood District was a very
special place and, I think we all know, was a very intentional place. 
It was not the product of whim or fancy or circumstance; it was a design
and intentional in that way.  
  
And it was designed and intended to be a community — a thriving
community within a community; an economy in which Black people supported
one another, lift one another up, and modeled excellence, in which Black
people could determine their own future.  Some of us refer to that as
“self-determination” — to put equity firmly at the center of our
economic policy.  
  
So I talk about that today because I believe we must draw from the
lessons of Greenwood and Freedman’s, of Sweet Auburn and Blaylock Van. 
We must be intentional.  
  
Here’s what I know to be true: America is a nation that is driven by the
ambition and the aspirations of her people.  But I also know that, in
America today, deep racial disparities continue to hold people back from
achieving all they can.  
  
Today, the wealth gap persists.  Today, the homeownership gap persists. 
Today, access to capital is unequal.  As one example, Black
entrepreneurs are three times more likely to report that a lack of
access to capital negatively affects their profit margins.  
  
I believe that the actions we are taking and must take to address these
disparities will define our nation’s strength and economic strength in
the 21st century.  
  
Our economy is growing faster than it has in decades. Unemployment is
down to 4.2 percent, and nearly 6 million jobs have been added since
January.  As a nation, we cannot take this growth for granted, and we
must make sure that everyone shares in this growth in order to sustain
it.  
  
In a moment, the Secretary and I are going to sit down here and we’re
going to discuss some of the intentional actions that our administration
is taking to lower costs for families and to remove barriers to success
within all communities.  
  
As but one example, we are increasing access to capital by supporting
community lenders, also known as CDFIs and MDIs.  One of the last
actions, in fact, that I took as a United States senator was to team up
with Senator Mark Warner, Leader Chuck Schumer, Senator Cory Booker,
Senator Mike Crapo, Chairman Sherrod Brown, and Chairwoman Maxine
Waters, who is here today.  Together, we secured $12 billion for
community lenders as part of the COVID-19 relief bill.  (Applause.)  
  
And this summer — and this summer, we released 1.25 billion of those
dollars through our Rapid Response Program.  And we were very excited
about that.  The Secretary and I did that together with so many of the
leaders who are here.  
  
And following up on that, today I am very proud to announce that almost
$9 billion is now available to increase lending to small businesses in
underserved communities.  (Applause.)  
  
And I’ll say, “Yes, that’s a lot of money.”  I’m going to go off script
for a minute.  (Laughter.)  Yes, that’s a lot of money.  That’s a lot of
dough.  But what we also intend to do is to look to you — the leaders in
the private sectors — to talk about how we can maximize the capacity of
that infusion in a way that everyone is participating in the potential
to exponentially grow that investment in our communities.  
  
But needless to say, these $9 billion will dramatically increase the
work of more than 175 community lenders across our nation.  This effort
is close to my heart, and I know it’s close to many of us.  And it is
certainly critical to our communities in every way, in terms of their
potential, their capacity, and meeting their dreams with support and
encouragement.  
  
Throughout the year, I have consulted with the most active community
lenders in our nation — those who serve rural communities in Oregon and
urban communities in California, including my hometown of Oakland,
California; those who serve low-income communities in the Mississippi
Delta — Bill, I think you are here somewhere — pouring capital into
communities that are starved of it, providing financial services to
communities that lack those services entirely — communities like Itta
Bena, a town of 1,800 with a median income of $17,000; communities
filled with people with ambitions, with aspirations, with dreams for
themselves and their children and their community.  
  
I have consulted with many community lenders who serve Tribal
communities in the plains of South Dakota, where Native women are making
quilts that are important to their community, knowing there is a market
for it based on the culture and traditions of those communities, and who
needed a community lender — they needed a lender.  But it just so
happens that the community lenders understand best the needs of these
communities and see the potential then for growth.  
  
Community lenders understand the value in providing access to capital
directly to these communities.  They sit down with the folks in these
communities.  They listen to the folks in these communities.  They
identify with and understand these communities.  And that’s what makes
them so successful.  
  
And because they do, they add significant value to these communities and
our entire country.  
  
So here’s the bottom line: I believe that when we unlock the economic
power of every community in America, there is nothing we cannot achieve
in America.  When we unlock that power, our families will be more
secure, our businesses will be more successful, and our nation will be
more competitive.  
  
When every community reaches its full potential, so too does America.  
  
And so, ultimately, this is about the nation we are and the nation we
want to be.  
  
So, in closing, when I spoke with Mother Fletcher and Mr. Van Ellis in
June, it was clear how far we have come  
and how far we have yet to go.  
  
I promised them that we would keep working to fulfill the vision of the
Greenwood District and the promise of America — that we would keep
working to build a nation in which every person has the support they
need to determine their own future.  And that is exactly why we have all
gathered here today: to do just that.   
  
Thank you all.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you.  And now, I will turn it over — I will turn it over now to an
extraordinary leader who has been, for me, a true partner in this
effort, the great Secretary Janet Yellen.  (Applause.)  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  Thank you so much, Madam Vice President.  And
welcome, everyone.  We are honored to host you at Treasury today.  This
is the Freedman’s Bank Forum.  And I know most of us are familiar with
the history.   
  
Founded by Lincoln in 1865 to help newly freed slaves build wealth, the
bank’s books were in shambles by 1874, largely because of poor oversight
by a Congress that had waning interest in reconstruction.  
  
Frederick Douglass, who had agreed to be the bank’s president, tried to
save it.  He deposited $10,000 of his own money.   
  
But the show of confidence didn’t work.  The bank failed, and more than
61,000 African Americans lost their savings.   
  
Douglass’s biographer, David Blight, called the affair “one of the great
aspirations” but also “one of the great tragedies” of Reconstruction.  
  
We’re here today because, in many ways, we are still living with both
that aspiration and that tragedy.  The Vice President just described
this very well.  From Reconstruction to Jim Crow to the present day, our
economy has never worked fairly for Black Americans or, really, for any
American of color.  
  
Well, since stepping foot in this building last January, we have tried
to change that, to finally make good on the aspiration of the Freedman’s
Bank by transforming how Treasury works.  We have completed Treasury’s
first equity review, looking across the department and asking: Where are
our operations not as inclusive as they could be?  
  
We’ve brought on the most diverse leadership team in Treasury’s
history.  Half of our senior appointees are people of color.  And we’ve
hired the department’s first-ever Counselor on Racial Equity.  If you
haven’t met Janis Bowdler let \[sic\] — Bowdler yet, you will in just a
moment.  
  
Our most recent measure, though, is the news that the Vice President
just mentioned: To our Emergency Capital Investment Program, or ECIP,
Treasury will be injecting nearly $9 billion into community development
financial institutions and minority depository institutions.  The CDFIs
and MDIs serve communities the financial sector historically has not
served well.  And most of the time, these are communities of color.  
  
If you are Black or Hispanic or Asian or a Native entrepreneur, we know
it’s harder to get your hands on funding to open a shop or to keep the
lights on or to meet customer demand.  And this has been particularly
true during the pandemic.  
  
In the recent Small Business Credit Survey, the Fed found that while
roughly 40 percent of white-owned firms reported receiving all the
non-emergency funding they sought last year, the number for
Hispanic-owned firms was just half that — 21 percent.  And for
Black-owned firms, it was just 13 percent.   
  
Now, contained in that 13 percent is a woman named Brandi Shelton.  I
met Brandi a few months ago when I visited her tea shop in Atlanta;
“Just Add Honey” is its name.  Brandi owned the shop.  She used to own
three “Just Add Honeys,” in fact, but during the pandemic, when money
was tight, she needed credit to keep her other locations afloat, and no
one would give it to her.  
  
Fiscal policy can be a complex thing.  Sometimes it’s very difficult to
state with clarity and certainty how a particular program or statute
will change someone’s life.  But that’s not the case here, because here
it’s very easy to connect policy with the personal.   
  
You can draw a straight line from the money we’re injecting into
high-performing CDFIs and other institutions to a tea shop in Atlanta. 
Because what this will do is prevent small-business owners of color from
closing two of their locations.  And better yet, it will help people
open two more.  It will ensure that our markets no longer provide just a
small fraction of businesses with the funding they need.  
  
Of course, one program is not enough to fully make up for the tragedy or
make good on the aspirations of the Freedman’s Bank or of the Greenwood
District, which the Vice President spoke about.  But it is a start, and
you should know this is just one example of how we’re implementing
pandemic relief with equity at the heart of things.  
  
The last thing I want to say is this: None of this is happening by
default, and I’m so glad that Chairwoman Waters is here today because
she helped push this program through Congress.   
  
But most — (applause) — but most of all, Madam Vice President, I want to
thank you because you helped design the ECIP legislation when you were
still “Senator Harris” and you shepherded this program from a policy
paper idea out into the world.   
  
Madam Vice President, thank you.  And I’m looking forward to our
conversation.  
  
So with that, let me invite — (applause) — Janis Bowdler, our new Racial
Equity Counselor, who’s going to moderate for us.  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Well, I cannot tell you how amazing it is to be onstage with two of my
true heroes.  I spent the last two decades of my career advocating for
people of color to be able to build a nest egg that will secure their
retirements, that they can share with their children.  And it is an
incredible honor to join an administration that is centering equity,
that is putting issues of economic justice and equity as a part of their
agenda.  
  
Today, we have with us, clearly, two people who you’ve already met, who
need no introduction, who have been stalwart advocates for many
years.   
  
I’ve had a chance to get to know Secretary Yellen.  Her work speaks for
itself: decades of centering women and people of color in her work.   
  
And, Madam Vice President, you may not remember this, but we had a
chance to meet when you were “AG Harris,” when you came to visit an
Unidos affiliate — East Los Angeles Community Corporation.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Of course.  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  And we walked the streets of Boyle Heights, talking with
families who are at risk of losing their home to foreclosure.   
  
You simply cannot walk away from families who are at risk of losing
everything through no fault of their own without feeling the weight of
that tragedy.  And so, I know that for both of you, this comes from a
place that is personal, that builds on decades of your experience.   
  
And so that’s where I would like to start, actually.  And we’ll start
with you, Madam Vice President.  
  
If you could share with us how you got into issues of economic justice
and equity.  What brings you to this work as one of our passionate,
leading advocates?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, in many ways I was born into it.  As many of
you know, my parents were active in the civil rights movement.  And I
talk a lot about Thurgood Marshall being one of my heroes and guiding
lights, in terms of the work I’ve chosen to do.   
  
But it was — it was Dr. King, remember, who was organizing the
sanitation workers, who was — and I think — frankly, I think many of us
do — that was part of why he was assassinated, because he was starting
to join, intentionally, the civil rights movement with the economic
justice movement, in particular around organized labor and building a
powerful coalition, potentially — understanding that the economic
justice piece is something all people in our country have experienced,
depending on where they’ve grown up and the conditions in which they
have.  
  
A. Philip Randolph — another hero growing up — who, of course, organized
the porters and was one of the first real incredibly forceful labor
leaders because he was organizing a group of porters — professional in —
Black men who — you know, it is the challenge of organizing workers, but
then organizing workers in a system where people were legally not
treated as equal, in addition to in the workplace not treated as
equal.  
  
Let’s not forget Fannie Lou Hamer.  Remember that she thought about how
she would cre- — basically provide, for farmers, free pigs and finance
that — which is about a capital investment — so that they can then grow
the capacity of their farms and, by extension, their wealth and economic
health and wealth.    
  
So, these were the — these were very much, in my childhood, through my
life, the examples of how you fight for justice.  A big part of that is
fighting for economic justice.   
  
And you mentioned — and I’ll just talk briefly about this — but the —
the foreclosure crisis.  So, when I was attorney general, many of you
may remember, I pulled California out of the negotiations with the big
banks.  It was very controversial at the time.  I want to, again,
acknowledge Congresswoman Maxine Waters because you stood with me.  
  
And in the foreclosure crisis that started to really become evident
around 2006, ‘07, let’s remember that Black and brown homebuyers were,
on average, charged twice as much in terms of interest rates.  And so,
by no coincidence, after I became Attorney General in 2011 and starting
tracking the foreclosure crisis, you will know that Black and brown
homeowners then were twice as likely to be foreclosed upon.  It’s a very
blatant cause and effect.   
  
And so, throughout my career and my life, I have seen vivid examples of
this issue.  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  And, Madam Secretary, I’ve heard you talk about what it
was like to come back to work from maternity leave at a time when maybe
that wasn’t a common practice in the field of economics.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  Well, absolutely.  So, my son was born in 1981.  My
husband and I both worked.  And we realized that if we were both going
to stay employed and have careers, it would be necessary to find
affordable childcare.  
  
Now, fortunately, we were able to find it and we could afford to hire
someone who took wonderful care of our son.  But what I realized from
that experience and from all the work that I’ve done in labor economics
and we’ve done here reviewing the childcare situation is that childcare
in the United States is simply unaffordable for the vast majority of
working families.  It consumes, for those who get it, something like 13
percent of their income.  And it holds many women — particularly women —
back so that they’re not able to advance their careers.  
  
And in addition, it’s a very — in part, because families simply can’t
afford that, it’s an occupation that pays very low wages and has very
poor working conditions.  And many — especially women of color — are
employed doing that and trapped in jobs that are tremendously important
to us as an economy, as a community, but really not able to make ends
meet.   
  
So, we’ll talk, I think, later about policy, but I would say that this
administration, President Biden, and Vice President Harris are very
focused on changing this situation.   
And our Build Back Better legislation, which is before Congress now,
would make an enormous change to improve this.   
  
Childcare would become affordable for most families — no more than 7
percent of their income.  It would provide two years of universal early
childhood education, which is not only important for families to promote
their ability to work, but also for children.  These investments have
been shown to make a great difference to the success of children.  And
Child Tax Credit, which is tremendously important in making sure that
families can support their children.  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  It sort of makes us wonder how many other Secretary
Yellens might be out there.  (Laughter.)  But for the ability to get
childcare, to have the kind of investment that has been more limited in
our communities, we have unrealized potential that is left on the
table.   
  
And so, we know that COVID exacerbated health inequities.  We knew that
that was already there, but so were preexisting racial/economic
inequities, structural racism.  And that’s why, as we think about
recovery, it’s important that we center equity as part of that agenda. 
Otherwise, we’re just going to continue to move along kind of
reinforcing a gap that exists.  And as has been alluded to, the
administration has done so much on this already.   
  
So, as we come to the close of our first year — can you believe it?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Dog years.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  It’s been nearly a full year.  (Laughs.)  What are some of
the administration’s biggest accomplishments?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, there are many.  There are actually many.  I
would say an overriding accomplishment has been — and it’ll — I think
this group will appreciate it: We have really taken the time to sit back
and think what will provide the greatest return on our investments.  And
we have decided that investing in America’s workers, investing in
people, investing in families will yield the greatest return on our
investment.   
  
And so you can look at everything from, as the Secretary said, the Child
Tax Credit.  We know that, as of today — the latest numbers I saw — we
have raised 40 percent of America’s children out of poverty.  Think
about the return on that investment.  That’s profound.  (Applause.)   
  
We have been operating on the principle.  I did an event last week,
which was the first time that we brought maternal health to the White
House stage.  And we did that event because, as the New York Fed has
pointed out, healthy economies require healthy mothers and healthy
children.  And so, paying attention to the fact that we spend billions
of dollars a year as a nation when we don’t invest in maternal health;
when we don’t recognize that Black women are three to four times more
likely to die in connection with childbirth; when we don’t recognize
that when we’re looking at Native women, they’re twice as likely; rural
women are 60 percent more likely.  
  
So, we are thinking about: Where do you get the greatest yield for your
investment?  What we did at the beginning with the American Rescue Plan,
in addition to the Child Tax Credit, was about recognizing that part of
the economic lifeblood of all communities are our small businesses; that
they are not only part of the economic lifeblood, but if you connect a
thriving economy with a thriving community and understand that our
small-business leaders are also civic leaders, they are also community
leaders, and what we did with the PPP program and also what we did to
recognize how previous outreach to, in particular, minority- and
women-owned businesses have not worked, and so let’s do a better job of
engaging them.   
  
And the long-term goal there was that through what we did to better
engage in a rescue approach would be what we will do to engage in terms
of a continuing investment approach.  So, these are some of the many
things.  
  
I did an event yesterday in Maryland on electric vehicles.  I’m very
excited about them.  I believe that the future of transportation is
electric.  And let’s take a look at — in particular, I’m very excited I
must confess, about electric school buses.  
  
Yes, I went to school on a yellow school bus — (laughter) — and so I do
have — I have good memories of that.  I hope you all do too.  But here’s
the other piece of it: At least pre-COVID, 25 million children in
America a day going to school on those school buses, breathing those
toxic fumes from diesel buses.   
  
Studies have shown what that will do to impact their ability to learn. 
And who are the children who go to school on the bus?  Usually, the
children who don’t have the neighborhood school, children who don’t have
— their parents may not have a car to take them to school.  We know who
is likely, demographically, to go to school on that bus.  We know,
demographically, who’s likely to drive that bus every day, also
breathing those fumes.   
  
So, I could go down a long list, but I think that the — the general
point that I would make — that I know the Secretary and I both, in the
midst of very long days, that gets us going every day — is knowing that
we are really investing in the people of our country, and we know
there’s going to be a great return on that investment.   
  
MS. BOWDLER:  And, Madam Secretary, we are living through other seismic
shifts in our economy as well; for example, the way that climate change
is affecting the economies of Native Nations and disrupting the
financial experiences of other communities of color.  
  
So you’ve mentioned some of this in your opening remarks, but say a
little bit more about how Treasury is centering the most vulnerable in
our work to rebuild the American economy.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  Well, thanks, Janis.  Let me just say the Treasury
has been focused like a laser on racial equity since day one.  And we’ve
conducted a top-to-bottom review of what we do, both internally in terms
of our own hiring and promotion plans and also in terms of all of the
policies and programs that we implement.  And it was my pleasure, Janis,
to bring you, one, as our first-ever Racial Equity Counselor.  
  
MS. BOWDLER:  Thank you.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  I’m thrilled that you joined us to make this your
mission to focus systematically on everything that Treasury does.  And
we’re also establishing a new Racial Equity Advisory Committee, and
we’ll be making appointments to that soon.   
  
But the Vice President talked about the various programs that we have in
place that are intended, in the future, to build back better, to promote
racial equity.   
  
Treasury also has the enormous privilege and responsibility of
implementing almost a trillion dollars’ worth of programs under the
American Rescue Plan.  And we have very intentionally focused in our
management of these programs on racial equity — on making sure that help
gets, as Congress intended, to those who need it most — and that the
rules that we set up and parameters for running this program don’t
disadvantage the people that these programs are intended to help.  
  
You mentioned, Madam Vice President, the PPP program, which we initially
found just wasn’t getting money into communities of color.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  And when we began to manage that program, we focused
very much on ensuring that CDFIs would have access; those who are best
able to get the money into these communities, that they would have
privileged access to the funding to make sure that help got there.   
  
And, really, this has been true in our management of all of the
programs.  Just to give an example, you mentioned the Child Tax Credit,
which has had an enormous — a 40 percent reduction in poverty rates is
just extraordinary.  But we have to make sure that it gets to all those
who are eligible.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  And this was something that it wasn’t an easy program
to implement, but it was relatively easy to get relief, to get monthly
checks to people who file tax returns.  
  
But there are many low-income people —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  — particularly in communities of color, that aren’t
required to fire — file tax returns, and they’re eligible for that
credit.   
  
And it’s a lot more work to make sure they know about it, that they have
the tools to apply for it.  And that’s the kind of thing that we’ve been
focused on.  
  
Emergency Rental Assistance, another program — well, you know, we want
to make sure that these programs — that the money gets to people who
really qualify.  And you could imagine establishing criteria that —
“Well, you have to have five years’ worth of W-2s and rental contracts
and canceled checks to show that you’re eligible for this support.”   
  
And if we ran the program that way, probably very few —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.  That’s right.  
  
SECRETARY YELLEN:  — homeow- — or renters who are really in need, about
to lose the roofs over their heads, would end up getting help.  So — and
that would be particularly true in communities of color.   
  
So, we’re focused in our implementation on self-attestation and ways to
make sure that, in our implementation, we’re not excluding the people
who were most intended to benefit.   
  
And I could give you a lot more examples, but I want to say that it’s
been a conscious goal to make sure that everything is implemented so
that money goes to the communities and helps the people for whom it’s
really intended.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And if I could just add something: What the
Secretary has been doing throughout her career and as Secretary of the
Treasury is also recognizing that some of these designs were just
designed not to benefit the people we’re talking about.  Or, you know,
there’s a better way to say this: It was designed to benefit other
people.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  
  
It — it was designed to benefit people who have access, who have
information, who — right? — who already have capital and then build and
grow that.   
  
And so, it’s not only about a state of mind in terms of this new
approach; it’s about restructuring a system.

MS. BOWDLER:  Yes.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And I think it’s really important to — to
understand that that’s part of the work that is at play, is to think
about how we actually can and must restructure these systems so that
they work for everyone.  And again, that brings us, always, back to the
importance of CDFIs.

MS. BOWDLER:  Absolutely.  I think what’s incredible here, and what you
both are touching on, is that we are facing structural challenges that
require structural solutions.  And this administration has put forward
bold, once-in-a-generation kinds of investments that are completely
reimagining the way that our economy is going to work for communities of
color.

We know, sitting here at this table, that we can’t do that work alone. 
And so, I want to pause for just a moment and take in this room, because
we have here with us, in the room and on our livestream, a really
incredible brain trust of leaders from corporate America, leading
advocacy nonprofits, academics, think tanks.  I think we have what we
need in this room to really solve the challenges that we’re facing. 

So, Madam Vice President, what would you say to folks here?  How can
they get on board and support our shared goal of eradicating the racial
wealth divide?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  How much time do we have?  (Laughter.)   
Well, I’ll start with this — to your point about who is in the room —
and the Secretary mentioned this, and we all know — part of the
challenge of ensuring equal access and equitable distribution of
resources is we — the people need to know their rights, they need to
know what’s available to them, and they also need to have the tools to
navigate a system and the information about what that system is.

And so, that is about using our collective voice, hopefully always
fueled with the goal of increasing the coalition, so that we can improve
information and access.

 You know, there is a reality of what we are also dealing with at this
moment in our country and in our world, which is informed, I think, most
recently by the pandemic and the extraordinary loss that people have
experienced — loss of life, loss of jobs, loss of normalcy. 

     And — and there is a feeling also, combined with a number of other
factors, about whether folks can trust the system, whether they can
believe in the system, whether it is working for them, whether it sees
them.

 And I do believe one way — one way to address that is to make sure that
we are always empowering folks about their rights and what is available
to them so that they don’t have to experience things happening to them. 
They can actually exercise, as I said earlier, self-determination.

And so, I would — I would ask this group to let us continue to work
together around how we talk about what we need to do.

 I’m going to bring up another point, which may not seem connected with
this topic but is, and that’s voting rights. 

You know, I just — I was a little late coming here because I was with
the President in the Oval Office.  He and I go through the — the daily
brief — the confidential daily brief every morning — classified
information about threats to our national security and threats around
the world.

  One of the threats that I think everyone is aware of is this really
increasing debate around the globe about autocracies versus democracies:
Which is more efficient?  Which is more effective?  Which can survive? 
Which is but an experiment that may have a shelf life of a couple of
centuries? 

 And I think we would all agree that when we are talking about free and
fair markets, when we are talking about investing in the capacity of
people, investing in innovation, encouraging all of that, that
democracies are nurturing — imperfect though they may be — for that kind
of spirit and approach and growth and strength.

And so, when we think about something like this ongoing, blatant
challenge to one of the strongest and most important pillars of a
democracy, which is free and fair elections, I would ask us to think
about the connection between that and the conversation we’re having
right now.   
  
Because our democracy is being threatened by certain particular things,
including this attack on voting rights.  And we should see the natural
progression of where this could end up on many issues, including the
issue of whether we have a society that allows small businesses to
thrive, communities to grow economically.  There is a — there is a
relationship, and I believe it is a direct relationship.   
  
And so please participate in helping us fight to save our democracy. 
And that includes, as a most evident and current issue, fighting for the
right of all people, whoever they vote for, to vote.  (Applause.)

MS. BOWDLER:  Madam Secretary, I’d love to give you the last word.  What
can we say to the — our audience here?

SECRETARY YELLEN:  Well, let — let me also say our objective is to
partner with everyone in this room.  The government, the Biden
administration is very focused on using new resources to inject lending
capacity in businesses in communities of color.  But this is not
something that we can accomplish on our own without the help of everyone
in this room.

We’re injecting some capital to support institutions that have a
capacity to make a big difference in their communities.  But we need you
to co-invest with us to provide resources that will leverage those
investments to really make a meaningful difference in these
communities. 

And we need so much more that you can do.  And I’ve had the pleasure of
discussing this with some of you of this morning — business leaders who
are here today.

You can help train people to work and to be employable in the businesses
that are going to be created or in America’s businesses today. 

You can promote diversity and inclusion, making sure that leadership
starts from the top and that you focus on this in your own
organizations.

You can provide technical training and resources to the CDFIs and MDIs
that we’re investing in, and to the organizations, to the companies that
they’re going to fund to make sure that they’re successful.

You can be the customers of those companies to make sure that they have
business opportunities and that these investments can scale.

And we need to work together to make sure that all of our resources are
going to support viable and self-sustaining improvements in these
communities.

MS. BOWDLER:  I want to — yes — (applause) — I want to thank you all for
joining us as we commemorate Freedman’s Bank. And while we are committed
to this being an annual event, we don’t want this to be a once-a-year
dialogue.  We want to be in conversation with you throughout the year
ahead. 

So, for those of you who are joining us on livestream, thank you much
for joining us.  We’re going to take a break for lunch.  We will be back
around 1:35 for closing remarks with Ambassador Rice.  I hope that you
are able to reconvene with us then.

For those here in the room, please join me in thanking Madam Vice
President, Madam Secretary.  (Applause.)

                                   END                  12:30 P.M. EST
