---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-11'
modified_time: 2021-12-11 19:13:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/11/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-severe-weather-that-impacted-several-u-s-states/
published_time: 2021-12-11 19:45:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Severe Weather that Impacted Several U.S.\_\
  States"
---
 
Chase Center on the Riverfront  
Wilmington, Delaware

4:15 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, folks.  Sorry to get you down here late
on Saturday afternoon, but I want to provide an update on the deadly and
devastating tornadoes that moved across several states in central United
States, including touching down across 227 miles of Kentucky alone.  
  
I’m monitoring the situation very closely since early this morning. 
This is likely to be one of the largest tornado outbreaks in our
history.  
  
Earlier today, I called the governors of the states that have been —
experienced severe impacts of the storms, including Arkansas, Illinois,
Kentucky, Missouri, as well as Tennessee.  
  
I also spoke with Minority Leader Mitch McConnell of Kentucky.   
  
Governor Beshear and I started off the morning together, and he said as
wa- — I was watching it on television while talking to him — like all of
you have — and he — his comment was, “It looks like a war zone but
worse.”  
  
Jill and I pray — and I’m — sincerely mean this — pray for those who
have lost loved ones and for those who are uncertain of the fate of
their loved ones.  And the debris that you see scattered all over the
hurricane’s \[tornado’s\] path.   
  
They lost their homes.  They lost their businesses.  And it’s a
tragedy.  It’s a tragedy.  And we still don’t know how many lives were
lost or the full extent of the damage.  
  
But I want to emphasize what I told all the governors: The federal
government will do everything — everything it can possibly do to help.  
  
I’ve spoken several times today with the head of FEMA — of the — the
Federal Emergency Management Agency — as well as the director of FEMA,
who’s already been deployed — already deployed emergency response
personnel to these states, search-and-rescue teams, water and other
supplies.  And FEMA is on the ground working with each of the states to
assess the damages and focus on federal support where it is needed most
and how we can get there most rapidly.  
  
I also — and, apparently, it’s just been announced — but I also approved
the emergency declaration that was requested a couple of hours ago by
Governor Beshear of Kentucky.  That’s going to accelerate federal
emergency assistance for Kentucky right now, when it’s urgently
needed.  
  
And I stand ready to do the same for the governors of the other states —
and I’ve made it clear to them — if they request emergency
declaration.  
  
I’ve also requested that FEMA offer additional federal resources,
including help with temporary housing, where homes have been wiped out
or too badly damaged to live in.  
  
And I also asked FEMA Director to let the states know — what they may
not be aware of — what they might be entitled to, because they don’t
necessarily know all that’s available from the federal end.  
  
We’re going to continue to se- — receive — I, personally, am receiving
regular updates.  And my staff is continuing to reach out to the mayors,
the county officials, and other local leaders in these states affected
by the tornadoes.  
  
And my heart goes out — I was told that, earlier this morning — that one
of the — the equivalent of a county executive — one of the folks in
Kentucky was lost in this tornado.   
  
I want folks in all these states to know: We’re going to get through
this.  We’re going to get through this together.  And the federal
government is not going to walk away.  
  
This is one of those times when we aren’t Democrats or Republicans. 
Sounds like hyperbole, but it’s real.  We’re all Americans.  We stand
together as the United States of America.  
  
And so, I say to all the victims: You’re in our prayers, and all those
first responders, emergency personnel, and everyone helping their fellow
Americans; that this is the right thing to do at the right time, and
we’re going to get through this.  
  
And I’ll be happy to take a question or two, if you have any, about
this.  
  
Q    Mr. President, does this say anything to you about climate change? 
Is this — or do you conclude that these storms and the intensity has to
do with climate change?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, all that I know is that the intensity of the
weather across the board has some impact as a consequence of the warming
of the planet and the climate change.   
  
The specific impact on these specific storms, I can’t say at this
point.  I’m going to be asking the EPA and others to take a look at
that.  But the fact is that we all know everything is more intense when
the climate is warming — everything.  And, obviously, it has some impact
here, but I can’t give you a — a quantitative read on that.   
  
Q    Mr. President, do you have any plans to visit any of the affected
areas this week?  And are you going to ask Congress to —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I do.  I spoke with — I started off this morning
with the governor of Kentucky and offered to — I said, “I’ll be happy to
come, but I don’t want to be in the way.”  When a President shows up, he
shows up with an awful lot of personnel, an awful lot of vehicles, an
awful lot of — we can — we can get in the way unintentionally.   
  
And so, what I’m working with the governor of Kentucky and others who
may want me to be there is I made — make sure that we are value added at
the time, and we’re not going to get in the way of the rescue and
recovery.  But I will pla- — I do plan on going.  
  
Q    And are you going to ask Congress to approve any other disaster
relief money to any of these states?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’ll see.  Whatever is needed, I’m going to ask
for.  If we don’t already have the wherewithal to take care of it, I’m
going to ask for it.   
  
This is the United States of America.  Our citizens are badly, badly
hurt, and they’re scared to death right now in terms of all those folks
who they can’t figure where they are.  “Where’s my son, where’s my
daughter, my husband, my wife, my mom, my dad?”  It’s devastating.   
  
Yes, you had a question, sir.  
  
Q    Mr. President, is there a role for the federal government in
coordinating direct, on-the-ground response, whether it be directing
National Guard or federal troops that could be helpful?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is yes, if in fact the states conclude they
need it.  And so, the National Guard has been called out in one state,
and — but whatever is needed, it’s within the authority of the President
of the United States and the federal government to provide that help. 
And we’re going to provide whatever is needed.   
  
I think we’ve demonstrated, since we’ve been elected, that every major
national disaster, we have been there early, often, and stayed until we
got it finished.  And that’s what we’re going to do here.   
  
But, again, I think — what I’ve found is — I’ve visited these disaster
areas in other circumstances, whether it was the hurricane in Louisiana
or the — or the gigantic flooding in the Northeast or the wildfires in
the West — is the real anxiety right now is all those poor people who
are wondering, “Where is my loved one?  Where are they?  Are they going
to be okay?”  And I don’t think it’s — I don’t think it’s possible to
exaggerate the extent of the fear and the concern.   
  
And we have a lot of people that are going in, doing rescue, running
machines — bulldozers, forklifts, and the like.  And — and the way in
which I’ve watched it down in — when — when the building collapsed in
Florida, I watched how — how it takes a price on — a toll on them. 
“God, am I going to — am I going to lift something that’s going to move
something that’s going to affect something?”  
  
And so, that’s what — I just — my heart aches for those people right
now, including the rescuers, including the burden on them and what they
worry about.  That’s what they talked to me about in Florida.  That’s
what they talked to me about afterwards.   
  
And so, I — I just think that we just have to keep at it.  We have to
keep focused.  And this is going to be the — you know, the focus of my
attention until we get this finished.  
  
Q    Mr. President, what’s your message to the victims and their
families?  And can you talk at all about how governments can be better
prepared for such disasters in the future?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, quite frankly, I think we’re as prepared as any
government has ever been for dealing with the disasters.   
  
Now, the question is — one of the questions that’s going to be raised,
I’m confident, is: What warning was there, and was it strong enough, and
was it heeded?  That’s a question that’s going to — I assume is going to
come — be part of the discussion in the states, as well as — as
nationally.  
  
Because, look — as usual, you ask always the best question.  And you
asked me about whether or not we were going to be able to — what we’re
going to do about it, how we’re going to handle this.  And part of it is
acknowledging that the likelihood of fewer weather catastrophes, absent
a continued movement on dealing with global warming, it’s just not going
to happen.  Not going to happen.  
  
Like I said, we didn’t think — and I think the best example for me has
been and what struck me the most: We always had wildfires, but who in
God’s name thought we’d see, this calendar year, more territory burned
to the ground — every tree, every home, every road — you know, that —
larger than the state of New Jersey, from the Hudson River down to Cape
May?  
  
So, we have to act.  But the first and urgent piece here is we have to
save anyone who’s still alive.  We have to care for them if we can get
them to hospitals.  And we have to take care of all those families.   
  
The — I mean, look, I know you all — you’re all pros asking the
questions.  Imagine if your home is in the path.  What do you go home
to?  What do you worry about?  I mean, everything is gone, from that —
that baptismal photograph to the wedding picture, to a picture of your
oldest daughter in a ballet.  I mean, it’s — it’s profound.  It’s just
profound.  
  
And it’s — but I promise you: Whatever is needed — whatever is needed,
the federal government is going to find a way to supply it.   
  
Thank you all so very, very much.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, can you talk about Ukraine?  What made you decide to
take U.S. ground combat troops off the table when it comes to Ukraine?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  There never were on the table.  And are you ready to
send American troops into war and go into Ukraine to fight Russians on
the battlefield?   
  
Look, here’s the deal: I’ve made it absolutely clear to President Putin
— this is the last thing I’ll say — that if he moves on Ukraine, the
economic consequences for his economy are going to be devastating —
devastating — number one.  
  
Number two, we will find it required that we’ll have to send more
American and NATO troops into the eastern flank — the B9 and all those
NATO countries where we have a sacred obligation — to defend them
against any attack by Russia.   
  
And number three, the impact of all of that on Russia and its attitude —
the rest of the world’s view of Russia would change markedly.  He’ll pay
a terrible price.   
  
And so, it’s — and we are going to continue to provide for — and we have
and continue to provide for — the defense capacities for the Ukrainian
people.   
  
Thank you so much.

4:26 P.M. EST
