---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-08'
modified_time: 2021-12-08 20:10:45-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-how-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-delivers-for-missourians/
published_time: 2021-12-08 20:10:44-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on How the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Delivers\
  \ for\_Missourians"
---
 
2:52 P.M. CST

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I tell you what, I don’t know where that phrase
“It’s a big deal” came from.  (Laughter.)  If anybody remembers that —
which you seem to all remember — after the President spoke, and I spoke
after then-President Obama — he was back to my right.  And I went back
and I made sure I was talking on his left ear, because it was — all of —
he was down the hallway.  And I whispered what I said.  (Laughter.)  How
in God’s name anybody heard it, I have no idea.  (Laughter.) 

And I shouldn’t waste your time and tell you this, but we were going to
go from there over to the Department of Transportation — no, excuse me,
the Department of Education.  And I walked out the back and got in the
presidential limo on the driver’s side, in the back seat, and the
President — he was already in there, and he was laughing like the
devil.  He was almost hysterical.  I said, “What’s so damn funny?”  And
he told me.  And I said, “You’re just lucky my mother is not alive.  I’d
be one dead man.”  (Laughter.)

Look, before I begin, I’d like to say a word about a friend of mine who
we lost this weekend, a man a few hours west of Russell, Kansas.  Came
from not far from here — in Russell, Kansas.

A lot of Americans today remember Bob Dole as a presidential candidate. 
But for the families he represented across the border, he represented
Kansas for 36 years.  And for those like me who had the honor of calling
him a friend, Bob Dole was an American giant.  A man of extraordinary
courage, both physical and moral courage.  A war hero who sacrificed
beyond measure, who nearly gave his life for our country in World War
Two.  Among the greatest of the Great Generation.  A leader of honesty,
decency, and good humor — the same qualities that made him such a
cherished friend to me and my wife, Jill, and to so many others through
the years.

We didn’t agree on everything.  But I always admired and respected him
and his willingness to work with anyone, any party when it mattered
most.

And our nation owes Bob Dole a debt of gratitude for the remarkable
service and a life well lived.  (Applause.)

And being here this week reminds me of another great American giant or,
rather, an American monarch: Buck O’Neil of the Kansas City Monarchs. 
(Applause.)  A great ballplayer, the first Black coach in the Majors,
one of the game’s greatest ambassadors, and finally — finally — a Hall
of Famer.  (Applause.)

Now, if the sun shined a little brighter on Kansas City this week, it’s
because Bob and Buck are up there sharing a laugh with one another. 
(Laughter.)

I also want to acknowledge Mayor Quinton Lucas.  Mayor Q, you’ve done an
amazing job, both in terms of economic justice as well as economic
progress.  (Applause.)

And I want to thank County Executive Frank White.  He lived the life I
had hoped to live.  He started off as a laborer; he helped build the
Royals Stadium.  As a player, he was one of the best to ever play
there.  And now he’s a county executive in Jackson County — resident of
the business — to — as well.  You know, I mean this guy has done it
all.  I thought maybe I could make it in the pros, but look what
happened.  (Laughter and applause.)

I actually was foolish enough to ask Floyd Little whether he could get
his — he was a friend of mine in Syracuse — if he could get his agent to
see if I could walk on.  You know, 50 — every year, they allow 50 folks
to walk on.  (Laughter.)  Well, guess what?  He said — he came back to
me, laughed, and he said, “My agent said they’re afraid if they let you
walk on, they’d have to just carry you off.”  (Laughter.)

Look, the infrastructure law I signed on Thanksgiving would not be
possible — and this is not hyperbole — without the leaders here today.  
  
Congressman Emanuel Cleaver was a great mayor — (applause) — a
significant leader in the House.  Before he was both of those things, he
was a pastor.  And he saw — he saw a highway cut through the
neighborhood many of his congregants call home.  So he knows that we
need to build our infrastructure the right way — not just build it, but
build it the right way.

He also is a big reason Kansas City is adding electric buses to this
fleet.  Zero fare, zero emissions.  Congressman, great idea. 
(Applause.)  Great idea.

And Congresswoman Sharice Davids — there’s no stronger advocate for
infrastructure investment in the United States Congress — that I’ve ever
met anyway.  And as Vice Chair of the House Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee, your leadership was key in getting this
passed.  So I want to thank — there you are.  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  (Applause.) 

And I also want to thank somebody else: Roy Blunt.  He couldn’t be here
today, but he was an important part of the bipartisan effort to get the
infrastructure passed.  (Applause.)  And that’s what this — we’re here
about.

And we’re here talking about rebuilding America, investing in America,
building a better America.

In the coming weeks, I’m going to be traveling all over the country and
so will Vice President Harris, my Cabinet, and folks throughout our
administration.

Our “Building A Better America” tour is going to give us a chance to
meet people where they work — where they work — and hear what the
communities that they live in, what they need — hear firsthand — and
showcase how our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which will change their
lives for the better, came about because we worked together.

We can learn more about this law and what it means for your community. 
Go to Build.gov.

Look, the better part of the 20th century, we led the world by a
significant margin in our willingness to invest in ourselves — in
ourselves.

We invested in our infrastructure.  We invested in research and
development, in our roads, highways, bridges, ports, and airports — the
arteries of the nation that allow commerce to function smoothly and move
swiftly.

And we invested in our people.  We gave opportunity.

We were among the first to provide access to universal education — high
school education at the beginning of the 20th century, which put us in
the forefront of leading the rest of the world.  We invested to win the
Space Race, and we won it.  We led the world in research and development
that led to the creation of the Internet.

But we know that China and the rest of the world are catching up and, in
some respects, actually moving beyond us.

We’re also going to reinvest in our country and our people to reclaim
our leadership to create millions of jobs by building a better America —
(applause) — with the best infrastructure in the world, built
overwhelmingly with prevailing wage, union — union, union.  (Applause.)

There’s a lot of — (applause) — there’s a lot of good and decent people
in the financial industry, but they didn’t build the middle class. 
Unions built the middle class.  (Applause.)  No, not a joke.  Not a
political statement.  It’s a reality.  It’s a reality.

And, look, this infrastructure bill — which, without the unions’ support
behind me to get this done, would have never gotten done — it starts
with the most significant investment in roads and bridges in America in
70 years — fixing many of those 3,500 bridges and nearly 10,000 miles of
roads in Kansas and Missouri in poor condition, like the Central Avenue
Bridge, which was closed earlier this year for a “fear of failure.” 

A similar bridge not far from here, going to (inaudible), there was
“fear of failure”; it collapsed, killing a whole heck of a lot of
people. 

But this created a whole lot of headaches and wasted time for 8,500
people who used to drive it every single day. 

The decaying roads cost Missouri and Kansas drivers more than $500 per
person per year — the drivers — in additional gas and repairs and longer
commute times, and more than $500 in hidden tax on Kansas and Missouri
families.

And speaking of the cost of living: Two weeks ago, I announced the
largest-ever release of the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve to increase
the supply of oil to help bring down prices.  And I met with our friends
around the world; other countries joined us.  And those savings are
starting to reach drivers.

Now, today, the average price you’re paying here in Kansas City is below
two \[sic\] dollars a gallon — three dollars a gallon.  It’s down to
$2.90 a gallon.  Twenty <s>percent</s> \[cents\] down from — cents —
from a month ago.

Nationally, prices are down 7 cents a gallon and continue to fall.

We’re making progress, and we’re going to keep at it to ensure the
American people are paying their fair share for gas — not being gouged
for gas.  (Applause.)

And, look — look, as Emanuel said, we’re in a situation where we’ve
known that our infrastructure had problems for a long, long time.  I
don’t think I could take one more phrase that’s going to be
“Infrastructure Week.”  (Applause.)

But guess what?  It’s going to be “Infrastructure Decade” now, man. 
(Applause.)

No more talking.  Action.

The law also includes the most significant investment in passenger rail
in 50 years — $66 billion for passenger and freight rail.

You know, I was talking with the members about improving cross-state,
interstate passenger rail — something I know a little about.  I’ve been
doing it for a long time.  You know, the fact is that you’re looking at
“Mr. Amtrak” here.  (Laughter.)  I’ve traveled over — it’s the God’s
truth — I’ve traveled over 1,250,000 miles on Amtrak.

Everybody thought that — anyway — because I went home every single night
after my wife and daughter were killed because I couldn’t afford a home
in Delaware and in Washington, so I commuted every day.

I remember, one day, the — as Vice President — the government keeps
fastidious records of how many miles you travel on government planes. 
And so, there’s a big headline: “Biden Travels…” — I forget what it was
— “…a Million Miles on Air Force Two” — and so on and so forth.

And I was getting on the train to go home with the Secret Service —
they’re great.  They’re with me here today, all 800 of you.  But all
kidding aside, they’re wonderful.

And I was getting on the train — because they didn’t like me getting on
the train, Congressmen, because there’s — it’s a more dangerous
circumstance.  You can stop people with things on tracks, et cetera. 
And — but I was going home to see my mom, who was sick. 

And one of the conductors I’ve known for years walked up and grabbed
me.  He said, “Joey, baby!”  And grabbed my cheek.  (Laughter.)  And —
not a joke.  (Laughter.)  And I thought that he was going to get shot. 
(Laughter.)  True story.

And I said — I said, “No, no, it’s okay.  We’ve known each other.”  He
said, “Joey, big deal — a million miles…” — or wherever it was — “…a
million miles on Air Force Two.  Come on, Joey.  You know how many miles
you traveled on Amtrak?”  I said, “No, Ang.  I don’t know how many
miles.” 

He said, “We calculated it at the retirement dinner.”  He said, “36
years, 119 days a year, back and forth.”  “Then as Vice President,” he
said, “we figure you’ve done X number of trips; it adds up to 1,200,000
miles on Amtrak.”  (Applause.) 

And I said, “If my dad were here, he’d call it ‘a misspent adulthood.'” 
(Laughter.)

But all kidding aside, you know, back in the early ’70s — probably ’74,
I think it was — there was a guy named Charlie Wheeler who talked about
this — your mayor.  (Applause.)  Seriously.  There’s no reason why it
should be two hours faster to drive from Kansas City to St. Louis than
take a train.  No reason.

All the data shows that if you can get from point A to point B at a
faster rate by rail than by automobile, you’ll take the rail.  And guess
what that does?  First of all, it’s safer.  But secondly, it’s going to
save, over time, millions of barrels of oil — millions of barrels of oil
— because it’s electric.

Look, folks, we have the largest investment in public transit ever in
this legislation. 

Imagine replacing buses that are past their useful life, switching from
diesel to electric, getting more people where they’re trying to go more
safely, faster, cleaner, like what you’re doing here with your
“zero-fare, zero-emission” buses.

Electric buses you’re adding to the fleet — it’s a win-win-win.  They’re
manufactured here in America, creating good union jobs.  They’re good
for the environment.  And they’re making them free for all riders. 

Mayor, you’re helping regular riders save about 2,000 bucks a year. 
That’s a big deal for someone making 50, 60 grand a year.  (Applause.)

And our Infrastructure Law means more projects like the extension of the
Kansas City Streetcar so we can connect Union Station with KM- — excuse
me — UMKC, and everything in between.  It means students can easily get
to internships and jobs in the downtown core.

It means families can get to restaurants, stores, the plaza, to re — the
riverfront to catch a Kansas City Current game at the new stadium — the
first stadium, by the way, I might specifically point out, specifically
built for women’s soccer.  (Applause.)  I was able to see them win the
Olympic — anyway, it’s a long story, but — (laughter) —

It means more jobs, opportunity, economic development.

The law invests $42 billion to modernize our ports and airports in
America, like the new terminal you’re building at Kansas City
International, or improvements to the <s>island</s> \[inland\] port on
the Missouri River, helping get agricultural products from the Midwest
to the rest of the nation.  And this bill has $16 billion in it to
improve ports like yours.

These investments make it easier — easier for companies to get their
goods to market, reducing supply chain bottlenecks, lowering costs for
families.

Here in Kansas City, the possibilities are unlimited.  You’ve got the
fastest-growing port in the Midwest.  You’re in the heart of the
Heartland for freight rail, for transforming your airport.  You’re
building a national hub, creating a cycle of jobs and growth that will
be — be felt for decades, making the right investments.  And you have
the money to do it now. 

Of course, that’s not all the law achieves.

Under the leadership of mayors like, you know, our mayor here, KC Water
has — is going to replace all known \[lead\] service lines in Kansas
City, but there’s more work to be done in the region.

The law starts by replacing all 100 percent of the nation’s lead pipes
and service lines so every child in Missouri and Kansas and across
America can turn on that faucet — in the 4,000 \[sic\] schools you can’t
do it — 44,000, I should say — and drink clean, decent water.

We’re going to need — you’re going to need tens of thousands of plumbers
and pipefitters making a union wage to do this and get paid a prevailing
wage — (applause) — with benefits, the ability to build a middle-class
life.

I grew up like a lot of you did.  I grew up in a nice, three-bedroom,
split-level home in a development of about 70 other homes like it, with
four kids and a grandpop living with us.  But I remember every time
something would happen, my dad — I remember when he lost his health
insurance — his company.  You could tell — the walls were thin — how
upset he was that night, just rolling in bed.  I remember asking my mom,
“What’s the matter?”  She said, “We’re not — Dad doesn’t have — we don’t
have health insurance for a while, honey.” 

And my dad used to say, “Everybody deserves just a little bit of
breathing room.  A little bit of breathing room.”

This law is going to make high-speed Internet affordable and available
everywhere in America, creating jobs deploying those broadband lines.

Across the high-speed Internet on — access to high-speed Internet
unlocks opportunity everywhere.  It allows farmers in Kansas to use
precision agriculture to improve their yields, or a doctor in St. Louis
to have a remote check-up with a home-bound cancer patient.

Today, roughly one out of every four Missourians, and one out of every
three — six in Kansas, don’t have high-speed Internet in their home.

In some places, there’s no broadband infrastructure at all.  
  
This law will make high-speed Internet affordable and available
everywhere in Missouri and Kansas — urban, suburban, and rural.  
  
In the 21st century in America, no parent should have to do what many
had to do last semester — and that is sit in the parking lot of a fast
food restaurant so their children could use their Internet to get their
homework done.  This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.  

This law also builds out a resilience against extreme weather events
fueled by climate change.  Nationally, last year, extreme weather events
cost this country $99 billion.  
  
And I toured most of it. I was out in California — you know, more forest
burned to the ground — burned to the ground than the entire square
mileage of the state of New Jersey from Cape — the Cape all the way up
to New York City — to Long Island.  That’s how much we lost, and it goes
on.  
  
And Missouri and Kansas are no stranger to these effects.  In fact,
Missouri and Kansas were both in the top 10 states in the U.S. last year
for power outages. 

Then Texas — then Texas saw the massive blackouts last winter.  Because
you’re on the southwest power grid, you lost power too.  
  
This summer, you saw heavy storms close roads in Waverly, Kansas —
caused flooding in St. Joseph to Columbia to Jefferson City. 

And when you think about the impact of more intense weather, more severe
storms, none of us are ever going to forget the devastation in Joplin.  
  
In 2014, I went there to help reopen the rebuilt Joplin High School.  On
that day, I told the people of Joplin, “We never break.  We never stop. 
We Americans always rebuild.”  And we will rebuild this country. 
(Applause.)  
  
And this law builds back our bridges, our water systems, our powerlines,
electric grids better, stronger, more resistant to the negative effects
of climate change.   
  
Because, by the way, it used to be — as the elected officials here can
tell you — if you had storm damage and you qualified for federal aid,
you got just the amount of dam- — of money — money to get you back to
exactly what it looked like before.   
  
But you can’t do that, because now that highway gets flooded out.  It’s
never going to go back to less rain because of global warming.  Pray God
it won’t get worse.  So, you got to build that highway a couple feet
higher.  It costs more money.  You’ve got to build back better.  
  
There’s so much more in this law.  Most of all, the law does something
truly historic.  The law helps rebuild what I —

When I announced for office, I said I was running for three reasons:
one, to restore the soul of this country — a sense of decency and
honor.   
  
Two, to rebuild the backbone of this country — working-class and
hardworking middle-class people.  That’s the backbone of this country.  
  
And thirdly, to unite the country, which is turning out to be one of the
most difficult things, but we’re going to get it done.  
  
Look, the fact of the matter is that we’ve been able to do an awful
lot.  We’ve built America, and we’ve left behind so much for so long.   
  
We’re going to help rebuild the economy — this time from the bottom up
and the middle out.  You know, a blue col- — this bill is a blue-collar
blueprint for working Americans.  
  
Ninety-five percent of the jobs created in the infrastructure bill don’t
require a college education.  The only way this works is if blue-collar
Americans do the building — and the only way it ever worked.  And we’re
going to do it again.  Mark my words: We’re going to do this again.  
  
And the same goes for my plan to build back better for our people.   
  
This bill is going to deliver, for example, universal pre-K for every
three- and four-year-old in America.  One study — (applause).  
  
Great universities have done a lot of studies in this in the last
decade.  One study shows that low-income children from poor homes
participating in preschool are 47 percent more likely to go on to earn
an associate’s degree or higher after high school.  
  
They start off at a great disadvantage because their mom or their dad,
their single parent doesn’t have the education, doesn’t have the
training.  But at three years old, the brain is rapidly developing so
quickly.  It matters.  
  
We have to build that foundation for the future for success.  
  
My wife, Jill, is a first — is a full-time teacher.  And, you know, she
says any nation that out-educates us is going to outcompete us.  That’s
simply a fact.  
  
And guess what?  Hold it here.  Every nation — of the 38 most advanced
nations, we rank 34 in the world — 34 in the world — in early education
for children — the United States of America.  
  
My Build Back Better plan — which is passed in the House of
Representatives, thanks to my two colleagues that are here today —
Representatives — will also ensure that parents can afford childcare. 
Childcare gets workers the raise — and childcare workers get a raise
they deserve.  
  
Folks, look, in Missouri and Kansas, the average annual cost to send a
toddler to childcare is $6,500 a year.  If you live in Chicago, it’s
more like $22,000 a year per child.  Okay?  
  
It means that the average family with two young children is roughly 20
percent of their after-tax income on childcare — $20 out of every $100
dollars they have.

Our Build Back Better bill is going to make a giant difference in your
life because your childcare costs will be capped at 7 percent of your
income.  Period.  (Applause.)  That’s 7 percent of your income. 

It’s going to make a huge difference for millions of workers who’ve had
to drop out of the workforce not because they didn’t want to work but
because they couldn’t find affordable care.  Look at all of the women
who are totally qualified who had to drop out of the workforce because
they can’t afford the childcare and still work.

Look, folks, you know, it’s not the same, but I started — about
commuting — one of the reasons I started commuting was, when I got
elected and my family was killed — my wife and daughter were killed — I
couldn’t afford to leave Delaware.  Because I had a sister as my best
friend, my brother, my mother, my father helped me raise my kids.  I was
making good money.  I was making $42,000 a year as a senator.  I could
no more afford full-time childcare than fly.

We’re going to make college more affordable.  Right now, the cost of a
two-year degree in Missouri is over $4,000 a year.  In Kansas, it’s over
$3,000 a year.  There are about — 140,000 students in these two states
rely on what we call Pell Grants.  They make less than $50,000 a year. 
Pell Grants to help cover the cost.

This plan I have also is going to increase Pell Grants by $550 a year. 
It makes it easier to stay in school.  It makes a big difference. 
(Applause.) 

We’re also — we’re also going to lower prescription drug prices.  This
week, I spoke to a young woman who told me the cost of insulin for her
diabetes — just to stay — Type 1 diabetes — meant having to choose
between rent, groceries, and medication, she said, “relentlessly,
without relief, every day.” 

So she couldn’t do it, so she began to ration her supply of insulin. 
She ended up in a coma and almost died.  Think about that: The
difference between nearly dying and thriving is the cost of one drug
that cost $10 to make years ago — nothing has changed in it — that can
cost consumers now $1,000 a month. 

Well, so, if you’re one of those Americans that are paying too much for
insulin, my Build Back Better plan is going to change that too because
we’re going to guarantee you pay no more than $35 a month.  (Applause.) 

It’d be different if they invested another 1,500 bucks in research; they
did nothing to change it.

That’ll make sure parents of the 200,000 children in America with Type 1
diabetes have the ability to parent — have the ability to say to a
child, “Honey, it’s going to be okay.”  Can you imagine the dignity
you’d be deprived of as a parent knowing your child has Type 1 diabetes
and you can’t afford their insulin?  You can’t afford it because you
don’t have insurance and your state doesn’t have <s>Medicare</s>
\[Medicaid\].

Look, it’s all about what working- and middle-class people have to pay
to get by, to get ahead, and to get, as my dad said, that “little bit of
breathing room.” 

My whole plan is designed to bring down the costs you face.  For
example: Lower costs for childcare, making sure you don’t pay more than
7 percent of your income, means that a family making 50,000 bucks a year
will save $3,000 a year on child costs; lowering the costs of
prescription drugs, making sure you pay no more than $35 a month for
insulin, not 100 — $1,000 a month; saving $600 per person, per year, on
healthcare premiums. 

The list goes on: eldercare, housing, meeting the moment on climate
change.  That’s what this plan does.

All in, one study found that my plan would mean the equivalent of $7,400
in tax cuts and savings for the typical family of four with two kids. 
And guess what?  Let’s talk about inflation.  It’s real.  There is
inflation.

But Nobel — 17 Nobel winners of the — in economics have written a letter
— just about three weeks ago to me — affirming that this bill would ease
long-term inflationary pressures in the economy. 

Two of the leading rating agencies in the world — the Wall Street
Journal — confirmed my plans do not add to inflationary pressures.  Not
liberal think tanks — Wall Street, Moody’s, and — anyway.

Look, I have also proposed — well, what I proposed is, in a way, to
lower some of the difficult costs families have to pay every month by
asking corporations and the wealthiest Americans to pay their fair share
for a change.  (Applause.) 

Look, right now — (applause) — everybody talks about the price tag for
this legislation: a trillion and seven hundred and fifty billion
dollars.  It will not cost the taxpayers a penny.

If you’re making less than $400,000 a year, you’re not going to have
your taxes go up one single penny.  Not a cent.  And guess what else? 
It also means that there is no — no increase — no increase to your taxes
and people are going to just pay a fair share. 

For example, there are 50 corporations in America in the last three
years of the Fortune 500 that made $40 billion that didn’t pay one
single, solitary penny — not one single penny in taxes.

Come on, folks.

You have — it used to be during the last Bush administration the top
rate for the top 1 percent paid 37.5 percent.  It got lowered to 36
percent.  It didn’t have any impact; it just means whether or not
they’re going to have an extra swimming pool for the extra home. 

But all kidding aside, if you just take it from — down from 36 back up
to 37.5, it pays for every bit of preschool and it pays for every bit of
what we’re talking about in terms of insulin.

Now, what’s better for American corporations?  What’s better for the
wealthy, for a healthier nation: everybody being better educated or
having that extra amount of money that they already have a great deal
of?

I’m a capitalist.  I always have — I’m a good friend of Bernie’s, but we
disagree.  I’m not a socialist; I’m a capitalist.  You should be able to
make a million or a 100 million bucks if you can, but pay your fair
share.  (Applause.) 

Folks, look, there is so much we can do, so many things that are within
our power.  If you went to the average American family making $60 to $70
grand, or you went to a family where dad was a teacher and mom was a
police officer, making $120 \[grand\], they’re paying at a higher tax
rate than someone making a trillion dollars — I mean, a billion
dollars.  For real.  How can that be fair?

Look, one of the reasons I feel so firmly in the proposals is because I
know what this country can be.  We’ve always been a nation of
possibilities.  We didn’t become this nation by thinking small; we’ve
always thought big. 

Throughout our history, we’ve emerged from crisis by investing in
ourselves, in our people. 

During the Civil War — before it was over, Lincoln started to build the
transcontinental railroad.  It was built at the end of and during the
Civil War. 

During the Cold War, Eisenhower built the Interstate Highway
System, transforming the way Americans lived. 

And now, we’re at work beginning and building the economy of the 21st
century to build a better America.

I truly believe — and I promise you this — I believe that 50 years from
now when historians look back at this moment, they’re going to say this
was the moment that America won the competition for the 21st century.

Think about it: Most of you who are over 40 remember us always having
the number one infrastructure in the world, the most — best education,
et cetera.  We rank now number 8 in the world, in terms of investment in
resource and development; 14th in infrastructure — the United States of
America.

And if you’re a businessman out there or you work or you’re a laborer, a
union person working for a business — where is the business going to
go?  Where they can get the products to market fastest, safest, where
they have access to get in and out, where they have access to move. 
That’s why we’re losing.  That’s why we’re losing.

And we’re not going to lose anymore,.  I promise you.  The time of
losing is over.  It’s over, over, over, over.  (Applause.) 

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.

Thank you for your patience.  I appreciate it.  Thank you.  Thank you. 
(Applause.) 

3:28 P.M. CST
