---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-10'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/10/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-day-one-of-the-summit-for-democracy/
published_time: 2021-12-10 16:56:11-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Day One of the\
  \ Summit for\_Democracy"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(December 9, 2021)

5:04 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hello, everyone.  Welcome to our on-background conference
call to discuss day one of the Summit for Democracy.  For your reference
today, our speakers will be \[senior administration official\], \[senior
administration official\], and \[senior administration official\]. 

From this point on, all three should be referred to as “senior
administration officials.”  We will begin with remarks from our speakers
and then, of course, open it up for a question-and-answer session. 

The ground rules today are that the call contents are embargoed until
the end of the call.  By joining this call, you’re agreeing to these
ground rules. 

With that, I’ll turn it over to our first senior administration
official.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks.  And hi, everyone. 
Thanks for joining us today.  So today, President Biden opened the
summit’s official program building on 20 side events that have already
galvanized commitments and connections between a number of different and
important democratic actors around the world, including lawmakers,
mayors, and civil society leaders. 

Throughout the day, leaders delivered remarks highlighting their own
government’s commitments.  The Summit for Democracy is unique in that it
is a leader summit, but it also elevates sub-national and
non-governmental actors, because we know and recognize that democracy is
a consultative process.  We see democracy as about being more than just
a single leader or single party or a single moment in time.  So one of
our objectives has been to highlight the great work that’s being led in
some countries and around the world by local leaders at various levels
of society. 

This morning, the President convened a private discussion with leaders
followed by a session hosted by European Commission President von der
Leyen.  Our panel sessions today addressed, together with heads of state
and civil society leaders, democratic resilience as we build back better
from COVID, and tackling corruption.  And both of these sessions really
underscored how democracies can deliver for their people. 

This combination of events and official sessions is designed to build
momentum to renew democracy.  So we see this as not just a conference or
a conversation, we see that leaders are not only announcing commitments
unilaterally and multilaterally, but we’ve designed the summit as a
process. 

So we’re kicking off things with summit one this year.  We are embarking
on a year of action together with each other, with civil society, and
then a second summit to showcase progress.  We see civil society as
essential to this process.  They’ll be providing input and feedback and
also taking stock of commitments and ensuring that they’re implemented. 

So with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\]
for more on the deliverables.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And hi, everybody.  As I hope
you all saw this morning, as part of his remarks opening the Summit for
Democracy, President Biden announced his Presidential Initiative for
Democratic Renewal.  The Presidential Initiative, as we’re calling it,
is a set of policy and foreign assistance initiatives that are intended
to really build on what the U.S. government is already doing to defend
and bolster democracy, human rights, and the fight against corruption
globally. 

So as we mentioned in our factsheet, we’re going to work closely with
Congress, and subject to the availability of appropriations, the
administration is planning to devote up to around $424 million toward
various aspects of the presidential initiative.  And that’s an amount
that could be expanded upon in future budget cycles. 

And we’ve organized the Presidential Initiative around five lines of
effort that the departments and agencies that played a role in putting
it together deemed particularly important to robust rights respecting
democratic governance.  And those are:

One, supporting free and independent media, which I hope this audience
knows is the lifeblood of an informed citizenry.

Two, fighting corruption, which is a crime that both, of course, steals
resources, but as importantly, or even perhaps more importantly,
corrodes trust in government.

Third is bolstering democratic reformers.  That’s the category that
we’re using to include supporting human rights defenders and organized
labor organizations, among others, as well as growing the political and
civic participation of women and girls and members of the LGBT
community. 

Fourth is advancing technology for democracy.  Here we’re trying to help
ensure that technology serves as a tool for economic growth and freedom
of expression and other human rights and (inaudible), and all of its
other many positive uses, rather than as a tool for repression. 

And fifth and finally, defending free and fair election process —
elections and political processes, which, of course, are the essential
ingredient in any representative democracy. 

So, recognizing that many of you will have in front of you the factsheet
we released this morning, I’ll just highlight a few examples of what the
Presidential Initiative entails. 

First, in terms of supporting and protecting journalists, we plan to
invest up to around $30 million as, essentially, seed funding for a new
multi-donor fund called the International Fund for Public Interest
Media, or IFPIM.  We’re also going to invest roughly $12 million for new
programs that are going to provide journalists with things like legal
aid and training on digital and physical security, including what we
hope is a relatively innovative program that provides insurance to
journalists that are subject to so-called “SLAPP lawsuits.”

To empower those on the frontlines of fighting corruption, we’re
planning to invest up to roughly $75 million to strengthen partner
governments’ anti-corruption and anti-money laundering capacity, to
protect anti-corruption whistleblowers, and to support investigative
journalists and anti-corruption activists. 

To bolster democratic reformers and activists, the Department of Labor
made a significant investment over $120 million to support workers and
labor rights.  And that includes on things like labor law reform and
enforcement.

And on the technology front, to ensure we’re doing all we can do to make
sure that dual-use technologies aren’t supplied to repressive
governments that might use them to violate human rights, we’re
establishing a new Export Controls and Human Rights Initiative.  And
we’ll announce with a group of like-minded governments tomorrow a
commitment to work together over the coming year and beyond to determine
how export-control tools could better monitor and, as appropriate,
restrict the proliferation of such technologies. 

To help defend against free and fair elections, we’re also going to
launch what we’re calling a Coalition for Securing Electoral Integrity. 
This will be a first-of-its-kind multilateral partnership that will
bring together the electoral observer community, governments,
international organizations, and together come up with common standards
for election security and integrity. 

And then finally, to show how new and fragile democracies can deliver at
moments of transition and following transition, USAID is planning to
invest up to around $55 million to launch a program it’s calling
Partnerships for Democracy.  And this is geared towards working with
partner governments to make sure that they can deliver the kind of
visible benefits to those countries’ populations in areas such as
healthcare and education. 

So, in sum, we believe that the Presidential Initiative for Democratic
Renewal is going to make a meaningful difference in protecting
democracy, in line with the Biden administration’s goals and those of
the Summit for Democracy.  And we really believe that it’s going to help
catalyze similar work with like-minded governments.  We’ve seen some
commitments from our partners in the Summit for Democracy come in over
the course of the day — I’m happy to describe some of those for you — as
well as with nongovernmental organizations, philanthropies, and the
private sector in the Year of Action to come and the years after that. 

So with that, I will turn back over to the moderator and with \[senior
administration official\] take your questions.  Thank you.

Q    Thanks very much.  My question is, could you give us a little bit
more detail on the export control initiative that you just talked
about?  And is that connected somehow to the human rights-related
sanctions that you plan on unveiling tomorrow on a range of countries?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Dimitri.  So, not directly
related in terms of the various targeted sanctions that we’ve been
rolling out over the course of the year, but I will say that this —
excuse me, the week; it feels like a year.  But I will say that the
initiative is really born of some actions we have taken recently into
the listings related to intrusion software, the NSO Group and other
private firms that have been using technology to — or whose end users
are using technology to violate human rights. 

And so, we really feel that that working with like-minded partners,
there’s room to grow additional standards.  And our hope is that in the
course of the year to come, with the group that we’ll announce tomorrow
and then others that we hope to join us in the months and years to come,
we’re going to be able to work toward what will start as a non-binding
code of conduct around how governments can better control their licenses
for these dual-use technologies that can be used to violate human
rights.  And then, from there, hopefully can expand both the circle of
involved governments and perhaps work through regulations and laws over
time to make sure that these technologies are used for good and not for
ill.

Q    Hello, thank you for doing this and taking my question.  You just
mentioned an initiative to support and protect journalists.  Mexico, who
was the participant in this summit, has been named by numerous
nongovernmental organizations the most dangerous country without an
active conflict for journalists due to the high number of journalists
that are killed each year.  What is commitment that has been reached
with Mexico, in particular, to tackle this situation?  And has Mexico
been receptive to this?  And have you decided how much of those $30
million are going to be invested in that country?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that.  So with all of our
programming, we’re just announcing it.  And so, allocations, in terms of
where the funds themselves will be applied, haven’t been made yet. 

I can tell you, though, for instance, that one of the programs that
we’re launching is what we’re calling a “journalist protection
platform,” where the U.S. government is going to offer support to those
who provide support for journalists that are under specific and
particular threats, including freelancers.  That includes by providing
physical and digital security training and psychosocial care and
comprehensive emergency protection. 

So, it’s situations not unlike that which we see, unfortunately, in
Mexico, among many countries around the world.  But, again, how the
funds will actually be used will be subject to a decision-making process
within the grant-making departments and agencies.

Q    Thank you for taking my question.  I’m interested in the Coalition
for Securing Electoral Integrity.  Can you explain more about that?  How
is it different from existing mechanisms — for example, the one — the
international effort that’s sponsored or supported by NDI and IRI?  My
second question is: Do you have any more information about countries who
have backed out of attending the summit other than Pakistan?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so just on the coalition first,
I’ll take that part and then maybe \[senior administration official\]
can chime in on the second question. 

So, the idea behind the Coalition for Securing Electoral Integrity is
that although there have been piecemeal efforts to address emerging and
under-addressed challenges to democratic elections, leaders in the
electoral integrity community haven’t strategically collaborated on an
effort. 

So that’s really what USAID is going to be trying to do through this
coalition — is bringing together all actors.  And that’s a group that
could be inclusive of NDI and IRI — to the point of your question — but
will include, as I mentioned at the outset, inter-governmental
organizations, NGOs, think tanks, global and regional networks of
election observers and election management bodies, and youth and women’s
groups, among others, all kind of hopefully coalescing over the long
term on how to develop norms and guiding principles and best practices. 

And then, in addition, you’ll see in the factsheet that we issued that,
kind of corresponding to the coalition, USAID is putting forward around
$17 million in what it’s calling a “Defending Democratic Elections
Fund” that’s actually going to work with those partners to, over time,
put those standards into practice.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I’ll just jump in and quickly say
that, when it comes to all countries, whether participating in the
Summit for Democracy or not, we’re going to continue engaging with all
who would like to work with us to address ways to strengthen democracy,
promote respect for human rights, and fight corruption. 

And, again, we’re eager to work with all who would like to do that,
whether it occurs within or outside of the summit framework.

Q    Hi, thank you so much for taking my question.  I just had a
question about China.  I know that, you know, Taiwan was invited and the
Hong Kong activist, Nathan Law, is also going to be there.  Given this
summit and also the recent boycott of the Olympics, do you think that
the U.S.-China relations is now at the point of no return?  I know the
Biden administration have said that the relationship is based on healthy
competition and not conflict, but do you think, with the summit, that
the relationship is going to be based more on conflict?  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So maybe I’ll just chime in, which is
that, you know, in the context of this summit, we don’t see this as
about being about any one specific country.  We really are emphasizing
at the summit that we’re seeking to build democratic momentum.  And you
can see that in the official program.  You can see that at all the side
events.  You can see that in the leaders that are engaged in today’s
conversations, and tomorrow. 

So, you know, I’m not going to speak to the specifics of that particular
relationship, but I will say that we do see the summit as an affirmative
project and something that we’re going to keep iterating over the coming
year.

Q    Hello, can you hear me?  Hello?  Hello?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yep.  We can hear you.  We can hear
you.

Q    Yeah.  Okay, thank you.  I was wondering if you could talk about,
you know, as these new initiative (inaudible) support Libya, in Africa,
in particular.  As you know, the North African journalists are not
(inaudible).  So are we — does this new initiative supports (inaudible)
that do investigative work (inaudible) on the frontlines in the
continent of Africa?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, I — after saying I could hear you,
I actually had trouble with a little bit of that, but if I could maybe
just respond.  And I apologize if I don’t get everything correct in
terms of answering your question. 

As I mentioned earlier with respect to Mexico, the programs that we
announced today are essentially universally global in nature.  And so,
the allocations to particular regions will occur in the coming months. 

But what I can say generally is: What we’re trying to do with this
package is both accelerate support to independent media as a matter of
sustainability, given that — I probably don’t have to tell this crowd —
that media is under significant pressure both by governments and by the
simple rules of economics in terms of how advertising, for instance, has
moved online in recent years, on the one hand, and then complement that
with this program specifically geared toward protecting journalists in
every sense on the other. 

So, the strategy here is sustain and protect.  And on the sustained side
— well, I should say on both sides — for the U.S. investment to catalyze
other investments from both other governments and other sources. 

So I mentioned at the outset the International Fund for Public Interest
Media — IFPIM.  The United States is making a fairly significant
donation, and, as part of the summit process, is urging all of our
partners, both governments and non-governments alike, to invest with us
in what we think is a really meaningful and useful multi-donor fund to
sustain journalists in fragile environments in the long run. 

We’ve already seen some commitments come in.  As you may know, there was
a channel of the virtual summit today in which leaders were putting
their commitments forward.  We’re still digesting a lot of what was said
over the course of the day, but we do know that other governments are
meeting our challenge in terms of financial support. 

I’ll leave it there.  Thanks.

Q    Hi, thank you, everyone, for having this.  Are you — can you hear
me? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, just fine. 

Q    Okay, that’s great.  So, my question is — more general question: I
would like to know if you have the expectation of having a general
commitment and a broader statement that will be signed for every country
that is participating in this summit and which kind of commitment would
it be.  So what is the expectation for the end of this summit tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for that question.  So
we’re not planning on having an outcome document at the conclusion of
the summit tomorrow.  We really — \[senior administration official\], I
believe, mentioned earlier — see this summit as really a launch of the
work that’s to come, and so we didn’t want to get ahead of ourselves. 

I think we are seeing some real commitments come out of leaders both in
their private session today and then also through the public national
interventions that I mentioned earlier will be running — were running
today and will be running tomorrow. 

But we really want to spend the year to come working with our partners
and then may produce a joint-outcome document after the second summit.

MODERATOR:  And since that ends the question-and-answer session, I
wanted to give our speakers one last opportunity for any closing
remarks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  None for me.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Nope, I’m good.  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  All right.  As a reminder, this call was on background,
attributable to “senior administration officials.”  The embargo has
lifted. 

Thank you, everyone, for joining.  And thank you to our speakers.  Have
a great night.

5:27 P.M. EST
