---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-27'
modified_time: 2021-12-27 17:20:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/27/remarks-by-president-biden-at-covid-19-response-teams-regular-call-with-the-national-governors-association/
published_time: 2021-12-27 17:46:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at COVID-\u206019 Response Team\u2019s Regular\
  \ Call With the National Governors\_Association"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

11:33 A.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  A lot of govs.  We ready?  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  We are ready.  Governors, can you hear me okay?   
  
Welcome, Mr. President.  This is actually the 40th time we’ve convened
this group of governors, and we’re — in addition, we’re in constant
one-on-one contact with the governors and their teams.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’s more times than I’ve seen you.  (Laughter.)  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Their leadership on the ground — they are on the frontline,
as you know — has been essential to the progress we’ve made so far.   
  
I’m going to turn to Governor Hutchinson, who has done an outstanding
job as chair of the National Governors Association, leading this group
and ensuring we’re all working together every step of the way.   
  
Over to you, Governor Hutchinson.  
  
GOVERNOR HUTCHINSON:  Thank you, Jeff.  And I want to thank all of the
White House team for being such great support to the governors.   
  
And I want to thank, Mr. President — your address to the nation last
week.  Thank you for your comments designed to de-politicize our COVID
response.  I think that was helpful.   
  
As we face Omicron, the governors and your administration must be
working together more closely than ever.  I particularly appreciate your
comments about increasing the supply chain on rapid COVID tests.  This
has become a real challenge for the governors.   
  
And your task force, led by Jeff Zients, has been responsive and has
kept us informed every step of the way.  A good example is this last
week: I asked for more monoclonal antibody treatments; we received them
last week.  Still, we have a limited supply, but the responsiveness is
very much appreciated.   
  
I would like to give you a glimpse of Arkansas today.  First,
hospitalizations are down by half from where they were this time last
year, but our Omicron case count and the demand for testing has
increased.  In Arkansas, we have a test-to-stay school program that’s a
pilot in 50 schools.  We want to expand that, and right now we have
sufficient tests to be able to do that.   
  
But we also, as governors, are getting pressure to do more, and the need
is great to do more in terms of the rapid tests and the availability of
it.  And so, one word of concern or encouragement for your team is that
as the — as you look towards federal solutions that will help alleviate
the challenge, make sure that we do not let federal solutions stand in
the way of state solutions.   
  
And the — the production of 500 million rapid tests that will be
distributed by the federal government is great, but, obviously, that
dries up the supply chain for the solutions that we might offer as
governor.   
  
And so, just that brief comment before I turn it over to you, Mr.
President.   
  
But I want to say, personally, I’ve enjoyed working with you when I was
in Congress as head of the DEA.  And I appreciate your leadership.  And
thank you so much for giving us the time today to hear from us, but also
so that we can hear from you personally about the challenge that we
face.   
  
So, Mr. President, the microphone is yours.  Thank you, President
Biden.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Asa — thank you very much, Asa.  Look, there is no
federal solution.  This gets solved at a state level.  I’m looking at
Governor Sununu on the board here.  He talks about that a lot.   
  
And then it ultimately gets down to where the rubber meets the road, and
that’s where the patient is in need of help or preventing the need for
help.   
  
Look, Gov, thank you for — for what you’re doing.  Thank you for the
National Governors Association and Vice Chair Murphy across the river. 
All’s well in New Jersey, I assume, Gov.  And —  
  
GOVERNOR MURPHY:  Amen, Mr. President.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — and here today, Democrats and Republicans.   
  
We’ve discussed the rising COVID cases, especially coming out of the
holidays.  And as — as I said last week, Omicron is a source of concern,
but it should not be a source of panic.  If you’re fully vaccinated and
you get your booster shot, you’re highly protected.  If you’re
unvaccinated, you’re at a high risk of getting severely ill from
COVID-19, being hospitalized, and, in rare cases, even dying.   
  
And this is not like March of 2020, the beginning of the pandemic. 
We’re prepared and we know what it takes to save lives, protect people,
and keep schools and businesses open.  We just have to stay focused and
continue to work together.   
  
My message to the governors is simple: If you need something, say
something — and we — we’re going to have your back in any way we can.   
  
Last week, we took steps to bolster support for you with, number one,
more capacity to get shots in arms, with more places, more vaccinators,
more times for folks to get vaccinated or get a booster shot.  And we’ve
added appointments for booster shots, adding hours, and getting more
convenient to get a booster every day.   
  
The second thing we’re doing is more testing.  Seeing how tough it was
for some folks to get a test this weekend shows that we have more work
to do, and we’re doing it.

First, let’s talk about how we got here.  When I took office 10 months
into — we were 10 months into the pandemic and, even so, we had no —
zero — over-the-counter home tests in the United States.  None.  And if
you — and if you wanted to get one — to get a test, you had to go to a
clinic or a drugstore to have someone give you the test.  And that was —
there were very few places to go.   
  
So, we got to work.  We quadrupled the number of pharmacies offering
free tests, and there are now more than 20,000 places where you can get
tested for free.  At many locations, you can book an appointment online
in advance to minimize your wait.  
  
We’ve worked with Google so you can now search “COVID tests near me” on
Google to find a location.   
  
And now, I know the lines have gotten very long in some states.  That’s
why I ordered FEMA to set up pop-up sites in places with high demand to
shorten the wait.  We stood up six new sites in New York City in five
days, and there are more coming.  
  
For over-the-counter, at-home test, as I said, there — there were none
when we took office.  None.  Now we have eight on the market.  And just
three days ago, another test was cleared.  We went from no
over-the-counter tests in January to 46 million in October, 100 million
in November, and almost 200 million in December.   
  
But it’s not enough.  It’s clearly not enough.  If I had — we had known,
we would have gone harder, quicker if we could have.   
  
Because of steps we have been taking to increase the number of
authorized tests, we’re now able to purchase 500 million at-home rapid
tests to be sent to the American people for free when they request
it.   
  
And we’re going to continue to use the Defense Production Act to produce
as many tests as possible.   
  
And starting in two weeks, private insurance will reimburse you for the
cost of at-home tests.  We’re providing access to free tests for folks
who don’t have insurance.  But we have to do more.  We have to do
better, and we will.   
  
The third point I’d like to make is: more support for your hospitals. 
On hospitalizations, let me start with this: Because we have had so many
vaccinated and boosted, we’re not seeing hospitalization rise as sharply
as we did in March of 2020 or even this past fall.  Americans — America
has made progress.  Things are better.   
  
But we do know that with a rise in cases, we still have tens of millions
of unvaccinated people and we’re seeing hospitalizations rise.  It means
our hospitals in some places are going to get overrun, but in terms of
equipment — both in terms of equipment and staff.  That’s why we
stockpiled and prepositioned millions of gowns, gloves, masks, and
ventilators.  We’re mobilizing an additional 1,000 military doctors and
nurses and medics to help staff hospitals.   
  
FEMA is deploying hundreds of ambulances and EMS crews to transport
patients.  We’ve already deployed emergency response teams in Colorado,
Michigan, Minnesota, Vermont, New Hampshire, and New Mexico.  We’re
ready to provide more hospital beds as well.   
  
The bottom line is: We want to assure the American people that we’re
prepared.  We know what it takes.  And as a — as this group of
bipartisan governors has shown, we’re going to get through it by working
together.   
  
I want to thank the governors for their partnership, and I mean that
sincerely.   
  
With that, I’d like to — to turn it back over to Jeff.  And I understand
you guys may have some questions.   
  
Jeff.  
  
MR. ZIENTS:  Good.  I think we’re going to clear the press first.  Just
give us a minute, Governors, while we —   
  
Q    Mr. President, do you support the minimizing of the quarantine
period from 10 days to 5 as the airline groups have recommended?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I listen to my medical team.  When I get a
recommendation, I follow it.   
  
11:43 A.M. EST
