---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-16'
modified_time: 2021-12-16 18:03:28-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/16/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-medal-of-honor/
published_time: 2021-12-16 18:30:00-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at Presentation of the Medal of Honor
---
 
2:09 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Please, be seated.  Thank you.  Good afternoon, and
welcome to the East Room of the White House, decorated for the holiday
season and to celebrate the gift of gratitude.  
  
     It’s an appropriate backdrop for this ceremony, we believe, because
our hearts are overflowing with gratitude today as we honor the
unparalleled courage and commitment to duty and the indispensable,
indisputable gallantry and intrep- — you know, it’s just hard to explain
where your soldiers got the courage they got: the late Sergeant First
Class Alwyn Cashe, the late Sergeant First Class Christopher Celiz, and
Master Sergeant Earl Plumlee — Plumlee.  You know, our nation’s newest
recipients of our highest military award: the Medal of Honor.  
  
     I want to thank all of our distinguished guests that are here
today: the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs; the Secretary of the — of the —
Secretary Austin; the Enlisted Advisor \[to the\] Chairman, Colón-López;
and the leaders of the United States Army; and the Vice President of the
United States and the Second Gentlemen.   
  
And I’m Jill’s husband.  Jill is here.  (Laughter.)  
  
     As we add these three new names to our nation’s roll of honor, I
also want to recognize previous Medal of Honor recipients who are here
today to honor their brothers in arms: Matthew Williams.  Matthew, stand
up so people can see.  (Applause.)  Thomas Payne.  (Applause.)  And
Edward Byers.  (Applause.)    
  
     Each of you know what it means to stare down danger and summon the
strength in the moment of trial.  And we are grateful for all that you
three have done and so many more.      
  
And the family of Sergeant First Class Alwyn Cashe has — has been 16
years — this has been 16 years in coming.  
  
     Representative Murphy, Representative Waltz, thank you for your
efforts — your continued efforts — along with the team.  And Sergeant
Cashe’s commanders, commander-in-arms, his medical team, and the family
who worked with such dedication over so many years to make this
recognition possible.  
  
     October 17th, 2005, Sergeant Cashe was commanding a Bradley
fighting vehicle on night patrol in Iraq.  They came under enemy fire. 
An improvised explosive device detonated, igniting the vehicle’s fuel
and engulfing it in flames.  
  
Sergeant extracted himself and, without hesitation, turned back to the
vehicle to help free the driver and extinguish flames on the driver.  
  
In the process, Sergeant First Class Cashe’s uniform — drenched in fuel
— caught fire, causing severe burns.  The patrol was still taking enemy
fire, but Cashe thought only of his fellow soldiers trapped in the troop
compartment.    
  
So he pushed his own pain aside and returned to the burning vehicle as
his — and pulled four soldiers free — four more.  At this point, with
the second- and third-degree burns covering almost 75 percent of his
body, his uniform mostly — mostly burned away, the Sergeant saw there
were still two soldiers and their interpreter unaccounted for.  
  
So he went back into the inferno for a third time and got everyone out
of that inferno.  That was his code.  And his love for his 3rd Infantry
Division ran deep.  No soldier was going to left — be left behind on his
watch.  And when helicopters began to arrive, he insisted that his
troops be evacuated before he would go.  
  
Later, at Brooke Army Medical Center in Texas, where he and other
members of his team were taken for treatment, when he regained the
ability to speak, his first thoughts were for his units.  He asked,
first thing, “How are my boys?”  “How are my boys?”  
  
Alwyn Cashe was a soldier’s soldier — a warrior who literally walked
through fire for his troops.   Sergeant succumbed to his injuries on
November 8, 2005, surrounded by those he loved and who loved him.   
  
     He was a hero.  He was a beloved son and brother, a proud husband,
and a father of three children.  
  
     Sergeant Cashe and his family gave everything for our country. 
Their devotion to his memory and their years working to make sure that
his courage and selflessness were properly documented and honored is a
testament to the love that he inspired and the legacy he left behind.  
  
     Sergeant First Class Cashe is now the seventh individual to receive
the Medal of Honor for his actions in Operation Iraqi Freedom and the
first African American to receive it since the Vietnam war.  
  
     And Tamara, Alexis, Kasinal — I’m so honored to award your husband,
your dad, your brother the recognition that he earned.  I know it’s
tough.  As honored as you are, it’s got to be tough to be here today.  
  
He’ll be remembered — he’ll be remembered forever.  
  
     Sergeant First Class Christopher Celiz was an Army Ranger through
and through with 1-75 — “the Rangers Lead the Way.”  
  
     On July 12, 2018, nearing the end of a fifth deployment — the fifth
deployment — Sergeant Celiz was leading an operation in the Paktia
Province of Afghanistan — not a very friendly place — to clear the area
of enemy forces.  
  
     Attacked and pinned down by a large force, the Sergeant exposed
himself to enemy fire in order to retrieve a heavy weapon system that
allowed his team to fight back and reach a secure location.  
  
     During the firefight, a member of his team was critically wounded
as they called for a medical evacuation.  But as the rescue helicopter
arrived and began taking fire as well, the Sergeant knew it was — time
was critical to get his wounded teammate loaded and treated.  So he once
again, knowingly and willingly, stepped into the enemy’s crosshairs.  
  
     Sergeant Celiz used his body as a shield for the aircraft and its
crew against the heavy incoming fire.  
  
     The helicopter began to take off, and he put himself directly
between the cockpit and the enemy, ensuring the aircraft could depart
and sustaining what would prove to be a mortal wound.  
  
     He knew he was hit, but he waved for the aircrew to depart without
him.  
  
     In the face of extreme danger, he placed the safety of his team and
his crew above his own.  
  
     I can offer no better encapsulation than the words of the U.S. Army
Air Ambulance pilot in command that day.  He said, quote, “Courage, to
me, is putting your life on the line to save the life of another, as
demonstrated by Sergeant First Class Chris Celiz, who died protecting my
crew.”  End of quote.  
  
     Christopher Celiz was courage made flesh.  
  
Today, we add his name to the elite vanguard of American warriors who,
generation after generation, have strengthened and inspired our nation
with their unwavering bravery and service.  
  
His legacy lives on in the lives he saved, the teammates he mentored,
and the memories he made with his beloved wife, Katie, and especially —
and their precious daughter, Shannon.  Thank you for sharing your dad
with our country, Shannon.  We’ll never forget the debt that we owe you
and your whole family.  
  
August 28, 2013: Then-Staff Sergeant Earl Plumlee was snapping a quick
photo with members of his unit at Forward Operation Base Ghazni in
Afghanistan.  Then insurgents, it turned out, detonated a 400-pound car
bomb that blew open a 60-foot-wide breach in the perimeter wall.  
  
Staff Sergeant Plumlee and members of his special operations team
immediately hopped in the nearby truck and raced toward the blast to
defend the base.  
  
When they arrived, they encountered insurgents coming through the wall,
all wearing explosive vests.  Our troops started taking rocket fire,
recoilless rifle fire, and small arms fire.  
  
While the driver of their truck maneuvered into the line of enemy fire
to shield injured members of their team outside the vehicle, the Staff
Sergeant exited the vehicle and used his own body to shield the driver. 
He left whatever cover the truck provided him and began to engage the
invaders.   
  
Outnumbered with no regard for his own safety, at times armed with only
a pistol, Staff Sergeant Plumlee attacked the insurgent forces, taking
them on one by one.  
  
And time and again, bullets flew by, sometimes only inches away.  And
time and again, Staff Sergeant Plumlee closed with the enemy.  
  
And multiple occasions during the fight, the insurgents detonated their
vests right in front of him — Plumlee — at one point hurling him into a
wall and injuring his back.   
  
When a fellow soldier was severely wounded, Plumlee immediately ran to
the soldier’s position, carried him to safety, and administered Tactical
Combat Casualty Care before returning to the fight.   
  
Ultimately, Staff Sergeant Plumlee was able to organize three Polish
soldiers to mount an effective defense of the base,  
clear the area, and regain a security posture.  
  
His heroic actions and the battlefield leadership gained the recognition
of some of our highest military commanders, including a man who knows a
little bit about battles, our Chairman of our Joint Chiefs, General
Milley, and General McConville, who are here today — who are here today
to honor him as well.     
  
They saw extraordinary bravery of what then-Staff Sergeant Plumlee did
and they understood the worse outcome he prevented from taking place. 
They understood what would have happened had he not done what he did.   
  
Now Master Sergeant Plumlee has — this recognition has been too long in
coming, delayed for you and your family as well.  
  
And no one — no one will ever forget how you sprang into action when our
— when the enemy attacked our base.  
  
And I’m grateful for your continued service and dedication to the
country.  And that goes for your wife Terrie and your children, Lillian
and Lincoln, as well.  
  
Because it’s not just the person who wears the uniform who serves, it’s
the whole family who serves: the sleepless nights, the missed holidays,
the empty chairs, the celebrations, and the way you give back to your
community.  
  
The English poet John Milton once wrote, “They also serve who only stand
and wait.”  “They also serve who only stand and wait.”  
  
While today we honor three outstanding soldiers whose actions embodied
the highest ideals of selfless service, we also remember the high price
our military members and their families  
are willing to pay on behalf of our nation.  
  
We remember the strength and the sacrifices of these military families,
caregivers, and survivors.  
  
And we remember and renew our sacred obligation to those who serve this
nation in uniform.  As a nation, we have many obligations to our
children, the elderly, those in need, but we have only one truly sacred
obligation — sacred obligation — and that’s to properly prepare and
equip those troops we send into harm’s way, to care for them and their
families both while they’re deployed and when they return.  That
commitment never expires.  And as Commander-in-Chief, I promise it’s a
commitment that we will keep.   
  
So, God bless you all.  And may God protect the troops who are out there
right now.  
  
And now it’s my great honor to ask for the citations to be read and
award the Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Alwyn <s>Chase</s>
\[Cashe\], Sergeant First Class Christopher Celiz, and Master Sergeant
Earl Plumlee.  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Will the Cashe family please join the President on
stage?   
  
Attention to orders.   
  
The President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of
Congress March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously awarded in the name of
Congress the Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Alwyn C. Cashe,
United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry at the risk of his life
above and beyond the call of duty.   
  
Sergeant First Class Alwyn C. Cashe distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry above and beyond the call of duty while serving as Platoon
Sergeant with Company A, 1st Battalion, 15th Infantry Regiment, 3rd
Brigade, 3rd Infantry Division in Salah Ad Din Province, Iraq, on
October 17th, 2005.  
  
While on a nighttime mounted patrol near an enemy-laden village, the
Bradley Fighting Vehicle which Sergeant First Class Cashe was commanding
was attacked by enemy small-arms fire and an improvised explosive
device, which disabled the vehicle and engulfed it in flames.   
  
After extracting himself from the vehicle, Sergeant First Class Cashe
set about extracting the driver, who was trapped in the vehicle.   
  
After opening the driver’s hatch, Sergeant First Class Cashe and a
fellow soldier extracted the driver, who was engulfed in the flames.  
  
During the course of extinguishing the flames on the driver and
extracting him from the vehicle, Sergeant First Class Cashe’s fuel
soaked his uniform, igniting and causing severe burns to his body.   
  
Ignoring his painful wounds, Sergeant First Class Cashe then moved to
the rear of the vehicle to continue in aiding his fellow soldiers who
were trapped in the troop compartment.   
  
At this time, the enemy noted his movements and began to direct their
fire on his position.   
  
When another element of the company engaged the enemy, Sergeant First
Class Cashe seized the opportunity and moved into the open troop door
and aided four of his soldiers in escaping the burning vehicle.   
  
Having extracted the four soldiers, Sergeant First Class Cashe noticed
two other soldiers had not been accounted for and again he entered the
building to retrieve them.    
  
At this time, reinforcements arrived to further suppress the enemy and
establish a Casualty Collection Point.   
  
Despite the severe second- and third-degree burns covering the majority
of his body, Sergeant First Class Cashe persevered through the pain to
encourage his fellow soldiers and ensure they received needed medical
care.   
  
When medical evacuation helicopters began to arrive, Sergeant First
Class Cashe selflessly refused evacuation until all of the other wounded
soldiers were evacuated first.   
  
Sergeant First Class Cashe’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness
above and beyond the call of duty were keeping with the highest
traditions of the military service and reflect great credit upon
himself, his unit, and the United States Army.  
  
Signed Joseph R. Biden, the President of the United States.  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Will the Celiz family please accompany the President?  
  
Attention to orders.   
  
The President of the United States of America, authorized by Act of
Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously awarded in the name of
Congress the Medal of Honor to Sergeant First Class Christopher A.
Celiz, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry at the risk of his
life above and beyond the call of duty.  
  
Sergeant First Class Christopher A. Celiz distinguished himself by
conspicuous gallantry above and beyond the call of duty while engaged
with the enemy in Paktia Province, Afghanistan, on July 12th, 2018.  
  
As the leader of a special purpose unit comprised of partnered forces
and members of the 1st Battalion, 75th Ranger Regiment, Sergeant First
Class Celiz led an operation to clear an area of enemy forces and
thereby disrupt future attacks against the government of Afghanistan and
allied forces.  
  
Shortly after his team reached their final objectives, a large enemy
force attacked, placed effective fire on him and his team, preventing
them from maneuvering to counterattack.  
  
Realizing the danger the attack posed to his team and the operation,
Sergeant First Class Celiz voluntarily exposed himself to intense enemy
machine-gun and small-arms fire to retrieve and employ a heavy weapon
system, thereby allowing U.S. and partnered forces to regain the
initiative, maneuver to a secure location, and begin treatment of a
critically wounded partnered force member.  
  
As a medical evacuation helicopter arrived, it was immediately engaged
by accurate and sustained enemy fire.   
  
Knowing how critical it was to quickly load the casualty, Sergeant First
Class Celiz willingly exposed himself to heavy enemy fire to direct and
lead the evacuation.   
  
As the casualty moved from a position of cover and out into intense
enemy fire, Sergeant First Class Celiz made a conscious effort to ensure
his body acted as a physical shield to his team carrying the casualty
and the crew of the aircraft.   
  
As the casualty was loaded and Sergeant First Class Celiz’s team
returned to cover, he alone remained at the aircraft, returning a high
volume of fire and constantly repositioning himself to act as a physical
shield to the aircraft and its crew.   
  
With his final reposition, Sergeant First Class Celiz placed himself
directly between the cockpit and the enemy, ensuring the aircraft was
able to depart.   
  
As the helicopter lifted off, Sergeant First Class Celiz was hit by
enemy fire.  Fully aware of his own injury but understanding the peril
to the aircraft from the intense enemy machine gun fire, Sergeant First
Class Celiz motioned to the aircraft to depart rather than remain behind
to load him.   
  
His selfless actions saved the life of the evacuated partnered force
member and almost certainly prevented further casualties among other
members of his team and the aircrew.  
  
Throughout the entire engagement, Sergeant First Class Celiz
significantly changed the course of battle by repeatedly placing himself
in extreme danger to protect his team, defeat the enemy, and it
ultimately cost him his life.  
  
Sergeant First Class Celiz’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness
above and beyond the call of duty were in keeping with the highest
traditions of military service and reflect great credit upon himself,
his unit, and the United States Army.  
  
Signed Joseph R. Biden, the President of the United States.  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  Master Sergeant Plumlee, will you please accompany the
President?  
  
Attention to orders.  The President of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has posthumously awarded
in the name of Congress the Medal of Honor to Staff Sergeant Earl D.
Plumlee, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry at the risk of
his life and above and beyond the call of duty.  
  
Staff Sergeant Earl D. Plumlee distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry above and beyond the call of duty on August 28th, 2013, while
serving as a weapons sergeant, C company, 4th Battalion, 1st Special
Forces Group (Airborne) in support of Enduring Freedom.   
  
Sergeant Plumlee instantly responded to an enemy attack on Forward
Operating Base Ghazni — Ghazni Province, Afghanistan — that began with
an explosion that tore a 60-foot breach in the base’s perimeter wall.   
  
Ten insurgents wearing Afghan National Army uniforms and suicide vests
poured through the breach.  Sergeant Plumlee and five others mounted two
vehicles and raced toward the explosion.  When his vehicle was engaged
by enemy fire, Sergeant Plumlee reacted instinctively, using his body to
shield the driver prior to exiting the vehicle and engaging an enemy
insurgent 15 meters to the vehicle’s right with his pistol.   
  
Without cover and in complete disregard for his own safety, he advanced
on the enemy, engaging multiple insurgents with only his pistol.  Upon
reaching cover, he killed two insurgents — one with a grenade and the
other by detonating the insurgent’s suicide vest using precision sniper
fire.  
  
Again, disregarding his own safety, Sergeant Plumlee advanced alone
against the enemy, engaging several insurgents at close range, including
one whose suicide vest exploded a mere seven meters from his
position.   
  
Under intense enemy fire, Sergeant Plumlee temporarily withdrew to
cover, where he joined up with another solider and, together, they
mounted another counterattack.  
  
Under fierce enemy fire, Sergeant Plumlee again moved from cover and
attacked the enemy forces, advancing within seven meters of a previously
wounded insurgent who detonated his suicide vest, blowing Sergeant
Plumlee back against a nearby wall.  
  
Sergeant Plumlee, ignoring his injuries, quickly regained his faculties
and reengaged the enemy forces.  
  
Intense enemy fire once again forced the two soldiers to temporarily
withdraw.  Undeterred, Sergeant Plumlee joined a small group of American
and Polish soldiers, who moved from cover to once again counterattack
the infiltrators.   
  
As the force advanced, Sergeant Plumlee engaged an insurgent to his
front left.  He then swung around and engaged another insurgent who
charged the group from the rear.  The insurgent detonated his suicide
vest, mortally wounding a U.S. solider.   
  
Sergeant Plumlee, again, with complete disregard for his own safety, ran
to the wounded soldier, carried him to safety, and rendered first aid. 
He then methodically cleared the area, remained in a security posture,
and continued to scan for any remaining threats.   
  
Staff Sergeant Earl D. Plumlee’s extraordinary heroism and devotion to
duty are in keeping with the finest traditions of military service and
reflect great credit upon himself, the Special Forces Regiment, and the
United States Army.  
  
Signed Joseph R. Biden, the President of the United States. 
(Applause.)   
  
(A prayer is recited.)  
  
2:36 P.M. EST
