---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-10'
modified_time: 2021-12-10 15:53:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-memorial-service-of-senator-robert-j-dole/
published_time: 2021-12-10 16:15:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Memorial Service of Senator Robert J.\_\
  Dole"
---
 
Washington National Cathedral  
Washington, D.C.

11:29 A.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT: Reverend, clergy, distinguished guests: Among the many
memories from 50 years of friendship, there is one that especially
captures what Bob Dole was as a man and, in my view, as a patriot.  
  
We were on our way to the 50th anniversary of D-Day in Normandy, but we
started in Italy, in Anzio. Much has been written about his time in
Anzio, but to be there with him felt significantly different.  
  
He was on a mission in the mountains. Nazi gunfire and mortar fire was
thick. A man was dying — men were dying. Facing a hail of bullets,
Second Lieutenant Robert Joseph Dole hurled a grenade into an
<s>empty</s> \[enemy\] gun nest.  
  
He was trying to help a fallen comrade, his platoon radioman, when
everything changed. And I mean everything changed. His spine was damaged
because fire tore across the hills, shattering his body. Grievously
wounded. He was paralyzed.  
  
Dragged behind a wall, Bob would pass in and out of consciousness,
dreaming of home as he lay bleeding in the foxhole for nearly nine
hours.  
  
He was 21 years old.  
  
Nearly eight decades on, we gather here in a world far different from
the mountainous battlefield in 1949 — 45. But there’s something –-
there’s something that connects that past and present, wartime and
peace, then and now: the courage, the grit, the goodness, and the grace
of a Second Lieutenant named Bob Dole, who became Congressman Dole,
Senator Dole; a statesman, husband, father, friend, colleague, and a
word that’s often overused but not here: a genuine hero — Bob Dole.  
  
Dean and the clergy officiating today’s service; President Clinton; Vice
President Harris, Vice President Pence, and Cheney, and Quayle; Speaker
Pelosi; Leader Schumer; Leader McConnell; members of Congress of both
parties past and present; members of the Cabinet; General Milley and
leaders of our military; distinguished guests; and most of all, the Dole
family — Elizabeth:  
  
It’s been said that “memory is the power to gather roses in winter.” Bob
left you with 45 years’ worth of roses, of a life built and a love
shared that’s going to guide you through the difficult days ahead.  
  
Jill and I will always be here for you, as many others in this church
will be, as you and Bob were always there for us in ways nobody knows.  
  
And, Robin, you carry your father’s pride, grace, and character. He’s
always going to be with you, because as the old saying goes –- we Irish
say, “You are your father’s daughter.” You are your father’s
daughter.”  
  
Bob Dole’s story is a very American one. Born and raised in a three-room
house through the Dust Bowl and the Great Depression. Shipped out as a
young man to World War Two. Wounded in battle on the same weekend that
Franklin Delano Roosevelt was being mourned by millions. Bob came home,
rebuilt his life, painful hour by painful day by painful week by painful
month by painful year. Hearing he and Danny Inouye, who was wounded on a
mountain not far from where he was, talk about the recovery they spent
together for all those, literally, several years — it was astounding.  
  
God, what courage Bob Dole had.  
  
He then went to school on the GI Bill; came to Washington with the New
Frontier; bravely voted for civil rights and voting rights in the years
of the Kennedys, Lyndon Johnson, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Ran for
President on the ticket with Gerald Ford.  
  
And through the ages of Nixon, Carter, Reagan, Bush the elder, and
Clinton, Bob was literally the master of the Senate. We served together
for 25 years. We disagreed, but we were never disagreeable with one
another, not one time that I can think of.  
  
I found Bob to be a man of principle, pragmatism, and enormous
integrity. He came into the arena with certain guiding principles that
began with devotion to country, to fair play, to decency, to dignity, to
honor, to literally attempting to find the common good. That’s how he
worked with George McGovern to fight hunger in America, particularly as
it affected children, and around the world.  
  
He worked with Teddy Kennedy and Tom Harkin to bring down the barriers
of Americans living with disabilities –- a profound change and profound
act of grace.  
  
He worked with Daniel Patrick Moynihan to literally save Social Security
because Bob believed every American deserved  
to grow old with their basic dignity -– basic dignity intact.  
  
And over the opposition of many in his own party and some in mine, he
managed the bill that created the federal holiday in the name of Martin
Luther King, Jr. Bob Dole –- Bob Dole did that.  
  
He never forgot where he came from. And I never forgot what he said to
our colleagues about the effort for the King holiday. And I’ll quote —
he said, “No first-class democracy can treat people like second-class
citizens.” “No first-class democracy can treat people like second-class
citizens.”  
  
Bob didn’t hate government. He knew the people who needed him most are
the people most in need. He wanted government to work — to work for
folks like him who came up the hard way. “Just give everybody a chance,
Joe. Just a chance.”  
  
During the Depression, Bob’s parents moved into the basement of their
three-room –- not three-bedroom –- their three-room home in Russell,
Kansas, so they could rent out, quote, “the upstairs.”  
  
Bob understood hardship. He had known hardship, and he never -– never
forgot it. He never forgot the people as well who sent him to Washington
— people from Russell and from Kansas.  
  
Bob was a man who always did his duty, who lived by a code of honor.
Almost seems strange to say that today, but he lived by a code of honor,
and he meant it.  
  
Just as his colleagues, Republican and Democrat, looked at him, I think
they saw him the same way I did. Just ask any who served with him at the
time.  
  
Bob Dole fit my dad’s description. He said, “You must be a man of your
word. Without your word, you’re not a man.” And Bob Dole was a man of
his word.  
  
He loved his country, which he served his whole life. The Bible tells
us: To whom much is given, much is expected.  
  
And Bob Dole, for all his hardship, believed he’d been given the
greatest gift of all: He was an American. He was an American. And he
felt it.  
  
Let’s be honest. Bob Dole was always honest — sometimes to a fault.
(Laughs.) He once endured the wrath of his fellow Republicans when there
was a legitimate fight going on to defund Amtrak.  
  
Now, I’ve traveled over 1,200,000 miles on Amtrak because I commuted
every single day. It came time for, literally, the deciding vote — the
deciding vote on whether we’re going to defund Amtrak. And he cast the
vote against his party, deciding to keep funding Amtrak. And, obviously,
you might guess, he was asked why. “Why would you do that?” He said,
“It’s the best way to get Joe Biden the hell out of here at night so
he’s not here in the morning.” (Laughter.) Excuse my language.
(Laughter.) True story. Absolutely true story. God, I loved the guy.  
  
As I said, he was always honest.  
  
But Bob relished a good political fight, as much as anybody I’ve ever
served with in the 36 years I was in the Senate. And Bob gave as good or
better than he got.  
  
He was a proud Republican. He chaired his party. He led its caucus in
the United States Senate. And he bore the banner as its nominee for Vice
President and President of the United States.  
  
He could be partisan, and that was fine. Americans have been partisan
since Jefferson and Hamilton squared off in George Washington’s
cabinet.  
  
But like them, Bob Dole was a patriot. He was a patriot. And here’s what
his patriotism teaches us, in my view, as Bob Dole himself wrote at the
end of his life — and I quote him: “I cannot pretend that I have not
been a loyal champion of my party, but I always served my country best
when I did so first and foremost as an American.” End of quote. “First
and foremost as an American.”  
  
That was Bob Dole. Liddy, that was your husband; that was your dad.
Always as an American.  
  
He understood that we’re all part of something bigger than ourselves —
and he really did, I felt; he really understood it — and that
“compromise” isn’t a dirty word, it’s the cornerstone of our
democracy.  
  
Consensus is required in a democracy to get anything done. That’s how
you get things done. Again, listen to Bob Dole’s words, not mine. I’m
quoting him again: “I learned that it is difficult to get anything done
unless you can compromise — not your principles, but your willingness to
see the other side. Those who suggest \[that\] compromise is a sign of
weakness misunderstand the fundamental strength of…democracy.” End of
quote.  
  
In his final days, Bob made it clear that he was deeply concerned about
the threat to American democracy, not from foreign nations but from the
divisions tearing us apart from within.  
  
And this soldier reminded us, and I quote, “Too many of us have
sacrificed too much in defending that freedom from foreign adversaries
to allow our democracy to crumble” in a state — “under a state of
infighting that grows more unacceptable” day by day. Grows more
unacceptable day by day. He wrote this when he knew his days were
numbered — in small numbers.  
  
My fellow Americans, taps is now sounding for this soldier of America —
forged in war, tested by adversity.  
  
Taps is now sounding for this patriot driven by a sense of mission to
give back to the land that gave him everything to him for which he
nearly gave his all.  
  
Taps is now sounding for this giant of our time and of all time. We’re
bidding this great American farewell.  
  
But we know as long as we keep his spirit alive; as long as we see each
other not as enemies, but as neighbors and colleagues; as long as we
remember that we’re here not to tear down, but to build up; as long as
we remember that, then taps will never sound for Bob Dole.  
  
For Bob will be with us always, cracking a joke, moving a bill, finding
common ground.  
  
In his final message to the nation, Bob said that whenever he started a
new journey — whenever he started a new journey, the first thing he
would do, and I quote, is “sit back and watch for a few days,” then
start standing up for what he thought was right. End of quote.  
  
Bob Dole has taken his final journey. He’s sitting back now, watching
us. Now it’s our job to start standing up for what’s right for
America.  
  
I salute you, my friend. Your nation salutes you.  
  
And I believe the words of the poet R.G. Ingersoll, when he described
heroism, better fit you than anyone I know. And Ingersoll wrote the
following: “When the will defies fear, when duty throws the gauntlet
down to fate, when honor scorns to compromise with death, that is
heroism.”  
  
May flights of angels thi- — sing thee to thy rest, Bob. God bless Bob
Dole. God bless America. And may God protect our troops.  
  
11:46 A.M. EST
