---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-15'
modified_time: 2021-12-16 08:47:46-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-new-efforts-to-counter-transnational-criminal-organizations-and-illicit-drugs/
published_time: 2021-12-15 14:00:00-05:00
title: Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on New Efforts to
  Counter Transnational Criminal Organizations and Illicit Drugs
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:04 A.M. EST

     MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  And good morning, everyone.  Thank
you for joining us for the National Security Council background briefing
on the launch of two executive orders the President has signed that
focus on transnational organized crime and counternarcotics. 

Some ground rules before we dive right in: This call will be on
background, attributable to “senior administration officials.”  The call
will be embargoed until 2:00 p.m. Eastern this afternoon.  And when the
call concludes, I’ll be sending a factsheet to everyone who RSVPed on
the upcoming actions.

     Not for attribution but just for everyone’s awareness on the call,
our first speaker is going to be \[senior administration official\]. 
After that, we will hear from \[senior administration official\] and
\[senior administration official\].  We also have \[senior
administration official\] on the line to answer questions. 

     With that, I’ll turn it over to our first speaker.  \[Senior
administration official\] will give you a preview of the two executive
orders.

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  And thanks
to everyone for joining today to hear about how the Biden-Harris
administration is focused on countering transnational organized crime.

     The U.S. Strategy on Countering Corruption, which was released just
last week, and the Summit for Democracy, which was held just last week,
both highlighted the importance of addressing the nexus between
corruption and transnational criminal activity as a key national
security priority.

     The broad scope of illicit activities that are carried out by
transnational criminal organizations — including drug and weapons
trafficking, illicit finance, intellectual property theft, illegal
mining, human trafficking, cybercrime, wildlife and timber trafficking,
and more — directly threatens American lives.  This scope of illicit
activities also destabilizes key partner nations by undermining the rule
of law, by facilitating corruption, and by increasing violence. 

  
     Countering these criminal actors and their enablers is a national
security priority that demands a government-wide approach.  That’s why
today we are proud to announce the release of two new executive orders:
one to establish the U.S. Council on Transnational Organized Crime — or
“USCTOC,” as you’ll hear us refer to it — and two, to impose sanctions
on foreign persons involved in the global illicit drug trade. 

    Let me start with USCTOC.

\`    Combatting transnational organized crime requires a
government-wide approach.  (Inaudible.)  This executive order
establishes the council, which includes leaders of the Department of
Justice, the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State,
the Department of Defense, the Department of the Treasury, and the
Office of the Director of National Intelligence. 

The council is charged with ensuring that the U.S. government deploys a
comprehensive approach and effectively leverages all appropriate tools
to counter and address the threats posed by transnational criminal
organizations. 

This council represents an enhancement, a restructuring, and a
replacement of the Threat Mitigation Working Group, which previously led
government-wide lines of effort to counter transnational organized crime
under Executive Order 13773, which was issued in February 2017.

And in a minute, I’m going to turn things over to a colleague, \[senior
administration official\], to talk a bit more about this restructuring
effort. 

     The Strategic Division, a key arm of the USCTOC, is responsible for
developing government-wide plans to advance policy priorities
established by the President, to address the top transnational organized
crime threats.  And this is especially critical in today’s operating
environment as we work to counter transnational criminal organizations
that increasingly operate all over the world.

     That brings me to the second executive order being released today,
which creates a new sanctions authority to target foreign individuals
involved in the global illicit drug trade through sanctions and through
related actions.  This EO creates a new authority that extends beyond
the existing Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Sanctions by allowing us to
better target and disrupt activities across the full illicit drug
ecosystem. 

So this new authority provides an impactful and flexible tool for the
U.S. government to counter narcotics trafficking and to disrupt cartels
and their enablers and financial facilitators.

     Stepping back for a moment here.  Over 100,000 Americans died from
drug overdoses in the 12 months leading up to April 2021.  That’s the
most ever recorded in a single year.  To put that in some perspective,
this correlates to one American overdose death approximately every five
minutes, or more than one Boeing 757 crashing every single day.

All of this robs us of loved ones and leaves holes in the hearts of
families in communities across this country. 

The Biden-Harris administration is committed to using all appropriate
tools to counter this flow of illicit drugs into American communities. 
This threat is one of many illicit activities in which transnational
criminal organizations are engaged that these two new and important
executive orders will seek to address.

And now let me turn things over to \[senior administration official\] to
provide more background on USCTOC.

  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration
official\], thank you for that overview of the USCTOC. 

The Strategic Division is the operational arm of the USCTOC responsible
for developing whole-of-government plans to advance the President’s
policy priorities by combatting top transnational organized crime
threats.  As \[senior administration official\] said earlier, this is
especially critical in today’s operating environment as we work to
counter a vast spectrum of transnational criminal organizations that
operate all over the globe.  
  
     Today’s TCOs are responsible for killing tens of thousands of
Americans every year, harming local communities, driving regional
instability, and enabling the malign activities of hostile foreign
powers.  
  
     Motivated by profit, power, and political influence, transnational
criminal organizations weaken our allies and partners too by corrupting
and undermining democratic institutions.  They exploit weak governments
in countries around the world, leading to national security threats here
at home.  
  
     In addition, some state adversaries use transnational criminal
organizations as instruments of national power, offering them
territorial sanctuary where they are free to conduct unattributable
cyber intrusions, sabotage, theft, and political subversion.  
  
     Now more than ever, the counter transnational organized crime
mission requires cooperation across the law enforcement, intelligence,
military, diplomatic, and economic communities. 

Through the USCTOC, individual department and agency actions will be
more strategically aligned and coordinated to overcome organizational
barriers and support integrated action.  This structure supports
departments and agencies in collaboratively and jointly identifying,
interdicting, disrupting, and dismantling transnational organizations
crime networks and their support infrastructures.  
  
     The USCTOC Strategic Division is charged with ensuring that
integrated planning is thoughtful, effective, and appropriately scoped
to support the administration’s policy priorities.  The USCTOC Strategic
Division will be — will establish a consistent and reliable
national-level strategic planning capability to improve our ability to
work together to combat TCOs at home and abroad.  
  
     Among the policy priorities that USCTOC has already marshalled U.S.
government resources to support is in targeting transnational criminal
organizations trafficking in fentanyl, methamphetamines, precursor and
essential chemicals flowing into the United States and fueling the
opioid epidemic.    
  
     The new USCTOC will enable U.S. agencies and foreign partners to
assume the strategic offensive, denying TCOs the ability to harm
Americans by targeting their leadership and their illicit support
infrastructure in depth. 

We will assist countries, particularly in the Western Hemisphere, to
break the corruptive power of these organizations and networks, restore
the rule of law, regional stability, good governance and prosperity.

And with that, I’ll pass it over to my colleague, \[senior
administration official\] to talk about the Treasury. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much, \[senior
administration official\].  I appreciate that.

Again, my name is \[senior administration official\].

Today, President Biden signed a new executive order to modernize the
Department of Treasury sanctions authorities used to combat the illicit
drug trade. 

Under the new EO, the Office of Foreign Assets Control announced the
designations of 25 targets today — 10 individuals and 15 entities. 

The action targets an array of illicit actors involved in the
international proliferation of illicit drugs or their means of
production.  Five of these actors are based in China and are engaged in
either trafficking fentanyl or other synthetic drugs to the United
States or in the export of various precursor chemicals essential to the
production of fentanyl. 

     In Brazil, Primeiro Comando da Capital — also known as “PCC” — is
among the most powerful organized crime groups and traffickers of
illicit drugs in South America.   
  
     While drug trafficking is the PCC’s main business, it’s also
involved in money laundering, extortion, murder-for-hire, and drug debt
collection.  It also operates throughout South America, and its
financial networks stretch all the way to the United States, Europe,
Africa, and Asia.

     Seven targets designated today are Mexican nationals, all of whom
are directly or indirectly linked to the trafficking of deadly drugs,
including fentanyl, methamphetamine, and cocaine to the United States. 

     As a result of today’s action, Treasury designated all nine Mexican
drug trafficking organizations identified by the Drug Enforcement
Administration as having the greatest drug trafficking impact on the
United States.

     Today’s designations with the new EO underscores the Biden-Harris
administration’s commitment to tackling our nation’s overdose epidemic
by holding accountable those participating in and benefiting from the
trafficking of synthetic opioids and other illicit drugs. 

     To date, the vast majority of counter narcotics sanctions
designations have been implemented under the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin
Designation Act — or the “Kingpin Act” — which is a statute enacted
almost 20 years ago.

     In the last two decades, however, the nature of drug trafficking
has changed dramatically.

     Illicit drugs are more potent, addictive, and deadly, and able kill
in mass numbers.  Nowhere is this more apparent than in the skyrocketing
death rate from synthetic opioids.

     Today’s drug trade no longer rely on crops or require vast acreage,
but instead on synthetic materials and precursor chemicals. 

     Cartels operate in a more diffuse and decentralized way, hindering
their ability to build — hindering our ability to build comprehensive
sanctions packages on drug traffickers — the facilitation networks —
using the traditional “Kingpin” model.

     Therefore, the Treasury Department worked with other U.S. agencies
and developed an executive order that reflects the new realities of the
21st century drug trade.  

     This new EO allows Treasury, in consultation with other U.S.
government agencies, to target any foreign person engaged in drug
trafficking activities regardless of their significance or whether they
are linked to a specific kingpin or cartel.

     The EO also authorizes sanctions against foreign persons who
knowingly receive property that constitutes or is derived from proceeds
of illicit drug trafficking activities. 

     The EO authorizes Treasury to block the property of persons, as is
the norm for most sanctions EOs, but it also has an additional menu of
nonblocking sanctions.   
      
     This menu largely consists of various prohibitions on certain
transactions involving the sanctioned person, but also includes the
ability to suspend a person’s entry into the United States.

     This EO will build on previous narcotics authorities in order to
expose, isolate, and disrupt international drug trafficking
organizations, their leaders, support networks, and the entire illicit
drug ecosystem.

     Criminal production and trafficking of synthetic opioids have
claimed the lives of tens of thousands of Americans and have negatively
impacted the United States economy and its productivity.   
  
     The new EO will give Treasury greater flexibility, speed, and power
to sanction those within the global drug trade.  

     Finally, today’s EO and our designations reflect the Treasury
Department’s vision to ensure the warranted, strategic, and judicious
use of sanctions.  
  
     At this time, I’ll turn it back to my colleague.  Thank you very
much.  
  
     MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  And with that, we’re ready to open
it up for Q&A.  
  
     Q    Hi.  Thank you for doing this.  I have a question.  The
previous administration made a point of singling out Venezuela as one of
the places that were sending the most drugs towards the United States. 
There were some indictments too.  And they even identified a cartel that
was going through other — like, Central America.  They even went to the
point last year of like deploying naval forces around the Pacific and
Caribbean.  
      
     I wanted to know if any of these measures are going to be linked to
countering these drug trafficking from the Venezuelan government and
those routes that were singled out by the previous administration in
2020.  Thank you so much.   
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, I’m happy to jump in on
that.  And then see if perhaps my colleague wants to add anything.  
  
     I think what I’d say is, stepping back a bit, that the whole goal
here is to do two things, really: one, obviously update our authorities
in this area to be more nimble, but, two, to do so in a way that
recognizes the way in which these threats transcend national boundaries
and are global in nature.  And of course, ultimately, with a focus on
how that permeates and penetrates American communities — leading to
victims and to violence, but also to similar problems and corruption
abroad.   
  
     So, I’d say, at the level of these executive orders today, our goal
is really to capture this problem in a global framework and with a
recognition of the transnational nature and increasingly network nature
of those who pose these type of threats.   
  
     But let me kick it to my colleague to see if there’s anything he’d
like to add.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Appreciate that.  I
agree with everything you said at this point.   
  
     As far as using our narcotic sanctions authorities with respect to
Venezuela, first of all, we obviously would not comment on prospective
targets that we would look at for sanctions.   
  
     But as many of you know, Venezuela — you know, individuals within
Venezuela, including the government, have been the target of past
Treasury Department sanctions for narcotics trafficking.  But I wouldn’t
want to venture out to say how this new Treasury executive order will be
used against any specific country at this point.  
  
     I would simply say that we simply follow the evidence of the drug
trade to identify our targets.   
  
     Q    Hi, thank you for doing this.  When it comes to drug
trafficking, the U.S. has always highlighted the role of the Central
American countries — Honduras, for example.   
  
     I would like to know how this executive order targets those
countries and how it goes the same time with the strategy to combat
corruption and the root causes of migration from Central America.   
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, George, for the question. 
And then maybe I’ll again say an initial word and then also invite my
colleague to chime in.   
  
     So again, in terms of the executive orders themselves, they are by
design global in their reach, global in nature, and in some ways built
to address these problems as we find them increasingly dispersed around
the world and it’s increasingly interconnected across national
boundaries.   
  
     Of course, as you say, with respect to the Western Hemisphere, this
administration has pursued efforts to address corruption, to ensure that
migration management is safe, orderly, and humane.  And all of this is
meant to be reinforcing and we hope will be increasingly reinforcing as
we implement it.   
  
     Because, as you heard me emphasize before, not only do the
challenges that these EOs are designed to help us address wreak havoc in
American communities, but they do the same for partners abroad,
especially on the corruption issue that you emphasize, but also at the
level of violence and at the level of criminal activity.   
  
     And so, we do this in our own hemisphere in an interconnected way
that links up to that root cause of strategy into our other work in the
region that you mentioned.  But of course, these two EOs are designed to
be inherently global in nature.   
      
     Do you want to build on that?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you.   
  
     Yeah, I think this is precisely why we developed this new executive
order, because the nature of the drug trade and transnational criminal
organizations have really transformed over the last 20 years or so.   
  
     So today, the executive order for sanctions permits us to target
criminal organizations who are involved not only in drug trafficking,
but other transnational crimes, whether it’s, you know, human smuggling,
human trafficking, firearms driving, things of this sort.   
  
     And we’re increasingly seeing that a lot of the drug trafficking
organizations take on these other criminal activities because they
control large swaths of territory.  So that’s one of the new
dynamics.   
  
     Now, the individual did speak of certain Central American
countries.  We have built strong partnerships with the Northern Triangle
countries.  We intend to use this in cooperation with those countries as
well as we have throughout the past.   
  
     So I’ll just — I’ll just stop it right there.  But I hope this
addressed your question.  Thank you.   
  
     Q    Hi, thank you.  I wanted to ask a little bit more about the
sanctions.  I’m curious if the change here involves the ability to be
able to sanction specific people.  Do the sanctions have to be tied with
potential criminal charges?   
  
     And then, also, if you could talk a little bit about like whether
or not the sanctions can go above the TCOs themselves and into, perhaps,
you know, government agencies that are aiding and abetting, you know,
the transnational criminal organizations?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll stick with the pattern here
and say a word or two and then let my colleague flesh out the answer.  
  
     I would say, big picture, the emphasis in this executive order is
to enable the use of sanctions against the organizations as we find them
today, which includes networked organizations in which enablers,
financial facilitators, and other types of supporters who don’t always
fit a more traditional or hierarchical structure, play key roles in
sustaining criminal activity, perpetuating criminal activity, and
ultimately contributing to the harms — the multifaceted harms that this
problem generates in American communities and elsewhere.   
  
     So it’s precisely to get at that broader array of criminal
ecosystem that this executive order is designed.   
  
     But why don’t you say a bit more on that?   
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  Yeah,
today’s EOs for sanctions will permit us to more readily enable the use
of sanctions against individual entities across all segments of the
narcotrafficking supply chain, including against certain beneficiaries
of the supply chain.  
  
     You spoke of higher-ranking officials — are they open to
sanctions.  Well, that’s — all Treasury sanctions have — permit that
flexibility to target anybody who’s involved in sanctionable activity —
in this case, criminal drug trafficking activity.  It would permit us to
do that if we had the evidence to do that.   
  
     I think the — Colleen, the question you ask is a very good one. 
I’ll simply say that we intentionally designed this EO the way it is
because of the unique aspect of the drug trade today, particularly
synthetic opioids; its potent and addictive nature; and its ability to
kill in vast numbers so quickly.   
  
     So, if I were to say anything about this EO, it is broader and more
powerful and it will permit us to carry out sanctions with greater speed
and effect than we have in the past.   
  
     Thank you.   
  
     Q    Hi, yes.  First, I think you may have answered it, but I just
wanted to get a little more clarity: When you talk about nimbleness of
action responding to these EOs, are you talking about comparing it also
or primarily to DOJ action, which can take quite a while, versus
sanctions, which has a little lower legal bar?   
  
     And secondly, doesn’t the EO 12978, which doesn’t exclude
non-Colombian traffickers provide the existing authority? 

Yeah, I think that’s it.  Yeah, for now.  It’s the only two I can
remember.   
  
     Q    Thank you, Ian.  Good questions, both of them.   
  
     Very quickly, EO 12978 is one of our very earliest narcotic
sanctions authorities, which was focused on the cartels centered in
Colombia.  It’s an authority that is still on the books, but we don’t
use it any longer because it’s been overtaken by more powerful
authorities, specifically the Kingpin Act, and today, now, this new
authority we’re rolling out today.   
  
     As far as the nimbleness of this new authority, it does not
require, you know, us to sanction anybody dependent on other law
enforcement action, like a Department of Justice or anything like that. 
But it is a complementary action that we can use in tandem with Justice
Department indictments, as we have done in the past.   
  
     And what we find increasingly is that sanctions is a incredibly
powerful tool, and one of the predominant tools for national security. 
But we’re also finding that sanctions have a greater effect when they’re
used in tandem with other lines of authority.  And the creation of the
CTOC entity, the Strategic Division, will be instrumental in doing
that.  
  
     So we’re — this is a very wise strategic move that we rolled out
today.   
  
     Q    Hi, are you able to hear me?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, we hear you just fine.  
  
     Q    Okay, great.  Thank you.   
  
     I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about — I
believe you said — the five entities in China that will be the target of
sanctions.   
  
     And additionally — this is not dealing with the Kingpin law, but
the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 — each year, the President comes out
with a major drug transit — major illicit drug producing countries list
every year.  And I’m wondering if you can comment on why China has not
been included in the last several years.   
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration
official\], do you want to take the first question and, \[senior
administration official\], maybe take the second?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  Ashley, thank you.  And, I’m
sorry, I want to make sure that I hit the correct question — you were
asking about the five entities that we will be designating today —  
  
     Q    Correct.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — based in China?  
  
     Q    Yes.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:   Obviously, we’re not — we can’t
name the specific name of those entities as yet.  They’ll become public
later in the afternoon.   
  
     But this was what we attempted to do — we did target a number of
entities that were based in China but also in Colombia and Mexico and
Brazil because we wanted to show the geographic dispersion of the
sanctions.  We wanted to be geographically distributed around the world
to show the reach of the organizations.  
  
     But as far as specifically why China, I think it’s very simple that
a lot of the precursors, the synthetic opioids, originate in China.  And
it was important for us to send a signal on that front.   
  
     But as far as why China has not been included in the majors list, I
will defer that to other colleagues, perhaps \[senior administration
official\].  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  It’s a — it’s a good
question.   
  
     That particular statute applies to countries that have not met
their obligations and/or the producers or traffickers of cultivated or
plant-based drugs, and not synthetic drugs.   
  
     Thanks.   
  
     MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, everyone, for joining the call
today.  Really appreciate it.   
  
     As a reminder, the contents of the call are embargoed until 2:00
p.m. Eastern today.   
  
     I’ll be sending out a factsheet momentarily.  And please let us
know if you have any questions.  Thanks, again.   
  
                           END                  11:34 A.M. EST
