---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-12-01'
modified_time: 2021-12-01 20:56:16-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/12/01/remarks-by-president-biden-during-a-menorah-lighting-in-celebration-of-hanukkah/
published_time: 2021-12-01 21:00:00-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden During a Menorah Lighting in Celebration of Hanukkah
---
 
East Room

5:52 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank
you.  Please.  Thank you.  Please.  Thank you.  My name is Joe Biden,
and I am Jill’s husband — (laughter) — as I’m known here in Washington
and many other places.   
  
I — Happy Hanukkah, everyone.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Happy Hanukkah.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You know, first, I want to thank Doug and Kamala.  And
this is a White House tradition — a White House tradition — but the
first time in history it is a family tradition.   
  
Doug, we’re honored that you — you’re leading the Menorah lighting.   
  
And I — I see my dear friends in — from Congress and the community out
there, many of whom I’ve known for a long, long time.   
  
And I know how many more are joining us virtually.  
  
You know, first of all, I want to welcome our Cabinet members: Attorney
General Merrick Garland.  Stand up so they can see you, Merrick. 
(Applause.)  He is practicing the Jewish tradition of restoring justice
to the Justice Department.  (Applause.)  
  
And Secretary of Homeland Security, Ali Mayorkas, who has maybe one of
the toughest jobs in government, one of the — the widest breadth.  And I
want to thank you, Ali, for all you do.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
And one of the brightest scientists and docs I know: the head of OSTP,
Director Eric Lander.  Eric.  (Applause.)  
  
And I want to welcome Israel’s newest Ambassador to the United States,
Michael Herzog.  Michael.  (Applause.)  Just please stand up.  Come on,
stand up.  Ambassador, I look forward to working with you to reaffirm
the longstanding ties between the United States and the State of
Israel.  
  
I was saying to a couple of younger members of my staff, before I came
over, about the many times I’ve been to Israel.  I said — and then, all
of a sudden, I realized, “God, you’re getting old, Biden.”
 (Laughter.)  
  
I have known every — every prime minister well since Golda Meir,
including Golda Meir.  (Applause.)  And during the Six-Day War, I had an
opportunity to — she invited me to come over because I was going to be
the liaison between she and the Egyptians about the Suez, and so on and
so forth.   
  
And I sat in front of her desk, Chuck.  And she had a guy — her staff
member — to my right.  His name was Rabin.  (Laughter.)  And she kept
flipping those maps up and down.  She had that bevy of maps — sort of
kept it — and it was — it was so depressing what she was — about what
happened.  She gave me every detail.   
  
And all of a sudden, she looked at me and she said, “Mr. Ambassador,
would you like a photograph?”  And I thought, “Okay.”  We got up.  We
walked out.  And the three of us are standing in that — that rectangular
area outside the office.   
  
And we — the photographer, she was taking pictures and the press.  And,
Chuck, without turning her head, she looked straight ahead, but, talking
to me, she said, “Why…”  She said, “Why do you look so sad?”  And I said
— and I almost turned.  And I said, “Well, Madam Prime Minister,” I
said, “you’ve painted such a dismal picture.”   
  
She said, “Oh, no, no, no.”  She said, “Don’t worry.  We have a secret
weapon in our battle in this area.”  And I almost turned again.  I said,
“What’s that?”  She said, “We have no place else to go.”   
  
Ladies and gentlemen, you know, as Doug leads our candle lighting, he’ll
be joined by Leader Schumer, a good friend of mine.  
  
Chuck, we’re so sorry about your dad.  Abe was — passed away.  And,
Chuck, you said in the eulogy to your dad — if you don’t mind my saying
this — you said he never quit, he never cut corners, he led by example,
he knew we had a responsibility to others beyond ourselves, and he lived
with the conviction that doing the right thing, even when it doesn’t —
when others don’t, will lead to success.  
  
Chuck, you described you.  You described you, pal.  And I — you could
use the same words to describe you.   
  
And, you know, in Abe’s blessed memory, I hope you continue to lead us. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)    
  
We also have a dear friend of mine for more than three decades — someone
many of you know as a devoted leader — community leader: Susie Stern. 
Susie, thank you for all you’ve done.  (Applause.)   
  
And she’s joined by Aaron Glatt, an infectious disease doctor and a
rabbi.  And Rabbi Dr. Glatt has been a champion of encouraging his
congregants and his community to get vaccinated.  
  
And I also love Rabbi Dr. Glatt’s description of Hanukkah.  He said, and
I quote, “A Jewish holiday of — is Hanukkah — a Jewish — the Jewish
holiday of Hanukkah is Thanksgiving on steroids.”  (Laughter.) 
Thanksgiving on steroids.  Well, that’s pretty good from Rabbi Dr.
Glatt.  Theologic- — theological and medical opinion merged into one. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Look, more seriously, Rabbi has described America as a “great nation of
kindness.”  And that’s what we must always be: a great nation of
kindness.  That’s not hyperbole; that’s a fact.   
  
You know, we’re the most unique nation in the world.  We’re the only
nation that’s not based on ethnicity or religion or race.  It’s — we’re
based on an idea.  An idea.  “We hold these truths to be self-evident,
that all men \[and women\] are created equal…endowed by their…”  It’s an
idea.   
  
And so that’s why — and our basis of our strength is not the example of
our power, but the power of our example.   
  
In each successive generation, the Hanukkah story provides a powerful
lesson and nourishes the wellspring of hope.  
  
In darkness, there’s light.  In cynicism, there’s hope and optimism and
an unyielding belief that miracles are possible.  
  
When I was recently — as Chuck knows, when I was recently with — talking
with Xi Jinping — he reminded me.  He said, “I know, I know, I know — as
you said when I asked you to define America, you said I can do it in one
word: possibilities.”  Possibilities.  That’s who we are: a nation of
possibilities.  
  
And one such miracle brings us to a menorah we’re lighting tonight.  The
artist who designed it is Manfred Anson — was 1 of 20 boys selected by
the Jewish Welfare Society to flee from Germany <s>from Austria</s> \[to
Australia\] in the beginning of World War Two.  
  
A miracle, but one shadowed by darkness as his younger brother didn’t
make it out — killed in the concentration camp.  
  
Pain.  The pain — it is easy — in the pain, it’s easy to lose hope and
harden what’s left of a broken heart and a broken soul.  
  
But not Anson.  He joined the Australian Army and fought against the
fascists.  
  
After the war, his sister, who survived in concentration camps, wrote a
letter addressed simply to “Manfred Anson, Australia.”  That was all it
said.  And it was a miracle: The letter found him.  It found him.  They
reunited.  
  
Their parents had survived the war but had not lived long enough to see
their surviving son.  
  
Manfred and his sister came to the United States and, in gratitude,
opted \[sic\] — it was his adopted homeland.  He began collecting
thousands of souvenirs of little Statues of Liberty, of the U.S.
Capitol, and the Liberty Bell, which is what he used to design this
menorah — this menorah we’re going to pay tribute to.  Two centuries of
two cultures.   
  
This menorah is on loan from the National Museum of American Jewish
History in Philadelphia, just across from the Liberty Bell itself.  
  
And one of the honors of my career was helping dedicate the museum in
2010, where I had a tough job following — Jerry Seinfeld and Bette
Midler were the other two speakers.  (Laughter.)  Thank God, they didn’t
ask me to sing.  (Laughter.)  
  
But I was honored to join my dear friend and museum founder, Ron Rubin —
who passed away this year — after dedicating that essential
institution.  
  
Anson passed away in 2012, and this is the second of his menorahs to be
in the White House.  As we honor his work, we also honor the abiding
lesson of his life — that we must be grateful for our freedoms and we
must defend those freedoms.  
  
That — as my dear friend and colleague who worked for me, for a long
time — my staff — before he became a prominent figure in the Congress
himself, Tom Lantos, often reminded us, in words borne out of personal
experiences escaping from Hungary, and that — over 2,000 years of
wisdom.  This is what he said — he said, “The veneer of civilization is
paper thin.  We are its guardians, and we can never rest.”  
  
Well, it’s paper thin.  And we are its guardians.  All it takes is an
opening, a sliver, a crack, the briefest nod of acceptance or legitimacy
for ancient evils that have long plagued our society to come rushing
in.  And you all know it.  
  
We just saw an incident so horribly anti-Semitic — flyers being left at
people’s homes in Los Angeles.  
  
We have to stand against the resurgence of this tide of anti-Semitism
and other forms of intolerance and hate here at home and around the
world.  
  
In that effort, there is nobody more qualified than Professor Deborah
Lipstadt to — our Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat — (applause) —
Combat Antisemitism.   
  
You know, when we light this menorah in the White House, when Jewish
families place menorahs in their windows, we are proclaiming liberty. 
We’re exercising the freedom that the Maccabees sought to simply
practice their faith.  And we’re showing that there is still light, that
even the most fragile flame can be sustained in a tradition and nourish
the soul of a people.   
  
That little bit of light — that little bit of light, wherever it is
found, can dispel the darkness and illuminate a path forward.  And
whether it’s in the Temple in Jerusalem or a temple of our democracy,
nothing broken or profaned is beyond repair.  Nothing.  
  
We can always build back better or perhaps build back brighter.  
  
So, thank you all for being here as we proclaim the light and liberty
that this is all about.  
  
And now I want to turn us over to another special guest, Rabbi Lauren
Hols- — Holtzblatt — Holtzblatt — excuse me — you can call me “Bidden” —
(laughter) — I apologize, Lauren — who reminded all of us so powerfully
after her eulogy for Ruth Bader Ginsburg that despair — despair is
never, ever an option.  Never.   
  
Rabbi, please come forward.  (Applause.)   
  
6:05 P.M. EST
