---
date: '2024-09-09'
modified_time: 2024-09-09 23:24:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-09 23:23:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/09/world-suicide-prevention-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Suicide Prevention Day,\_2024"
---
 
On World Suicide Prevention Day, we honor the memories of all those lost
to suicide, hold the loved ones grieving their memories close to our
hearts, and recognize the many professionals working to end this public
health problem. 

Too many Americans have lost their lives to suicide.  Last year, nearly
50,000 Americans died by suicide, and in 2022, over 10 million seriously
considered suicide.  In 2022, suicide was the second leading cause of
death for young people aged 10 to 14 and 25 to 34, and the suicide rate
for veterans was 50 percent higher than for anyone else.  Suicide is
also a leading cause of maternal death.  Though there is no single cause
or solution for suicide, we know that access to treatment and support
can save lives.  However, getting care in a crisis can be hard to access
or afford.  In 2021, less than half of all adults with mental illness
received the care they needed.  And nearly 70 percent of children who
seek mental health care cannot find it.

A key part of my Unity Agenda is to connect more Americans to
affordable, quality mental health care and strengthen our mental health
care system — which will help address many of the risk factors
associated with suicide.  My Administration issued a rule that requires
insurers to cover mental health care just as they do physical health
care, and to make changes if required analyses show that health insurers
are providing insufficient access to mental health care — an important
step in ensuring people can get the mental health care they need.  My
American Rescue Plan provided over $12 billion to expand mental health
and substance use services through States, communities, and schools. 
And when we passed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30
years, we expanded the number of Certified Community Behavioral Health
Clinics paid for under Medicaid, which deliver mental health treatment,
including crisis care 24 hours a day to communities across the country. 
That law also delivered funding to put more psychologists and counselors
in schools, and my Administration has made it easier for schools to use
Medicaid to deliver mental health services — helping ease the youth
mental health crisis and ensuring that our children can go on to live
long, healthy lives.  Further, I signed into law expansions to
counseling, benefits, and mental health resources for law enforcement
and first responders who have faced trauma at work.  Earlier this year,
my Administration released a new National Strategy for Suicide
Prevention and Federal Action Plan which includes over 200 actions that
will strengthen suicide prevention programs across the Nation, including
those designed to reach our most vulnerable.

I have always said that we have a sacred obligation to care for our
Nation’s veterans and their families — and that means making sure they
have access to the care they need to thrive.  To help keep that promise,
my Administration invested in mental health and suicide prevention
efforts for our service members and veterans.  We have expanded access
to confidential treatment and are working to hire more mental health
professionals, removing cost-sharing for the first three mental health
visits, and investing in hiring more veterans to help their peers get
the mental health care they need.  And we are working to ensure that
every veteran has a roof over their head — including by increasing
access to permanent supportive housing for veterans and their families. 

If you or a loved one are struggling, please know that you are not
alone.  My Administration launched 988, the National Suicide and Crisis
Lifeline to quickly connect people with the support they need.  Call or
text 988 to reach a trained crisis counselor for free, confidential
support right away.  We also established the National Maternal Mental
Health Hotline for new and expectant mothers.  Call 1-833-TLC-MAMA
(1-833-852-6262) for help navigating mental health issues like
postpartum depression and anxiety before, during, or after pregnancy.
 For non-crisis support or to find help for mental health and substance
use, visit FindSupport.gov or call 1-800-662-HELP (1-800-662-4357).

During World Suicide Prevention Day, we recommit to improving suicide
prevention programs and putting affordable, accessible mental health
care within reach of communities across our Nation — for all the lives
we have lost and all those we can still save.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 10,
2024, as World Suicide Prevention Day.  I call upon all Americans,
communities, organizations, and levels of government to join me in
creating hope through action and committing to preventing suicide across
America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
