---
date: '2024-09-30'
published_time: 2024-09-30 15:55:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-youth-substance-use-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s young people are the future of our Nation.  Each of them
deserves the opportunity to thrive and reach their full potential.  This
National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month, we recommit to providing
all youth with the resources and support they need to lead healthy lives
and achieve their dreams.

     Addressing the opioid and overdose epidemic is a key priority of my
Unity Agenda.  Preventing substance use before it starts is a crucial
part of a comprehensive approach to addressing the overdose crisis.

     That is why, as President, I am taking bold action to help schools,
families, and communities to prevent youth substance use and improve the
well-being of our Nation’s youth.  Through the Bipartisan Safer
Communities Act, my Administration made the largest investment in youth
mental health ever, including $1 billion of funding to train and hire
new school based mental health professionals across the country.  We are
supporting substance use prevention training for school administrators
and counselors and improving mental health and substance use screening
tools so students can get the health services they need.  We have also
made it easier for schools to leverage Medicaid to deliver mental health
and substance use care to millions of children and youth.  And we are
engaging youth as partners to develop and strengthen community
strategies for youth to better educate and support their peers, working
toward our shared goal of getting ahead of substance use before it
starts.

     Over the past 3 years, we have made historic investments
in strengthening local youth prevention and public awareness campaigns
across the country.  Through our Drug-Free Communities Support Program,
we are implementing prevention efforts in all 50 States, significantly
reducing youth substance use in these communities.  Further, my
Administration launched a social media campaign to educate youth on the
dangers of fentanyl and the life-saving effects of opioid overdose
reversal medications.  We also used this prevention content to prepare
classroom resources for middle and high school students.  Together, we
are emboldening our Nation’s youth with the knowledge and tools
they need to make informed and empowered decisions.

     We are also taking aggressive action to reduce the supply of
illicit drugs before they hit our streets.  Under my leadership, Federal
law enforcement is keeping more deadly drugs out of our communities than
ever before by stopping illicit fentanyl at ports of entry, prosecuting
thousands of drug traffickers, sanctioning individuals and organizations
involved in the global illicit drug trade, and engaging globally to
disrupt drug trafficking organizations.

     We have made immense progress in preventing the use and misuse of
substances and preventing youth from developing substance use
disorders.  We are mobilizing communities to take action and stay
informed, providing historic amounts of funding to prevent substance use
and overdose, and focusing on what works — evidence-based policies,
strategies, and programs.  Together with youth, parents, mentors, and
leaders from all sectors of communities around our great Nation, we are
working to ensure every young person is nurtured in a safe, supportive,
thriving environment.  But to improve the lives of youth impacted by
substance use and honor all the young lives tragically lost to an
overdose, we can and must do more.  This month, we recommit to
fulfilling our Nation’s duty to leave no one behind and extend support
to those who need it.  America’s youth deserve nothing less than our
unwavering commitment to their well-being.

     If you are struggling with substance use or just need someone to
talk to, speak to a loved one or health care provider, contact the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration’s National
Helpline at 1-800-662-HELP or visit FindSupport.gov.  If you or someone
you love is experiencing a mental health or substance use crisis, you
can call or text 988, or visit 988lifeline.org for free, confidential
crisis support.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2024 as National Youth Substance Use Prevention Month.  Let us
all take action to implement practice- and evidence-based prevention
strategies and improve the health of our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
