---
date: '2024-09-15'
modified_time: 2024-09-15 19:11:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-15 22:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/15/memorandum-on-the-presidential-determination-on-major-drug-transit-or-major-illicit-drug-producing-countries-for-fiscal-year-2025/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major\
  \ Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year\_2025"
---
 
Presidential Determination  
<span
style="text-decoration: underline">No.        2024-12        </span>

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination on Major Drug Transit or Major
Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year 2025

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States, including section 706(1) of the Foreign
Relations Authorization Act, Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-228)
(FRAA), I hereby identify the following countries as major drug transit
or major illicit drug producing countries (including countries that are
a significant direct source of precursor chemicals used in the
production of certain drugs and substances significantly affecting the
United States):  Afghanistan, The Bahamas, Belize, Bolivia, Burma, the
People’s Republic of China (PRC), Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, India,
Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, and Venezuela.

A country’s presence on the foregoing list is not necessarily a
reflection of its government’s counterdrug efforts or level of
cooperation with the United States.  The list is not a sanction or
penalty.  Consistent with the statutory definition of a major drug
transit or major illicit drug producing country set forth in sections
481(e)(2) and 481(e)(5) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as
amended (Public Law 87-195) (FAA), the reason countries are placed on
the list is the combination of geographic, commercial, and economic
factors that allow drugs or precursor chemicals to be transited or
produced, even if a government has engaged in robust and diligent
narcotics control and law enforcement measures.  The James M. Inhofe
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2023 (Public Law
117-263) amended the definition of major drug source countries to
include source countries of precursor chemicals used to produce illicit
drugs significantly affecting the United States. 

Pursuant to section 706(2)(A) of the FRAA, I hereby designate Bolivia,
Burma, and Venezuela as having failed demonstrably during the previous
12 months to both adhere to their obligations under international
counternarcotics agreements and to take the measures required by section
489(a)(1) of the FAA.  Included with this determination are
justifications for the designations of Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela, as
required by section 706(2)(B) of the FRAA.  I have also determined, in
accordance with provisions of section 706(3)(A) of the FRAA, that United
States programs that support Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela are vital to
the national interests of the United States.

Provisional data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
indicate there were an estimated 107,543 drug overdose deaths in the
United States during 2023 — a decrease of 3 percent from the 111,029
deaths estimated in 2022.  This is the first annual decrease in drug
overdose deaths since 2018 and a sign that my Administration’s historic
investments are having an impact.  Federally funded State Opioid
Response grant programs have contributed to the prevention of over
600,000 potentially fatal overdoses and delivered nearly 10 million
naloxone kits since 2020.  Naloxone is available over-the-counter for
the first time, thanks to actions taken by the Food and Drug
Administration.  Our workforce of addiction professionals continues to
grow, providing the essential prevention, treatment, harm reduction, and
recovery support services the American people need. 

We are also taking unprecedented action to disrupt the supply of
fentanyl, other deadly drugs, and precursor chemicals.  U.S. Customs and
Border Protection (CBP) has stopped more fentanyl at ports of entry over
the last 2 years than in the previous 5 years combined, keeping tens of
millions of fentanyl-laced pills and thousands of pounds of fentanyl
powder away from our communities.  In 2023 alone, CBP seized
approximately 1.2 billion doses of fentanyl.  In just the last 5 months,
over 442 million potentially lethal doses of fentanyl were seized at
United States borders.  In 2021, I signed an Executive Order targeting
foreign persons engaged in the global illicit drug trade and have since
sanctioned more than 300 persons and entities under this authority, thus
cutting them off from the United States’ financial system.  The
Department of Justice has successfully arrested and prosecuted
high-level drug cartel leaders, drug traffickers, and money launderers —
placing dangerous traffickers behind bars.

While we expand our efforts at home, we also recognize this problem as a
global one that requires a coordinated international response. 

For this reason, my Administration launched a Global Coalition in July
2023 uniting more than 150 countries from every region of the world to
address synthetic drug threats.  Participation in this group has tripled
in the past 12 months — evidence that every continent is experiencing an
alarming increase in the manufacturing, trafficking, and consumption of
dangerous illicit synthetic drugs.  I have also engaged with leaders
across the world to spur additional global action in the fight against
synthetic opioids, negotiated the resumption of bilateral
counternarcotics cooperation with the PRC, and established a Trilateral
Fentanyl Committee with the Governments of Mexico and Canada.

While the challenges we face are more significant than ever, increased
global awareness has yielded enhanced international action.  In March,
the United Nations (UN) Commission on Narcotic Drugs adopted a United
States-sponsored resolution on preventing and responding to overdoses to
drive international data collection and information sharing on this
issue that remains deeply personal to the American people.  The
Commission also voted to place international controls on chemicals used
to manufacture illicit fentanyl, methamphetamine, and MDMA, making it
harder for trafficking networks to use these substances to create and
distribute these dangerous synthetic drugs.

Fostering robust, long-term partnerships with crucial allies such as
Mexico is imperative for effectively combating the fentanyl epidemic and
dismantling the sophisticated criminal organizations that exploit it for
financial gain.  The U.S.‑Mexico Bicentennial Framework for Security,
Public Health, and Safe Communities is the foundation for our bilateral
efforts to protect our people, prevent trans-border crime, and pursue
criminal networks.  Through trilateral mechanisms such as the North
American Drug Dialogue and the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee, the United
States, Mexico, and Canada have strengthened cooperation to address
illicit drug production, advance public health, increase collaboration
on the control of precursor chemicals, and engage with the private
sector to combat the production of illicit synthetic drugs.  Our
security cooperation has led to significant interdiction efforts in
Mexico.  For example, United States‑donated canines supported the
seizure of more than 3 million fentanyl pills in Mexico in 2023 alone. 
We will continue our close partnership with Mexico to prevent the
diversion of precursor chemicals and drug-related equipment; improve
interdiction, investigations, and criminal justice outcomes; disrupt
illicit finance; advance border integration; and build public trust in
security and justice institutions.   

In South America, coca cultivation and cocaine production have reached
record highs, necessitating urgent action by countries in the region. 
Colombia, a strong partner, continues to work closely with the United
States to reduce cocaine production, conduct drug smuggling interdiction
operations, and dismantle the criminal organizations involved in cocaine
trafficking.  United States assistance has led to increased
interdictions, with the Colombian National Police seizing more than 841
metric tons of pure cocaine and cocaine base in 2023 — a 10 percent
increase from the previous year.  The new metrics for measuring progress
agreed upon during the U.S.-Colombia High Level Dialogue in May 2024
demonstrate our renewed bilateral commitment to a holistic approach to
address the production and trafficking of cocaine, while providing
security, justice, and licit economic opportunities for Colombia’s
vulnerable rural populations.  We are also collaborating to combat
crimes that wreak havoc on Colombia’s environment and provide
significant funding to criminal organizations, including those involved
in cocaine production and illegal mining.  The United States welcomed
the release of Colombia’s 10-year drug strategy in 2023 and now urges
the Colombian government to resource it adequately and expedite its
implementation. 

Peru also remains a committed partner in reducing the production and
trafficking of cocaine, and our first High Level Dialogue in May 2024
marked a positive step in our bilateral counternarcotics cooperation. 

While the Government of Bolivia has taken positive steps to address coca
cultivation, it must do more to safeguard the country’s licit coca
markets from criminal exploitation, reduce illicit coca cultivation that
continues to exceed legal limits under Bolivia’s domestic laws for
medical and traditional use, improve efforts to locate and interdict
chemicals diverted through black market channels for processing cocaine,
and expand cooperation with international partners to disrupt
transnational criminal networks. 

Opium poppy cultivation for the production of illicit opioids and
methamphetamine in Afghanistan continues to require global attention and
action.  This past year has seen continued steps from Afghanistan to
strengthen drug control and curb the production of illicit opioids and
methamphetamine, including through the maintenance of an existing ban on
poppy cultivation and efforts to reform drug policies.  However, I will
reconsider Afghanistan’s status in each annual review to assess whether
it is upholding its international drug control commitments. 

The PRC has worked with the United States to coordinate efforts to
counter the global manufacturing and trafficking of illicit synthetic
drugs, including fentanyl, since the Woodside Summit between President
Biden and President Xi in November 2023.  Over the last year, the PRC
took significant steps to reduce the flows of precursor chemicals to
illicit drug producers known to be trafficking synthetic drugs, such as
illicit fentanyl, into the United States.  These steps included the PRC
issuing a public notice to the PRC chemical industry warning against
illicit trade in precursor chemicals and pill press equipment; taking
public law enforcement actions against illicit precursor chemical
suppliers; removing web‑based advertisements; and scheduling 46
synthetic drugs effective July 1, 2024, some of which had been
controlled internationally by the UN.  The United States and the PRC
also launched the U.S.–PRC Counternarcotics Working Group, a valuable
mechanism for sharing law enforcement information, tackling the illicit
financing of illicit drugs, and ensuring ongoing coordination on shared
challenges.  That said, sustained enforcement and regulatory action will
be necessary to significantly reduce the PRC’s role as a source of
precursor chemicals used in the production, sale, and trafficking of
illicit synthetic drugs significantly impacting the United States. 

You are authorized and directed to submit this designation, with the
Bolivia, Burma, and Venezuela memoranda of justification, under section
706 of the FRAA, to the Congress, and to publish this determination in
the *Federal Register.*

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
