---
date: '2024-09-13'
published_time: 2024-09-13 15:39:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/13/proclamation-on-national-hispanic-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on National Hispanic Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
In our country, Latino leaders are striving for the American Dream and
helping those around them reach it too.  From those who have been here
for generations to those who have recently arrived, Latinos have pushed
our great American experiment forward.  They are the community, faith,
and union leaders who advocate and stand up for all of us.  They are the
first responders, who put themselves in harm’s way to keep the rest of
us safe.  And they represent the best of who we are as a Nation — the
teachers and doctors, athletes and artists, business leaders, public
servants, and so much more.  They embody the possibilities of our Nation
and the dreams of those who work every day to build a better future for
their children, grandchildren, and beyond.  I am proud to work with
incredible Latino leaders, who are dedicated to bettering our Nation
every day — like Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra,
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of
Education Miguel Cardona, Administrator of the Small Business
Administration Isabel Guzman, Director of the White House Office of
Intergovernmental Affairs Tom Perez, and White House Director of
Political Strategy and Outreach Emmy Ruiz.

My Administration is committed to putting the American Dream within
reach of every person, and it is working.  We have created nearly 16
million jobs since we took office and have seen record-low unemployment
among Latinos, and Latino entrepreneurs have started new businesses at
the fastest rate in over 25 years.  We have more than doubled Small
Business Administration loans to Latino-owned businesses.  We have
invested a record more than $15 billion in Hispanic-serving colleges and
universities, and we approved the cancellation of student debt — a
burden that disproportionately falls on Latino borrowers — for almost
five million people through various actions.  We also cracked down on
bias in the home appraisal process so homes owned by Latinos and those
in majority Latino neighborhoods can be valued fairly.  And we are
making health care a right, not a privilege — doubling Latino enrollment
in coverage under the Affordable Care Act and giving Medicare the power
to negotiate lower prescription drug prices, while capping insulin at
$35 per month for people on Medicare, including for the five million
Latinos on Medicare.  And across the Federal Government, we are
implementing my Administration’s National HIV/AIDS Strategy,
prioritizing the expansion of HIV services to reach all Americans —
especially Latino gay men, who now represent the highest incidence of
new HIV cases in the country.

At the same time, I am working to build an immigration system that is
fair, orderly, and humane.  On my first day in office, I sent a
comprehensive immigration reform bill to the Congress.  It includes more
resources for a strong border and expands permanent visas for families
and employers.  It also includes a pathway to citizenship for Dreamers,
whose contributions have made this country better and stronger.  While
the Congress has failed to take up this legislation, my Administration
is taking action to protect and support Dreamers and others.  We issued
a rule that will, for the first time, finally provide Deferred Action
for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) recipients with access to health insurance
through the Affordable Care Act.  Additionally, we proposed a rule that
would give Dreamers, among others from underserved backgrounds, the
support and resources they need to successfully transition from high
school to college — providing access to everything from college campus
visits to tutoring and help with financial aid applications.  And I am
proud that my Administration has reunited nearly 800 families that were
shamefully separated at the border under the prior administration.  My
Administration also implemented a process to help the noncitizen spouses
of United States citizens who have been here for 10 years or more, along
with their children, to apply for lawful permanent residence without
leaving the country.  And we have taken steps to help young people who
have been educated in the United States, including DACA recipients and
other Dreamers, receive work visas more quickly.

In the Oval Office, I keep a bust of Cesar Chavez, one of my heroes, who
once said:  “Our ambitions must be broad enough to include the
aspirations and needs of others, for their sakes and for our own.”
 Together, I know that we will continue to build a future that
generations of Latinos can be proud of — one founded on honesty,
respect, and faith and where everyone has an opportunity to pursue their
talents and ambitions.

In recognition of the achievements of the Hispanic and Latino community,
the Congress, by Public Law 100-402, as amended, has authorized and
requested the President to issue annually a proclamation designating
September 15 through October 15 as “National Hispanic Heritage Month.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 15
through October 15, 2024, as National Hispanic Heritage Month.  I call
upon all Americans to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies,
activities, and programs that celebrate Hispanic heritage and recognize
the impact Hispanic peoples have had on our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
