---
date: '2024-09-27'
published_time: 2024-09-27 13:13:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/27/a-proclamation-on-national-hunting-and-fishing-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hunting and Fishing Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Generations of Americans have enjoyed hunting and fishing —
cherished traditions that bring us closer to our Nation’s natural
wonders and embody America’s spirit of resourcefulness and adventure. 
During National Hunting and Fishing Day, we celebrate our Nation’s
hunters and anglers, honor their contributions, and continue the
conservation work that so many of them have led.  

     Americans who hunt and fish have immense appreciation for our
environment.  They know that when we take care of the natural world, we
ensure that all generations to come will also have the opportunity to
hunt, fish, and enjoy the great outdoors.  Passing down this tradition
is especially important to rural communities, where hunting and fishing
are time-honored pastimes, and to Tribal Nations, where hunting and
fishing remain central to their cultures and livelihoods.  My
Administration set the most ambitious conservation goal ever —
committing to conserve at least 30 percent of all our Nation’s lands and
waters by 2030.  That goal is at the heart of my “America the Beautiful”
initiative to support locally led, voluntary conservation and
restoration efforts across the country.  And within our national
wildlife refuge system, I approved a 2-million-acre expansion of land
available for hunting and fishing.  The Department of Agriculture and
the Department of the Interior are working with the Hunting and Wildlife
Conservation Council to improve hunters’ and anglers’ access to public
lands and waters.  I also launched the Federal Interagency Council on
Outdoor Recreation to create more safe, affordable, and equitable
opportunities for outdoor recreation, including hunting and fishing.  My
Inflation Reduction Act made the largest investment ever in addressing
the climate crisis, harnessing the power of nature as a climate solution
and working to ensure that our fish and wildlife are healthy and
abundant for years to come.

     During National Hunting and Fishing Day, we celebrate hunting and
fishing and the place they hold in our hearts, cultures, and national
story.  We recommit to protecting these activities, which are important
to upholding our sacred trust, treaty, and subsistence responsibilities
to Tribal Nations.  And we honor all the incredible contributions of the
hunters and fishers, land owners, State and territorial officials,
Tribal Nations, Indigenous communities, and local leaders working to
conserve our lands and waters.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 28, 2024, as National Hunting and Fishing Day.  I call upon
all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
