---
date: '2024-09-26'
published_time: 2024-09-26 19:30:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/26/executive-order-on-combating-emerging-firearms-threats-and-improving-school-based-active-shooter-drills/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Combating Emerging Firearms Threats and Improving School-Based\
  \ Active-Shooter\_Drills"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  During 2020, the last year of the prior
administration, homicides in the Nation increased nearly 30 percent over
the previous year — the largest 1-year increase in murders ever
recorded.  After that, the Vice President and I took action to reduce
gun crime and other forms of violent crime.  By the middle of 2022, we
had already taken more executive action to reduce gun violence than any
other administration at that point in time.  On June 25, 2022, I signed
into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (Public Law 117-159) — the
most significant new gun violence prevention law in nearly 30 years.
 Rates of homicide in the United States are falling at one of the
fastest rates ever recorded.  Year-over-year comparison shows that 2023
had one of the largest declines in the homicide rate in recent history.
 This life-saving progress has continued in 2024.  While we have made
great progress, much more work remains to be done to reduce gun violence
and save lives.

     It is the policy of my Administration to coordinate across
executive departments and agencies (agencies) to reduce gun violence and
save lives.  This order directs enhanced coordination for two key
challenges:  combating emerging firearms threats and understanding and
improving school-based active-shooter drills.

     One way to continue the progress on reducing gun violence is to
stay ahead of emerging violent crime threats involving firearms.  My
Administration has always taken these threats seriously.  In April 2021,
one of my Administration’s first executive actions to reduce gun
violence was directed at stopping the proliferation of firearms without
serial numbers, often referred to as “ghost guns.”  To expand these
efforts, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF)
of the Department of Justice established an Emerging Threats Center,
which focuses ATF’s resources on identifying developments in illicit
firearm marketplaces, including the use of new technologies to make and
unlawfully distribute undetectable firearms and devices that convert
semiautomatic firearms into illegal machineguns.  The Vice President and
I strongly disagreed with the Supreme Court’s decision to strike down an
important gun safety regulation on bump stocks — the device used in the
shooting at a crowded music festival in Las Vegas — and called on the
Congress to clarify that this dangerous accessory is a machinegun.

The Court’s decision addressing bump stocks did not alter the statutory
prohibition on machinegun conversion devices, which are prohibited for
non-governmental possession even when not installed on a firearm.  The
threat posed by the continued proliferation of these devices is
particularly acute.  These devices enable semiautomatic firearms,
including easily concealable handguns, to match or exceed the rate of
fire of many military machineguns with a single engagement of the
trigger — up to 20 bullets in one second and 1,200 rounds in one minute.
 From 2017 through 2021, ATF recovered 5,454 of these devices — a 570
percent increase over the previous 5-year period.  These devices are
often illegally imported or illegally made on a 3D printer.  

Unserialized, 3D printed firearms — which can be used for illicit
purposes such as gun trafficking, possession by people convicted of
felonies or subject to domestic violence restraining orders, or unlawful
engagement in the business of manufacturing or selling firearms — are
another emerging threat.  These firearms can be 3D printed from computer
code downloaded from the internet and produced without serial numbers,
which law enforcement uses to trace firearms recovered in criminal
investigations.  Some 3D printed firearms can be rendered undetectable
by magnetometers used to secure airports, courthouses, and certain
events.  3D printing technology is developing quickly, which can cause
the safety threat of 3D printed firearms to suddenly increase.

In addition to the threat of domestic crime, these emerging firearms
threats pose a significant risk to the national security and foreign
policy interests of the United States.  Many foreign countries have
heavily regulated automatic weapons and 3D printed and undetectable
firearms.  The wide availability of these emerging firearms threats
would undermine other nations’ gun laws and the safety and security of
our allies.  Technical data and software for 3D printed firearms and
machinegun conversion devices can be used by international gangs,
criminals, and terrorists in a manner contrary to United States national
security and foreign policy interests.    

Multiple agencies have the authority to help stop the proliferation of
these emerging threats, and it is the policy of the United States to
work collectively across agencies to identify threats, engage in
information sharing, and work together to develop and implement
effective strategies to combat these threats.  Authorities that can
address emerging firearms threats extend beyond the Gun Control Act
(Public Law 90-618) and the National Firearms Act (Public Law 73-474). 
Focused and enhanced coordination is needed to ensure a unified and
robust strategy for enforcing existing legal authorities and using every
available tool and resource.  This interagency effort will build on the
life-saving work that has occurred to date to stop the proliferation of
machinegun conversion devices, including the ongoing efforts at the
Department of Justice and ATF.

     My Administration also has invested significant resources in school
safety and has taken steps to keeps firearms out of schools.  These
steps have focused on preventing unauthorized access to firearms for
youth and individuals in crisis; supporting schools that are
implementing evidence-based safety and gun-violence prevention and
intervention solutions; and addressing the mental health needs of
students, particularly those impacted by gun violence.  

Keeping students and educators, including teachers and other school
personnel, safe from gun violence in their schools is a top priority for
my Administration, but there is more to do to make our schools safer. 
Since the mass shooting at Columbine High School in Colorado in 1999,
according to one analysis, there have been more than 400 school
shootings that exposed more than 375,000 students to gun violence. 
Exposure to school shootings takes a terrible toll on students and
educators.  A nationally representative study found that 51 percent of
14- to 17‑year‑olds in the United States worry about school shootings.

     The majority of States require schools to conduct active-shooter
drills for students and educators.  About 95 percent of K-12 public
schools in the United States conduct lockdown drills, which include
drills to prepare for an active-shooter situation.  These drills vary
widely in their approach, and many parents, students, and educators have
expressed concerns over the effectiveness of and trauma caused by some
approaches to these drills. 

     Despite their ubiquity, there is very limited research on how to
design and deploy these drills to maximize their effectiveness and
minimize any collateral harms they might cause.  While additional
research is ongoing, it is difficult to conclusively determine which
specific practices are most effective in preparing schools for
active-shooter incidents, preventing injuries and fatalities, and
minimizing any associated psychological impacts or traumas.  The
Department of Justice, the Department of Health and Human Services, the
Department of Education, and the Department of Homeland Security
continue to work together on a range of school safety issues, including
the beginnings of research into these important questions.  It is time
for these agencies to extend their efforts to help schools better design
and conduct effective and age- and developmentally appropriate
active-shooter drills.

Sec. 2.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

(a)  The term “machinegun” has the meaning given by 18 U.S.C. 921(a)(24)
and 26 U.S.C. 5845(b), and includes a “machinegun conversion device,”
which is any part designed and intended solely and exclusively, or
combination of parts designed and intended, for use in converting a
weapon into a machinegun.

(b)  The term “undetectable firearm” means a firearm as proscribed by 18
U.S.C. 922(p).

(c)  The term “3D printing” refers to the additive manufacturing
process, during which producers transmit digital designs to 3D printers.
 The computerized design guides the fabrication of products, building
them up layer by layer rather than cutting away from a large block of
existing material as in most traditional manufacturing.  This term
includes additive manufacturing technology used to produce a firearm,
firearm frame or receiver, or machinegun conversion device.

Sec. 3.  Combating Emerging Firearms Threats.  (a)  There is hereby
established an interagency Emerging Firearms Threats Task Force (Task
Force).  The Task Force shall be chaired by the Director of the Office
of Gun Violence Prevention.  In addition to the Chair, the Task Force
shall consist of the following members:

(i)     the Secretary of State;

(ii)    the Attorney General;

(iii)   the Secretary of Commerce;

(iv)    the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(v)     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget;

(vi)    the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

(vii)   the Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor;

(viii)  the Counsel to the President;

(ix)    the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic
Policy Council;

(x)     the Deputy Assistant to the President and Domestic Policy
Advisor to the Vice President; and

(xi)    the heads of such other agencies and offices as the Chair may
from time to time invite to participate.

\(b\)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall
submit to the President, through the Director of the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention, a report containing a risk assessment and strategy
to stop the proliferation of machinegun conversion devices, with a
particular emphasis on the devices used to convert a standard,
semiautomatic firearm to a machinegun.  The risk assessment and strategy
shall include:

(i)     information regarding the use, recovery, origins, and
distribution channels of machinegun conversion devices, including:

\(A\)  the software or technology used for 3D printing machinegun
conversion devices; and

\(B\)  the origins of machinegun conversion devices that are seized at
ports of entry, illegally imported into the United States, or otherwise
recovered by law enforcement agencies in the United States;

(ii)    an assessment of existing applicable legal authorities of the
agencies represented on the Task Force and other agencies identified at
the direction of the Chair to regulate software or technology used to
make machinegun conversion devices, which shall include a review of
export and import laws;

(iii)   an assessment of the technological and legal feasibility of 3D
printing companies designing 3D printers that block the functional
capacities of software that can 3D print machinegun conversion devices;

(iv)    an assessment of the operational capabilities and legal
authorities of agencies to detect, intercept, and seize machinegun
conversion devices that are illegally imported or illegally produced
domestically, including through 3D printing;

(v)     an interagency plan for expanding U.S. Customs and Border
Protection initiatives with Federal, State, Tribal, and local law
enforcement to stop the flow into the United States of machinegun
conversion devices;

\(vi\)    an interagency plan for seizing as criminal instrumentalities
3D printers that are acquired for the purpose of illegally making
machinegun conversion devices and recommendations for additional
administrative actions necessary to facilitate such seizure;

(vii)   an interagency plan for expanding partnerships with State,
Tribal, and local law enforcement for Federal training on identifying
machinegun conversion devices, tracing the firearms to which they were
attached, and submitting seizure data to ATF;

(viii)  an interagency plan — with input from 3D data providers,
technology companies, and civil society — for voluntary, regulatory, and
international mechanisms to limit the availability on the internet of
files used for the purpose of unlawfully producing machinegun conversion
devices;

(ix)    an interagency plan for effective coordination to limit the
illegal export and import of software or technology on the internet that
can be readily used to 3D print machinegun conversion devices; and

(x)     recommendations for any additional authorities or funding
agencies need from the Congress to more effectively address the
proliferation of machinegun conversion devices.

\(c\)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Task Force shall
submit to the President, through the Director of the Office of Gun
Violence Prevention, a report containing a risk assessment and strategy
to address the emerging threat related to 3D printed firearms, including
unserialized or undetectable 3D printed firearms.  The risk assessment
and strategy shall include:

(i)     information regarding the usage, recovery, origins, and
distribution channels of 3D printed unserialized firearms and 3D printed
undetectable firearms, including the software or technology used for 3D
printing unserialized firearms or undetectable firearms;

(ii)    an assessment of how 3D printing of firearms can facilitate
violation of the Undetectable Firearms Act (18 U.S.C. 922(p));

(iii)   an assessment of existing authorities, including export and
import laws, that regulate software or technology used for 3D printing
firearms, including undetectable firearms;

(iv)    an assessment of the technological feasibility of 3D printers
proactively blocking the functional capacities of software used to 3D
print undetectable firearms;

(v)     an interagency plan for seizing as criminal instrumentalities 3D
printers acquired for the purpose of illegally producing or dealing in
firearms, including unserialized or undetectable firearms, or for the
purpose of producing firearms for criminal purposes, and recommendations
for additional administrative actions that may be necessary to
facilitate such seizures;

(vi)    an interagency plan for effective coordination between the
Department of Justice and the Department of Commerce to limit the
illegal export or import of software or technology on the internet that
can be readily used to illegally 3D print firearms, including
unserialized or undetectable firearms;

(vii)   an interagency plan for expanding partnerships with Federal,
State, Tribal, and local law enforcement to train them on identifying
undetectable or unserialized firearms made with 3D printing software or
technology and reporting recoveries of such firearms to ATF; and

(viii)  recommendations for any additional authorities or funding the
agencies need from the Congress to more effectively address the problem
of 3D printed firearms, including unserialized or undetectable firearms.

(d)  The Task Force shall be responsible for interagency coordination
necessary to facilitate agencies’ implementation of the recommendations
and strategies in the reports described in subsections (b) and (c) of
this section.

(e)  At the direction of the Chair, the Task Force may coordinate
interagency efforts to address additional emerging firearms threats.

     Sec. 4.  Understanding and Improving School-Based Active-Shooter
Drills.  (a)  Within 110 days of the date of this order, the Secretary
of Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination
with the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services,
and the Surgeon General, shall develop and publish information about
school-based active-shooter drills for schools, including institutions
of higher education, and for State, Tribal, and local educational
agencies.  Such information shall include:

(i)   a summary of existing research and recommendations on
active-shooter drills, including information on:

\(A\)  how educators can collaborate within schools — as well as with
families; communities; State, Tribal, and local law enforcement; and
other emergency response officials — to implement drills that
effectively prepare a response to school-based active-shooter
situations, including by accounting for the particular needs of
educators and students with disabilities; sharing evidence-informed age-
and developmentally appropriate practices, such as those that prevent or
limit trauma and psychological harm to those participating in drills;
and facilitating effective and timely communication with students,
educators, first responders, family members, and other relevant
stakeholders; and

(B)  how schools must comply with Federal civil rights laws prohibiting
discrimination on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, and
disability when creating, implementing, and evaluating active-shooter
drills, including by effectively serving educators and students with
disabilities as well as ensuring that communications with educators and
students consider their language-related needs (e.g., communicating in a
manner and language that educators and students are able to understand);
and

(ii)  resources on school-based active-shooter drills, including
information on:

(A)  the types of drills that may be appropriate to prepare students and
educators for school-based active-shooter situations; and

(B)  how to create, implement, and evaluate evidence-informed,
effective, and age- and developmentally appropriate school-based drills,
including:

(1)  how best to engage with students, family members, educators, law
enforcement, and other relevant stakeholders on the process for
creating, implementing, and evaluating these drills;

(2)  how best to communicate with students, family members, educators,
and other relevant stakeholders before, during, and after the drill,
including through the use of notification plans for students, educators,
parents, and other parties;

(3)  how to prevent or limit trauma or psychological distress associated
with active-shooter drills and support students and educators who may
experience such trauma or psychological distress; and

(4)  how best to serve people with disabilities and those with unique
language-related needs.

\(b\)  Within 110 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Education and the Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and
the Surgeon General, shall develop and publish information on
recommended areas for future research that can help inform policymakers,
educators, students, parents, and other relevant stakeholders about
different types of school-based active-shooter drills, the appropriate
frequency of such drills, and the effects of such drills on students and
educators.  This information shall include potential funding sources
that could help advance research on, and inform improvements to,
active-shooter drills.

Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
September 26, 2024.
