---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 19:31:25-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 19:31:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-clean-energy-action-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Clean Energy Action Month,\_2024"
---
 
When I think of clean energy, I think of good-paying jobs for American
workers.  Our Nation is leading the fight against the existential threat
of climate change all while growing our economy and transitioning this
country to a clean, reliable, and affordable energy future.  During
National Clean Energy Action Month, we recommit to investing in America
and American workers as we build a cleaner, more energy secure future.  

Since day one of my Administration, in partnership with Vice President
Harris, I have been committed to building a clean energy economy that
creates good-paying and union jobs for American workers.  That is why my
Investing in America agenda is making the most significant investment in
climate and clean energy in history.  That investment has helped America
unleash a clean energy manufacturing and deployment boom — attracting
more than $426 billion in private sector investment commitments.  It has
also created more than 330,000 new jobs according to independent
estimates.  These investments are disproportionately going to places
that have been left behind — including historic energy communities that
have powered this Nation for generations and to workers who do not have
a 4-year college degree.

We are also making investments that help ensure our clean energy future
will be built here in America — by American workers.  My Inflation
Reduction Act is delivering on my commitment to be the most pro-worker,
pro-union President in history.  For the first time ever, we are
attaching strong labor protections and incentives to climate and clean
energy tax credits.  My Administration finalized a rule through the
Inflation Reduction Act incentivizing companies to pay clean energy
workers a prevailing wage and employ registered apprentices.  These
provisions help ensure jobs building wind farms, installing solar
panels, and constructing hydrogen and carbon capture facilities will be
good-paying and support proven pathways into the clean energy industry
that allow workers to earn while they learn.  Outside estimates suggest
the Inflation Reduction Act could help create as many as 1.5 million
jobs over the next decade.  And I launched the American Climate Corps to
train this next generation of clean energy, conservation, and resilience
workers. 

My Administration is making significant progress toward our ambitious
goals of securing 100 percent clean electricity by 2035 and achieving
net-zero emissions by 2050.  That is in no small part due to our
Inflation Reduction Act’s tax credits and rebates, which families can
use to install solar panels, buy energy-saving appliances, get heat
pumps, and purchase American-made electric cars.  Not only will this law
help triple wind power generation and increase solar production
eight-fold by 2030 — tens of billions of dollars will go to the pockets
of American families.  And through Federal programs like the Low-Income
Home Energy Assistance Program, we are lowering Americans’ energy bills
and making millions of homes safer and more energy efficient.

But there is still so much more to do to ensure that we are leading
American industries into the 21st century and tackling climate change. 
That is why my Administration made the largest investment in America’s
power grid ever — making it more resilient to severe weather, laying new
transmission lines, and upgrading existing infrastructure so clean and
affordable energy can reach every corner of the country.  At the same
time, we are speeding up permitting for clean energy and transmission
projects while implementing new emissions standards to reduce pollution
from oil and gas producers, power plants, and vehicles — which will save
American lives, improve the well-being of our people, and save tens of
billions of dollars in healthcare costs.    

Across the country, Americans are writing the next chapter in our
Nation’s clean energy future — they are getting shovels in the ground
and working hard in good-paying jobs all while supporting their families
and restoring pride to their communities.  During National Clean Energy
Action Month, we celebrate all the progress in clean energy, and we
recommit to coming together to secure the future of clean energy here at
home.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2024 as
National Clean Energy Action Month.  I call upon all Americans to
explore whether new tax credits and rebates can help them lower
emissions and save money on energy bills, cars, and home upgrades, and
to recognize this month by talking to neighbors, friends, and coworkers
about opportunities to address the climate crisis, and working together
to mitigate climate change and achieve a healthier environment for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
