---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 13:40:14-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 13:40:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-amending-proclamation-10773/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Amending Proclamation\_10773"
---
 
On June 3, 2024, I signed Proclamation 10773 (Securing the Border). 
That proclamation suspended and limited the entry of certain noncitizens
into the United States across the southern border during times of high
border crossings, and directed the Secretary of Homeland Security and
the Attorney General to promptly consider issuing any instructions,
orders, or regulations as might be necessary to address the
circumstances at the southern border, including any additional
limitations and conditions on asylum eligibility that they determined
were warranted.  Following that direction, the Secretary of Homeland
Security and the Attorney General issued an interim final rule (IFR)
that established a limitation on asylum eligibility for certain
noncitizens who enter the United States across the southern border
during times when Proclamation 10773 and the IFR are designed to be in
effect, and revised certain procedures applicable to the expedited
removal process to more swiftly apply consequences for irregular
migration during those times for noncitizens who do not establish a
lawful basis to remain.

     Those actions have already produced significant results.  Since
Proclamation 10773 and the IFR went into effect, and as of the end of
the last calendar month, the average number of encounters by the United
States Border Patrol at our southwest border between ports of entry has
decreased by 59 percent compared to the period after the Circumvention
of Lawful Pathways rule began to apply on May 12, 2023, and before
Proclamation 10773 and the IFR went into effect.  July and August 2024
were the lowest 2 months of encounters between ports of entry since
September 2020.  While Proclamation 10773 and the IFR have been in
effect, and for individuals encountered between southern border ports of
entry as of the end of the last calendar month, the Department of
Homeland Security has removed or returned 70 percent of single adults
and family members, including more than 119,000 individuals to more than
140 countries; has more than tripled the percentage of noncitizens
processed through expedited removal; and has decreased the percentage of
noncitizens encountered at the southwest border who are released by
United States Border Patrol pending their removal proceedings by 52
percent.

     Following the issuance of the IFR, the Department of Homeland
Security and the Department of Justice (Departments) received and
reviewed more than 1,000 comments.  Based on their review of those
comments and their experience in implementing Proclamation 10773 and the
IFR, the Departments have identified two issues related to the
thresholds for determining when to apply the suspension and limitation
on entry in Proclamation 10773 and the measures described in the IFR. 

     First, having closely monitored the 7-consecutive-calendar-day
average of encounters following the issuance of Proclamation 10773 and
the IFR, the Departments have assessed that the current threshold for
discontinuing the suspension and limitation on entry in Proclamation
10773 and the measures described in the IFR could be reached following a
short-term decrease in the number of encounters at the southern border
that does not reflect a sustained decrease in the number of such
encounters or an end to the border circumstances in which Proclamation
10773 and the IFR are designed to apply.  The Departments are currently
considering regulatory action to address this issue as it relates to the
measures described in the IFR.  With respect to Proclamation 10773, to
ensure that the threshold to discontinue the suspension and limitation
on entry reflects a sustained decrease in encounters, I have now
determined that the suspension and limitation on entry in that
proclamation should be discontinued only after the Secretary of Homeland
Security has made a factual determination that there have been 28
consecutive calendar days in which the 7-consecutive-calendar-day
average of encounters is less than 1,500. 

     Second, while Proclamation 10773 and the IFR excluded encounters of
unaccompanied children from non-contiguous countries from the
calculation of encounters, the Departments have assessed, based on their
experience implementing Proclamation 10773 and the IFR, that this
exclusion is unwarranted because processing such noncitizens is
particularly resource-intensive for our frontline personnel at the
southern border.  This experience indicates that excluding these
noncitizens from the calculation yields inaccurate estimates of system
capacity.  Again, the Departments are currently considering regulatory
action to address this issue as it relates to the measures described in
the IFR.  I have now concluded that in order to better achieve
Proclamation 10773’s goal of enhancing our ability to address historic
levels of migration and more efficiently process migrants arriving at
the southern border, that proclamation should include unaccompanied
children from both non-contiguous and contiguous countries in the
calculation of encounters.  Consistent with section 3(b)(iii) of
Proclamation 10773, any unaccompanied children will remain excepted from
the suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of
Proclamation 10773.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws
of the United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a)) and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that, absent the
measures set forth in Proclamation 10773, as amended by this
proclamation, the entry into the United States of persons described in
section 1 of Proclamation 10773 under circumstances described in section
2 of Proclamation 10773, as amended by this proclamation, would be
detrimental to the interests of the United States, and that the entry of
such persons should be subject to certain restrictions, limitations, and
exceptions.  I therefore hereby proclaim the following:

     Section 1.  Amendment to Section 2(a) of Proclamation 10773. 
Section 2(a) of Proclamation 10773 is amended to read as follows:

     “The Secretary of Homeland Security shall monitor the number of
daily encounters and, subject to subsection (b) of this section, the
suspension and limitation on entry pursuant to section 1 of this
proclamation shall be discontinued at 12:01 a.m. eastern time on the
date that is 14 calendar days after the Secretary makes a factual
determination that there have been 28 consecutive calendar days of a
7-consecutive-calendar-day average of less than 1,500 encounters, not
including encounters described in subsection 4(a)(iii) of this
proclamation.”

     <u>Sec</u>. <u>2</u>.  Revocation of Section 2(c) of Proclamation
10773.  Section 2(c) of Proclamation 10773 is revoked.

     Sec. 3.  Severability.  It is the policy of the United States to
enforce this proclamation to the maximum extent possible to advance the
interests of the United States.  Accordingly, if any provision of this
proclamation, or the application of any provision to any person or
circumstance, is held to be invalid, the remainder of this proclamation
and the application of its provisions to any other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby. 

     Sec. 4.  Effectiveness.  The amendments described in sections 1 and
2 of this proclamation shall be effective if and when there is in effect
a final rule promulgated by the Secretary of Homeland Security and the
Attorney General that amends the IFR entitled Securing the Border, 89
Fed. Reg. 48,710 (June 7, 2024), consistent with the amendments
described in sections 1 and 2 of this proclamation.  If, due to court
order, the final rule described in the prior sentence cannot be enforced
insofar as it makes changes consistent with the amendment described in
section 1 of this proclamation, then the amendment described in section
1 of this proclamation will no longer be in effect and section 2(a) of
Proclamation 10773 shall continue to apply by its terms.  If, due to
court order, the final rule described in the first sentence of this
section cannot be enforced insofar as it makes changes consistent with
the amendment described in section 2 of this proclamation, then the
amendment described in section 2 of this proclamation will no longer be
in effect and section 2(c) of Proclamation 10773 shall continue to apply
by its terms.

     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-ninth.
