---
date: '2024-09-30'
published_time: 2024-09-30 14:29:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-domestic-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2024"
---
 
  Domestic violence affects millions of Americans across our Nation with
devastating consequences for survivors, families, and entire
communities.  Everyone deserves to live free from the fear of violence,
especially in their own home.  During National Domestic Violence
Awareness and Prevention Month, we recommit to extending support and
resources to all survivors, continuing to hold perpetrators accountable,
and ensuring that our society is truly safe for everyone. 

     Just last month, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the Violence
Against Women Act (VAWA), which I wrote and championed as a United
States Senator.  It is one of the pieces of legislation of which I am
most proud.  VAWA established a coordinated, nationwide response to
gender-based violence, lifting social and legal burdens off survivors
and onto perpetrators, where they belong.  It directed critical funding
toward increasing resources for survivors, strengthened efforts to
prevent and prosecute sexual assault, and funded rape crisis centers and
shelters to support survivors.  It also created the Nation’s first-ever
National Domestic Violence Hotline, which has provided millions of
Americans with lifesaving support, answering its seven millionth contact
this past year. 

     My Administration recognizes that there is still more work to do. 
Between 30 and 40 percent of Americans are impacted by sexual abuse,
physical violence, or stalking — including online — by an intimate
partner throughout their lifetimes.  Over the years, I have spoken with
countless brave survivors of domestic violence, who have shared the
devastating toll this abuse takes on all aspects of their lives.  Their
stories are also marked by a deep courage and resilience.  Above all,
they have made clear that even one case of domestic violence is too many
and goes against who we are as a Nation.

     In 2022, I signed into law the reauthorization of VAWA that
included its highest funding level to date, expanding protections to
ensure that they reach the most vulnerable communities.  These funds
will continue to strengthen the public health response for domestic
violence survivors and their children, expand access to medical forensic
examinations, and increase support for culturally specific resources in
marginalized communities.  Additionally, Tribal courts now have
jurisdiction over non-Native perpetrators of sexual assault, child
abuse, stalking, sex trafficking, and assaults on Tribal lands.  And we
are making sure that VAWA programs are implemented in rural communities
across the Nation. 

     We all have a sacred duty to ensure that no one experiences abuse. 
That is why my Administration is taking important steps to prevent
domestic violence and protect survivors and their families.  We released
the first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, which laid
out a Government-wide approach to prevent and address all forms of
gender-based violence, including intimate partner violence, sexual
violence, and stalking.  Knowing that domestic violence and gun violence
are deeply interconnected, my Administration established the first-ever
White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention, which is overseen by the
Vice President, who has spent her career combatting crimes against women
and children.  And I signed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act — the
most significant gun safety law in decades — which is helping to keep
guns out of the hands of domestic abusers and felons.  Last year, the
Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women awarded over
$600 million in grants to address gender-based violence, and through the
American Rescue Plan, we have directed an additional $1 billion in
funding for rape crisis centers, culturally specific community support
organizations, and other domestic violence and sexual assault services.

     We are also taking action to combat the growing threat of
cybercrimes and online harassment.  We are increasing access to services
and support for survivors of technology-facilitated gender-based
violence and ensuring that law enforcement is better equipped to
prevent, enforce, and prosecute cybercrimes, including technology abuse
by an intimate partner.  Furthermore, the Vice President and I worked
together to create a Federal task force that helped launch the first
24/7 national helpline for survivors of image-based abuse.  We are also
directing Federal agencies to address sexual violence and sexual
harassment in the workplace and in schools, and I have spearheaded
historic military justice reforms to protect survivors of domestic
violence, sexual assault, and other forms of gender-based violence in
our military.

     I remain proud of the progress that has been made in recent decades
to combat domestic violence and violence in all forms, but I know that
there is more work to be done to ensure that every American is safe. 
During National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention Month and
every month, we must lend our unwavering support to survivors and
continue to call upon our fellow Americans to treat everyone with
dignity and respect.  If you or someone you know is in need of support,
immediate and confidential help is available 24/7 through the
National Domestic Violence Hotline by visiting thehotline.org, calling
1-800-799-7233 (TTY 1-800-787-3224), or texting “START” to 88788.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2024 as National Domestic Violence Awareness and Prevention
Month.  I call upon our country to change the social norms that tolerate
domestic violence, provide meaningful support to survivors, and express
gratitude to those working diligently on prevention and response
efforts.  Together, we can transform the country and build a Nation
where all people live free from violence.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
