---
date: '2024-09-16'
modified_time: 2024-09-16 18:08:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-16 18:08:11-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/16/a-proclamation-on-national-voter-registration-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Voter Registration Day,\_2024"
---
 
   American democracy begins and ends with the ballot box — putting the
right to vote and the right to decide our Nation’s future in the hands
of “We the People.”  Voting defines our threshold of liberty and makes
everything possible.  On National Voter Registration Day, we recommit to
protecting the sacred right to vote, and we encourage every eligible
American to register to vote.  
  
     Today, there are forces trying to take us back in time.  They are
trying to suppress voters and subvert elections.  They are supporting
unlimited dark money and extreme gerrymandering to try to influence the
election system in their favor.  We saw it on January 6, 2021, when a
violent mob of insurrectionists and election deniers breached the
Capitol.  It is a solemn reminder that the work to secure our democracy
and protect our fundamental rights and freedoms is not over in this
country.  Each generation must join the work to preserve our democratic
values and norms.  
  
     That is why, when I came into office, I was determined to secure
the right to vote and the right to have every vote counted.  I signed an
Executive Order that directed the entire Federal Government to work on
promoting non-partisan access to voter registration and election
information.  So far, Federal agencies have worked to make voter
registration more accessible for veterans and college students.  The
Department of Justice has doubled its voting rights enforcement staff. 
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services has worked to ensure
that all newly naturalized citizens understand the privilege of voting
and have the opportunity to register.  And the Department of the
Interior is working to increase Indigenous peoples’ access to voter
registration.  Furthermore, Vice President Kamala Harris declared
National Voter Registration Day to be one of three National Days of
Action on Voting Rights, calling on all Americans, regardless of
political affiliation, to come together to encourage voter
registration.  This year, one of my guests at the State of the Union was
one of the brave Americans who marched in Selma, Alabama, nearly 60
years ago on “Bloody Sunday.”  Thanks to these activists who fought
tirelessly for the right to vote — from Seneca Falls, New York, to
Selma, Alabama — the 19th Amendment was ratified and the Voting Rights
Act was signed into law.  But to fully secure the right to vote in every
State, the Congress must take action and pass the Freedom to Vote Act
and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.   
  
     Today, I am thinking of a quote from Benjamin Franklin.  When he
was asked if the Founding Fathers had given America a monarchy or a
republic, he responded, “A republic, if you can keep it.”  On National
Voter Registration Day, we are reminded that our republic is in our
hands and it is incumbent upon us to maintain it.  It is in that spirit
that we encourage every eligible American to ensure they are registered
to vote.  You can verify that your registration is accurate and up to
date and offer to help your neighbors do the same.  For more
information, visit Vote.gov.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September
17, 2024, as National Voter Registration Day.  I call on all eligible
Americans to observe this day by ensuring that they are accurately
registered and by committing to cast a ballot in upcoming elections.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
