---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 15:47:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 15:47:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-arts-and-humanities-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Arts and Humanities Month,\_2024"
---
 
      The arts and humanities bring people together and show us that we
have more in common than we have differences — helping us see each
other, understand one another, and unite in common cause.  Our artists
and scholars embody the very spirit of America:  the drive to create and
connect, the pursuit of excellence, and the boldness to be truthtellers
and change seekers.  During National Arts and Humanities Month, we
celebrate the artists and scholars who lift us up, speak to our souls,
and shape who we are as a Nation.

     We are a great Nation, largely because of the power of the arts and
humanities, which is stamped into the DNA of America.  My Administration
is committed to continuing the longstanding tradition of supporting the
arts and humanities — including promoting freedom of expression as a
part of a healthy democracy — and has worked to ensure people across the
Nation have access to the connection and economic opportunities they
provide.  During the COVID-19 pandemic, when local venues like theaters
and concert halls were struggling to stay open, we offered a lifeline of
over $1 billion in funding.  In 2022, I also signed an Executive Order
to advance the cultural vitality of our country and ensure that access
to the arts and humanities is within reach of every American.  That
included re-establishing the President’s Committee on the Arts and the
Humanities (PCAH) and appointing the First Lady as an honorary chair and
Lady Gaga and Bruce Cohen as co-chairs.  The Institute of Museum and
Library Services (IMLS) recently celebrated the 10 recipients of the
2024 National Medal for Museum and Library Service, our Nation’s highest
honor given to museums and libraries that demonstrate excellence in
service to their communities.  The National Endowment for the Arts (NEA)
also launched ArtsHere, a $10 million grant pilot program expected to
announce nearly 100 awards for projects by local arts organizations
working in underserved communities.  And this year, the NEA — alongside
policy experts at the White House, the Second Gentleman, and more —
convened artists to demonstrate how the arts and humanities are critical
infrastructure to our own well-being and the health of our democracy. 

     I believe deeply in the power of the arts and humanities to tell
the story of our Nation and help guide our path toward a better Union. 
That is why the First Lady and I have hosted countless events that
brought artists and performers here to the White House — from movie
screenings and poetry readings to musical performances and a Juneteenth
concert on the South Lawn.  We have also honored a number of incredible
artists and scholars by awarding the National Humanities Medals and
National Medals of Arts and by hosting the Kennedy Center Honorees at
the White House.  These events and honors are a reminder of the value
the arts and humanities bring to our lives and our Nation.  

     Our Administration is working with artists and scholars to ensure
that hate has no safe harbor in America.  As a part of our United We
Stand Summit, the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) launched a
joint initiative with the NEA called Connecting Through Culture to
leverage the arts and humanities against hate-motivated violence,
promote civic engagement, and encourage cross-cultural understanding. 
Building on the work of United We Stand, the PCAH, NEH, NEA, and IMLS
also launched the Artists for Understanding initiative to bring together
a diverse community of artists and humanitarians in the fight against
hate.  And the NEH has worked to support humanities and research
programs that capture the good, bad, and truth of our Nation.  From
helping to document the oral histories of survivors and descendants of
the Federal Indian Boarding School era to investing in programs that
help protect and preserve America’s Black history through Historically
Black Colleges and Universities and supporting cultural institutions in
the Pacific Islands, we show our commitment to understanding and
learning from our past so that we can work together to build a better
future.

     Our Nation’s artists, librarians, scholars, and museum
professionals make us feel our humanity, reminding us of all that is
possible when we come together.  This month, may we celebrate American
artists and scholars, who will always hold a special place in the soul
of our Nation.  And may we recommit to supporting the arts and
humanities, which make us a stronger and more prosperous Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2024 as National Arts and Humanities Month.  I call on the
people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and celebrations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
