---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 19:22:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 19:22:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-cybersecurity-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Cybersecurity Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
   Defending our digital world is essential to ensuring the safety and
security of our Nation and the American people.  During National
Cybersecurity Month, we recommit to protecting our data and technologies
from malicious hackers and cyber threats.  We encourage all Americans to
learn more about cybersecurity.  And we promise to ensure that America
can realize the positive impacts of our digital future.

     My Administration is committed to securing the digital ecosystems
that touch nearly every aspect of American life.  That is why I released
the National Cybersecurity Strategy, which lays out 100 actions the
Federal Government, along with our public and private sector partners,
is taking to defend our increasingly digital world.  This strategy aims
to ensure primary responsibility for creating a safe digital future is
borne by technology companies and the Federal Government, entities that
are most capable and best-positioned to reduce cyber-related risks for
all of us.  I have signed Executive Orders to secure the digital
infrastructure of the Nation’s ports, fortify our supply chains, and
strengthen our industrial base.  Furthermore, my Administration launched
the “U.S. Cyber Trust Mark” program, which works with leading product
manufacturers and retailers to ensure Americans have the option of
choosing safer smart devices.  Through executive action, we are also
setting a higher standard of security for the software purchased by the
Government.  

     To keep our digital world safe, we are supporting efforts to build
a strong cyber workforce that is ready to meet this moment.  My
Administration is committed to investing in the next generation of
cybersecurity experts and opening up more opportunities for Americans to
pursue a cyber-based career.  We have invested in infrastructure
projects across the country, where America’s workers are building
semiconductors and making our electric grids more resilient to cyber
threats.  We also released a National Cyber Workforce and Education
Strategy focused on giving more Americans access to the skills and
education needed to pursue good-paying jobs in the cyber field.  We have
made the Federal Government a model for that work by transitioning the
hiring process for cyber positions in the Federal Government to be
skills-based –- focusing on required skills and removing unnecessary
degree requirements.  We launched the “Service for America” campaign
with a recruiting and hiring sprint to connect more people to cyber jobs
and fill critical vacancies.  And we are working with academia and the
public and private sectors to grow the national cyber workforce by
providing high-quality training, scholarships, paid internships, and
Registered Apprenticeships.

     My Administration is ensuring that America leads the world in
cybersecurity, and we are working with our international partners to
combat cyber threats.  We are convening the nearly 70 member countries
and international organizations of the International Counter Ransomware
Initiative launched by my Administration to address the scourge of
ransomware at both an operational and a policy level.  We are working
closely with allies and partners to bolster our cyber defense so that we
can communicate and support one another in response to cyberattacks. 
And we have established cybersecurity goals that are rooted in
protecting our shared democratic values.

     During National Cybersecurity Month, we recognize the important
role that cybersecurity plays in keeping Americans safe, protecting our
institutions, and upholding our democracy.  We honor all of the
cybersecurity professionals, who are working tirelessly to defend our
digital world.  And we look forward to all that we will accomplish as we
work together to advance cybersecurity.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2024 as National Cybersecurity Month.  I call upon the people,
businesses, and institutions of the United States to recognize and act
on the importance of cybersecurity and to observe National Cybersecurity
Month in support of our national security and resilience.  I also call
upon businesses and institutions to take action to better protect the
American people against cyber threats and create new opportunities for
American workers to pursue good-paying cyber jobs.  Americans can also
take immediate action to better protect themselves by turning on
multifactor authentication, updating software on computers and devices,
using strong passwords, and remaining cautious of clicking on links that
look suspicious.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
   
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
