---
date: '2024-09-12'
modified_time: 2024-09-12 13:10:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-12 13:10:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/12/proclamation-on-the-30th-anniversary-of-the-violence-against-women-act/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on the 30th Anniversary of the Violence Against Women\_Act"
---
 
Tomorrow, we celebrate the 30th anniversary of the Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA), which has transformed our Nation’s response to sexual
assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and stalking while also
providing communities with the tools necessary to support survivors and
save lives.  I was proud to write VAWA and champion it three decades
ago, and I am even prouder to honor its lasting legacy today.

Before VAWA, our country did not talk about violence against women as a
national epidemic or an issue the Government had to address.  As a
society, we often overlooked domestic violence — calling it a family
matter, not a crime.  Too few police officers were trained on how to
properly respond to domestic violence, and there were not enough places
for survivors to go for the help they needed or the justice they
deserved.  There was no national hotline, and many survivors’ stories
went untold. 

That is why, as a United States Senator, I worked closely with brave and
committed survivors and advocates to write VAWA ‑- and with the
incredible efforts of activists and women’s rights leaders, we got it
passed.  Courageous survivors spoke out about the abuse they had
endured, bringing this hidden epidemic out of the shadows and changing
the way America saw this issue.  VAWA was a game changer.  We began to
increase justice for survivors and accountability for perpetrators.  And
we finally acknowledged ending gender-based violence as a shared
priority for the Nation and turned to developing the coordinated
response that survivors need and deserve. 

Beginning in 1994, VAWA has delivered critical resources and support to
help survivors of gender-based violence.  Shelters, rape crisis centers,
housing, and legal assistance were made available, and funding was
provided to train law enforcement, prosecutors, advocates, and judges to
improve our justice system’s response to survivors.  We also created the
first-ever National Domestic Violence Hotline, which has provided
millions of people with lifesaving, confidential support and this year
answered its seven millionth call.

I have worked across the aisle to reauthorize VAWA four times since its
initial signing, each time making this critical law even stronger.  We
strengthened protections against stalking, dating violence, trafficking,
and sexual assault, expanded access to justice for Tribal communities,
and improved services for immigrant, older adult, and LGBTQI+ survivors,
among other underserved communities.  As President, I signed the most
recent reauthorization of VAWA in 2022, and secured the highest-ever
funding level for VAWA implementation.  We provided support for
survivors and invested in prevention efforts and educational programs so
that we can put a stop to violence and abuse before it occurs.  And we
established a new Federal civil cause of action for individuals whose
intimate visual images are disclosed without their consent.  

My Administration has prioritized putting an end to gender-based
violence even beyond VAWA.  I signed the most significant gun safety law
in nearly three decades, which narrowed the “boyfriend loophole” to help
keep guns out of the hands of domestic abusers.  And I established the
first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.  We put in
place new protections to support survivors and address sexual assault
and sexual harassment in the workplace and released the first-ever
National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence, an all-of-government
approach to preventing and addressing all forms of gender-based
violence.  And through the American Rescue Plan, we have invested $1
billion in supplemental funding for rape crisis centers, community
support organizations, and other services for gender-based violence
survivors.

We have led historic, bipartisan military justice reforms to ensure that
prosecutorial decisions in cases of gender-based violence are fully
independent from the chain of command and better protect survivors in
our military.  My Administration has restored and strengthened vital
protections under Title IX to help keep students and employees safe from
sexual assault and harassment on campus.  And Vice President Kamala
Harris and I launched a Federal task force that has taken concrete steps
toward prevention, accountability for perpetrators, research, and
support for survivors of online harassment and abuse, including
launching the first 24/7 national helpline for survivors of image-based
abuse.

When I presented VAWA to the Senate all those years ago, I envisioned a
world where every woman could live free from fear, free from violence,
and free from abuse.  We have made tremendous strides toward achieving
this vision, but there is still much more to do.  On this milestone
anniversary, let us recommit to creating a society that is truly safe
and where we all agree that even one case of gender-based violence is
too many.  And let us honor the survivors and advocates, whose powerful
voices and tireless dedication have changed our world for the better.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 13,
2024, as the 30th anniversary of the Violence Against Women Act.  I call
upon each of us to change the culture of violence against women and
provide meaningful support to all survivors.  Together, we can transform
the country and build a Nation where all people live free of violence
and abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
