---
date: '2024-09-10'
modified_time: 2024-09-10 09:55:14-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-10 09:55:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/10/patriot-day-and-national-day-of-service-and-remembrance-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Patriot Day and National Day of Service and Remembrance,\_2024"
---
 
     Today, we honor the brave Americans who met the terror of September
11 with extraordinary acts of courage and sacrifice.  In our darkest
hour — when terrorists believed they could bring our country to its
knees — those Americans proved that our Nation’s unbreakable spirit
would prevail.  
  
     In the moments, days, and years after the attacks on September 11,
heroes were forged.  Firefighters, police officers, and first responders
ran into the inferno of jet fuel and debris at Ground Zero, risking
their own lives to save the lives of others.  Service members and
civilians rushed into the fiery breach at the Pentagon again and again
to rescue their colleagues.  The patriotic passengers of Flight 93 made
the ultimate sacrifice to prevent their plane from being used to take
more innocent souls.  And in big cities, rural towns, suburbs, and
Tribal communities, hundreds of thousands of American hands went up —
ready to serve our Nation in uniform.  
  
      We owe these patriots of the 9/11 Generation a debt of gratitude
that we can never fully repay.  They were deployed to Afghanistan to
make sure the United States would not be attacked again.  They served in
Iraq and other war zones to defend our democracy and deny terrorists
safe haven.  They followed Osama bin Laden to the ends of the Earth and
ultimately sent him to the gates of hell.  And 2 years ago, we made sure
his deputy met the same fate.  
  
     The First Lady and I hold all those whose loved ones gave their
last full measure of devotion in this fight close in our hearts.  And we
will never stop working to fulfill our country’s sacred obligation to
them and every military and veteran family, caregiver, and survivor:  to
properly prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way and to care for
them and their families when they return home — and when they do not.  
  
     Over the last 23 years, what was destroyed, we have repaired.  What
was threatened, we have fortified.  What was attacked — the indomitable
American spirit — prevailed.  That is who we are.  That is the soul of
our Nation.  There is nothing we cannot accomplish when we defend with
all our hearts that which makes us unique in the world:  our democracy.
 That is what the heroes and patriots of 9/11 did.  And that is what we
must all continue to do today.    
  
     To observe this day with service, find opportunities to volunteer
in your community at americorps.gov/911-day.  
  
     By a joint resolution approved December 18, 2001 (Public Law
107-89), the Congress has designated September 11 of each year as
“Patriot Day,” and by Public Law 111-13, approved April 21, 2009, the
Congress has requested the observance of September 11 as an annually
recognized “National Day of Service and Remembrance.”  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim September 11, 2024, as Patriot Day
and National Day of Service and Remembrance.  I call upon all
departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the United States to
display the flag of the United States at half-staff on Patriot Day and
National Day of Service and Remembrance in honor of the individuals who
lost their lives on September 11, 2001.  I invite the Governors of the
United States and its Territories and interested organizations and
individuals to join in this observance.  I call upon the people of the
United States to participate in community service in honor of those our
Nation lost, to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities, including remembrance services, and to observe a moment of
silence beginning at 8:46 a.m. Eastern Daylight Time to honor the
innocent victims who perished as a result of the terrorist attacks on
September 11, 2001.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
