---
date: '2024-09-20'
modified_time: 2024-09-20 16:36:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-20 16:36:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/20/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-and-native-american-pacific-islander-serving-institutions-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving\
  \ Institutions Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Our Nation’s nearly 200 Asian American and Native American Pacific
Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISIs) open doors of opportunity for
millions of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AA
and NHPI) students.  AANAPISIs provide a pathway to the middle class and
a better life for their students, many of whom often come from
low-income neighborhoods and may be the first in their families to
attend college.  During AANAPISI Week, we celebrate these critical
institutions for the resources and support they provide to students, and
we recommit to advancing their mission and success.

     AANAPISIs play a critical role in the lives of so many of our
Nation’s AA and NHPI students.  In addition to a quality education,
these institutions meet AA and NHPI students where they are and foster
inclusive learning environments — providing tutoring, career
development, counseling, culturally and linguistically responsive
services, and more.  AANAPISIs confer more than half of all associate
degrees and more than a third of baccalaureate degrees that AA and NHPI
students earn.

     My Administration is committed to strengthening our AANAPISIs so
that more AA and NHPI students can reach their full potential.  My
American Rescue Plan delivered $5 billion to AANAPISIs.  The Department
of Education has invested in increasing the number of diverse and
talented teachers by funding programs at Minority Serving Institutions
that serve large percentages of AA and NHPI populations.  Across my
Administration, Federal agencies are working to expand the capacity of
AANAPISIs and strengthen their programs.  And I re-established the White
House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
Islanders and released a National Strategy to Advance Equity, Justice,
and Opportunity for AA and NHPI Communities.  These actions work to
ensure AA and NHPI communities have the resources they need to thrive.

     My Administration is also working to make college more affordable
for all students.  We provided a $900 increase to the maximum Pell Grant
award — the largest increase in over a decade, canceled debt for
hundreds of thousands of borrowers through the Public Service Loan
Forgiveness program, and taken steps to help borrowers manage their
payments through income-driven repayment.  And earlier this year, I laid
out my Administration’s new plans that would cancel student debt for
more than 30 million Americans when combined with everything we have
done so far.

     I have always believed that the American Dream is big enough for
everyone — and every generation has benefited by opening the doors of
opportunity a bit wider for those behind them.  During AANAPISI Week,
may we celebrate the nearly 200 institutions across our Nation that
ensure generations of AA and NHPI students can pursue the limits of
their talents and ambitions.  May we recognize that diversity will
always be one of our Nation’s greatest strengths.  And may we celebrate
all our Nation’s AA and NHPI students. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 23 through September 29, 2024, as Asian American and Native
American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Week.  I call on public
officials, educators, and all the people of the United States to observe
this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities that
acknowledge the many ways these institutions and their graduates
contribute to our country.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
