---
date: '2024-09-06'
modified_time: 2024-09-06 16:42:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-06 16:42:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/06/a-proclamation-on-national-hispanic-serving-institutions-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week,\_2024"
---
 
     Education is a ticket to a better life, and for more than 4.7
million Hispanic and Latino students, Hispanic-Serving Institutions
(HSIs) make it possible.  The over 500 HSIs across our country are home
to over half of Hispanic and Latino college students.  During National
Hispanic-Serving Institutions Week, we celebrate these critical
postsecondary institutions, which empower our students to pursue the
full limits of their talent and ambition.  
  
     HSIs are engines of opportunity, success, and upward mobility. 
They serve Dreamers, first-generation college students, and many who
come from low-income and underserved communities.  HSIs empower their
students, no matter the students’ backgrounds, to obtain their degrees
and begin building a more secure, prosperous future for themselves and
their families.   
  
     My Administration is committed to giving HSIs the resources they
need to support the students they serve.  That is why we invested over
$15 billion in HSIs, including $11 billion through the American Rescue
Plan — the largest investment in Hispanic and Latino college students in
our Nation’s history.  I also established the first-ever White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic
Opportunity through Hispanic-Serving Institutions, which will support
HSIs in building their capacity to provide a high-quality education,
identify opportunities for these institutions to participate in Federal
programs, and help to ensure HSIs can continue to be engines of
educational opportunity and economic mobility.  
  
     We are also working to make college more affordable for every
American and to relieve the crushing burden of student loan debt.  We
have approved the cancellation of nearly $170 billion in student loan
debt for nearly 5 million people through various actions.  We repaired
the Public Service Loan Forgiveness Program (PSLF), giving more
breathing room to teachers, nurses, law enforcement officials, first
responders, and other public servants.  My Administration has already
provided relief to 946,000 borrowers through PSLF — before I took
office, only 7,000 public servants had received debt relief through this
program.  We secured a $900 increase to the maximum Pell Grant award —
the largest increase in over a decade — lowering the cost of higher
education for underserved students.  We are also taking steps to help
borrowers manage their payments through income-driven repayment and get
access to benefits through fixes to public service loan forgiveness,
borrower defense, and other key types of discharges.  And earlier this
year, I laid out my Administration’s new plans that would provide debt
relief for more than 30 million Americans when combined with everything
we have done so far.  
  
     The promise of America is big enough for everyone to succeed — we
just have to make sure we keep the doors of opportunity open.  This
week, may we celebrate the more than 500 HSIs, which support our Latino
students, put new possibilities within their reach, and give them a fair
shot at the American Dream.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 9 through September 15, 2024, as National Hispanic-Serving
Institutions Week.  I call on public officials, educators, and all the
people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that acknowledge the many ways
these institutions and their graduates contribute to our country.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 
