---
date: '2024-09-19'
modified_time: 2024-09-19 16:26:16-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-19 16:26:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/19/a-proclamation-on-national-pow-mia-recognition-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National POW/MIA Recognition Day,\_2024"
---
 
Throughout history, America’s service members have risked everything to
keep the light of liberty shining bright.  Today, more than 81,000 of
these brave men and women remain missing and unaccounted for around the
world.  They will never be forgotten, and their courage, service, and
sacrifice will always be cherished by our grateful Nation.  On National
POW/MIA Recognition Day, we honor all those missing and unaccounted
for.  We recommit to bringing them home, no matter how long it takes. 
And we express our ironclad support for their families.

The POW/MIA flag is displayed in its rightful place above the White
House — the People’s House.  The flag serves as a reminder to all
Americans that we are the fortunate heirs of the legacy that they — our
Nation’s unreturned heroes — helped to forge.  These service members
gave all, risked all, and dared all to protect our freedom.  Just as
they kept faith in our Nation, we must keep faith with them.  My
Administration will never forget our obligation to these patriots and
their families.  We owe them a debt of gratitude we can never fully
repay.

For those with family members who are missing and unaccounted for, I
know that the not knowing weighs on your hearts, amid the grieving,
remembering, and cherishing of your loved ones.  My Administration sees
you, stands with you, and will never forget our sacred obligation to
care for you. 

During National POW/MIA Recognition Day, we recognize the absolute
bravery of our Nation’s service members who are missing and unaccounted
for, and we recommit to bringing them home.  We offer our gratitude and
steadfast support for their families, who have given so much to our
Nation.  We also honor the service and sacrifice of former prisoners of
war.  And we remember that the truest testimonial to their sacrifice is
doing our part to ensure that our democracy and the soul of our Nation
endure.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 20, 2024, as
National POW/MIA Recognition Day.  Let all who read this know that
America remains grateful to our heroes held in the worst imaginable
conditions as prisoners of war.  Additionally, I encourage my fellow
citizens across the Nation to reflect on today and let us not forget
those heroes who never returned home from the battlefields around the
world or their families who are still waiting for answers.  I call upon
Federal, State, and local government officials and private organizations
to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
