---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-05 16:54:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 16:54:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/05/a-proclamation-on-national-days-of-prayer-and-remembrance-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Days of Prayer and Remembrance,\_2024"
---
 
   Twenty-three years ago — on September 11, 2001 — 2,977 precious lives
were ripped from us in an evil attack on our Nation.  During these
solemn days, we renew our sacred vow:  Never Forget.  Never forget the
loved ones we lost.  Never forget the first responders who ran toward
the rubble to save others.  Never forget the hundreds of thousands of
patriots who signed up to serve in the years after.  And never forget
that, when an enemy tried to tear us apart, our country came together.
 We stood united.  
  
     While every year we mark this hallowed day, it is never easier.  To
all those who are grieving a lost child, parent, spouse, sibling,
friend, or coworker — and to all those who still bear the wounds from
that September morning — I know how hard this time can be.  It can
reopen that black hole in your chest, bringing you back to the moment
you saw the news or the moment you got the phone call.  Today and every
day, the First Lady and I are holding you close to our hearts.  
  
     We are also thinking of all the families of Americans who showed
extraordinary bravery, selflessness, and sacrifice that day.  They are
the firefighters, police officers, and first responders who ran into the
inferno of jet fuel and debris at Ground Zero and refused to stop
searching for months.  They are the civilians and service members at the
Pentagon who rushed into the fiery breach to rescue their colleagues.
 They are the passengers of Flight 93, who confronted terror with
absolute courage.  They are the heroes who signed up to serve and defend
our homeland from future attacks.  And they include every American —
from communities across our country — who stepped up and stood together.
   
  
     Today — as we remember all those we lost on that searing September
day 23 years ago — let us renew our faith in one another.  Let us
continue to seek light, even in the darkest of hours.  And drawing from
their example, let us resolve to continue building a Nation that stands
as a beacon of liberty and justice for all.  That is the truest memorial
to their lives — our actions, every day, to ensure that our democracy
endures, that our freedom endures, and that the very soul of our Nation
endures.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 6, 2024, through September 8, 2024, as National Days of Prayer
and Remembrance.  I ask that the people of the United States honor the
victims of September 11, 2001, and their loved ones with prayer,
contemplation, memorial services and visits, bells, candlelight vigils,
and other activities.  I invite people around the world to join.  I call
on the citizens of our Nation to give thanks for our many freedoms and
blessings, and I invite all people of faith to join me in asking for
God’s continued guidance, mercy, and protection.  
   
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
