---
date: '2024-09-27'
modified_time: 2024-09-27 13:13:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-27 12:44:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/27/a-proclamation-on-national-public-lands-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Public Lands Day,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s natural wonders are our Nation’s heart and soul.  Our
public lands protect many of these treasures and ensure that generations
can enjoy their splendor — from our national parks and monuments to our
forests and wildlife refuges.  On National Public Lands Day, we honor
these irreplaceable lands and waters and recommit to working together to
preserve them.

     Whether it is the soaring cliffs of Yosemite National Park, the
striking geysers of Yellowstone National Park, or the lush hills of the
Appalachians in the Monongahela National Forest — our Nation’s public
lands inspire and unite us through the ages.  They hold pieces of our
country’s history, etched into our lands and waters.  Some public lands
are considered sacred by Tribal Nations, which have stewarded them since
time immemorial.  And these lands and waters also carry so much promise:
 helping protect us against climate change, providing the clean air we
breathe and clean water we drink, and sustaining the livelihoods of
ranchers, outfitters, guides, and rural and Indigenous communities.  

     Since the beginning of my Administration, I have taken historic
steps to conserve our natural treasures for future generations.  That
began when I signed an Executive Order that established the most
ambitious conservation goal in the history of our country — committing
to conserve at least 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and waters by
2030.  To that end, my “America the Beautiful” initiative is supporting
voluntary, locally led conservation and restoration efforts across the
country.  I also signed an Executive Order to safeguard and steward our
Nation’s forests and enlist nature to help address the climate crisis,
including through the development of the first National Nature
Assessment. 

     Since I came into office, my Administration has conserved more than
42 million acres of our Nation’s lands and waters.  I established and
expanded eight national monuments — including the stunning Avi Kwa Ame
National Monument in Nevada, thought to be one of the most sacred places
on Earth by some Tribal Nations.  I restored protections for lands and
waters across the country that had been rolled back by the previous
administration — including the desert buttes of the Bears Ears National
Monument and the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument, the
stunning Tongass National Forest, and the underwater canyons of the
Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine National Monument. 

     To protect our waters, I took executive action to direct
consideration of more than 700,000 square miles of the Pacific Ocean
southwest of Hawaii as a new National Marine Sanctuary — which could
make this one of the largest protected marine areas on the planet.  And
I protected the United States Arctic Ocean from new oil and gas leasing.
 My Administration is also advancing the proposed Chumash Heritage
National Marine Sanctuary, which stretches along 116 miles of California
coastline.

     My Administration has also made historic investments to preserve
our Nation’s ecosystems and safeguard our communities against the impact
of climate change.  Our Inflation Reduction Act made the largest
investment in history to confront the climate crisis, and together with
our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, these investments will help support
conservation and restoration, including $50 billion dedicated to
strengthening community and ecosystem resilience to climate change.  We
have also worked to promote equitable access to outdoor recreation
opportunities on public lands and waters through the “America the
Beautiful” initiative, launching the Federal Interagency Council on
Outdoor Recreation to address common challenges and opportunities in
expanding outdoor recreation activities and access to the great
outdoors.

     I also launched the American Climate Corps to mobilize a new,
diverse generation of Americans — putting them to work conserving and
restoring our lands and waters, bolstering community resilience,
deploying clean energy, implementing energy efficient technologies, and
advancing environmental justice.  And, upon completing this program, we
are working to ensure they have a pathway to getting high-quality,
good-paying clean energy and climate resilience jobs in the public and
private sectors.

     Our Nation’s public lands have always been and will always be
central to our country’s heritage and essential to our identity.  On
National Public Lands Day, I encourage every American to enjoy the
wonder of our public lands.  All of our country’s national parks,
forests, refuges, and grasslands will have a “Fee-Free Day” on September
28 — anyone can visit them free of charge.  There are several more
fee-free days throughout the year, the last of which will occur on
Veterans Day, November 11.  Whether you go for the incredible vistas,
the lush forests, or the rolling grasslands, our public lands will never
fail to inspire awe and connect us to something bigger than ourselves.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September
28, 2024, as National Public Lands Day.  I invite all Americans to join
me in a day of service for our public lands.  I also encourage
volunteers from across the Nation to celebrate and care for our lands
and waters by reforesting the land, maintaining trails, nurturing
ecosystems, removing invasive species, and doing other conservation work
to serve the lands and waters that support and sustain us.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
