---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 19:21:59-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 19:21:58-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-disability-employment-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Disability Employment Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
America’s economy is stronger when every American has an opportunity to
thrive and contribute meaningfully.  During National Disability
Employment Awareness Month, we honor the incredible contributions of
disabled Americans to our country and economy.  And we recommit to
opening the doors of opportunity wider for people with disabilities,
making our Nation more equal, accessible, and fair.

Not too long ago, a person with a disability in America could be denied
employment because of their disability.  They could even be denied
access to public spaces and basic needs like service in a restaurant or
a grocery store.  One of my early acts as a United States Senator was
co-sponsoring the Rehabilitation Act.  It was the first time in our
Nation’s history that we declared in law what we knew to be true:  that
Americans with disabilities deserve dignity, respect, and an equal
chance at the American Dream.  The Rehabilitation Act is one of the most
consequential civil rights laws in our Nation’s history, banning
discrimination on the basis of disability by any entity the Federal
Government funds. 

The Rehabilitation Act laid the groundwork for another landmark law:
 the Americans with Disabilities Act.  I was enormously proud to
co-sponsor that bill and remain even prouder of its lasting legacy
today.  For more than 61 million Americans living with a disability,
these laws are a source of opportunity, meaningful inclusion,
participation, respect, and -‑ as my dad would say — dignity.  And in
the Obama-Biden Administration, we built on the lasting legacy of these
laws by setting hiring goals in Federal contracts for people with
disabilities, which we have upheld and continued to pursue in the
Biden-Harris Administration.

My Administration is committed to ensuring people with disabilities have
access to good jobs.  In my first few months in office, I signed an
Executive Order establishing a Government-wide commitment to advancing
equality and equity in Federal employment, including for people with
disabilities.  It brought together the Department of Labor, the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Office of Personnel
Management to ensure that Federal workplaces are fully accessible to
people with disabilities so that the dignity and rights of disabled
Americans are lifted in every policy we pursue.  That includes making
sure our Nation’s largest employer — the Federal Government — is the
model for fair, accessible, and decent practices in the workplace.  This
Executive Order directs agencies to address the challenges faced by job
applicants and employees with disabilities.  Additionally, the General
Services Administration adopted the United States Access Board’s new
guidelines to ensure people with disabilities have access to the over
300,000 Federal Government buildings.  Furthermore, my Administration
ended the use of unfair subminimum wages in Federal contracts — no
longer will employers be permitted to pay workers with disabilities less
than minimum wage through the AbilityOne Federal contracting program.
 And the Department of Labor has launched a comprehensive review of the
subminimum wage program.  We are working to increase hiring for people
with disabilities in every sector — from helping State and local
governments, businesses, and nonprofits access Federal funds to hire
more disabled Americans to appointing people with disabilities to
positions in my Administration.

My Administration is also strengthening our Nation’s infrastructure and
making it more accessible so that people with disabilities have no
problems commuting to work or other places.  My Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law makes the biggest investment ever — $1.75 billion —
to expand accessibility in transit and rail stations.  It also includes
$65 billion to expand access to high-speed internet so more disabled
Americans can work, study, and stay connected from home.  Further, the
Department of Justice finalized standards for State and local
governments to make their internet content and mobile apps more
accessible so that digital workplaces are accessible to disabled
Americans.

During National Disability Employment Awareness Month, we celebrate the
talent, impact, and legacy of people with disabilities across our Nation
by working to make our country stronger, more prosperous, and more
just.  And we recommit to ensuring people with disabilities have every
opportunity to pursue the American Dream.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 2024 as
National Disability Employment Awareness Month.  I urge all Americans to
embrace the talents and skills of workers with disabilities and to
promote the right to equal employment opportunity for all.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
