---
date: '2024-09-13'
modified_time: 2024-09-13 11:11:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-13 11:11:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/13/proclamation-on-the-national-farm-safety-and-health-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on the National Farm Safety and Health Week,\_2024"
---
 
     America’s farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers work around the clock
to nourish our Nation and power our economy, allowing us to feed our
communities and compete in markets worldwide.  They also steward lands
and provide meaningful jobs in our rural and Tribal communities.  During
National Farm Safety and Health Week, we recognize the incredible
contributions of everyone working on farms, and we recommit to improving
their safety and well-being.   
  
     Our Nation’s farms are a source of prosperity, but working on them
can be exhausting and hazardous.  The agriculture sector is one of
America’s most dangerous industries.  Climate change and intensifying
extreme heat puts the lives of agricultural workers at risk and decrease
productivity and profits.  Uncertainty in the industry heightens stress
and takes a toll on our farmworkers’ mental health.  And unfortunately,
many rural communities lack accessible health care, as nearly 200 rural
hospitals have closed in the past 20 years.  
  
    I believe health care should be a right, not a privilege.  To that
end, my Administration is investing in rural health care services,
training the next generation of rural health care providers, and
expanding mental health resources in rural communities.  We established
the Rural Emergency Hospital Designation to make it easier for
struggling hospitals to stay open and help ensure that rural communities
have access to emergency services.  With $500 million from my American
Rescue Plan and $65 billion from my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we
are making it easier for people in rural areas to access health care,
including telehealth services and affordable mental health care.  We
launched 988 — the Suicide and Crisis Lifeline — so that anyone dealing
with a crisis can connect to trained counselors by phone, text, or chat.
 We also finalized a rule that strengthens mental health parity by
requiring health insurers to cover mental health care just as they do
physical health care.  And we added more than 140 Certified Community
Behavioral Health Clinics across the Nation, which provide mental health
and crisis services to anyone in need, regardless of their ability to
pay.  
  
     I have maintained my commitment to be the most pro-labor and
pro-worker President in history by making sure our workers are safe and
secure.  Under my leadership and the leadership of Vice President Kamala
Harris, the Department of Labor proposed the Nation’s first-ever Federal
safety standard for excessive heat in the workplace, which would require
employers to implement rest breaks, provide access to shade and water,
and develop a plan to respond to heat illness.  The Department of Labor
also finalized a Farmworker Protection Rule to strengthen protections
for temporary agricultural workers to ensure all farmworkers in the
United States are treated fairly and have safe work environments.  
  
     My Administration is providing farms with the resources they need
to grow and thrive.  Through the Farm Labor Stabilization and Protection
Pilot Program, the Department of Agriculture awarded $50 million from my
American Rescue Plan to agricultural employers, many of which were small
and mid-sized farms, helping ensure they can hire and retain the workers
they need to be competitive while improving labor standards for workers.
 We are working to extend crop insurance coverage to give financial
security to farmers who practice double cropping.  We have made $900
million available to boost fertilizer production for farms, and I signed
an Executive Order to increase competition and make sure that family
farms are on a level playing field with corporate farms.   
  
     During National Farm Safety and Health Week, we honor farmers,
farmworkers, and ranchers for putting food on our tables, powering our
economy, and supporting our communities.  And we recommit to ensuring
they have the resources they need to continue this work and live full,
healthy lives.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 15 through September 21, 2024, as National Farm Safety and
Health Week.  I call upon the people of the United States — including
America’s farmers; ranchers; and agriculture-related institutions,
organizations, and businesses — to reaffirm a dedication to farm safety
and health.  I also urge all Americans to express appreciation and
gratitude to our farmers, farmworkers, and ranchers for their tireless
service to our Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  
   
 

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
