---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-15'
modified_time: 2021-03-15 12:59:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/15/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-15/
published_time: 2021-03-15 14:00:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:02 A.M. EDT

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning.  Thank you for joining us.

As President Biden said, recovering from a devastating pandemic will
require all of us doing our part.  We are not out of the woods, but we
know what we need to do as a country.  The President has now laid down
some markers about steps to move our country back to normal activities
with a fully vaccinated population, provided we all work together.

President Biden has directed the administration to deliver the two
things that will most hasten our ability to recover: checks and shots. 
And as he said, “Help is on the way.”

With the American Recovery Act signed into law last week, Americans will
finally get the support they need — most immediately, in the form of
checks to American households and relief to Americans and small
businesses under so much pressure from the pandemic.

Nearly 30 percent of adults and nearly two thirds of seniors have now
received their first vaccination shot.  And we are accelerating
vaccinations in anticipation of meeting the President’s goal of being
ready to be — open up all vaccinations to all adults by May 1st at the
latest.

Over the last seven days, we’re now averaging 2.4 million shots per
day.  For those who pay extremely close attention, there was a delay in
data syncing over the weekend, which resulted in a reporting cut-off
time of 11:00 a.m. instead of 6:00 a.m. Eastern time on Saturday.  I’m
sure you’re all following that.

So, for the record, there were 3.2 million shots reported administered
on Saturday and 2.7 million on Sunday.  This is an enormously complex
effort, and it’s a result of the work of tens of thousands of people who
are going above and beyond the call of duty.

Healthcare providers across the country are doing everything they can to
protect Americans from getting this infectious disease.  Doctors,
nurses, and pharmacists are working around the clock and vaccinating
people with a modest reimbursement.  This is exactly what our medical
professionals have shown the country throughout this pandemic.

Now, today, we are doing more than saying thank you to all the people we
call heroes.  We’re announcing that the Biden administration will nearly
double Medicare’s reimbursement rates for administering COVID vaccines,
from about $23 per shot to $40 per shot.  That’s $80 total for a
two-dose vaccine.

Now, this will make it easier for more healthcare providers to get out
into communities and give more COVID shots to people in need.  We need
this heroic team in particular to make sure that our highest-risk and
underserved populations are cared for.

Second, thanks to the American Rescue Plan, the administration will now
be covering 100 percent of the cost for Medicaid and children’s health
insurance beneficiaries to get vaccinated.  This protects states from
bearing any costs associated with the increased Medicare reimbursement
rates.  And the Biden administration stands ready to work with states
who are interested in increasing their Medicaid reimbursement rates for
vaccinations so that we can make sure that we have most effectively
reached vulnerable communities.  This is an important health equity
step, as working and lower-income Americans have faced the brunt of this
crisis and must receive the resources needed to protect them.

What do these changes mean for people across the country?  Well, first,
it means that vaccines will continue to be free to you.  You do not need
insurance to get vaccinated.  You do not need cash or a credit card, or
worry about a co-payment or deductible.  You will not get a bill.  The
vaccines are free, they’re safe, and they’re effective.

It also means doctors, nurses, and healthcare providers you trust will
be out in your communities administering vaccines, because the federal
government will now pay them more for each shot they deliver.

Now, with that, I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky and then to Dr.
Fauci, and then we’ll take your questions.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Andy.  I’m glad to be back with you all
today.  Let’s begin with the data.  CDC’s most recent data show cases
continue to fluctuate somewhere between 50,000 and 60,000 per day, with
the most recent seven-day average approximately 52,500 cases per day. 
The most recent seven-day average of hospital admissions has also
declined to just over 4,700 per day.

We also continue to see decline in deaths, with the latest seven-day
average just over 1,200 deaths per day.  We have come a long way from
where we were in early January, but we still have much work to do.

In some parts of the country, the weather has started to warm up.  And
with the clocks change this weekend, our days have seen a little bit
more sunshine.  And with the coming warmer weather, I know it’s tempting
to want to relax and to let our guard down, particularly after a hard
winter that sadly saw the highest level of cases and deaths during the
pandemic so far.

This past Friday, we saw more travelers pass through our airports: over
1.3 million.  This is the most travelers that we’ve had in a single day
since last March, before the WHO declared the global pandemic.  We have
seen footage of people enjoying spring break festivities maskless.  This
is all in the context of still 50,000 cases per day.

Equally concerning are the resurgences we are now seeing in some
European countries — countries that have had strikingly similar trends
and surges during the pandemic as the United States.  Each of these
countries has had nadirs like we are having now, and each took an upward
trend after they disregarded known mitigation strategies.  They simply
took their eye off the ball.

I’m pleading with you, for the sake of our nation’s health.  These
should be warning signs for all of us.  Cases climbed last spring.  They
climbed again in the summer.  They will climb now if we stop taking
precautions when we continue to get more and more people vaccinated.

Please follow our recommended public health prevention precautions and
be ready to get your vaccine when it is available to you.  We are just
starting to turn the corner.  The data are moving in the right
direction, but where this goes is dependent on whether we all do what
must be done to protect ourselves and others.

We continue to see positive information emerge from our vaccines.  A new
CDC MMWR published today, looking at data from mid-December to
mid-February, found that the vast majority of people getting both doses
of these vaccines within the recommended timeframes.  Based on the
report, only about 3 percent missed their second dose, and systems were
in place to make sure that those missed doses were not wasted — a very
encouraging finding. 

We also found that 96 percent of people who got both doses did so within
the recommended timeframe: on or within four days of the 21 days for the
Pfizer vaccine and 28 days for the Moderna vaccine. 

These findings are incredibly reassuring as we continue to scale up our
vaccination efforts.  They show that our systems are working and that
people are taking vaccination seriously, even when it means taking time
to show up for their second appointment.  It is remarkable what we can
do as a nation when we are united against the virus. 

This report also shows that a small percentage of people did miss their
second dose.  It may be hard for some people to get back for their
second dose, but it’s essential for everyone who receives a two-dose
vaccine to get both shots and get the full protection of these vaccine
offers — this vaccine offers. 

CDC is working across the government and with state and local partners
to identify and address barriers to getting both doses.  Some strategies
include working with trusted messengers and communities to spread
science-based messages on the importance of getting fully vaccinated;
partnering with jurisdictions and vaccination providers to schedule both
vaccination appointments upfront or schedule the second appointment when
you get the first shot; and having systems in place to send appointment
reminders to patients, reschedule canceled appointments, and repurpose
missed second doses to avoid vaccine wastage; and finally, making
available the second — the single-dose vaccine, Johnson & Johnson, as a
terrific option for individuals who may prefer a one-dose vaccine. 

Importantly, we have a role to play.  I encourage those who can to help
others get vaccinated.  This can be as simple as helping family members
and other loved ones with scheduling their appointments, reminding them
about their appointments, and driving or accompanying them to their
appointments.  These small acts will go a long way toward protecting
health and helping to end the pandemic. 

Finally, I want to briefly discuss a technical update to our vaccination
data on the CDC website.  I know many of you watch our data closely, and
when something changes, it can prompt questions.

Last Friday, CDC implemented an improvement to how we calculate the age
of people who have received vaccinations.  This was done to correct for
differences in how states report date of birth to CDC and to more
accurately determine the age of people getting vaccinated.  As a result,
there was a slight change in our age distribution of those vaccinated,
with the percentages in all age groups under 75 increasing slightly, and
those 75 or older decreasing slightly.

This largest shift occurred among people aged exactly 75 when more than
1 million individuals previously classified as 75 were reclassified as
age 74.  This should not be concerning as we’re vaccinating exactly the
right cohorts, and those people will be 75 sometime in the next 12
months. 

As CDC Director, a key principle is leading with transparency.  And
reflecting this principle, I believed it was important for me to clarify
this new approach to our public-facing data. 

Thank you.  I look forward to your questions.  And with that, I’ll turn
things to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’m just going to give a
brief what we’ll call “science update” on something that is being asked
much more consistently, is that: How do we approach the entire issue of
pandemic preparedness currently and for future pandemics?

If I have the first slide.

There are three components that have been pursued now for some years. 
The first is, priority pathogens pick out a pathogen that you think
might be risky in the future.  That could be Nipah, that could be Ebola,
that could be any of a number.  The other is to develop platform
technologies.  We’ve already spoken about the, really, advances that
have been made with messenger RNA technology. 

And the third is one I want to spend just a couple of minutes on, and
that’s called prototype pathogens.  What do we mean by how prototype
pathogen approach helps us for future pandemics?  Next slide. 

This slide looks complicated but it’s simple, because it really tells
you that this is all of the phylogenetic tree of the coronaviruses.  And
in red are the human coronaviruses, but, noticeably, in the yellow boxes
are the four coronaviruses that each year cause about 15 to 30 percent
of all the common colds that we all experience repetitively usually
during the winter months. 

So we’ve been studying these viruses now for decades and decades.  If
you go to the next slide, then in 2002, with the appearance of SARS —
which we all remember — and then in 2012, with the appearance of MERS —
which we all remember — we’ve gotten more and more experience within
this group of coronaviruses. 

And then next slide, it came — nope, go back one.  Yeah, next slide
comes the SARS-coronavirus-2, which is the current virus that we’re
dealing with.  And in the next minute or so, I want to show you how
previous experience has allowed us to make the kind of advances that
have been so successful in COVID-19 vaccine. 

Next slide.

This is a slide from 2017, when we were attempting to make a vaccine for
MERS — the Middle East Respiratory Syndrome coronavirus.  We had found,
interestingly, that that spike protein that we talked about was unstable
in its prefusion form, namely the one that we really wanted to vaccinate
people with.  So we made a bunch of mutations to stabilize it and to
have what would be a successful MERS-CoV-2 vaccine.  But, however, given
the fact that MERS is smoldering right now, and even though we’re
pursuing the vaccine for MERS, we use that same knowledge that we gained
from the prototype pathogens of coronaviruses. 

And on the next slide, what you see is what we’re dealing with now: That
squiggly structure on the right-hand part of the slide is the spike
protein that the messenger RNA codes for, that the adenovirus vectors
express, and that the soluble proteins that we have using in the Sanofi
and in the Novavax all use the same sort of structure. 

And the point I want to make is that we didn’t start doing this in
January of 2020.  This was literally decades of fundamental research on
the broad prototype pathogens of coronavirus.  And these are the kinds
of things that we’re going to be doing with other viruses that could, in
fact, pose risks as future pandemics.

So, let me stop there and go back to Andy.  Thank you.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci.  Okay, let’s take
questions.

MODERATOR:  All right.  We have time for a few questions. First question
will go to Tamara Keith at NPR.

Q    Thank you very much.  A question about the variants. CDC had
predicted that the UK variant would be dominant in the U.S. in March. 
Is it yet?  Is it dominant in certain states?  Which ones?  And what
effect is that having on the trajectory?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky, would you like to start?

DR. WALENSKY:  I can start with that.  Yeah, thank you.  You know, it’s
not evenly distributed across the United States. We do have B117
reported in 50 jurisdictions, over 4,700 cases reported so far, and
that’s just based on what we’re evaluating and sequencing. 

In some states, Florida and California, it’s up to 25 percent.  In other
states, it’s lower.  Our current models still project, by the end of
March, early April, B117 will be the dominant variant.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, next question.

MODERATOR:  Next question, will go to April Ryan at TheGrio.

Q    Thanks for doing this call.  A couple of questions. Doctors, do you
by any chance have solid numbers at this point on how many people have
been vaccinated successfully with both vaccines, as well as the one from
Johnson & Johnson?  And do you have adequate numbers of the breakdown on
minority numbers?  Because there is now a report from Brilliant Corners
that talks about the reason why black people have not gotten it.  It’s
not what the original thought was about Tuskegee or Henrietta Lacks; it
was basically — the hesitancy was basically about misinformation or no
information.  Can you expand, please?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  So, you know, we keep updated numbers on our CDC
website.  They’re updated every day.  I can tell you that 37.45 million
people have received two doses of — are fully vaccinated, and that 107.6
million people have been — have received at least one dose of a
vaccine.  I don’t have, off the top of my head, the racial breakdown
this morning, but that is available on the CDC website.

I think we still have a lot to learn with regard to why, you know, some
communities are not choosing to be vaccinated. Some communities are more
hesitant.  And I would be reluctant to say that it’s the same reason for
every community.  I think we have to meet people where they are as we
try and get all communities vaccinated.  And we have to understand that
there’s not a singular underlying reason, but many reasons.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, let me just, maybe, extend that just for a minute.  We
also are very, very much involved in trying to get better access for the
minority populations.  It is, you know, not just the idea of hesitancy,
but the fact that we have been in — and you’ve heard the President,
himself, say very clearly that with the community vaccine centers; with
the community health centers; with the pharmacies that we’re giving
vaccine to, particularly in areas where minorities are represented; as
well as the mobile units that are going out — so we are right now being
very actively — in going out in a proactive way to make sure that any
inequities that exist we can then, essentially, eliminate them.  And
that will be one of the things that are now, going forward, we’re
putting a lot of effort into.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  It’s critical.  Okay, next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Elizabeth Weise at USA Today.

Q    Thanks so much for taking my question.  We’re hearing so much about
other countries requiring some type of vaccination proof to enter those
countries.  Is there anything under discussion at the federal level to
provide some type of vaccine, for want of a better word, “passport”?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, let me take this, Elizabeth.  It’s
an important question as more people get vaccinated.  Americans are
asking the question: How will I be able to demonstrate, reliably, that
I’ve been vaccinated? 

And, you know, we have a couple of core beliefs about that.  One is that
it’s not the role of the government to hold that data and to do that. 
But we do believe that when that gets done, there is a right way and a
way that’s not as good.  And the right way is: It needs to be private;
the data should be secure; the access to it should be free; it should be
available both digitally and in paper, and in multiple languages; and it
should be open source.

So, those are the right kind of principles for someone to be able to
have — be able to demonstrate that they have had a vaccine.  And we know
that there are — there are efforts that are underway, led by nonprofit
collaboratives and the private sector, all working on exactly that type
of thing.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Anne Flaherty at ABC.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  I wanted to ask about this
study that found that three feet in schools might be safe, as long as
they’re masked.  Dr. Walensky, are you revisiting the CDC guidance on
this?  And also, can you tell us where the six feet came from?  Was that
ever studied with masks?

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question.  Yes, we’re looking at this
carefully.  The six feet data came from early studies, with and without
masks, from all other — from respiratory viruses, flu viruses, as well
as SARS, and other coronavirus — the MERS virus that Dr. Fauci just
spoke about — and how distant air — how far aerosols and droplets can
travel in that context.

As soon as we put out our guidance, among the biggest challenges that we
were aware of was the fact that schools were having a hard time with the
six foot guidance, and that, of course, prompted more studies to say: Is
six feet necessary in the context of mask wearing?

The study that you’re remarking on is the first study that has been
published that looked at three feet versus six feet.  It was in
Massachusetts schools where there was 100 percent mask wearing.  And it
demonstrated that students, when there was 100 percent mask wearing, had
similar infection rates when it — at six feet versus three feet, as well
as staff had similar infections rate at six feet versus six \[sic\] feet
when they were masked. 

We are looking at these data carefully.  The question actually prompted
more studies to be done, so we know more are forthcoming.  We’re taking
all of those data carefully and revisiting our guidances in that
context.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Shira Stein at Bloomberg.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Shira, you with us?  Kevin,  maybe we
should take the next question and come back.

MODERATOR:  We’ll come back to you, Shira.  We’ll go to Zeke at AP. 

Q    Thanks all for doing the call.  I was hoping you might be able to
explain what your assessment is of the early rollout of the J&J
vaccine.  The CDC tracker right now show — it’s showing under 1.3
million doses administered, with 3.7 million distributed, but obviously,
those doses have been distributed now for a couple of weeks.  Are you
seeing any hesitancy with the uptake in that shot versus the two-dose
regimes?  Thank you.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, let’s start this way: Let me ask
Dr. Fauci if — for people who haven’t heard the review before — for you
to talk about the Johnson & Johnson vaccine and how people should view
it relative to the other two vaccines, the Moderna and Pfizer.  Then
I’ll more specifically go into your question. 

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Thanks, Andy.  You know, just to reiterate what we’ve
said multiple times on these briefings: that we have three highly
efficacious, safe vaccines that are now available to the American
public.  They have not been compared one to the other, which the only
way you could effectively do that would be in head-to-head comparisons. 

So that’s the reason why you’ll hear all of us always say continuously
is that the way to look at it is that there are three vaccines that are
highly efficacious.  If you go into a place and you have a certain
vaccine available to you, take that vaccine rather than waiting for
another vaccine because all three of them are highly efficacious.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah.  And I’ll — let me address the
other part of your question.  So, look, we watch this data, as you can
imagine, incredibly closely, and we don’t have reason for concern at
this point.

To remind everybody the Johnson & Johnson vaccine came out with a — it’s
no secret — a relatively small amount of doses.  Given that, we know
that states are metering the — you know, how they’re putting out the
doses to be a little bit more straight line.  And then, third, that, you
know, we are seeing it continue to ramp.  There was a day this weekend
where we saw 300,000 Johnson & Johnson doses. 

So I think it continues to climb.  We’re — I think the key operative
word in your question is “early.”  When we get — by the time we get to
the end of the month, I think we will see the ramp pattern where we
expect it to be.

Next question.  Kevin —

Q    Thanks, all.

MODERATOR:  Making sure you were there.  Great.

Q    Yep.  There we go.  Sorry about that earlier.  Can you tell me why
you decided to change the — change the reimbursement number for the
Medicare administration of vaccines?  And then, can you also talk — it
looks like you’re going to be doing some more public service
announcements to provoke vaccination.  What’s the budget for that?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, look, I think CMS — who focuses on
making sure that our nation’s seniors and our nation’s — people who live
on low and fixed incomes are getting access to the same high-quality
care that they deserve and that others in the country should get —
determined that an additional level of reimbursement was going to
increase vaccination rates, particularly in hard-to-reach communities. 
So asking people to do, as Dr. Fauci indicated, mobile vans, reach out
into communities, and make the extra effort to meet people where they
are to reimburse them. 

You know, we believe that the medical professionals that are on the
frontlines of this vaccination effort — by the way, the same people that
are on the frontlines of this entire pandemic — need to be taken care
of.  And we think that’s going to do a job of both increasing
vaccinations as well as improving equity.  And that’s — that’s the
reason behind it. 

Your second question was about education campaigns?  Is that — was that
what it was?

MODERATOR:  Yep.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah.  So, look, let me say this: Today,
I think the latest data shows — from, I believe, Pew — that 69 percent
of Americans are definitive in saying that they either have taken — have
had a vaccine or plan to take a vaccine.  That’s significantly higher. 
It’s at least 10 points higher than it was a short while ago and more
significant than from when the Biden administration began. 

We think this is for a number of reasons.  These are very good vaccines
with an incredible track record — large clinical trials; years, as Dr.
Fauci has indicated, of research into them. 

And many Americans got vaccinated early.  And the people who I think
have been watching this and seeing the process and seeing how it has had
an impact on them and in their communities, that it increasingly makes
them want to take the vaccination. 

So we believe this is edu- — in some respects, the easiest education
effort ever is if we let people see the truth and not get information
on, say, Facebook, or somewhere where there’s less reliable
information.  People are capable of making these decisions for
themselves.  We know that people are not looking to be convinced by the
government or by some other entity; they want to have conversations with
people locally in their community, whether it’s a doctor, their
pharmacist, or other people that they trust.  And our job — and I think
the CDC had been doing a marvelous job at this — is to get reliable
information out to people.  These briefings are another example of this
— very clear scientific information, the good and the bad. 

Now, we will — we will be supporting that effort with all kinds of
additional education efforts, including some paid efforts, including
other types of conversations.  But it’s most important that the people
who are the local, trusted people continue to have the reliable
information about these vaccines.  And we believe that will continue the
pattern that’s already begun, which is that more and more people will be
comfortable taking the vaccine.

Kevin, is that —

MODERATOR:  All right, we’re going to squeeze one more question in from
Brian Karem at The Bulwark. 

Q    Thanks.  I’ll be brief.  I want to follow up on April Ryan’s
question about the number of people — the millions that have already
been fully vaccinated.  Today we heard that 30 percent of the adults, or
20 percent of the seniors had received some vaccination.  Is that — you
know, are the 20 percent seniors a 20 percent of the total number, or is
that a subset of all adults?  First.

And secondly, if we use the number of shots that we are getting on a
daily basis, the number of new cases, and the number of people who have
been fully vaccinated, can you all — using those metrics — give us a
better idea of when we’ll either reach herd immunity or be in the
clear?  And thus, when can we start sharing our dosage of vaccines with
our allies and neighbors internationally?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  It sounds like an SAT math question.  So
let me first clarify the basic of the numbers, because I think they may
not have come through clearly. 

We are talking about close to two thirds of seniors and close to 30
percent of all adults that have now received their first shot.  And I
think it’s important — for reasons that I think both Doctors Walensky
and Fauci can articulate — that people get their second shot, largely
because of the durability and the variants. 

So as we report these numbers out, this is to report on the progress and
the very hard work of tens of thousands of people, but it’s — by no
means should be perceived as declaring victory.  There’s much more —
much more work to do.

I think the question that you’re asking in some sense is: “When will we
reach herd immunity?  When will we have enough doses, et cetera?”  And
what I will tell you is that, as the President articulated last week, we
believe that we will have enough for the adult population — produced by
the end of May.  And with some time after that, those vaccinations will
have — will have occurred.  And it is with that that the President
indicated that if we all do our part, by the 4th of July, we should be
able to take the really important step to bringing the things to people
— the events in our lives — back into our lives.  That’s an “if.” 
That’s — that’s really on all of us. 

So no matter what math you use, we will have enough vaccine doses.  We
do need people to actually get vaccinated.  We do need everybody that’s
been doing this enormously important work to keep doing it.  And if we
do that, we should be in a position right around then, when the adult
population will have the vaccines they need.

Now, if you’re asking questions about our supply, we have indicated that
there are other pieces of our supply that are important to us, and Dr.
Fauci has mentioned this several times: teenagers, adolescence,
children, potential booster shots down the road, other things. 

So it’s a very big equation with a lot of scenarios in it, and our job
is to be prepared for every scenario.

Now, having said all that, I think there was a part of your question
about the world, about the globe, and so maybe I can ask Dr. Fauci to
talk about the efforts that we have undertaken already, even as we
vaccinate our country, to make sure we’re playing a leadership role in
the globe.

DR. FAUCI:  Yes.  Thank you, Andy.  So, as you well know, on the first
day of the President’s presidency — his tenure — he had me go out early
in the morning and make a speech to the executive board of WHO, saying
we’re going to rejoin WHO and we’re going to be part of COVAX, which
means, A, that we’ve made a commitment of $4 billion that the United
States will be giving to COVAX — which is a multi-organization,
multi-country effort to help those countries that do not have the
resources to be able to vaccinate their people to get them vaccinated. 

In addition, it’s become clear that after we get our people in the
United States vaccinated — and remember, we’ve suffered terribly with
over 530,000 deaths thus far, so our responsibility of getting all
people vaccinated first, before we start giving doses to other countries
— which, we will be doing that if and when we do have a surplus, which
it looks very much like we will.  But that will not occur until we
actually have our people vaccinated.

But the $4 billion has already been implemented.  Part of it, $2
billion, and then $2 billion to come.  So we’re very actively involved
in thinking about and caring about the plight of other countries. 

Andy, if I might just make one comment that was made part of the
question.  We should not get so fixated on this elusive number of herd
immunity.  We should just be concerned about getting as many people
vaccinated as quickly as we possibly can because herd immunity is still
somewhat of an elusive number.  We made a projection of it would likely
be — I’ve said many times — somewhere between 70 and 85 percent, but we
don’t know that for sure.  So rather than fixating on that, why don’t we
just say, get as many people vaccinated as quickly as you possibly can.
 And every day that goes by now, with more than 2 million doses going
into people, we’re getting closer and closer to control of this
pandemic. 

Thanks, Andy. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great, thank you.  And thank you all for
listening in.  And I really want to thank again the doctors, nurses,
physicians, vaccinators, people around the country who have been — and
continue to be part of this extraordinary effort that we need to keep
going. 

We will be here Wednesday to do this once again.  Thank you.

11:37 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_15March2021_for-transcript.pdf>
