---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-03'
modified_time: 2021-03-03 14:02:53-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/03/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-10/
published_time: 2021-03-03 14:02:52-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:05 A.M. EST  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Morning.  Thank you for joining us. 
Yesterday, you heard the President announce a new historic partnership
to get Americans vaccinated more quickly.  I want to provide background
into how this came together.  
  
Supported by the active involvement and leadership from the U.S.
government, two of the largest U.S. healthcare and pharmaceutical
companies, Johnson & Johnson and Merck, will enter into a historic
manufacturing partnership to expand the production of Johnson &
Johnson’s vaccine, as well as take on the complex and delicate process
of putting those vaccines into the vials.  
  
While these companies are competitors — most of the time — heeded by
President Biden’s call, they are undertaking a wartime effort to come to
the table for the good of the country.  As many of you know, when we
arrived in office on January 20th, we learned from Johnson & Johnson
that they were behind on manufacturing. 

We immediately got to work to fix this — to accelerate the process and
to think big.  We set out to do two things.  First, increase the
production of the vaccine itself, frequently referred to as the “drug
substance.”  And second, expand our ability to safely transfer the
vaccine from drug manufacturing plants into the little vials that are
shipped all over the country, a process called “fill and finish.”  
  
Using the Defense Production Act, the Biden administration agreed to an
initial investment of more than $100 million that will help expand the
drug substance manufacturing and convert a Merck plant to perform the
fill-and-finish production for the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.  
  
With the encouragement and support of the administration, Johnson &
Johnson and its manufacturing partners agreed to take several steps to
increase production of the vaccine in the U.S.  They’re now operating 24
by 7 across facilities to maximize production output.  At the direction
of the President, the Department of Defense is providing daily
logistical support, and the administration deployed a team of global
experts and equipment manufacturers to support faster ramp-up across all
facilities.  
  
I want to be clear: Both of these companies, Johnson & Johnson and
Merck, deserve credit for this approach.  They’ve stepped up as good,
corporate citizens with the spirit of cooperation that the President has
called for during this crisis.  
  
Thanks to everyone’s collective actions, we’re now on track not only to
catch up, but to have enough vaccine supply for every American adult by
the end of May.  
  
And over the course of the year, these actions will double Johnson &
Johnson’s U.S. capacity to produce drug substance and increase the U.S.
capacity for fill and finish.  
  
Finally, I want to credit the execution of the men and women in
government and the private sector who came together to work as a team to
move this vaccine so rapidly from authorization into arms with
incredible efficiency.  This vaccine was approved on Saturday.  The CDC
reviewed it on Sunday.  The same day, vaccines were packed and shipped
from J&J facilities.  Monday, the vaccines arrived at UPS and FedEx hubs
and were delivered to vaccination sites so that, yesterday, Tuesday, the
first vaccines were administered in states across the country.  
  
Now, Johnson & Johnson and Merck are not the only ones and they’re not
the only businesses stepping up.  As I highlighted last Friday, U.S.
companies are stepping up to help the country lead its way out of this
crisis.  
  
And this leads me to highlight a second announcement for this morning,
aimed at improving the equitable distribution of vaccines.  
  
Today, more than a dozen of America’s leading health insurance providers
announced a new pilot program to get 2 million of the most vulnerable
seniors vaccinated as fast as possible.  Called the Vaccine Community
Connectors pilot, the aim is to help vulnerable seniors overcome three
of the most challenging current barriers: questions about the vaccine,
scheduling, and transportation.   
  
Health plans will make outbound calls to unvaccinated Americans of over
65 who live in areas of high social vulnerability.  They’ll talk to them
about vaccine efficacy, safety, and the value of vaccinations.  Then
they will facilitate vaccine registration and appointment scheduling for
seniors.  They’ll arrange transportation to and from a vaccination site
and ensure seniors get back for a second shot. They’ll also look to
deploy mobile vans into communities of need.  Their goal again is to get
2 million of the most vulnerable seniors vaccinated as soon as
possible.  
  
This commitment came from organizations who have the call centers,
technology, and community relationships to run a pilot program like
this.  And it comes on the heels of our call to action last week to the
private sector to use their talents and resources to help bring a
quicker end to this crisis.  
  
With that, I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky and then to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning, and thank you.  I’m delighted to be back
with you today.  Let’s get started with an overview of the pandemic.   
  
We continue to see troubling signs in the trajectory of the pandemic in
the U.S., with the most recent declines in cases and deaths continuing
to show signs of stalling.  We knew this could happen as variants
emerged and reached more people in more communities, but we can still
reduce their impact.   
  
The most recent seven-day average of cases — 66,000 — is an increase of
3.5 percent from the prior seven days.  The most recent seven-day
average of deaths also increased 2.2 percent from the previous seven
days to now slightly more than 2,000 deaths per day.   
  
Today, we are at a critical nexus in the pandemic.  So much can turn in
the next few weeks.  On the one hand, cases in the country are leveling
off at rates just on the cusp of potential to resurge.  And the B117
hyper-transmissible variant looms ready to hijack our successes to
date.  And on the other hand, stamina has worn thin, fatigue is winning,
and the exact measures we have taken to stop the pandemic are now too
often being flagrantly ignored.   
  
All the while, we are just on the verge of capitalizing on the
culmination of a historic scientific success: the ability to vaccinate
the country in just a matter of three or four more months.  How this
plays out is up to us.  The next three months are pivotal.   
  
I’m asking you to reach deeply to protect our nation’s health and to
protect your loved ones.  Whether mandated or not, as individuals and as
communities, we can still take the right public health action to protect
ourselves and others: wearing a well-fitting mask, avoiding travel in
crowds, social distancing, and practicing good hand hygiene.  Now more
than ever, we must do all we can to stop the spread of the virus.   
  
As I said on Monday, we now have a third safe and highly effective
vaccine, following the emergency use authorization by the FDA and the
recommendations for use by the Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices, or <s>ASIP</s> \[ACIP\], of the Johnson & Johnson COVID-19
vaccine.  
  
We saw footage of the first doses being administered yesterday, less
than 48 hours after a ACIP recommended its use, just as Andy commented. 
This is a remarkable achievement.  
  
With the additional vaccine, more vaccine doses are making their ways
into communities, making it possible for more people to get vaccinated
and protected from COVID-19.  And because this vaccine is a single shot
and is easier to store and transport, we can provide vaccines in more
communities and mobile sites moving forward.  
  
Yesterday, CDC released an MMWR article detailing the clinical trial
data on the demonstrated safety and efficacy of this newly authorized
vaccine.  The report also provided important guidance for clinicians who
will be administering it.  The report reflects the in-depth discussions
held during the emergency ACIP meeting this past Sunday and Monday.  
  
CDC has now also updated its website to provide easy-to-find information
for both healthcare providers and the public about the new Johnson &
Johnson vaccine, including information people should know before getting
a vaccine.  I encourage you to check out our website to learn more.  
  
But the message I want you to hear from me today is that we now have
three COVID-19 vaccines that are all safe and highly effective, and the
most important thing you can do is roll up your sleeve and get
vaccinated with the first vaccine that is available to you.  
  
Finally, I want to share how proud I am that CDC is taking a leading
role in helping to achieve the President’s initiative to get educators
and all school staff, including childcare workers, vaccinated.   
  
I look forward to working with our pharmacies, state and local partners
in the days ahead to move this critical work forward.   
  
Thank you.  I look forward to your questions.  But, first, I’ll turn
things to Dr. Fauci.  
  
Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes addressing the issue of the SARS-CoV-2 variants
and what the multifaceted approach towards addressing these are.  
  
If I could have the first slide.   
  
This is a list of the variants that we have been discussing over the
last several weeks.  Just very, very briefly, you know the 117, which
was originally in the UK, has the characteristic of increased
transmissibility.  It’s covered relatively well by our current
authorized vaccines.  
  
More problematic is the South African 351, which is moderately to
severely reduced vaccine efficacy about fivefold or so.   
  
There’s the P1, which originated in Brazil — again, some preliminary
reports of increased transmissibility and antibodies elicited by
previous infection or vaccine may be less effective.  
  
In our own country, we have the 427/429 California variants, with
preliminary reports of increased transmissibility and disease activity;
and the New York 526, which recent studies show variable loss of
neutralizing activity by some monoclonal antibodies as well as
vaccine-induced antibodies.   
  
So what is the approach?  The approach that we have currently and for
the future is really four-pronged.  I’ll go very briefly through each of
these to give you a sampling of the kinds of things that are going on
and that you can expect.  
  
The first being the ramping up of the vaccination with first and second
doses of current EUA-approved vaccines.  I can show you on the lext
\[sic\] slide — the next slide.  
  
And on the next slide is an example here of a Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine,
namely looking at neutralizing antibody titers after the first and
second dose.   
  
If you look there at day 21, which is the time that you would be giving
the second dose, the antibody titers that are there are good enough to
suppress infection but to some extent — I mean, when you look at the
data of the degree of efficacy that you do get after one dose.  But take
a look at what happens after the second dose.  The degree of increase is
at least tenfold in both of these age groups that was studied.   
  
Now, the reason why this is important is that if you diminish it, as I
mentioned on the previous slide — that if you get a variant that
diminishes by maybe five- or sixfold, and you are in a level of antibody
that’s as high as you see from day 28 through 35, you still have a
considerable cushion to protect.   
  
Next slide.  
  
In fact, this was shown on a preprint server, where David Ho and his
colleagues looked at the increased resistance of SARS-CoV variants 351
and 117.  But particularly with the 351, he demonstrated a fivefold
diminution of capability of blocking there, which tells you that a
fivefold decrease still keeps you, with the second dose, well within the
protective range.  
  
Next slide.  
  
The next approach is booster doses of the wild-type — against the
wild-type virus, which is exactly what Pfizer has announced a bit ago
and what other companies will also be doing, namely talking about a
third dose of the original vaccine for those vaccine regimens that were
a prime and a boost.  And that’s going to be given to participants in a
phase one trial to evaluate safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity. 
That study will evaluate up to 144 participants in two age group
cohorts.   
  
Next slide.  
  
The next approach is one that we spoke about a week or so ago — was
namely develop a variant-specific vaccine.  So instead of boosting up
against the wild type, which gives you the cushion effect against
variants that I mentioned just a few slides ago, the approach that has
been taken by some companies, in this case Moderna, is to begin clinical
trials of a booster shot against the specific variant in question.  And
in this case, it’s the 351 from South Africa.  
  
Next slide.  
  
And, in fact, as I have mentioned previously, this is a planned study
that will begin in the middle of this month, and it will be a study that
it’s done in collaboration with our group at NIAID, in which we will
look at both naïve and previously vaccinated adults.   
  
And finally, the last is one that we look to the future, namely a
universal coronavirus vaccine, one that would handle variants of
SARS-CoV-2 and that would hopefully be able to address other pandemic
coronaviruses in the future.  
  
I’ll stop there and hand it back to Andy.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Thank you, Dr. Fauci, Dr.
Walensky.  Let’s take questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  We have time for a few questions.  And please
keep your questions to one question.   
  
My first one will go to Morgan Chalfant at The Hill.  
  
Q    Can you hear me?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes.  
  
Q    Great.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I’m wondering if you can
tell me how you came to the conclusion that there will be enough vaccine
supply by the end of May to vaccinate all American adults and why it was
important for the President to lay out that timeline yesterday.  And
also, just if there are any — if you’re worried at all about setting
expectations too high on that.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Morgan.  Well, look, we begin
with: I don’t think it’s any secret that when we arrived here, Pfizer
and Moderna were scheduled to deliver through — I think it was the end
of September.  Johnson & Johnson was well behind.  And the President, as
I think he’s guided, has committed to getting the country vaccinated as
quickly as possible.  
  
We got extreme levels of cooperation from private sector partners, and
everybody, to say, “Let’s follow the President’s pledge.  Move forward,
and try to make sure we can get everybody vaccinated as quickly
possible.”  
  
We are not in the habit of over-promising.  And therefore, even as of
several weeks ago, before such time as the approval of Johnson &
Johnson, the President was talking about moving up the date until the
end of July.   
  
All the while, though, we’ve been hard at work to try to take every idea
we can, small or large, with Jeff Zients’s leadership, with Dr. David
Kessler’s leadership, and the active participation of both Johnson &
Johnson and Pfizer.  And this is truly — I’m sorry, Johnson & Johnson
and Merck.  This is truly a story where there are no bad guys; there’s
only good — only good actors here.  Everybody got together and found
ways to bring forward the timeline so we can get Americans fully
vaccinated and into a very different place, in a very different part of
that pandemic.   
  
And I think the President has always said he’s going to lay it out
straight for the public — good news and bad news.  And when we have
challenges, we talk about them; and when we have advances, we talk about
them.  So that’s how that came together.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  And next we’ll going to Brenda Goodman with WebMD.  
  
Q    Hi, good morning.  I have a question about Texas.  Yesterday,
Governor Greg Abbott said that he was going to lift the mask mandate and
open the state up 100 percent, and we know that now that all the
variants have been found in Houston, according to some researchers who
were part of a large genomic sequencing effort there.  So, I’m
wondering, do you agree with the Governor’s assessment that it’s time to
open the state up 100 percent?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, let me begin with Dr. Walensky to
talk about the CDC’s perspective, and then I’ll — I’ll add some
comments.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for the question.  I think, we, at the CDC,
have been very clear that now is not the time to release all
restrictions.  I do think that, as I said in my remarks, the next month
or two is really pivotal in terms of how this pandemic goes.  As we
scale up vaccination, we really do need to decrease the amount of virus
that is circulating, as we’re trying to vaccinate all the public.  
  
I will also note that, you know, every individual has — is empowered to
do the right thing here, regardless of what the states decide for
personal health, for public health, for their health of their loved ones
and communities.  I would still encourage individuals to wear masks, to
socially distance, and to do the right thing to protect their own
health.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Let me just follow that up. You know, the
President is committed to a few things.  One is to follow the
recommendation of the science and the scientists and wherever that goes,
and so the President is 100 percent behind Dr. Walensky and the CDC’s
recommendations.   
  
I don’t think you could be any — possibly be any clearer about the
importance and the need for masks.  As a leader, it’s probably one of
the topics he talks about most frequently.  He models that behavior. 
He’s made the order on every possible area where we have federal control
— all the federal sites and facilities, transportation.  
  
And, of course, last week, we announced that we’re going to be
distributing masks to community health centers and food banks.  We think
it’s critically important — critically important that, particularly over
the next period of time — this is not forever, but the next period of
time, when the President has called for this, we know that it can save
tens of thousands of lives if people do this.  And we strongly encourage
people to continue to wear masks, and mayors, governors, and others
recognizing that they have difficult decisions to make to keep the
course.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next question, Sabrina Siddiqui at Wall Street Journal.  
  
Q    Thank you as always for doing the briefing.  I wanted to ask if you
have a sense of when Merck will actually be able to ramp up production
in terms of helping with the J&J vaccine, given the time it will take
for the company to convert its facilities.  And do we know how many
doses Merck will be able to help manufacture?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, thanks, Sabrina.  I think the
answer is May.  And, again, there are two elements: There is the
substance of the vaccine itself, and then there’s the fill-finish.  So
it’s a bit more of a complex answer, but over time, we believe that
Merck will be able to double the capacity that we’ve seen from Johnson &
Johnson heretofore.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Kristen Welker at NBC.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  I really
appreciate it.  I wanted to follow up on the question about Texas.  It’s
not just Texas that is easing restrictions, it’s also other states like
Mississippi, Arkansas, North Carolina, Virginia.  So is there anything
that the federal government can do?  Is there anything that your team is
looking to do to try to encourage, if not mandate, that these states
reverse course?   
  
And also, in terms of the May benchmark, as it relates to distributing
the vaccine, what are the potential headwinds that could derail that
timeline?  In other words, what are you concerned about most when you
look to that end-of-May goal?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Kristen.  I think we have the
same answer with regard to what our view on masks and what the President
is saying and doing on masks.  And so, you know, I think we are using
the absolute full extent of all of the areas where we have federal
control, and we are actively — actively being very, very clear on what
we think needs to happen.  And so we hope that other elected officials
who have the authority in their domains will, in fact, listen.  
  
We’re realistic enough to recognize that everybody is not going to pay
attention everything we say, but we think this is very, very
important.  
  
In terms of Johnson & Johnson and Merck, I’m going to probably defer
that question to the company.  You know, I think we have a good plan.  I
will tell you we always worry about everything.  I mean, that’s sort of
part of our ethic around here — is execution mentality means that we are
constantly worried.  So anything that has yet to happen in the future, I
can assure you we have world experts from manufacturing, from the
Department of Defense, and from the companies all very focused on this. 
I don’t know that I can point to one specific thing.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Last question will go to Raquel with TV Globo of Brazil.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Can you hear me?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes.  
  
Q    Thank you so much for this opportunity.  My question is to Dr.
Fauci, because Brazil is now having the worst time of the pandemic, and
scientists around the world are warning that the COVID outbreak in
Brazil is a global threat that could risk the progress here and in other
parts of the world.   
  
Dr. Fauci, do you agree with this assessment?  And also, do you believe
Brazil could be doing anything different to respond to this crisis,
especially when it comes to vaccination?  Are you having conversation or
working with authorities from Brazil?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Well, thank you for that question.  It is really a
very difficult situation that Brazil finds themselves in because it is
really difficult in the sense that even with infection from the original
virus that was circulating — and recovery from that virus does not, in
fact, protect you against reinfection from the circulating variant in
Brazil.   
  
The best thing one can do is to get people vaccinated as quickly as
possible and as many people as possible.  You have to get your
scientists and your public health officials to take a close look at the
match between the antibodies that are induced by the vaccine that you
are using and what its efficacy against the P1 and P2 variant that is
dominant in Brazil.  
  
So that’s something that you — that I would imagine — and I’d be happy
to be discussing this with your officials, if you’d like, to talk about
what kind of options you might have.  
  
The issue with the impact of what goes on in Brazil and the rest of the
world: Obviously, when you have a variant that is in a particular
country — and we already have the Brazil variant in a limited extent in
our own country — that’s the reason why, as I mentioned literally just a
few minutes ago, in our vaccination program we aim to get the highest
titer of vaccination that would then be able to give a cushion of
protection even against the variants.   
  
And as I mentioned, the recent paper that came out from Dr. David Ho’s
laboratory in New York indicated that there’s a diminution in the
capability of vaccine-induced antibodies to protect, but it is a modest
diminution, which means that it is likely that the cushion that you get
from two doses of an mRNA vaccine would likely be able to protect
reasonably well against that.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  
  
Next question.  Kevin, do we have any others?  
  
MODERATOR:  We can do one more.  We’ll go to Chris Megerian at the Los
Angeles Times.  
  
Q    Hi, everybody.  One more question on the states that are reducing
their own restrictions.  Specifically, are you in conversations with
these state leaders, urging them not to do this?  Are they disagreeing
in these conversations with you?  I know there’s only so much the
federal government can do to order states to do things, but, you know,
what is happening behind the scenes to urge them to not do this?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, I don’t have a hugely long answer
for you.  We are in constant conversation with the states.  And I —
suffice it to say that there are plenty of people — health officials, as
you know — in every state who feel now is the wrong time to lift the
mask mandate.  
  
That it — I know it seems counterintuitive to folks to hear good news in
the coming of vaccines and the acceleration of vaccines.  We know, as
Dr. Walensky said, that people are tired and eager for this to be over. 
But even though it’s counterintuitive, it’s actually the most important
time for people to make sure we run through the tape and finish that
up.  I think that’s a commonly shared sentiment not just from us, but
from public health experts everywhere.  So hopefully the country will
continue to rally together in this front.  
  
I want to thank everybody for joining the call today, and appreciate all
of the questions and the good work.  
  
Talk to you Friday.  
  
                         END                 11:33 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides, visit
<https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_3March2021_for-transcript.pdf>
