---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-19'
modified_time: 2021-03-19 15:55:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/19/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-atlanta-georgia/
published_time: 2021-03-19 15:55:19-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Aboard\
  \ Air Force One En Route Atlanta,\_Georgia"
---
 
12:04 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s good to see everybody.  Okay.   
  
Given the tragic shooting this week, we made changes to the schedule
today.  President Biden and Vice President Harris have postponed the
previously planned political event for a future date.    
  
The President and the Vice President will be meeting with state
legislators and community advocates from the Georgia Asian American and
Pacific Islander community.  They will have an opportunity to hear about
the impact on their community of Tuesday’s heartbreaking, senseless
acts of violence, as well as their perspectives on increased anti-Asian
hate incidents.   
  
The President will offer his support for Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders in Georgia and across the country, and talk about his fierce
commitment to combatting xenophobia, intolerance, and hate.   
  
The President and the Vice President will also visit the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention, where they will receive an update from
health and medical experts who are helping lead the fight against the
pandemic.   
  
Throughout the day, the President and the Vice President will meet with
Senators Reverend Raphael Warnock, Senator Jon Ossoff, and Atlanta’s
Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms, and also Stacey Abrams.  
  
Today, the Department of Education took steps to grant full relief to
borrowers and approved “defense to repayment” claims to date, where we
determined that their institutions engaged in misconduct against them. 
There are tens of thousands of borrowers whom Education Department
determined were harmed by their institution, sometimes years ago.  But
too many had been blocked from getting substantial assistance due to
formulas for partial relief adopted by the prior administration.   
  
We are rescinding those formulas, and we will be working quickly to
grant full relief to borrowers where a careful review of the evidence
showed by — showed they were taken advantage of.   
  
Full relief under the regulations will be granted to borrowers with
approved claims to date.  The ultimate effect of this change will be
full cancellation of an estimated 72,000 borrowers, discharging $1
billion in loans.   
  
This is the Department’s first step in addressing borrower defense
claims as well as the underlying regulations.  The Department will be
pursuing additional actions, including re-regulation, in the future.   
  
Next week, the President will continue communicating directly and
clearly with Americans about \[how\] the American Rescue Plan is helping
them and their families, and making sure they understand how to utilize
benefits available to them.  
  
As Jen said yesterday, on Tuesday — the anniversary of the Affordable
Care Act being signed into law — President Biden will travel to
Columbus, Ohio, as part of the Help Is Here tour. While there, he
will highlight how the American Rescue Plan will lower healthcare costs
for many American families.   
  
On <s>Tuesday</s> \[Wednesday\], the President will host an event to
mark Equal Pay Day.   
  
On Thursday, the President will hold a formal press conference in the
afternoon, as you all know about already.   
  
Throughout the week, the Vice President, First Lady, and Second
Gentleman will also travel for the Help Is Here tour.  On Monday, the
Vice President will travel to Jacksonville, Florida, and the Second
Gentleman will travel to Des Moines, Iowa, for an event with Secretary
Vilsack.  More trips will be announced over the coming days.   
  
     All right.  Jonathan, you want to kick us off?  
  
     Q    Thanks, Karine.  Welcome aboard.  I want to start with — if
you can give us a little more of the about today’s events, in particular
the President’s message to the Asian American community, many of whom
have expressed real fears about a rise in hate crimes and who have
expressed frustration that this one has not been categorized as a hate
crime and that other incidents have not as well.  What is he going to
say to them? And does he believe that more should be done to classify
these as biased incidents?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the first thing is, as you know, he’s going to
meet with the Asian American/Pacific Islander — do a meeting with the
local elected.  So he’ll have a conversation there.  And I think, there,
he’s going to hear from them about the impact of this violent incident
that we saw just a couple days ago, as you all know, in the community,
and more broadly, their perspective on the rise in anti-Asian hate
incidents.   
  
The President will offer their — his support to the community in Georgia
and across the country, and highlight his commitment to combatting
xenophobia, intolerance, and hate, as well as establish — establishing —
the establishment in his executive order that he actually announced on
January 26.  
  
The President — you know, he understands.  He understands and knows the
past year — that the community has been vilified, they’ve been
scapegoated, and they’ve been attacked.  And so he is going to speak —
he’s going — he has — he’s spoken to the nation, as we know, last week. 
He made sure that, in his remarks, he lifted up the anti-AAPI hate that
they have seen the last — the past year, and he called it out.   
  
And so this is what he will continue to do — to continue to make sure
that he’s talking to the — make sure that he’s communicating that to the
community.   
  
And not only that — as I was talking about the executive order — in that
executive order, he directed the DOJ to do everything that they can to
end this violence and protect the community.   
  
And so they have been doing that.  The DOJ has started doing listening
sessions with the community on this issue.  And also, HHS was part of
that executive order.  We just confirmed the Secretary there, so we will
see more action coming from them as well.  
  
As far as his remarks, I can give you a little bit of what he’ll be
talking about in his remarks today.  Give me a second.   
  
So, as you all know, given the horrible incidents, things have changed. 
So he’s going to, you know, address the issue broadly in his remarks,
and you can expect the President to meet the moment that we are in.  So,
very similar to the AAPI meeting, but this one he’ll actually do this by
addressing — by, in a public way, making sure that the country knows
what he has to say while he’s in Atlanta.  
  
Q    Let me just ask you one about the events yesterday in  
Alaska with the meeting with the Chinese officials.  Obviously, it got
very heated at times.  One of the things that’s come up is: China has
failed to live up to their promised U.S. imports from the trade
agreement done with the previous administration.  Does the Biden
administration plan to hold them accountable for breaking that promise? 
How much of a priority is the trade deficit with China right now?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me start here: Yesterday, National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Secretary of State Tony Blinken had
their first meeting — had their first meeting in Anchorage.  They had
two sessions yesterday, and they’ll meet again later this morning.   
  
The United States delegation came to Anchorage committed to laying out
the principles, interests, and values that animate our engagement with
Beijing.  Knowing that exaggerated diplomatic presentations often are
aimed at a domestic audience — this is the message that they want their
domestic audience to cover — but we understand the U.S. delegation is
continuing with our agenda while we’re there.  We will still have
business to conduct.  We will use the remaining hours to privately
outline for the PRC officials the same messages we have consistently
delivered in public.   
  
As Secretary Blinken and NSA Sullivan emphasized, America’s approach
will be undergirded by confidence in our dealing with Beijing, which we
are doing from a position of strength, even as we have the humility to
know that we are a country internally striving to become a more perfect
union ourselves.  
  
And I just wanted to quote what National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
said yesterday at the start of the talks, which is, “We do not seek
conflict, but we welcome stiff competition. And we will always stand up
for our principles, for our people, and for our friends.”  
  
Q    Does the administration worry that this friction with China could
filter down and fuel more harassment or discrimination against Asian
Americans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think — I’m just going to go back to what I
said before, which is, you know, what we saw was an exaggeration of
diplomatic presentation often aimed at a domestic audience.  Right?  And
so we aren’t letting the theatrics from other sides stop us from doing
what we want to do in Alaska, which is essentially lay out our
principles and expectations and have the tough, early conversation we
need with the PRC.   
  
Look, we knew, going into this, it was going to be tough.  We knew it
wasn’t going to be easy.  But — and — but we are ready to have a frank —
they are clearly having a frank conversation with them, and we are —
we’re going to continue those conversations.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) about the future of the relationship, though.  I mean,
this is pretty — you know, pretty — a difficult first meeting.  I mean,
is this the — is this how you want it to start off?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, like I said, we knew this was going to
be a tough discussion, a frank discussion, and — but we’re still moving
towards diplomacy, and that is the goal here.  And every relationship
with every country is different.  And so we are just going to continue
that, you know, as I quoted from Jake and Secretary Blinken — from Jake
Sullivan, the National Security Advisor, and Secretary Blinken.  So —  
  
Q    Do you think it makes a meeting with President Xi and President
Biden more or less likely in the near future, given the tenor of the
conversation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I don’t have anything else to say about that
potential meeting.  This was a standalone meeting that they’re having in
Anchorage right now.  Like I said, this is part of the process.  We knew
it was going to be intense.  We knew it was going to be — you know, a
frank conversation was going to be had.  And we’re going to continue
moving forward.  
  
Q    I don’t want to lose the question that John asked earlier, which
was really important, about China not meeting its commitments under the
trade deal that it has agreed to, to the United States.  What’s the
message that you’re sending to them as far as that is concerned?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think having the mes- — having this meeting
that they had yesterday on U.S. foreign soil, I think that was the —
that was a key, kind of, you know, statement as how we wanted to move
toward with China.  Like, we know it’s going to be a competitive
relationship, but we understand that we’re going to continue moving with
diplomacy; we’re going to continue having those conversations at all
levels.  
  
Q    And just more broadly, the tough talk from Biden on Russia; tough
talk directly to China: What does it say about where you’re going in
terms of foreign policy, just broadly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think — I think, with Russia, he was
asked a direct question, and he gave a direct answer.  And he’s not
going to back off.  He’s not going to — you know, he’s going to be very
frank and very open about — about — about that relationship, especially
when he is asked directly.  
  
And so, that — you know, that is going to continue.  You know, people
are — have asked this: When is he going to meet with the President — you
know, with the President Putin?  The President will meet with President
Putin when the time is right.   
  
And so, you know, President Biden and President Putin have different
perspectives on their respective countries, but where they agree is that
we should continue to look for ways to work together where it is in our
mutual interest, as we did with New START.  From the first phone call
with President Putin, President Biden has been clear that the United
States will also respond to a number of destabilizing Russian actions.  
  
As you know, we have requested new or disclassified \[sic\] intelligence
community assessments in four such areas and plan to respond to each of
them in the coming weeks.  And we’ve said that before.   
  
But — and also, earlier this month, you saw the first such response went
— announced several actions in response to Russia’s use of a chemical
weapon in the attempted murder of Navalny.  As the President has said,
there will be more soon, and Russia will pay a price for its action.  
  
Q    Been an influx of migrants at the border, and there were some
Republicans saying they don’t want to discuss immigration changes until
that is brought under control.  What does that mean for the prospect of
the President getting through reforms that he wants on immigration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just want to step back for a second because there’s
a history here that we have to — that we have to understand and remember
in what the migrants are going through and the reason why they’re
coming.   
  
They’re coming from, you know, corruption, violence, a country —
countries where they face that every day, where they have to deal with
economic struggle.  There’s climate change issues.  They had to deal
with two hurricanes in the region.  And then, on top of that, you’re
talking about COVID, the pandemic, as well.   
  
And so, you know, those are things that we have to understand — like,
why are they making this treach- — this, you know, very difficult,
difficult kind of journey here to this country.   
  
And also, we’ve seen migrant surges before.  In 2014, we saw it, and in
2019.  So, here’s the thing: You know, we have — we have a challenge at
the border.  And what is clear from the last four years is that chaos,
cruelty, and confusion did not enhance security, and it did nothing to
fix our immigration system.  
  
So the President is committed to implementing an immigration system that
is orderly, that is humane, compassionate, and lawful, and his approach
is focused on bold action to keep our country safe, strong, and
prosperous.  
  
And one of the things, you know, we can assure you that we’re not going
to do: We’re not going to tear families apart or send unaccompanied
children migrating without their parents back to — back to a dangerous
situation.  That is not what we are going to do.   
  
So the administration is going to treat these children with the same
care and compassion as we would treat our own children.  So they are
working around the clock to move children from <s>CBC</s> \[CBP\] to HHS
care, find and vet the sponsors and family of these children, and
release children to these individuals, once the proper — the proper
oversight and vetting is completed.  
  
Q    On the border, though, you previewed more trips this week and
coming next week on the Help is Here tour, but there is no trip to the
border planned.  If he’s going to be doing all these trips across the
country, why not visit the border?  
  
You mentioned multiple times that you changed the travel today to
respond to the attack in Atlanta.  Does the situation at the border not
rise to that level to, you know, change his travel schedule and make a
trip to the border to see the crisis himself?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This trip was already planned.  We announced this
trip, I believe, if not early this week or late last week.  I can’t
remember at the moment.  And so we made that very clear that we were
coming here, and so we changed the trip because a horrific event
happened just a couple of days ago.  And we — the President wants to
make sure that he’s meeting that moment.  
  
When it comes to the border, there’s a lot that — you know, traveling,
as you know, takes a lot from — you know, from what is happening on the
ground, which is critical work to make sure that we’re processing, that
we’re moving things along.   
  
And so, you know, it is — right now, we have Secretary Mayorkas, who’s
on top of it; we have DHS, who’s on top.  We’re going to have Secretary
Becerra very soon, who was just confirmed yesterday.   
  
So he has his team who is doing the work, and we’re seeing it and trying
to give — bring capacity to the border so we can move this along a lot
quicker.  
  
And so we’re seeing that.  We saw — we see FEMA down there, as well,
helping with capacity.  We have HHS and ORR that’s been embedded into
CBP.  So just to make sure that we’re moving this as quickly as
possible.  
  
But I do — I know you, Chris — you had a question about the influx of
families, right?  
  
Q    More specifically how that’ll impact the debate on Capitol Hill
over immigration changes.  Some Republicans don’t want to come to the
table until they feel like the situation is under control.  What do you
say to them about, you know, how you move forward now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, immigration is a bipartisan issue; it has been for
a very long time.  And, you know, if we want to come to a solutions, you
know, if they want to come to the table and help with the challenge that
we’re seeing, then they got to come to the table as well.  
  
And so here’s the thing: You know, the President is committed to the
bill being voted on this week, as well as, you know, his — you know the
different piecemeals, as well as in the immigration bill.  And so he
wants — he wants bipartisanship.  He wants Republicans and Democrats to
come together on a issue that has, like I said, bipartisanship history
of it.  
  
And so, you know, let’s not make complaints; let’s actually come
together and try to fix — to fix the problem.  
  
Q    On the border, there is suggestion that part of the reason granting
some of the vaccines to Mexico is getting help with Central American
migration.  Can you say whether there is — that is part of the reason
why the administration is going to be giving some of the vaccine to
Mexico — was for that kind of help on Central Americans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you can imagine, when you’re having to — when
you’re having conversation with countries — different countries,
different issues — you’re talking about different issues, right?  And so
that is that is what’s happening there.  There are just conversations on
different issues.  And, yes, the pandemic — which is, you know,
unprecedented — is part of those conversations that we’re having in a
parallel way.  
  
And so when you think about Mexico, when you think about Canada, those
are our neighbors, right?  Those are — we have similar interests.  And
we want to make sure that we’re doing our part as well in beating back
this pandemic.  
  
And so, you know, the pan- — there are no borders — right? — when it
comes to the pandemic.  They don’t — it doesn’t see a border.  And so
it’s important that we — that we do — that we do our part in making sure
that we’re mitigating the infections that we see.  
  
Q    My question is about getting help on the Central mig- — in the
migration, getting helping from Mexico and stemming, you know, some flow
of migrants.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Those conversations are happening, just like I said,
in parallel.  You know, the conversations are happening in, you know —
at levels — at levels of the agencies that they need to be happening.  
  
Q    Did Mexico agree to take additional steps in return for the
vaccines?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All I can tell you is that there are always multiple
conversations that are happening at the same time.  It’s part of
diplomacy.  It’s part of the process.  It’s part of how we’re
communicating with different countries.  
  
Q    On taxes, I know you guys have said that the threshold for raising
taxes on households is going to be $400,000 per household.  Have you
guys come up with a number for individuals, like income level?  Where
will that threshold hit for tax increases?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has always been very clear
that he wants to make sure we invest in the middle class, we invest in
working people.  And so this is something that’s incredibly important to
him.  As you said, when it comes to raising taxes, it’s going to be on
$4,000 \[sic\] and up, and anyone who’s below the four- — $400,000,
pardon me — $400,000 threshold will not see a tax increase.  
  
But here’s the thing: It’s a little early, right?  We’re still working
out through the process.  And you’re right, it’s — right now we said
it’s per household.  And so we’ll — we will see, like, what develops,
but it’s still early in the process.  
  
Q    So (inaudible) he’s going to Georgia, which is right now — its
state assembly is debating measures that could pote- — critics say would
restrict voting rights of access to the ballot for the citizens there,
particularly — potentially communities of color.  I know that the topic
of conversation has changed today slightly because of a — of that
shooting, but that has also affect- — impacted a minority community.  Is
this going to be a moment where the President addresses this?  We’re in
Georgia, against the backdrop.  Should we expect to hear from him today
on this very important topic?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, he’s going to be meeting with Stacey
Abrams, and so — who has played a leading role in voting access and
voter protection, and she will be an important partner in tackling this
major issue moving forward.  
  
The President intends to take an active role in voting rights, just in —
not just in Washington, but also in states.  You know, and that is an —
I think that meeting is an example of his commitment to making sure that
happens.   
  
And also, just a coup- — just about two weeks ago, he signed an
executive order on the access — voting access and how to use, you know,
the whole of government, the resource of the federal government to make
sure that voting is accessible for eligible American people.  
  
But to your point — I mean, to your point: Look, the administration is
committed to protecting the fundamental right to vote and making it
easier for all eligible Americans to vote.  Right?  The President’s
campaign was about fighting for democracy, and we’re going to continue
to fight for democracy from the White House.  
  
And, look, we need to protect voting rights, particularly as we see what
is happening to systemically roll it back in states — in states like
Georgia, which is one of the leading states that are really rolling it
back.  He supports H.R. 1, “For the People.”  He supports — he supports
— you know, to restore the Voting Right\[s\] Act, as we saw with John
Lewis’s bill, H.R. 4.  
  
And so, you know, the President is pleased to seeing that H.R. 1 is out
of the House, and so he’s going to continue to show his support in that
as well.  
  
Q    We saw the President take a fall on the stairs.  Is he doing
okay?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  So, as you know, it’s pretty windy outside.  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s very windy.  I almost fell coming up the steps
myself.  He is doing 100 percent fine.  He’s —  
  
Q    Did he hurt his foot that was recently broken, at all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s doing great.  All I can tell you: He’s doing
fine.  He’s preparing for the trip today, and he is — he’s doing just
great.  
  
Q    Did he get checked out by the doctor?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just — all I know is — I can tell you is he’s doing
fine.  He’s doing great.  
  
Q    So, just one more question about vaccines.  We’re entering talks,
possibly, or considering donating to Mexico and Canada.  Is the thinking
that bilateral distribution is the way to do it, as opposed to maybe
giving some to COVAX — like COVAX partnership of Europe?  Or is
bilateral the way to go?  Is that the thinking?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) you know, look, when — like I said, when
it comes to Mexico and Canada — right? — they are partners, they are our
neighbors, and they made a request.   
  
And so, as — you know, as a relationship that has — you know, there are
multiple interests in that relationship.  We — and we — you know, we had
the vaccine.  And so, you know, we’re making sure we’re doing our part
in beating back the — the pandemic.  
  
Q    Is the administration considering giving vaccines to the COVAX
partnership?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know what?  I have to get — I have to get back to
you on that one.  I don’t have anything for you right now.  
  
Q    One quick thing.  Given Vice President Harris’s Southeast Asian
heritage, can we expect her — to see her take a leading role today in
the remarks in the meetings?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  She’s on this trip, as you all know. We’re going to
meet her in Georgia.  And I think it’s incredibly important to have her
with us; so does the President.   
  
And so, as you said, she is a, you know, Asian American/Pacific
Islander.  And so she will be at the meeting — the AAPI meeting.  She’ll
be at the CDC meeting.  She’ll be at the remarks.  But right now, the
President is the only person who’s going to be speaking.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, guys.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

12:28 P.M. EDT
