---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-12'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 20:21:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-12-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-12 19:37:03-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki and National Security Advisor\
  \ Jake Sullivan, March 12,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:27 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are ending the week with a very special guest,
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan.  He’s our first repeat guest
here — must be a lot going on in this world.  He’s going to give us a
readout of the Quad meeting that took place this morning and also, of
course, answer some of your questions.

So, with that, why don’t you take it away.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks Jen.  Good to see everybody today.  So, as Jen
said, this morning the President hosted the first ever Quad Summit — the
first time that this group gathered at the leaders’ level.  Of course,
they gathered virtually because of the constraints of COVID-19. 

Each of the leaders independently, in the course of the meeting,
referred to this event as “historic” because it cemented a group of
strong democracies that will work together going forward to secure a
free and open Indo-Pacific. 

The President noted in his opening remarks that this is the first
multilateral summit he’s hosted since taking office, and that’s on
purpose.  It reflects his view that we have to rally democratic allies
and partners in common cause and his belief in the centrality of the
Indo-Pacific to the national security of the United States.

During the meeting, the leaders addressed key regional issues including
— excuse me, including freedom of navigation and freedom from coercion
in the South and East China Seas; the DPRK nuclear issue; and the coup
and violent repression in Burma.  The President and his counterparts
also spoke to the competition of models between autocracy and democracy,
and expressed their confidence that, despite setbacks and imperfections,
democracy is the best system to deliver for people and to meet the
economic, social, and technological challenges of the 21st century. 

And I have to say that, over the course of the meeting, a sense of
optimism for the future, despite the hard times we’re in, was on full
display.

The four leaders did discuss the challenge posed by China, and they made
clear that none of them have any illusions about China.  But today was
not fundamentally about China.  Much of the focus was on pressing global
crises, including the climate crisis and COVID-19. 

And with respect to COVID-19, these four leaders made a massive joint
commitment today: With Indian manufacturing, U.S. technology, Japanese
and American financing, and Australian logistics capability, the Quad
committed to delivering up to 1 billion doses to ASEAN, the
Indo-Pacific, and beyond by the end of 2022.

The leaders also agreed that they would meet in person before the end of
the year, and they launched a set of working groups, including an
emerging technology group that will help set standards in key
technologies like 5G and artificial intelligence, and another on cyber
that will help our four countries meet this growing threat. 

These groups will deliver results by the time of the summit I’ve just
referred to that will happen before the end of the year.

The Quad, at the end of the day — at the end of today is now a critical
part of the architecture of the Indo-Pacific.  And today’s summit also
kicks off an intensive stretch of diplomacy in the region.  Secretary
Blinken and Secretary Austin will travel to Japan and Korea to meet with
their counterparts in a two-plus-two format.  They’re getting on the
road this weekend. 

Secretary Austin will go on to India from there.  Secretary Blinken and
I will subsequently meet the senior Chinese officials in Anchorage,
Alaska.  And we will have other high-level meetings and visits in the
coming weeks with leaders from the Indo-Pacific that will be announced
soon.

Just a word on Anchorage before I turn to your questions.  We’ve spoken
a lot about our fundamental strategy of establishing a position of
strength in the early going.  And after the work of the past 50 days,
Secretary Blinken and I will enter the meeting with senior Chinese
representatives from a position of strength. 

President Biden has signed into law the American Rescue Plan, and the
OECD has now projected that our economic growth will be the highest in
decades and will help power global economic growth.  We’re ahead of
schedule on the President’s ambitious goal of 100 million shots in 100
days.  We’ve launched a bold effort to secure our critical supply
chains.  We’ve reclaimed our place in key international institutions. 
And with the current presidency of the U.N. Security Council, we passed
a strong statement on Burma just this week. 

We’ve revitalized our alliances in Asia and Europe.  Last week, with the
Europeans, we agreed to a pause in tariffs in the long-running
Boeing-Airbus dispute.  And we executed a strong joint response to
Russia’s poisoning of Aleksey Navalny.  We’ve begun deep consultations
with our European partners on a common approach to our concerns with
China. 

In Asia, just in the last few days, we’ve reached new hosting agreements
for our troops and our bases with both Korea and Japan.  And now we’ve
taken the Quad to a new level. 

So make no mistake: Today is a big day for American diplomacy, this
summit is a big deal for the President and for the country, and we’re
looking forward to the work ahead.

And with that, I would be happy to take your questions.  Yeah.

Q    Thank you, sir.  Jennifer Jacobs from Bloomberg News.  In the Quad
meeting this morning, did the President and his counterparts discuss the
cyber-attack on the Microsoft Exchange?  And also — I’m also wondering
if they discussed the chips shortage — the shortage of semiconductors. 
And was there any solution to that? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Without getting into too much detail, they discussed both
recent cyber-attacks and semiconductors in the course of the
conversation today.  And indeed, the leaders agreed, as part of the
Emerging Technology Working Group, to look at this supply chain question
— including as it relates to semiconductors — to make sure that we don’t
have shortages of critical materials going forward, whether it’s
semiconductors or rare earths.

And with respect to cyber, the impetus behind this new Cyber Working
Group is not just the SolarWinds incident or the Microsoft Exchange
incident — both of which the United States is responding to with urgency
— but also cyber-attacks that have hit Japan, India, and Australia just
in the fast — past few weeks and months. 

So this is a common challenge that we face from both state actors and
non-state actors, and we do intend to make the Quad a central vehicle
for cooperation on cyber.

Yeah.

Q    On this cyber-attack with Microsoft, can you give us a sense of all
of the scope and scale of this — how it might compare to SolarWinds? 
And is this still ongoing?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It is still ongoing, in the sense that we are still
gathering information.  We are still trying to determine the scope and
scale.  It is significant, but the precise number of systems that have
been exposed by this vulnerability and have been exploited, either by
nation-state threat actors or ransomware hackers or others — that is
something that we are urgently working with the private sector to
determine. 

It is certainly the case that malign actors are still in some of these
Microsoft Exchange systems, which is why we have pushed so hard to get
those systems patched, to get remediation underway.  And the U.S.
government is mobilizing a robust, whole-of-government response to it. 
Ultimately, a lot of this comes down to the private sector taking the
steps that they need to take to remediate.  And we will give them
everything we can to help them be able to do so. 

Yeah. 

Q    Can you declaratively say that the Microsoft Exchange hack was done
by China?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not in a position, standing here today, to provide
attribution, but I do pledge to you that we will be in a position to
attribute that attack at some point in the near future.  And we won’t
hide the ball on that; we will come forward and say who we believe
perpetrated the attack.

Q    You talked about diplomacy.  I want to ask you about Iran right
now.  What is the status of any talks with Iran, given they rebuffed the
U.S.’s effort to meet with them?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Diplomacy with Iran is ongoing, just not in a direct
fashion at the moment.  There are communications through the Europeans
and through others that enable us to explain to the Iranians what our
position is, with respect to the compliance-for-compliance approach, and
to hear what their position is.  And —

Q    And if I could follow up —

MR. SULLIVAN:  And we’re waiting, at this point, to hear further from
the Iranians how they would like to proceed.  But from our perspective,
this is going to be — you know, this is not going to be easy, but we
believe that we are in a diplomatic process now that we can move forward
on, and ultimately secure our objective, which is to prevent Iran from
getting a nuclear weapon and to do so through diplomacy.

Q    As it relates to the — to Iran, is the U.S. not going to respond to
the last round of rocket attacks that hit al-Assad?  And we heard from
the former Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, in the last couple of days,
saying the Ayatollah recognizes “only strength.”  Is the U.S.
demonstrating weakness in terms of that relationship?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So first of all, if you look at the pattern of attacks
that took place over the course of 2019 and 2020 against American
personnel and facilities — how frequently they occurred, what kind of
damage they did — I’m not sure that the former Secretary is in a
position to be trying to give us advice on the question of how to
respond. 

Secondly, the United States reserves the right to protect its personnel
and its facilities; we will do so at a time and place of our choosing. 
And we will take whatever steps are necessary to deter further attacks
and to impose costs on those who attack us.  But I’m not going to
telegraph our punches on any particular operation that we may take in
the days or weeks ahead.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Jonathan Lemire, with Associated Press.  On a
sort of broader picture: As a candidate, now-President Biden called
Saudi Arabia a “pariah.”  He vowed a new approach on China.  He vowed to
be tough on Putin.  You know, but as he’s — in his early days of his
administration, both Republicans and Democrats alike have suggested that
he’s taken a little more cautious, more conservative approach. 

What should we read into this?  Is this him — is this him displaying a
more realist — more realism approach to foreign policy?  You know, why
not perhaps be the optimist that he did on the campaign trail?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Joe Biden is the ultimate optimist, and today was the
ultimate testament to his optimism: pulling together, for the first time
ever, the leaders of Japan, Australia, and India in a grouping that is
going to allow the United States to drive forward its agenda, its
interest, and its values more effectively going forward.  And to lift up
democracy, as the signal — form of government that can deliver for
people and meet the challenges going ahead. 

So, you heard him last night in his speech about where we’re going to be
on COVID-19.  You heard him yesterday at the bill signing about domestic
renewal.  And you heard him today about his deep belief that the United
States will be in a position to lead and to succeed in the 21st century
on the global stage.  That — that’s the broad answer to your question.

The more specific answer to your question is that — let’s take each of
those in turn: On Saudi Arabia, the President said he was going to
change America’s relationship with Saudi Arabia, and he has.  He has not
only removed American support for offensive operations in Yemen, he has
also taken additional steps to sanction individuals and to publish —
something the last administration was not prepared to do — an
unclassified report on the murder of Jamal Khashoggi. 

He has also indicated to the Saudis that, going forward, we are not
going to give them the blank check the last administration did either on
how they treat their own citizens or how they operate in the region. 

But at the end of the day, his metric is what’s going to advance
American interests and values.  And our near-term interest right now is
to get a ceasefire in the war in Yemen so that we reduce humanitarian
suffering there, and to get de-escalation in the region so that we
increase America’s security and the security of our allies and
partners. 

On both of those issues, he has pushed Saudi Arabia hard, and we believe
that we are making progress as a result of his policy. 

If you look at Russia and China, he has both taken a firm line with
respect to Russia, including working with the Europeans to impose costs
already for the poisoning of Aleksey Navalny and preparing additional
responses to other malign actions that Russia has conducted.

And as far as China is concerned, the United States, as he has said
repeatedly, believes that we are going to end up in a stiff competition
with China, and we intend to prevail in that competition.  And he is
amassing the sources of strength that we need to be able to prevail. 
And that is 100 percent in line with everything that Joe Biden said on
the campaign trail.  And 50 days in, we believe we are in a better
position to deal with the challenge from China than we — than we were
the day that he took office.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, Steven Portnoy, from CBS News Radio.  Thanks for coming in
and taking our questions.  I want to ask you a question about
immigration diplomacy.  When he was Vice President, Joe Biden went to
Guatemala in the summer of 2014. You were on that trip as his national
security advisor at the time.  He went because of what was then an
unprecedented surge of unaccompanied minors coming across the border. 

One of the things he said on that trip, in June of 2014, was: “We can,
A, first make clear in each of our countries in an unrelenting way, not
just with a public service announcement, that there is no free pass;
that none of these children or women bringing children will be eligible
under the existing law in the United States of America.”  He said that
was “number one.”  And then he went on to describe root causes of
American aid. 

Why has that not been the message that this White House is sending now —
clear and unrelenting — that none of these children or women bringing
children will be eligible under the existing law?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, the President has made clear, and this administration
has made clear, that we are going to pursue an effective and humane
immigration policy and unwind what we believe was the ineffective and
inhumane policy over the course of the last four years.  That’s point
number one.

Point number two is: We’ve made clear that now is not the time to come
to the United States.  We are dealing with a circumstance in which we
have to build the capacity to be able to assess the asylum claims of
individuals who arrive here, and we have to deal with the obvious public
health effects of a pandemic.  So we are sending the message clearly,
and you heard it from Roberta Jacobson from this podium earlier this
week.  We’re doing so in the region, as well.

But the President also believes that, under our laws, people who are
claiming asylum deserve to have their cases heard properly, effectively,
efficiently, and as swiftly as possible, and that is the policy that we
are going to pursue going forward.

Q    Just to follow up, do you really believe that message is being
received clearly, in an “unrelenting” way?  I mean, there was a young
man quoted in the Wall Street Journal this week who said that this
President seems more friendly to him than the prior one, and he believes
he’ll be able to come to the United States on that basis.

MR. SULLIVAN:  So this is, day by day, something that we need to be able
to communicate from a range of different perspectives — from this
podium, in the region itself, on the airwaves — and we will continue to
do so as we go forward.

Q    Just a follow to next week’s meeting with representatives from
China.  Do you think that tariffs and export controls targeting China
will be part of the talks?  And what does China need to do for the U.S.
to dial back on tariffs and export controls?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I don’t expect that, for example, the phase one trade
deal is going to be a major topic of conversation next week.  This is
our effort to communicate clearly to the Chinese government how the
United States intends to proceed at a strategic level, what we believe
our fundamental interests and values are, and what our concerns with
their activities are — whether it’s on Hong Kong, or Xinjiang, or in the
Taiwan Strait — or, frankly, the issues that we heard today from our
Quad partners: their coercion of Australia, their harassment around the
Senkaku Islands, their aggression on the border with India. 

So this will stay more in that zone than get into the details of
questions around tariffs or export controls.  But we will communicate
that the United States is going to take steps, in terms of what we do on
technology, to ensure that our technology is not being used in ways that
are inimical to our values or adverse to our security.  We will
communicate that message at a broad level. 

But in terms of the details of these issues, we have more work to do
with our allies and partners to come up with a common approach, a joint
approach, before we go sit down point by point with the Chinese
government on these issues. 

We will also want to bring other key representatives, senior economic
representatives of the Biden administration into those conversations at
the point in time when they’re appropriate to occur.

MS. PSAKI:  We can do one more here, guys.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Taiwan’s foreign minister has said he wants to see more security
cooperation with the Quad.  Do you see the Quad, in coordination between
the different nations, as a way of perhaps increasing the potential cost
to China of any move against Taiwan?  And did Taiwan and its status come
up in your discussions this morning?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So the way that we look at this is that the Quad is not a
military alliance; it’s not a new NATO, despite some of the propaganda
that’s out there.  What it is, is an opportunity for these four
democracies to work as a group, and also with other countries, on
fundamental issues of economics, technology, climate, and security. 

So I’m not going to get into detail on what the elements of that
security will look like because we have work to do as an emergent
institution to define what the agenda looks like. 

What we know is that broad-based maritime security is already core to
the Quad agenda, that humanitarian assistance and disaster response and
the work of our militaries in that space is already on the agenda. 
Where we go from there on everything from freedom of navigation to
broader regional security questions, that has to be worked through, not
just at the leaders level but at the working level as well.  So we’ll
see how that unfolds over the course of the months to come.

Q    One more from Reuters.  Please, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Sure.

Q    Thank you.  We’re —

MR. SULLIVAN:  For Reuters.

Q    For Reuters.  Thank you.  (Laughter.)  We’re reporting that India
is likely to block its mobile carriers from carrying — or using telecoms
equipment by Huawei.  Is that something that the United States welcomes?

MR. SULLIVAN:  The United States has expressed its concerns about Huawei
and the relationship between Huawei and elements of the Chinese
government and military apparatus.  And so this is a sovereign decision
for India to make, but we certainly think it’s consistent with the
decisions that we’ve made and advocated as well.

Q    And just a follow-up on the vaccines.  We also have reporting from
India that the temporary U.S. ban on exports of key raw materials for
vaccines could affect the objective of quickly ramping up production. 
Is the U.S. open to easing that ban?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, the President had the opportunity to speak
with the Prime Minister about this bold initiative that we’re
undertaking, and we feel very good about our ability to execute against
that. 

Secondly, I do not believe that there is an export ban.  But the United
States will happily work with countries around the world to make sure
that we are doing our part, not just to make sure every last American
citizen is vaccinated as quickly as possible, but that the rest of the
world gets vaccinated as quickly as possible as well.  So I’ll leave it
at that.

Thanks, guys.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Jake.

Okay.  I just have a couple of items at the top.  Given all of the news,
and then in the speech last night, I just wanted to just give a brief
overview of some of the announcements the President made about how we
were going to — that give more detail, I should say, on how we’re going
to meet his commitment of — of course, of directing states to ensure
that every American is eligible to receive the vaccine by May 1st, how
we’re going to expedite it, and how we’re going to get to the point
where we are having July 4th barbecues.

So, first, he announced the plans to deliver vaccines directly to up to
700 additional community health centers that reach underserved
communities, bringing the total number of community health centers
participating in our federal vaccination program to 950.  And this is
hugely important as we’re talking about addressing access, vaccine
hesitancy, meeting people where they are in communities, because these
health centers are trusted places in many communities where people go
and they get regular health services, and so this will dramatically
increase that.

He is going to — we’re going to double the number of pharmacies
participating in the Federal Pharmacy Program.  When we first announced
this, if you all remember, we announced that it was a pilot program, and
we were going to see how it went.  It’s extremely successful, and it has
been very effective around the country.  And so now the vaccine will be
available at more than 20,000 pharmacies across the country. 

He will also more than double the number of federally run mass
vaccination centers to ensure that we’ve reached the hardest-hit
communities.  And he talked about this in the speech, and we’ve seen
these in communities across the country, and many of you have covered
this where you can drive up in your car with your family members, get
the vaccine, and it is a quite an efficient — and they can reach often
thousands of people in these vaccination sites.

And also announced the deployment of more than 4,000 active-duty troops
to support vaccination efforts, bringing the total to over 6,000 in
all.  So that’s obviously a significant increase.  And expanded
vaccinators — the people who can give these vaccines — to dentists,
optometrists, paramedics, physician assistants, veterinarians, and many
more.

So, the last piece — and I announced much of this yesterday, and I think
you’re all quite familiar with what he’s doing next week, but in the —
in the — for tradition here, next week, the President, Vice President,
First Lady, and the Second Gentleman will hit the road to talk to the
American people about the benefits of the American Rescue Plan. 

On Monday, he will host an event at the White House on the
implementation of the American Rescue Plan. 

On Tuesday, he will travel to Delaware County, Pennsylvania, as part of
the “Help is Here” tour to amplify the American Rescue Plan. 

And, on Friday, the President and the Vice President will travel to
Georgia to continue engaging with Americans about how they will benefit
from the Rescue Plan.

Jonathan, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A number of influential New York lawmakers,
including Representatives Nadler and Ocasio-Cortez, have now called for
the resignation of Governor Cuomo in light of new allegations of
harassment, including one that was referred to law enforcement.  My
first question is simply this: Does the President believe the governor
should resign?

MS. PSAKI:  The President believes that every woman who’s come forward —
there have now been six, I believe, who have come forward — deserves to
have her voice heard, should be treated with respect, and should be able
to tell her story.  There also is an independent investigation that is
ongoing, of course, in the state, with subpoena power overseen by the
attorney general, and he certainly supports that moving forward.

We, of course, have watched the news of a number of lawmakers call for
that, but I don’t have any additional announcements from here.

Q    A follow-up on this.  In light of the investigation, in light that
he has had some of his pandemic response powers taken away, does the
White House still have faith in Governor Cuomo, if he remains in his
position, overseeing the response to the pandemic in the state of New
York?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly don’t want anyone in the state of New
York to be penalized, meaning not have access to vaccines, to
vaccinators; not have access to funding from the Rescue Plan.  And
certainly we will continue to work with a range of officials to get that
done and get it implemented. 

But the President and our COVID Response Team works with governors
across the country, including Governor Cuomo, to implement these plans,
and will continue to do that.

Q    Okay.  And on one other topic.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    There are more than 10 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine in
the U.S. that can’t be administered here but could save lives in Europe
and other places in the world if the company was freed from the
obligation to deliver those doses to the U.S. government.  The company
has appealed to the administration to let them export those doses.  Why
has the President not agreed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me just take a step back here and explain, kind
of, what’s going on here.

     First, as we’ve stated a few times, but worth restating: The
President’s priority and focus is on ensuring that the American people
are vaccinated.  Obviously he made some significant announcements last
night about the timeline of that, and we will have enough doses in our
hands by the end of May to ensure we can make that happen.

AstraZeneca is also not yet approved by the FDA.  We also want to make
sure we have maximal flexibility, that we are oversupplied and
over-prepared, and that we have the ability to provide vaccines —
whatever the most effective ones are — to the American public.  There
are still 1,400 people who are dying in our country every single day,
and we need to focus on addressing that.

At this time, there have been requests around the world, of course, from
a number of countries who have requested doses from the United States,
and we have not provided doses from the U.S. government to anyone.  So
this is not about Europe; this is about our focus and our priority,
which we have been very public and clearly stated.

And what you’re referencing in terms of access to doses: Of course, the
production — part of the production is through the Defense — is enabled
because of the Defense Production Act.  There is a contract obligation
to deliver on the U.S. doses and to fulfill that contract.  But any
company — AstraZeneca is not a U.S. company.  They can also work with —
and even if they were, they can work with any country to fulfill and to
work on a deal to get access to doses.

Go ahead.  I’ll go to you next.  Go ahead. 

Q    We just heard from Jake Sullivan talking about, on immigration, the
need to have a consistent and continued message to communicate to
migrants that the border is closed right now.  We saw Ambassador
Jacobson who says there has to be a message on the airwaves and in that
region as well.

If you want to send the message to migrants that the border is closed,
shouldn’t President Biden be the one who is clearly delivering that
message?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he did do an interview with Univision about two weeks
ago and made that absolutely clear.  And I certainly expect he will look
for the opportunity to do exactly that.

I will note, however, that he is one of the voices; Ambassador Jacobson
is one of the voices.  There are a number of effective voices in the
region, including leaders in the region, including voice — partners we
need to have in the region, NGOs and others, to deliver the same message
that now is not the time to come; that the majority of people are turned
away at the border, which is backed up by factual data; that adults,
families will be turned away at the border in almost every scenario.

And so that is part of the data and part of the information that we’re
looking for a partnership to deliver in the region.

Q    Is it working?  Is it working?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, Peter, I think we know — we’ve seen the numbers
that CBP puts out on a regular basis.  We know there are more children —
children under the age of 18 who are, of course, coming across the
border.  That is consistent with what our policy has been. 

But in terms of people who are turned away — who are coming to the
border, who are turned away — I mean, those numbers — are people hearing
that?  Are they still making the journey?  I don’t have any further
analysis of that.  I know that what people are looking at is that there
are more children who are coming across the border, and we’ve certainly
confirmed and acknowledged that.

Q    Let me ask you about the President’s speech last night.  This was a
speech about the anniversary — the last year since the pandemic began. 
Of course, he spent a lot of time touting the success of vaccines, yet
there was no mention of the President under whose administration these
vaccines were developed.  Does former President Trump not deserve any
credit on vaccines?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President himself and many people in our
administration have conveyed that having — making the progress that was
made — and we’ve said this publicly — that was made on these vaccines
was a herculean, incredible effort by science and by medical experts. 
And certainly, we have applauded that in the past, and we are happy to
applaud that again.

But I would say there is a clear difference and there are clear steps
that have been taken since the President took office that have put us in
a trajectory that we were not on when he was inaugurated, and leadership
starts at the top.  It includes mask wearing.  It includes acknowledging
there’s a pandemic.  It includes getting a vaccine in public.

But even more importantly than that, it includes putting in place an
operational process that it — that can ensure that we have enough
vaccines to vaccine Americans, enough vaccinators, enough vaccine
locations.  None of that was in place when the President took office.

Q    And certainly, that’s on distribution and (inaudible).  But on the
development of vaccines, it was Operation Warp Speed that was invented,
executed, initiated under the former President.  So, in the spirit of
bipartisanship and unity last night — as opposed to the first comments,
which spoke about the denials in the first days, weeks, and months — why
not just say, “With credit to the previous administration and the former
President for putting us in this position, we are glad that we have been
able to move it forward”? 

MS. PSAKI:  That is an excellent recommendation as a speechwriter, but
we had — the President has spoken to it in the past.  He has applauded
the work of medical experts and scientists and the prior
administration.  And what the purpose of last night’s speech was, was to
give an update on what his administration has been doing, what he has
done since he took out he took office, the progress that’s been made,
what the work is ahead; provide a light at the end of the tunnel; and
ask Americans to engage in the process so — and do what’s needed to be
done so we can get to those July 4th barbecues.

Q    And, in fairness, as he said, to bring all Americans together,
which is why I asked.

MS. PSAKI:  Of course that is.  But, you know, I would say that
Americans are looking for facts.  They’re looking for details.  They’re
looking for specifics.  And I don’t think they’re worried too much about
applause from six months ago when the President has already delivered
that publicly. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead. 

Q    You just said that leadership starts at the top when it comes to
getting COVID vaccines out.  But when you describe the messaging on
immigration, you’re talking about leadership from Ambassador Jacobson
and many others, getting the word and —

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think that’s what I said.  But —

Q    Well, you were explaining why President Biden is not out here
talking —

MS. PSAKI:  I actually — well, to be factual — because we’re all about
facts —

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  — I actually started by saying he did an interview with
Univision just two weeks ago and that he would look for opportunities to
continue to deliver that message clearly himself, but that there are a
number of voices that are important and effective and can be heard in
the region, and that we will certainly use a number of voices to
communicate directly in the region. 

Q    So, we’ve heard from some folks down at the border — in
Brownsville, Texas, specifically — of migrants who are being tested by
some of the NGOs down there for COVID.  They test 1,700.  At least 204
positive tests so far.  That’s over a 9 percent positivity rate — more
than double the national average.  So, what is the federal government
doing to prevent — to protect the citizens of a town like Brownsville,
Texas?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know where the — I’m not questioning the data,
but I certainly would refer to CBP.  And I’m happy to get more specific
data —

Q    They are (inaudible).  That’s what we’re getting the information.

MS. PSAKI:  — officially from CBP data on the testing. 

Well, let me walk you through, because obviously there are a number of
categories of individuals who are coming and this is a question you’ve
asked before, and certainly an understandable question. 

So individuals who are taken into — and so I’m just going to give you an
outline —

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  — of the testing — into ICE custody — migrants entering ICE
facilities are tested upon intake and they’re quarantined if they test
positive.  That’s one category, of course. 

Unaccompanied children — of course, another category — all unaccompanied
children encountered at the border receive a medical screening by
contract medical professionals that includes a medical assessment or
health-intake interview.  Minor issues are treated on site, and major
issues are referred to a local hospital.  So when a child is released
into ORR custody, they quarantine for 10 to 14 days and receive COVID
testing through HHS. 

Those who are — you know, come into the country and are treated with
alternatives to detention — sometimes that’s ankle bracelets and other
means of tracking — DHS works with city and county leaders, as well as
public health officials, to provide COVID-19 testing, and, as needed,
isolation and quarantine for families released from Border Patrol
facilities. 

And that’s something we’ve talked about a bit in here, in terms of a
proposal that was made by DHS and FEMA in coordination with NGOs and
local authorities to fully cover and pay for the testing that, up to
this point, the governor has declined that proposal.

Q    But based on what you have said before and our understanding of the
policy, it’s just guidance that these migrants who test positive — many
of them are instructed, “You should go and quarantine and isolate.”  Do
you know — does the administration know how many actually do versus how
many actually just go off to wherever?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I just wanted to convey — because I know you are
asking a good question here — that’s — the very specific processes that
are taken for each scenario.  And certainly there are, you know, with
these indi- — with the individuals who are coming across, alternatives —
who are treated with — I again noted, sometimes ankle bracelets as they
come across, while they’re waiting for adjudication of their cases. 
Those are the steps that are taken.  Those are the recommendations that
are made. 

And I just noted that testing is a propo- — there’s a proposal for
testing all of these individuals as they come across.  So that’s what
our policy processes are.  But in terms of specific data and numbers, I
would certainly refer you to CBP or I’m happy to talk to them as well.

Q    And do you know if there are any administration discussions about
vaccinating some of these migrants who are being held for much longer
than normal — or much longer than in previous administrations to stop
the spread in the shelters?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a really good question.  I would say, obviously, we’re
focused on vaccinating, you know, eligible Americans in the country, but
we do believe that eligi- — vaccinating as many people as possible keeps
all of us safe and keeps all of us — and ensures the safety of all
people living here, but I’m not aware of any plans. 

We are very focused on addressing and taking steps to address the public
health challenges that we’re seeing in the bor- — across the border, of
course, with the pure number of people — the number of people who are in
CBP facilities and in the shelters.  We’ve talked a bit about working
with the CDC on guidelines.  But certainly, with the pure numbers, we
need to continue to look at and evaluate ways to prevent this from
becoming more of a public health challenge. 

Q    And then, one other topic, quickly.  Last night, in his speech,
President Biden reiterated his goal.  He wants a majority of schools
opened by his 100th day in office; that’s April 30th.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    One day later — May 1st — he says that every adult is going to be
eligible for the vaccine.  We know that teachers have been prioritized —

MS. PSAKI:  Right.

Q    — everywhere.  So why just the majority of schools as the goal,
instead of a specific high percentage or, say, all schools?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me encourage you — you could even go cover
it, I bet: The Secretary of Education is having a forum on schools and
school reopening on the 24th — I believe it’s the 24th — of March. 
There are a lot of steps that are being taken already by the Department
of Education.  They’re issuing a guide book — a gui- — of best
practices.  They’re already engaging with schools and school districts. 
They’re requiring that any fu- — school that is going to have access to
funding from the American Rescue Plan produces a plan within 30 days to
reopen their school — the school district does, I should say. 

So there are a number of steps underway.  We, of course, want to have
schools reopen and have them reopening five days a week.  That’s our
objective, but it’s in the excellent hands of the Secretary of
Education, who is — this is his number one priority every day, as the
President talked about in his speech.

Q    And last one: Would the White House be okay — or could the White
House get behind a proposal for schools to remain in session fulltime
through the summer?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, some school districts will decide to do that, and they
can use funding from the American Rescue Plan to do that or to help
ensure they can do that.  So it’s really going to be a decision made
district — school district to school district.  And if that
determination is made, we certainly support that, but that’s part of
what Secretary Cardona will be working out with school districts.

Q    Thanks.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  On the Fourth of July barbecues that you keep
mentioning —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    It’s obviously a symbolic goal, but how did you arrive at that
date?  Why the Fourth of July?  Is that the date by which you believe
most adult Americans will be able to be vaccinated? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ll have enough supply by the end of May — right?  —
and it will be state to state.  So we did not want to give a conclusion
of when everybody will be fully vaccinated because it really depends on
a couple of factors, some of which are out of our control — right? 
People who have concerns about the safety and efficacy of vaccines — we
need to continue to redouble our efforts to address that.  Obviously
some states will have faster timelines than other states.

But, you know, we recognize that with a May 1st timeline of everyone
being eligible, with the ability to have vaccines for every American
available — or we’ll have the supply for them by May 31st — that we felt
it would be a time on our health and medical experts — it would be a
timeline by which we could have —

And again, this is not large gatherings, as you know, Mary; it is
having, you know, a small group of friends and neighbors in your
backyard.  So it’s certainly not a full return to concerts and soccer
stadiums, but it is a baby step toward that, and our team felt confident
that we could get to that point.

Q    So is it safe to say that, by July 4th, you think we’re in the
ballpark where you could have most adult Americans vaccinated? 

MS. PSAKI:   Well, I — again, many of the factors are out of our
control, including individuals being willing to take the vaccine.  And
that’s why it was so important for the President to convey that it is
safe, it is effective.  Tell your friends and neighbors it’s safe and
effective.  And that will be a factor here, and it is going to require
Americans continuing to wear masks, continuing to social distance,
getting the vaccine.

So that is a light at the end of the tunnel, but there are a lot of
steps that need to be taken to get there.

Q    As the President mentioned last night, you’re also launching new
tools —

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    — and making it easier to sign up, including a website.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Why wait until May to roll that out?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s already a pilot program that is available in
about a half-a-dozen states, and we’ve talked about expanding and
building upon that.  A lot of states also have their own — their own
websites where people can go.  And, of course, pharmacies, as you know —
in a program we’ve massively expanded as part of the announcement last
night — you can do scheduling through there. 

This is a website that will make it possible for Americans to go see
where there is supply available, and we just wanted to make sure that it
was — we had the time to have that up and ready.  But we are confident
we can do that by that timeline.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Back to AstraZeneca.  Can you say how big is that
stockpile?  And then secondly, on that on — also on AstraZeneca — when
does the administration expect them to seek the emergency use
authorization — the EUA?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Both excellent questions.  I don’t have any
prediction for when they will seek it; you probably just to have to ask
them that question.  And I don’t have an update on the amount of
supply. 

Obviously, there was an order placed last year, prior to President Biden
taking office, and as — would not come as a surprise to you, given this
is how it’s worked with every other vaccine — it doesn’t mean you have
all of that.  Right?  You often don’t have much of it until there is
approval, and obviously we’re not going to get ahead of the approval.

Q    Would you be able to follow up with us and just let us know how
many doses are in that stockpile?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure we will have a number to provide, but I’m happy
to check for you on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, Jen.  One question on last night.  The President said he’s
directing states to ensure that all adults are eligible for the vaccine
by May 1.  What more do states need to do to achieve that goal?  Because
it sounded a little bit like he was putting the onus on states, but
states are asking for more supply — right? — and they won’t be able to
do that without more supply.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we wouldn’t have done it if we didn’t anticipate that
we would have much more supply available — and that’s certainly part of
the process — and we are providing that through state allocation, but
also directly to pharmacies. 

And so, it certainly is — in each state, as you know Jeff, but there’s
different prioritization of who is in each order, and so it’s just
conveying what that should look like.  And HHS has the authority to
direct states to adjust their prioritization.

Q    And I — they made that clear yesterday too, about the authority.  I
guess I’m just wondering: Why does he need to tell states this is?  Is
there a lag?  Were states not moving in that direction?

MS. PSAKI:  I think it was making clear that this was his expectation of
— it’s being a leader of governors and leaders in the country of when —
and providing some clarity to the American public about when they can
expect to be eligible.

Now, some states will move faster than others, and we certainly
anticipate that.  Some states that may have smaller populations or
bigger sup- — you know, bigger of supplies, as a result — relatively so,
I should say — they may move faster, and that’s certainly something we
encourage.  But he wanted to provide certainty and a timeline for the
American people so that they can expect when they can be eligible. 

And, you know, for months, he’s leveled with the American people; he
tried to do that last night.  And many of you have asked for a timeline
for eligibility, a timeline for vaccine supply, and a timeline for back
to normal, and he was venturing to do that last night.

Q    Okay.  And then one follow-up on AstraZeneca.  You’ve made very
clear and the President has made very clear that the goal and the
priority is Americans.  Do you — does he see any moral dilemma in
sitting on some vaccine — we don’t know the exact amount — that has been
approved elsewhere, that could be saving other people’s lives in other
countries, while the process drags on for however long it will in the
United States.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t know and we don’t — can’t anticipate, as you
know, when the process will conclude.  But I think his view is that his
obligation — first obligation is to addressing what is still a crisis in
our country.  Right?  And what is still a circumstance where — you know,
yes, he outlined last night that there’s a light at the end of the
tunnel, but 1,400 Americans are dying every single day.  And he wants to
have, as the leader of this country, maximum flexibility.

Now, as Jake just outlined, he also wants to be a key member of the
global community and send the message that we are — want to be
collaborative and cooperative and work with other countries to get the
global pandemic under control. 

No doubt that is a tricky balance, but in the middle of a pandemic —
we’re still at war with the pandemic — it is — was a priority to him to
ensure that he has maximum flexibility as the leader of this country.

Go ahead.

Q    Just a follow-up clarification on the prioritization.  So, last
week — or earlier this month, the White House called on states to
prioritize teacher vaccinations.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    Now the White House is saying states should open up eligibility to
everyone as soon as possible.  So, what —

MS. PSAKI:  By May 1st.  Yeah.

Q    So, what does that mean right now for advising states’ priority
groups?  Should they be getting rid of them?  Should they keep them
intact?  I mean, should they still be focusing on teachers right now? 
And how do they — how do they square all this stuff, given, you know,
that they’re saying that they have shortages of vaccines right now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think, not — that there are some who are saying that
and some who are not.  And obviously, we’ve been increasing supply
nearly every single week; actually, every single week, we probably have
been increasing supply.  And as you all know, we will also have more and
more doses.  We have — we’ll have access to, as a fed- — as the federal
government, to ensure that states are getting an increase in supply. 

It’s going to be decisions made state by state on how they provide
clarity to the people in their state.  I believe Alaska is a state that
has already moved to eligibility for everyone.  So there are probably
models that some states can look to.

Teachers remain prioritized, and that is done primarily through the
Pharmacy Program; it’s been quite successful.  I don’t — I have not been
— heard reports of confusion in recent days at all about that program
and the implementation of it.

But each state will have to decide how they implement in their
timeline.  And he’s just giving them the time to be able to implement in
advance of May 1st.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, the President took pains last night in his speech to condemn
attacks on Asian Americans.  He called them “un-American” and “wrong”;
they “must stop.”  Does the President believe that his predecessor had
anything to do with the rise in attacks on Asian Americans?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President has spoken about the concerns he had
about the rhetoric and the provoking of hate speech by his predecessor. 
And I think he’s not made a secret about that. 

But we’re looking at this moment, 50 days into an administration, where
there are still — many in the Asian American community still live with
fear, still are being threatened, still are being attacked.  And he felt
it was important for him, as the President of the United States and
leader of this country, to make clear that that’s not acceptable, and to
condemn that during his first primetime address. 

And so, that was more — not a reflection of his thinking about his
predecessor, more about looking at what people are still facing in this
moment.

Q    Is there anything more the administration can do on this point? 
There’s a push on the Hill, I understand, to have a DOJ official take on
this — this problem.  Is that something that the President would
support?  And if — absent legislation, is there something he could do or
order the Attorney General to do?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think he would expect the Attorney General would
make decisions independently about how to best address.  But — and I’m
happy to talk with our policy team and see if there’s more. 

Obviously, he signed the executive order in the early days and condemned
these actions last night, and certainly would expect, as I said, the
Department Justice to make independent decisions.  But I can see if
there’s any more specific policy actions we can take. 

Q    Quick question about next week.  This is the first Irish President
in some time; any plans for St. Patrick’s Day even here at the White
House?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect we will have more to preview.  We are — of course,
will be recognizing St. Patrick’s Day.  So — but I will have more to
preview for you on what that looks like probably later in the weekend or
early next week, as it’s being finalized.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, following up on the earlier questions about July 4th: In
order to reach that goal — I mean, is there a certain percentage of
Americans that need to be vaccinated?  Or if there’s no number, you
know, what does the situation need to look like?  Do we need to continue
on the pace that the country has been on in recent weeks?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s important to note that this is — we’re
not talking about a July 4th celebration on the Mall; we’re not quite
there yet.  Right?  And we’re not talking about soccer stadiums being
filled in communities across the country.  That might require something
more like what you’re talking about.

We’re talking about the American people being motivated and excited by
the fact that — that if they get vaccinated, if they abide by — that
there is going to be access — there will be access to vaccines; they
will be eligible; and if they take steps to get vaccinated, to continue
to wear masks, continue to observe social distancing, then, looking
ahead to July 4th as an aspirational moment where people can plan small
get-togethers in their backyard. 

But we’re not talking about a mass event here.  We’re — or a return to
total normalcy; that’s not what this is.  This is a step more toward the
kind of socialization and engagement with friends and family that he
knows, as a human being, people have been missing over the last year.

Q    Yeah, and another question: The $350 billion in direct aid to state
and local governments —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    You know, state and local governments, right now, are going through
their budgeting processes.  When might they be — you know, has the White
House been able to determine when they’ll be able to start getting money
from that aid?  Will it be in one large chunk for municipalities and
states, or will it be over a staggered time?  What have you been able to
determine through the Treasury Department?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, that’s a great question.  I know Treasury is working
hard at ensuring that this money is getting out the door — that the —
portions of the money they’re overseeing.  But I’d have to talk to them
more about how that will be implemented or pushed out specifically, and
kind of what the timeline for that will be. 

And hopefully we’ll have more of an update on that early next week, but
I’ll see if anything is ready before then.

Q    Yeah, and one more final question.  Under the American Rescue Plan
and the $1,400 checks that Americans will receive, there are currently
no protections to prevent debt collectors from seizing stimulus checks. 

During the last year, the second round of stimulus checks had such
protections. Senator Ron Wyden of Oregon has a standalone bill that
would provide those protections.  Does the President believe elect- —
debt collectors should have access or should not have access to that
money, and does he support the Wyden bill?

MS. PSAKI:  I haven’t talked to our legislative team about that.  I know
there were a number of adjustments made, post the implementation of the
package in December, to adjust and address issues like non-filers having
access, ensuring that we were reaching people who weren’t reached and
were eligible.  So I would have to talk to Treasury about whether they
have a concern about this at this point in time or whether protections
have been put in place.

Q    Oh, and one more.  I forgot about the — the 4,000 military
personnel that the federal government had plans on extending for the
acceleration of vaccines: Has it been determined where they are going? 
Is it to help with vaccination centers, mega sites?  Can you talk more
about the deployment of those soldiers?

MS. PSAKI:  They typically help in all sorts of locations where help is
needed — and determined in coordination with local governors and local
elected officials and folks who are overseeing these centers.  So it’s
really case-by-case and state-by-state, but I don’t have a breakdown of
where they’ll be going quite yet.

Go ahead.

Q    Last night, the President again said more Americans have died from
COVID-19 than died in World War One, World War Two, the Vietnam War, and
now adding 9/11.  The numbers don’t bear that out.  So why has he said
that again for a second time?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s — I’ll have to check on that specifically
for you.  I don’t have the numbers all in front of me either, but if
it’s important to you, I will follow up with you after the briefing on
it.

Q    Well, he’s been called out for it once before.  So it was a
surprise — we know he did a line-by-line edit, so it was a surprise that
it went in again.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m glad you’re focused on the important business. 
But I’m happy to check on it for you.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Hi, Eric Philips with CBN News.  Thanks for taking my questions. 
Wanted to know, first of all: Considering the challenges at the southern
border right now, what specifically can faith-based organizations do to
help meet that challenge?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a great question.  I mean, faith-based organizations
are an incredibly important part of the NGO community, as you know, as
it relates to addressing immigration in a humane way, and oftentimes
helping to find — helping to connect these unaccompanied children with
safe and vetted homes or sponsor homes; that’s a key role that they
play.  They also play a key role in, you know, working with local
communities on addressing needs that come up — NGOs broadly, but many of
them are faith-based as well. 

So, you know, I think we see faith-based organizations as an important
partner in addressing — in addressing the — the challenges we’re facing
at the border and ensuring that these kids who are coming across are
treated humanely, are treated — are — find safe — safe shelters and safe
locations to be while their cases are being adjudicated.  And they play
vital roles at every — most steps in the process.

Q    When it comes to the vaccine — when it comes to the vaccine, the
administration is saying, “Hey, get vaccinated as soon as you can with
the vaccine that’s available to you first.”

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    But what do you say to a significant segment of the population that
has a moral problem with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine because the
company uses cells from aborted fetal tissue in its manufacturing
process?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that the Vatican has conveyed that all three
vaccines are safe and effective, and I know that is a powerful authority
for many who are close to their faith.  But that is something that has
also been conveyed by health and medical experts. 

And, you know, I would also rec- — we also recognize that, while that is
factual and I would certainly point you to those important authorities,
we are not always the best messengers that — here, a Democratic
administration — to communicate to everyone in the public about the
safety, the efficacy, and the importance of taking the vaccine. 

And so we are very open to looking — to working with a range of partners
and messengers, outside groups, outside organizations, and conveying
exactly that, because we believe that ensuring the public is vaccinated
and saving lives is something that transcends political party.  It
transcends, you know, disagreements about a range of issues, and so we
are very open to that and recognize that we are not always the — going
to be the right voice or the right face for that message.

Q    Lastly, I just wanted to ask you: How is temporarily tightening War
Power restrictions in places like Somalia, Yemen, and Libya going to be
beneficial to the U.S., whereas ambassadors in those places used to be
able to give the go-ahead, now the White House has to, at least for now,
give the green light before these actions can be taken? 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, it was important to the President and our
national security team that we take a moment to review the use of these
powers — authorities over the last several years.  It’s not forever, but
they wanted to take a moment to do that review at the beginning of an
administration and make a determination about how to best approach it
moving forward.  So that’s what it’s a reflection of.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  One on vaccine hesitancy and one on gun control.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    So, the latest poll in-house at Yahoo saw that 44 percent of
unvaccinated Republicans said they would never get vaccinated.  This is
higher, we found, than any other group or crosstab.  Are you worried
that the vaccine hesitancy from these Republicans — they’re white
Republicans — will make it harder for President Biden’s goal to
vaccinate all adults by summer? 

And what is your guys’ thought — or what is the administration doing to
persuade Republicans, in particular, to get vaccinated?  You were
talking about — who are the effective messengers here?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re concerned about vaccine hesitancy in many
communities across the country because we — we are going to get to the
point, clearly, where we have enough supply for — to vaccine every
American — every adult in this country, and it will get to the point
where we have more vaccines than people who want to take the vaccine. 
And we — we see that on the horizon. 

So we have taken a number of steps in communities where we feel we can
be very effective messengers in, and that includes — you know, just
statistically, just because I know you were giving a statistic about,
kind of, white, conservative Republicans — but black and brown
communities are actually the hardest hit by the pandemic: two times more
death — deaths and hospitalizations Also, communities where there is
high levels of vaccine hesitancy.  And we have taken a number of steps
to open, as I mentioned, these community health centers, invest in more
mobile units. 

A big issue though is access and accessibility and meeting people where
they are, regardless of their political affiliation.  And so one of the
steps we’ve taken and we can effectively do outside of any partisan
politics is ensure that there are locations with trusted — in trusted
locations — community health centers, pharmacies — where anybody of any
political persuasion can get the vaccine, and they don’t need to wear a
Joe Biden sticker in order to do that. 

But we also recognize, as I noted in response to the earlier question,
that we are not always going to be the most effective messenger, and
there are outside organizations that are doing a range of outreach,
doing ads, and things along those lines — some — one that featured
former Republican President Bush and others.  And I think that kind of
work is something we fully support and we feel is important in order to
increase the number of people who feel comfortable and confident in the
effectiveness of the vaccine.

Q    And to follow up on that, we’ve heard a lot from the administration
on very specific plans about, like you said, black and brown communities
and how they’re being disproportionately affected.  But is the White
House thinking of how to reach Republicans who will not take the
vaccine?  You talked about the ad; former President Bush was in it.  Of
course, notably, former President Trump was not there.  Is there
outreach to Trump or to any other high-profile Republicans to talk to
these Republicans who say they will never take the vaccine (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  I guess what I’m trying to say, but maybe not clearly
enough, is that we recognize, as a Democratic administration with a
Democratic President, that we may not be the most effective messenger to
communicate with hardcore supporters of the former President.  And we
have to be clear-eyed about that. 

Now, we also know that it is not always famous people who are the most
effective messengers.  And so when I was talking about access, what I
was getting at is that doctors, medical experts, community leaders are
often not seen as — faith leaders — as partisan officials.  And so we
also work to empower, to provide funding, to work with these different
organizations to get into communities and convey this is safe, it’s
effective, it will save lives, this is not a partisan issue. 

So that is a step we are taking, but, yes, there are — in terms of
elevating outside voices, we certainly support that, but there are a lot
— there is a lot of outside work that’s happening on — to reach out to
these groups, as well.

Q    When should we expect to see, you know, any collaboration from the
White House and high-profile Republicans, like, you know, on Twitter, on
Instagram — anything like that — to speak to these communities, just as
there with other black and brown people?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me try this again.  So —

Q    No, I know what — I’m hearing you.  I just want to get very
specific about — the outreach to black and brown communities is very
specific.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Is there going to be very specific Republican outreach?

MS. PSAKI:  What I’m — so what I’m conveying is we are focused on how do
we address the root issues and the way — the approach that will solve
the challenge here.  And what I’m trying to get at is that accessibility
— it may not satisfy this conservative Republican and this famous
Democrat working together.  That may happen.  Right? 

But I am — but the way that we have seen through data, the way that our
health and medical experts have conveyed to us, is that making it
accessible — doing that through community health centers; ensuring there
is access and supply; making sure that local doctors, faith leaders,
community leaders have access to that, have the information, is
incredibly effective.  That’s what we’re investing in and can also be
quite effective with many of the groups that you’ve talked about.

Q    Jen, one question on gun control.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Yesterday, two Democratic-supported bills about gun control passed
through the House; now it moves to the Senate.  I’m curious what the
White House’s outreach is going to be to Senate — senators to try to get
60 votes for these two, kind of, very important — specifically for
progressives — legislation on gun control?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  Well, first, gun safety measures and putting in place
background checks is something the President has been personally
committed to for many years of his career.  He thinks it is long
overdue.  It is steps that will help save lives, keep communities safe,
children safe, schools safe.  And he has fought against the NRA many
times and won a few of those times, as well. 

So he will, of course, be talking with leaders and members of Congress
about how to move forward with gun safety measures.  It’s a priority to
him, but I don’t have any specific outreach to read out to you.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thanks.  I have another question about state aid under the American
Rescue Plan.  We’re coming up on a month out from the Texas blackouts,
snowstorm.  Can Texas use this state aid under this Rescue Plan to
weatherize its grid?  It’s something that the Speaker of the Texas House
wants to do.  He says, well, the federal help was intended “for recovery
from \[of\] a disaster, and this is a disaster.”

MS. PSAKI:  Todd, I’ll have to — I’ll have to check on the technicality
of that, and I can do it in the same way when I’m following up on the
questions I will go back to the Treasury Department on.  I’m not sure if
there are limitations in the use of it.  Obviously, it’s intended
broadly to ensure we’re keeping cops, firefighters, others on the beat. 
But I am happy to check and see if there’s flexibility in there.

Q    You wouldn’t want whose cops to be cold. 

All right.  A follow-up from yesterday.  You said 64,000 frontline DHS
workers have gotten vaccinated.  This was part of the spat with Governor
Abbott.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Governor Abbott said today that there’s a mass vaccination clinic
next week for Border Patrol agents in the Rio Grande Valley.  And he’s
saying that that is coming in response to the pressure that he has put
on the administration.  How many frontline workers have not gotten
shots?  And was this a response to —

MS. PSAKI:  How many Border Patrol agents have not received shots? 
You’d have to ask them that specific question.  What I was conveying is
that it’s a priority.  We’ve made it a priority.  DHS has made it a
priority.  I think that existed prior to Governor Abbott pressure.  I’m
not sure what format the pressure it took, but we certainly are happy
that he’s happy to hear that we’re vaccinating Border Patrol agents.

Q    Totally unrelated question.  There was a bill filed a couple days
ago by a bipartisan group of senators and congressmen called the
Journalism Competition and Preservation Act.  I’m not sure if you’re
familiar with it.  It’s the one that would give news organizations a
temporary exemption from anti-trusts so that they could collectively
bargain with Facebook and Google, like the Australia law.  Does the
administration have a position on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll have to check.  Sounds interesting.  I want to know the
answer.  I will check and see if we have a position on it.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Considering that the U.S. has much better success rates in terms of
COVID vaccinations than the European Union, is there an exchange between
the U.S. and Brussels?  And what kind of advice would you have to the
Europeans to do it better?

MS. PSAKI:  We absolutely are coordinating, discussing, sharing best
practices.  And, of course, addressing the global pandemic is something
that comes up in nearly every conversation, if not every conversation,
the President, our Secretary of State, National Security Advisor have at
every level. 

There are a lot of lessons we’ve certainly learned over the last couple
of months, and I’m sure our team would be happy to share them.  And,
you’re right, we are now vaccinating more people on a daily basis than
any other country in the world.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thanks, everyone.

1:30 P.M. EST
